Skip to main content College of Engineering Menu Close About Dean’s Welcome At A Glance Faculty and Staff Directory Employment Opportunities Contact Us Admissions Visit the College Freshman Admissions Transfer Admissions Graduate Admissions Academics Departments Undergraduate Graduate Distance Education Faculty and Staff New Faculty Faculty Advancement Communications Finance and Personnel Information Technology Staff Senate Research Centers and Institutes Office of Research and Graduate Programs Office of Research Administration The James B. Hunt Jr. Library Outreach The Engineering Place Engineering Career Fair Research Experiences for Teachers Teaching and Learning STEM Industry Expansion Solutions (IES) NC Clean Energy Technology Center (NCCETC) Alumni and Giving The Engineering Foundation Giving Priorities Ways to Give Corporate Partners Donor Recognition Young Alumni Homecoming News and Events Alumni Students Faculty and Staff Research Outreach Video Magazine Give Now About About Dean’s Welcome At A Glance Faculty and Staff Directory Employment Opportunities Contact Us Admissions Admissions Visit the College Freshman Admissions Transfer Admissions Graduate Admissions Academics Academics Departments Undergraduate Graduate Distance Education Faculty and Staff Faculty and Staff New Faculty Faculty Advancement Communications Finance and Personnel Information Technology Staff Senate Research Research Centers and Institutes Office of Research and Graduate Programs Office of Research Administration The James B. Hunt Jr. Library Outreach Outreach The Engineering Place Engineering Career Fair Research Experiences for Teachers Teaching and Learning STEM Industry Expansion Solutions (IES) NC Clean Energy Technology Center (NCCETC) Alumni and Giving Alumni and Giving The Engineering Foundation Giving Priorities Ways to Give Corporate Partners Donor Recognition Young Alumni Homecoming News and Events News and Events Alumni Students Faculty and Staff Research Outreach Video Magazine Give Now Frey confirmed by Senate for new EPA role CCEE’s Dr. Christopher Frey was confirmed by the U.S. Senate to serve as assistant administrator for the Office and Research and Development (ORD) at the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). Read more Admissions Learn more Departments Learn more Alumni & Giving Learn more Job Openings Learn more Contact Us Learn more Latest Stories May 31, 2022 Ph.D. student Adam Schmidt represents NC State at Graduate Education Day at N.C. General Assembly May 27, 2022 ISE receives multiple national awards May 27, 2022 Christopher Frey confirmed by Senate for new EPA role Engineering News Read more stories from the College of Engineering. View news Online Magazine Read our latest engineering alumni magazine online. View magazine Engineering North Carolina’s Future Engineering North Carolina’s Future, a North Carolina legislative initiative, will provide NC State $20 million over the next two years to hire additional faculty as well as support staff including academic advisors and laboratory personnel to support the larger student body. The legislature is also providing NC State $30 million to support facility upgrades to accommodate these additional STEM students. Learn more Play Video Fitts-Woolard Hall The College’s newest facility marks a crucial next step in the College of Engineering’s move to Centennial Campus, providing critical infrastructure that allows faculty members and students to leverage the power of convergence across disciplines in an atmosphere unmatched anywhere in the nation. Learn more Upcoming Events All Events Nov 18 Friday8:00 AM 2022 Carolina Science Symposium ncstateengr 840 8,394 The official Instagram account of the NC State College of Engineering. #NCStateEngr ncstateengr View May 26 Open #NCStateEngr students Perry Berlin and Zoe Watts are taking over our Instagram stories on May 31 from Prague! We’ll all get to tag along as they visit the Nuclear Physics Institute of the Czech Academy of Sciences. @ncstateprague @ncstatestudyabroad ... 232 5 ncstateengr View May 24 Open Did you know that we’re hitting a major diversity milestone in the fall? For the first time, 33% of incoming #NCStateEngr students will be women. We’re looking forward to continuing to improve this number. Read more at the 🔗 in our bio. ... 330 1 ncstateengr View May 19 Open Are you doing something exciting this summer like your dream internship or traveling abroad? DM us about doing a Instagram Stories takeover to show off a day in your life. ... 131 0 ncstateengr View May 13 Open Is a week apart too soon to say we miss y'all? #NCStateEngr ... 254 0 ncstateengr View May 11 Open Meet Jhonatan Minope: transfer student, father and chemical engineering major. Read more about him at the link in our bio. With just weeks left until graduation, we sat down with seniors to discuss their memories of #NCStateEngr and their plans for after college. #NCState22 @ncstatecbe ... 169 1 ncstateengr View May 9 Open Meet Katie Shaffer: MSE student ambassador, Girls Engineering Change volunteer and materials science and engineering major. Read more about her at the link in our bio. With just weeks left until graduation, we sat down with seniors to discuss their memories of #NCStateEngr and their plans for after college. #NCState22 @ncstatemse @gecncsu ... 314 0 ncstateengr View May 6 Open Meet Raven McLaurin: CCEE student ambassador, WISE Village RA and environmental engineering major. Read more about her at the link in our bio. With just weeks left until graduation, we sat down with seniors to discuss their memories of #NCStateEngr and their plans for after college. #NCState22 @ncstateccee @ncstatewisevillage ... 116 1 ncstateengr View May 4 Open Meet Solteria Ross: Performing Artist Award winner, Engineering Ambassador and aerospace engineering major. Read more about her at the link in our bio. With just weeks left until graduation, we sat down with seniors to discuss their memories of #NCStateEngr and their plans for after college. #NCState22 @ncstatemae @ncstateenglish @ncstateengr_ambassadors @ncsunsbe Photos by Nick Mintz (@kapturedbynick) and @ncstatedance ... 567 5 ncstateengr View May 2 Open We are less than a week away from commencement! We're excited to celebrate with #NCState22 on Saturday and at our departmental ceremonies. Check the 🔗 in our bio for a schedule and how to watch them online. ... 901 0 ncstateengr View Apr 29 Open Meet Manali Shirsekar: computer science student ambassador, president of NC State’s ACM-W Chapter of Women in Computer Science and computer science major. Read more about her at the link in our bio. With just weeks left until graduation, we sat down with seniors to discuss their memories of #NCStateEngr and their plans for after college. @ncstatecsc @ncstatewisevillage #NCState22 ... 483 3 ncstateengr View Apr 27 Open Meet Timothy Kiefer: Rickover Fellow, U.S. Navy veteran and nuclear engineering major. Read more about him at the link in our bio. With just weeks left until graduation, we sat down with seniors to discuss their memories of #NCStateEngr and their plans for after college. @ncstatenuclear @usnavy #NCState22 ... 187 0 ncstateengr View Apr 25 Open Meet McKenzy Heavlin: student body president, advocate for civic engagement and electrical engineering major. Read more about him at the link in our bio. With just weeks left until graduation, we sat down with seniors to discuss their memories of #NCStateEngr and their plans for after college. @ncstateece @ncstatesg #NCState22 ... 288 0 Load More Follow on Instagram College of Engineering Home Fitts-Woolard Hall 915 Partners Way Raleigh, NC 27695-7901 Campus Map Contact Us Parking and Directions Accessibility Privacy Connect With Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.