Skip to main content Toggle subitems Main navigation Meet Princeton Toggle sub-items In Service of Humanity Facts & Figures History Honors & Awards Contact Us Visit Us Our Faculty Our Students Our Alumni Our Staff Our Leadership Academic Freedom and Free Expression Academics Toggle sub-items Studying at Princeton Library Areas of Study Humanities Social Sciences Engineering Natural Sciences Advising Academic Calendar Course Tools Learning Abroad Career Development Continuing Education Innovative Learning Research Toggle sub-items Engineering & Applied Science Humanities Natural Sciences Social Sciences Interdisciplinary Approach Dean for Research Office External Partnerships Facilities & Labs One Community Toggle sub-items Lifelong Connections Student Life Arts & Culture Athletics Living in Princeton, N.J. Housing & Dining Activities & Organizations Cultural & Affinity Groups Health & Wellness Religious Life Serving the Public Good Families Admission & Aid Toggle sub-items Affordable for All About Financial Aid Current Undergraduate Financial Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission For International Students Utility menu News Events Work at Princeton Services & Resources Work-Life Balance Links for Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Giving Search Sites & People × Engineering Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering Access Course Offerings CEE 102B / EGR 102 / MAE 102 Engineering in the Modern World Professor/InstructorMichael G. Littman Lectures and readings focus on bridges, railroads, power plants, steamboats, telegraph, highways, automobiles, aircraft, computers, and the microchip. We study some of the most important engineering innovations since the Industrial Revolution. The laboratory centers on technical analysis that is the foundation for design of these major innovations. The experiments are modeled after those carried out by the innovators themselves, whose ideas are explored in the light of the social environment within which they worked. Two lectures, one three-hour laboratory. CEE 102A / EGR 102 / MAE 102 Engineering in the Modern World Professor/InstructorMichael G. Littman Lectures and readings focus on bridges, railroads, power plants, steamboats, telegraph, highways, automobiles, aircraft, computers, and the microchip. Historical analysis provides a basis for studying societal impact by focusing on scientific, political, ethical, and aesthetic aspects in the evolution of engineering over the past two and a half centuries. The precepts and the papers will focus historically on engineering ideas including the social and political issues raised by these innovations and how they were shaped by society as well as how they helped shape culture. Two lectures, one preceptorial. MAE 206 Introduction to Engineering Dynamics Professor/InstructorAnirudha Majumdar Formulation and solution of equations governing the dynamic behavior of engineering systems. Fundamental principles of Newtonian mechanics. Kinematics and kinetics of particles and rigid bodies. Motion relative to moving reference frames. Impulse-momentum and work-energy relations. Free and forced vibrations of mechanical systems. Introduction to dynamic analysis of electromechanical and fluid devices and systems. Two lectures, one preceptorial. Prerequisites: MAT 201, PHY 103, and MAE 223 or CEE 205. MAE 221 / ENE 221 Thermodynamics Professor/InstructorLamyaa El-Gabry Heat and work in physical systems. Concepts of energy conversion and entropy, primarily from a macroscopic viewpoint. Applications to engines, heat pumps, refrigeration, and air-conditioning systems. In the laboratory students will carry out experiments in the fields of analog electronics and thermodynamics. For MAE concentrators only, a combined final laboratory grade will be issued in the spring laboratory course 224, which includes the laboratory work of both 221 and 224. Three lectures, one class, one preceptorial, and one three-hour laboratory. Prerequisites: PHY 103 and MAT 201, which may be taken concurrently. MAE 222 / CEE 208 Mechanics of Fluids Professor/InstructorMarcus Nils Hultmark Introduction to the physical and analytical description of phenomena associated with the flow of fluids. Topics include the principles of conservation of mass, momentum, and energy; lift and drag; open channel flow; dynamic similitude; laminar and turbulent flow. Three lectures, one preceptorial. Prerequisites: MAT 104 and 202; MAT 202 may be taken concurrently. MAE 223 / CEE 323 Modern Solid Mechanics Professor/InstructorAndrej Kosmrlj Fundamental principles of solid mechanics: equilibrium equations, reactions, internal forces, stress, strain, Hooke's law, torsion, beam bending and deflection, and deformation in simple structures. Integrates aspects of solid mechanics with applications to mechanical and aerospace structures (engines and wings), and microelectronic and biomedical devices (thin films). Topics include stress concentration, fracture, plasticity, fatigue, visco-elasticity and thermal expansion. The course synthesizes descriptive observations, mathematical theories, and engineering consequences. Two 90-minute lectures. Prerequisites: MAT 104, and PHY 103. MAE 224 Integrated Engineering Science Laboratory Professor/InstructorLamyaa El-Gabry Core laboratory course for concentrators, who carry out experiments in the fields of digital electronics, fluid mechanics, and dynamics. Students also complete an independent research project. Continuation of the laboratory component of 221; a combined final grade will be issued based upon laboratory work in both 221 and 224. Prerequisite: 221 Typically taken concurrently with 222. One three-hour laboratory, one class. MAE 228 / EGR 228 / CBE 228 / ENE 228 Energy Technologies in the 21st Century Professor/InstructorLamyaa El-Gabry Addresses issues of regional and global energy demands, including sources, carriers, storage, current and future technologies, costs for energy conversion, and their impact on climate and the environment. Also focuses on emissions and regulations for transportation. Students will perform cost-efficiency and environmental impact analyses from source to end-user on both fossil fuels and alternative energy sources. Designed for both engineering and non-engineering concentrators. Two 90-minute lectures, one preceptorial. MAE 305 / MAT 391 / EGR 305 / CBE 305 Mathematics in Engineering I Professor/InstructorPierre-Thomas Brun, Howard A. Stone An introduction to ordinary differential equations. Use of numerical methods. Equations of a single variable and systems of linear equations. Method of undermined coefficients and method of variation of parameters. Series solutions. Use of eigenvalues and eigenvectors. Laplace transforms. Nonlinear equations and stability; phase portraits. Partial differential equations via separation of variables. Sturm-Liouville theory. Three lectures. Prerequisites: MAT 201 or 203, and MAT 202 or 204, or MAE 303. MAE 306 / MAT 392 Mathematics in Engineering II Professor/InstructorMikko Petteri Haataja Solution of partial differential equations. Complex variable methods. Characteristics, orthogonal functions, and integral transforms. Cauchy-Riemann conditions and analytic functions, mapping, the Cauchy integral theorem, and the method of residues with application to inversion of transforms. Applications to diffusion, wave and Laplace equations in fluid mechanics and electrostatics. Three lectures, one preceptorial. Prerequisite: 305 or equivalent. AST 309 / MAE 309 / PHY 309 / ENE 309 The Science of Fission and Fusion Energy Professor/InstructorRobert James Goldston We develop the scientific ideas behind fission and fusion energy. For fission we move from elementary nuclear physics to calculations of chain reactions, understanding how both reactors and nuclear weapons work. We examine safety and waste concerns, as well as nuclear proliferation. We look at new reactor concepts. For fusion we address the physics of confining hot, ionized gases, called plasmas. We address the control of large-scale instabilities and small-scale turbulence. We examine progress and prospects, as well as challenges, for the development of economically attractive fusion power. MAE 321 Engineering Design Professor/InstructorGlenn Arther Northey Focus on design processes and procedures using modern engineering tools. Parametric design techniques are introduced in the computer-design laboratory along with simulation tools. Instruction in basic and computer-based manufacturing methods is given in the manufacturing laboratory. Teams of students conduct projects that involve the complete design cycle from concept and first principles through optimization, prototype, and test. Two lectures, one laboratory. Prerequisites: 206, 221, 222, and 223 or CEE 205, or instructor's permission. MAE 322 Mechanical Design Professor/InstructorDaniel Mark Nosenchuck This course builds on the technical foundation established in 321, and extends the scope to include a range of advanced mechanical design. Teams of students will design and fabricate a wheeled robotic system that will draw upon multidisciplinary engineering elements. The robot will facilitate common daily tasks which vary each year. CAD, CAE, and CAM will be utilized in the design/simulation/prototype process. Labs are designed to reinforce and expand CAD and CAE skills. Two 90-minute lectures, one laboratory. Prerequisites: 321 or instructor's permission. MAE 324 / MSE 324 Structure and Properties of Materials Professor/InstructorCraig B. Arnold An introduction to the properties of engineering materials that emphasizes the correlation between atomic and microscopic structure and the macroscopic properties of the materials. Topics include structural, mechanical, thermodynamic, and design-related issues important to engineering applications. Two lectures, one preceptorial. CEE 361 / MAE 325 / MSE 331 Matrix Structural Analysis and Introduction to Finite-Element Methods Professor/InstructorSerguei Andreevitch Bagrianski CEE 361 presents the typically decoupled fields of Matrix Structural Analysis (MSA) and Finite Element Methods (FEM) in a cohesive framework. The first half of the semester covers the following MSA topics: derivation of truss, beam, frame, hinge elements; assembly and partitioning of the global stiffness matrix; equivalent nodal loads. The second half of the semester covers the following FEM topics: numerical approximation methods, strong and weak forms of boundary value problems, steady-state heat conduction, linear-elasticity for membranes, plates, shells. MATLAB is used for coding. Prerequisites: CEE205/MAE223, or permission of instructor. MAE 328 / EGR 328 / ENV 328 / ENE 328 Energy for a Greenhouse-Constrained World Professor/InstructorJulia Mikhailova This course addresses, in technical detail, the challenge of changing the future global energy system to accommodate constraints on the atmospheric carbon dioxide concentration. Energy production strategies are emphasized, including renewable energy, nuclear fission and fusion, the capture and storage of fossil-fuel carbon, and hydrogen and low-carbon fuels. Efficient energy use is also considered, as well as intersections of energy with economic development, international security, local environmental quality, and human behavior and values. Two 90-minute lectures. MAE 331 Aircraft Flight Dynamics Professor/InstructorLuigi Martinelli Introduction to the performance, stability, and control of aircraft. Fundamentals of configuration aerodynamics. Methods for analyzing the dynamics of physical systems. Characterization of modes of motion and desirable flying qualities. Two 90-minute lectures and one preceptorial. Prerequisites: 206 and 222. MAE 332 Aircraft Design Professor/InstructorLuigi Martinelli Building on strength of materials and calculus, this course integrates physical laws to analyze stress and displacement fields in structures. The course introduces basic concepts and equations in three dimensions and then applies them to aircraft structures. Phenomena to be discussed include elastic anisotropy, bending, buckling, fracture, and fatigue. The course is important for anyone interested in structured design. Two 90-minute lectures. Prerequisites: 335 or instructor's permission. MAE 335 Fluid Dynamics Professor/InstructorDaniel Mark Nosenchuck Low-speed incompressible potential flow theory and high speed compressible flows. Low-speed topics include circulation, vorticity, d'Alembert's paradox, potential flows, and finite wing theory. High-speed topics include speed of sound, nozzles, shock waves, expansion waves, and effects of heat addition and friction. Three lectures, one preceptorial. Prerequisites: 221, 222 or instructor's permission. MAE 336 Viscous Flows Professor/InstructorLamyaa El-Gabry Viscous flow with main emphasis on boundary layer theory. Derivation of Navier-Stokes equations, the boundary layer approximations and boundary conditions. Studies of typical laminar boundary layers, the transition problem, semi-empirical analysis of turbulent boundary layers, and convective heat transfer. Introduction to Computational Fluid Dynamics (CFD) methods for viscous flow. MAE 339 Junior Independent Work Professor/InstructorLuigi Martinelli Independent work is intended for juniors doing only a one-term project. Students develop a topic of their own or select from a list of topics prepared by the faculty. They develop a work plan and select an adviser and are assigned a second reader. At the end of the term, students submit a written report and make a presentation to faculty, staff, fellow students, and guests. Enroll in either 339 for fall or 340 for spring. This course does not fulfill the departments independent work or thesis requirement. MAE 339D Junior Independent Work with Design Professor/InstructorLuigi Martinelli Independent work with design is intended for juniors doing only a one-term project. Similar to 339, with the principal difference that the project must incorporate aspects and principles of design in a system, product, vehicle, device, apparatus, or other design element. At the end of the term, students submit a written report and make a presentation to faculty, staff, fellow students, and guests. Enroll in 339D for fall, or 340D for spring. This course does not fulfill the departments independent work or thesis requirement. MAE 340 Junior Independent Work Professor/InstructorLuigi Martinelli Independent work is intended for juniors doing only a one-term project. Students develop a topic of their own or select from a list of topics prepared by the faculty. They develop a work plan and select an adviser and are assigned a second reader. At the end of the term, students submit a written report and make a presentation to faculty, staff, fellow students, and guests. Enroll in either MAE 339 for fall or MAE 340 for spring. This course does not fulfill the departments independent work or thesis requirement. MAE 340D Junior Independent Work with Design Professor/InstructorLuigi Martinelli Independent work with design is intended for juniors doing only a one-term project. Similar to MAE 340, with the principal difference that the project must incorporate aspects and principles of design in a system, product, vehicle, device, apparatus, or other design element. At the end of the term, students submit a written report and make a presentation to faculty, staff, fellow students, and guests. This course will fulfill the additional engineering science elective in the Mechanical Program. It will not fulfill the departments independent work or senior thesis requirement. MAE 341 Space Flight Professor/InstructorEdgar Yazid Choueiri This course addresses the various concepts that form the basis of modern space flight and astronautics. The focus is on space flight analysis and planning and not hardware or spacecraft design. The topics include space flight history, orbital mechanics, orbit perturbations, near-Earth and interplanetary mission analysis, orbit determination and satellite tracking, spacecraft maneuvers and attitude control, launch, and entry dynamics. Use of advanced software for the planning and analysis of space missions. Two 90-minute lectures. Prerequisite: 305 or instructor's permission. Load More More in Academics Studying at Princeton Library Areas of Study Humanities Social Sciences Engineering Natural Sciences Advising Academic Calendar Course Tools Learning Abroad Career Development Continuing Education Innovative Learning Contact links Contact Us Accessibility Advanced People Search Media Inquiries Website Feedback Visiting links Plan a Visit Maps & Shuttles Varsity Athletics Giving to Princeton Academic links Library Academic Calendar Student Links Faculty & Staff Links Footer social media Facebook Twitter Instagram Snapchat LinkedIn YouTube Social Media Directory Equal Opportunity and Nondiscrimination at Princeton University: Princeton University believes that commitment to principles of fairness and respect for all is favorable to the free and open exchange of ideas, and the University seeks to reach out as widely as possible in order to attract the ablest individuals as students, faculty, and staff. In applying this policy, the University is committed to nondiscrimination on the basis of personal beliefs or characteristics such as political views, religion, national or ethnic origin, race, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, pregnancy, age, marital or domestic partnership status, veteran status, disability, genetic information and/or other characteristics protected by applicable law in any phase of its education or employment programs or activities. In addition, pursuant to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 and supporting regulations, Princeton does not discriminate on the basis of sex in the education programs or activities that it operates; this extends to admission and employment. Inquiries about the application of Title IX and its supporting regulations may be directed to the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, Office for Civil Rights, U.S. Department of Education or to the University's Sexual Misconduct/Title IX Coordinator. See Princeton’s full Equal Opportunity Policy and Nondiscrimination Statement. Princeton University Princeton, NJ 08544 Operator: (609) 258-3000 © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Subfooter links Copyright Infringement Privacy Notice