Main navigation Search Content Footer menu Basic info & contact footer Main Nav 2 Home Help with... helpwith-col-one Access My account Borrowing BorrowDirect+ Alumni access Off-campus access helpwith-col-two Research Guides by topic Services for authors Research data & digital scholarship Tutorials helpwith-col-three Questions & appointments Quick start guide Make an appointment Technology & methods consultants Canvas support Ask a question helpwith-col-four Spaces & tools Find a library space Reserve a space Virtual computer lab Software finder Borrow equipment Libraries libraries-col-one Heading Albrecht Music Library Annenberg Library Biddle Law Library Biotech Commons Chemistry Library Education Commons libraries-col-two Heading Fisher Fine Arts Library Kislak Center for Special Collections, Rare Books and Manuscripts Levy Dental Medicine Library LIBRA Library at the Katz CAJS Lippincott Library of the Wharton School libraries-col-three Heading Math/Physics/Astronomy Library Penn Museum Library University Archives Van Pelt-Dietrich Library Center Veterinary Medicine Libraries Weigle Information Commons Collections collection-col-one Heading Franklin (search & browse our catalog) Databases & article Indexes BorrowDirect+ (search & browse partner libraries) Research guides collection-col-two Heading Collections by subject Subject specialists Collections development policies Suggest a purchase collection-col-three Heading Special collections University Archives Digital projects Online exhibits News & events news-col-one Heading Penn Libraries News Subscribe to our newsletter news-col-two Heading Exhibits & events Lectures & conferences 30 days of events news-col-three Heading Workshops About about-col-one Heading Strategic Plan 2020-25 Strategic Plan Implementation Locations & hours Social media about-col-two Heading Staff directory Committees Human resources Resources for Libraries staff about-col-three Heading Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Accessibility Policies & guidelines for users Contact us Giving giving-col-one Our approach Our team FAQ Gifts of materials giving-col-two Our priorities Advance Engage Preserve Enrich giving-col-three Your impact Top talent Learning spaces Information resources Programs & outreach Innovations & partnerships giving-col-four Latest news Stories Press releases Penn Libraries in the News Give now Main content Search Penn Libraries News: Stories Collections Press releases Penn Libraries in the news Stories Meet Our Spring 2022 Library Interns! Posted on April 5, 2022 by Rebecca Ortenberg Caitlyn Stewart, Emmett Booth, and Matthew Symes, three of this spring's library science interns In celebration of National Library Week, the Penn Libraries is sharing behind-the-scenes staff stories, fun facts, quick tips, and lesser-known collections on Instagram, Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn, and our newsletter. For more library goodness, follow us on any of our platforms, and don’t forget to support us with a donation. This semester, the Penn Libraries has been lucky enough to host seven interns who are currently working on or have recently completed degrees in Information and Library Science. As students at Drexel, San Francisco State, and the University of North Texas, they have studied topics like digital stewardship, records management, and archival ethics, and hope to turn their degrees into careers in special collections, cataloging, access services, and more. For now, they are getting hands-on experience working in libraries while helping Penn’s students, faculty, staff, and visitors, and answering questions that range from “Where is the bathroom?” to “How do I get books if I can’t find them in the catalog?” Just in time for National Library Week, we sat down with them to learn about their backgrounds, their experiences working at the information desk in Van Pelt-Dietrich Library Center, and what they think every Penn student should know about using the Penn Libraries. Next time you’re visiting Van Pelt, stop by and say hello! Emmett Booth: Buffalo, New York What are you hoping to do with your library science degree? I’m currently focused on digital preservation and database management, but I’m interested in learning about all aspects of academic librarianship. What is one book, movie, or TV show that you would recommend to everyone? Book: Annihilation Movie: Under the Silver Lake Show: Hannibal What’s one thing you think all Penn students should know about using the library? Subject librarians can greatly assist in your research; drop them an email or schedule time in their calendar. Follow Emmett on Twitter @PoorQuentyn. Alec Smith: Cape May, New Jersey What are you hoping to do with your library science degree? I’m currently torn between two paths. My studies at Drexel have sparked an interest in Archives and Special Collections, a fascinating field that seeks ways to best steward unique records for continual use. However, interacting with the Penn community has reminded me how much I enjoy helping students, so working in access services at an academic library is equally alluring. Do you have a favorite spot in Van Pelt Library? Lately I’ve been enjoying the Class of 2003 Parents Study Lounge on the 4th floor due to its proximity to the Bs (Philosophy, Psychology, and Religion), Hs (Social Sciences), and print journals. What’s one thing you think all Penn students should know about using the library? If we don’t have the book or journal article you are looking for, in the vast majority of cases we can quickly get it for you through Interlibrary Loan. What is one book, movie, or TV show that you would recommend to everyone? One Hundred Years of Solitude by Gabriel Garcia Marquez. Lexi Slobodnik: Marlton, NJ Do you have a favorite spot in Van Pelt Library? The Furness Shakespeare Library on the 6th floor. What is one book, movie, or TV show that you would recommend to everyone? The Invisible Life of Addie Larue by V.E. Schwab. What are you hoping to do with your library science degree? I’m hoping to work in a special collections archive, or work on cataloging. What’s one thing you think all Penn students should know about using the library? You can borrow more than books! The Vitale Digital Media Center lends out equipment such as projectors, sound equipment, cameras, etc. Follow Lexi on LinkedIn. Caitlyn Stewart: Wilmington, DE What is one book, movie, or TV show that you would recommend to everyone? The Ritual by Adam Nevill. If you liked the movie from Netflix the book is a hundred times better! Do you have a favorite spot in Van Pelt Library? I’ve been loving the Moelis Family Grand Reading Room! The artwork on the wall is amazing and the windows give such great natural lighting during the day. What are you hoping to do with your library science degree? I’m hoping to go into preservation librarianship, archives, or be a rare books librarian. This degree really opens up so many exciting opportunities that it’s hard to try and stick to just one thing. What’s one thing you think all Penn students should know about using the library? The staff wants to help! The library offers amazing physical and digital resources that not many people know about, so be sure to explore or ask about things that you might be interested in! Matthew Symes: Middletown, DE What are you hoping to do with your library science degree? I’d love to work with public libraries or rare and unique collections – something like the material’s library at Fisher Fine Arts which I've grown to love. Do you have a favorite spot in Van Pelt Library? The 6th Floor, the lounge area has a great view of campus. What is one book, movie, or TV show that you would recommend to everyone? Grasshopper Jungle – one of the weirdest, funniest books I’ve ever read. What’s one thing you think all Penn students should know about using the library? There are so many resources and experts – if you need info just ask and we can find the right person for you. Related Albrecht Music Library Annenberg School for Communication Library Lippincott Library of the Wharton School Van Pelt Library Biddle Law Library Area Studies Fisher Fine Arts Library Penn Museum Library Biotech Commons Area Studies Annenberg School for Communication Library Fisher Fine Arts Library Penn Museum Library Van Pelt Library Biddle Law Library Lippincott Library of the Wharton School Van Pelt Library Annenberg School for Communication Library Biotech Commons Lippincott Library of the Wharton School Van Pelt Library Annenberg School for Communication Library Penn Museum Library Demography Library Lippincott Library of the Wharton School Van Pelt Library Annenberg School for Communication Library Area Studies Fisher Fine Arts Library Penn Museum Library Van Pelt Library Kislak Center for Special Collections, Rare Books and Manuscripts Library at the Katz Center for Advanced Judaic Studies Van Pelt Library Penn Museum Library Annenberg School for Communication Library Lippincott Library of the Wharton School Demography Library Biotech Commons Biddle Law Library Penn Museum Library Van Pelt Library Annenberg School for Communication Library Area Studies Fisher Fine Arts Library Biotech Commons Lippincott Library of the Wharton School Lippincott Library of the Wharton School Annenberg School for Communication Library Demography Library Van Pelt Library Area Studies Biotech Commons Fisher Fine Arts Library Penn Museum Library Biddle Law Library Recent Posts June Featured Books and DVDs: Pride Month More to Explore on Women in the American Wilderness Diversity in the Stacks: North African Books in French Exploring the meanings of "home": Children’s lit recommendations from the Penn Libraries Community Engagement team Penn Libraries Announces Warhol@Penn Again Series May Featured Books and DVDs: Asian American and Pacific Islander Heritage Month  “Translating Warhol,” a Symposium Diversity in the Stacks: Folk and Tribal Arts in South Asia Penn Students, Faculty, and Staff Can Now Access Selections from the Criterion Collection through Kanopy Penn Libraries Joins Elsevier Open Access Pilot Archive June 2022 May 2022 April 2022 March 2022 February 2022 January 2022 December 2021 November 2021 October 2021 September 2021 August 2021 July 2021 June 2021 May 2021 April 2021 March 2021 February 2021 January 2021 December 2020 November 2020 October 2020 September 2020 August 2020 July 2020 June 2020 May 2020 April 2020 March 2020 February 2020 January 2020 December 2019 November 2019 October 2019 September 2019 August 2019 July 2019 June 2019 May 2019 April 2019 March 2019 February 2019 January 2019 November 2018 October 2018 August 2018 June 2018 April 2018 March 2018 February 2018 January 2018 Pennlib news blog department menu show menu items Older news show submenu Departmental Library news show submenu Albrecht Music Library Annenberg School for Communication Library Architectural Archives Area Studies Athenaeum of Philadelphia Barbara Bates Center for the Study of the History of Nursing Biddle Law Library Biomedical Library Chemistry Library Demography Library Education Commons Engineering Collection Fisher Fine Arts Library Kislak Center for Special Collections, Rare Books and Manuscripts LIBRA - Penn Libraries Research Annex Levy Dental Medicine Library Library at the Katz Center for Advanced Judaic Studies Lippincott Library of the Wharton School Math/Physics/Astronomy Library Morris Arboretum Penn Museum Archives Penn Museum Library Pennsylvania Hospital Medical Library University Archives & Records Center Van Pelt Library Van Pelt-Dietrich Library Center Veterinary - Campus: Atwood Veterinary Medicine Library Veterinary - NBC: duPont Veterinary Medicine Library Weigle Information Commons Footer: Sitemap for navigation Social media Footer: Penn Libraries contact info Penn Libraries 215-898-7555 Questions University of Pennsylvania ©University of Pennsylvania Edit 5019