Skip to main content Menu Resources Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply or Give Apply Now Make a Gift Academic Success Center Academic Coaching Academic Coaching Academic coaching allows students to see themselves, their skills, and their study habits from a fresh perspective through one-on-one sessions focused on learning and personal success strategies. You and your academic coach can work together to: Create a semester plan. Set and monitor goals. Develop success strategies. Manage stress. Identify relevant campus resources. Increase academic confidence. Design a study plan. While not a requirement, many students benefit from meeting with their academic coach on a weekly basis for the individualized support and accountability their coach can offer. Note: Academic coaching is not an opportunity to discuss academic advising concerns. Students will be directed to meet with their assigned academic advisor(s) to discuss advising concerns. Make an Appointment Complete this questionnaire prior to scheduling your first academic coaching appointment. Follow up appointments may be scheduled here. We recommend that students review the Academic Coaching Roles and Responsibilities document before their first appointment. Learning and Study Strategies Inventory (LASSI) The Learning and Study Strategies Inventory (LASSI) is an online questionnaire that can help students become more aware of their learning and study behaviors, attitudes and beliefs. It takes about 20 minutes to complete and you will receive your report immediately upon completion. We encourage you to schedule an appointment with an academic coach to review your LASSI results and discuss next steps. Please keep in mind the LASSI is not a predictor of success. Time, place, and other circumstances can affect your scores. Your results are a starting point, not the whole picture of you as a student. The LASSI describes your current behaviors, not your ability or potential. Finally, the LASSI is not measuring what you know, but rather what you do. By completing the LASSI, you can gain useful insights about your learning strengths as well as areas for growth. Conversations with your academic coach can be tailored to your LASSI results to help you gain greater awareness about learning and study strategies that can be beneficial to you. Click Here to Take the LASSI Schedule an Academic Coaching Appointment Self-Guided Worksheets Five Day Test Prep Four Quadrant To Do List Intense Study Session Mind Mapping Rules of the Game Tiger To-Do List Understanding Procrastination Weekly Schedule - Version A Home About the Center About the Class of 1956 ASC Awards Academic Advising Success Matters CU 1000 For New Students and Families For Faculty and Staff For Prospective Student Employees Contact Us Related Links Academic Advising Academic Eligibility Policy Academic Forgiveness Policy Center for Career and Professional Development Catalog, Undergraduate Courses Counseling and Psychological Services Libraries Majors Ombuds, Undergraduate Satisfactory Academic Progress Policy Student Accessibility Services Undergraduate Studies Writing Center Downloads ASC Annual Report Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram