Toggle navigation For Students About FYF QEP Assessment For Faculty and Staff FYF Development Resources Contact Us What are you searching for: Search Box Search The implementation of Find Your Fit concluded at the end of Spring 2022 academic semester. The university is actively examining data and lessons learned from the FYF seminar offerings and will be submitting a final report to SACSCOC in March 2023. For students interested in taking a course similar to the Find Your Fit seminar, the one-credit Gen 201 course is similar will be offered in spring semester 2023. Click on “For Students” below to learn more. FOR STUDENTS WHAT IS FIND YOUR FIT? Our Find Your Fit QEP initiative is an opportunity to foster a campus-wide conversation about student learning and success in the crucial second year of undergraduate studies. Read the full Find Your Fit QEP Proposal [PDF]. At the heart of this initiative is the design, implementation, and assessment of a new three-credit elective seminar, ECPY 302: Personal and Academic Inquiry. This small seminar experience is designed to enhance the academic and personal success of our undecided and pre-units second-year students, a population we refer to on our campus as “exploratory students.” As we help our students "find their fit" academically and align their goals with a career path, our QEP project is poised to have long-term implications for how we support our students inside and outside the classroom. This semester I have learned a lot about my career path as well as path of studying and my major. I have done research which I have gained many skills from and I have done activities which showed me skills I already had. I learned a lot about who I am as a person and a student and how I can thrive in the upcoming years of my life. This class has taught me both educationally and personally. -ECPY 302 student WHAT IS A QEP? As defined by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools-Commission on Colleges, the (SACS), the Quality Enhancement Plan (QEP) “describes a carefully designed course of action that addresses a well-defined and focused topic or issue related to enhancing student learning” and “should be embedded within the institution’s ongoing integrated institution-wide planning”. The QEP must be “forward looking” and "launches a process that can move the institution into the future characterized by creative, engaging, and meaningful learning experiences for students." The QEP is a key component of the reaffirmation process for accreditation. At UofL, we launched the latest QEP, Find Your Fit (FYF), in 2017. Its implementation and assessment activities will follow a five-year arc that will culminate in the QEP Fifth Year Impact Report to SACSCOC in 2023. This Find Your Fit website will be updated regularly throughout the length of the project. You can learn more about our institution’s first QEP, Ideas to Action (i2a), and find tools for sustaining its outcomes and activities, here. Learn more about Ideas to Action (i2a) FYF Students work on the I-Search paper in the fall 2020 seminar course taught by Professor JoAnne Sweeny from Brandeis School of Law About Find Your Fit The purpose of the QEP is to enhance our second-year students’ inquiry and decision-making skills in order for them to thrive academically and personally. Links QEP Development About FYF For Students For Faculty and Staff Resources Delphi Center About the Delphi Center Ideas to Action Teaching Innovation Learning Lab Programs and Events Instructional Resources Contact Ekstrom Library Room 244 University of Louisville Louisville, Kentucky 40292 502.852.4319 FindYourFit@louisville.edu louisville.edu/findyourfit Delphi Center Ideas to Action (i2a) Contact Apply Jobs Accessibility Emergency