Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Public Safety Public Safety right arrow down arrow About right arrow down arrow Contact Us FAQ Executive Team Newsroom right arrow down arrow Blog Posts Safety and Reform News Media Department Policies Safety Services right arrow down arrow Access Control & Physical Security Automated External Defibrillators Background Checks / Finger Prints right arrow down arrow FAQ Bicycle Registration Bearcat Guardian Crime Prevention right arrow down arrow Preventing theft from auto and auto theft Preventing theft and burglary Online and phone scams Housing Rental Scams Keys & Badges Lost & Found Mind What Matters NightRide Special Events right arrow down arrow Event Security Cost Estimate Special Events FAQ Be A Good Neighbor Police right arrow down arrow 911 Communications Leadership Community Engagement Team Crime Statistics Job Shadowing Mission, Vision and Values Bias Free Policing and Contact Cards Records and Reports Recruitment Victim Services right arrow down arrow What Are My Options? Harassment, Stalking and Dating Violence Sex Crimes K-9 Unit Request for Investigation University Threat Assessment Group Reform right arrow down arrow Board of Trustees' Resolution Community Compliance Council right arrow down arrow Meetings, Minutes and Materials Guiding Principles Values Members Resources External Reports and Voluntary Monitorship Clery Act right arrow down arrow Clery Notices Daily Crime Log Campus Security Authorities Annual Security Report Fire Prevention and Protection Units right arrow down arrow Fire Extinguisher Training Fire Drills and Smoke Detectors Areas of Rescue Assistance Fire Log Fire Alarm Construction Standards Emergency Management right arrow down arrow Emergency Procedures Safety Notifications Emergency Plans Bearcat Notifications Home » About UC » Public Safety » Safety Services » Crime Prevention » Housing Rental Scams Set Navigation title in component Access Control & Physical Security Automated External Defibrillators Background Checks / Finger Prints FAQ Bicycle Registration Bearcat Guardian Crime Prevention Preventing theft from auto and auto theft Preventing theft and burglary Online and phone scams Housing Rental Scams Keys & Badges Lost & Found Mind What Matters NightRide Special Events Event Security Cost Estimate Special Events FAQ Be A Good Neighbor Housing Rental Scams Rental scammers often target student renters. The information below explains common clues that a rental listing might be a scam, and provides steps to take if the listing is found to be a scam. Signs of a rental scam, and tips to avoid them: Request to meet the person who posted a rental listing in person, or if you cannot meet in person, via video. A real landlord should want to meet you in person to make sure you are legitimate as well. Do not give your personal information or Social Security number to a property owner without first verifying their identity. Request a walk-through of the property, or if you cannot travel to the property, request a real-time video walk-through of the rental. Do not sign a lease before seeing the property via one of these two methods. An additional red flag is if the owner or manager charges you a fee to see the property. If the property manager requests rent before you sign the lease, it is likely a scam. Never mail or wire money to the person, especially if you have not signed a lease. Another red flag is if the property manager asks you to wire money to another person. If the price looks too good to be true, it probably is. Check the going market rate in the area you are looking in to determine what the price should be. Scams may often include the property manager pressuring you with sales tactics, such as encouraging you to rent quickly before someone else rents the property. Scams may also include communication with typos, poor grammar, excessive punctuation, or is incomplete. If you are a victim of a rental scam: Contact the police. If you are not sure what agency to contact, start with UC Police. UCPD can be reached at 513-556-1111 and is located at 51 W. Corry Blvd. in Edwards Three. Our officers can assist you with: Taking a report or contacting the appropriate agency to take a report, Provide you with contact information for the UCPD’s Victim Services Coordinator, And help you utilize other university assistance. Contact the listing website, social media group administrators or other appropriate person where you found the rental to let them know to take it down. Additional Resources: USA.gov Housing Scams Federal Trade Commission Rental Listing Scams Department of Public Safety 51 West Corry Boulevard Cincinnati, OH 45221-0215 Main Number: 513-556-4900 Background Checks, Keys and IDs: 513-556-4925 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Department of Public Safety 51 West Corry Boulevard Cincinnati, OH 45221-0215 Main Number: 513-556-4900 Background Checks, Keys and IDs: 513-556-4925 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top