Skip to main content Restrict my search to Office of the Provost Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Office of the Provost About Provost Paula Myrick Short Initiatives Deans of Colleges and Libraries Provost's Cabinet: Vice and Associate Provosts Office of the Provost Staff Presentations by Provost Paula Myrick Short Faculty Current Faculty Faculty Resources Underrepresented Women of Color Coalition Faculty Engagement and Development Faculty Awards Cougar Chairs Leadership Academy Grants Faculty Grievance Non-Tenure Track Faculty New Faculty Prospective Faculty Presidential Frontiers Faculty Faculty/Staff Administrators Student Success Undergraduate Academic Advising Current Students Undergraduate Student Success Center Provost Prizes for Prose & Poetry New Coogs UHin4: Four Year Graduation Plan Cub Camp: Student-Run, Student Led Provost Summer Read Program Peer Assistants Global Students Learning Abroad International Students Graduate Students University Success SACSCOC University Accreditation UH Global Global Initiatives Global Citizens Credential Peace Corps Prep Program Center for ADVANCING UH Faculty Success Cougar Initiative to Engage (CITE) Houston Guided Pathways to Success About People Memorandum of Understanding Foundations of Excellence About Year 1: Foundational Dimensions Year 2: Themes Success Indicators Dashboard Postdoctoral Fellows at UH Academic Program Planning Committee on Academic Centers and Institutes Planning and Budgeting Policies and Resources Academic Honesty Policy Frequently Asked Questions Student Policies and Resources Student Resources Faculty Policies, Programs, and Resources Policies Programs Resources University Policies and Resources FERPA Resources Senate Bill 4 Frequently Asked Questions Honorary Degrees COVID-19 Updates and Resources News News Travels With Shasta Cougar Milestones UH Office of the Provost Marketing and Communications UH Home Office of the Provost University Success Foundations of Excellence Foundations of Excellence About Year 1: Foundational Dimensions Year 2: Themes Contact Information For questions regarding Foundations of Excellence, please contact Teri Elkins Longacre at elkins@uh.edu. Foundations of Excellence The University of Houston was selected by the John N. Gardner Institute for Excellence in Undergraduate Education to participate in a national higher education project known as "Foundations of Excellence®."Throughout 2013-2014 academic year, University of Houston faculty, staff and students collaborated with the Gardner Institute using a model of excellence for the first college year to develop and refine the University's overall approach to educating first-year students.Research has long indicated that the successful integration of new students into college greatly increases the likelihood of their academic success. As a result, institutions of higher education place particular emphasis on creating a first-year experience that establishes a solid foundation supportive of success in college and beyond degree attainment. News Admins Plan Springboard for Student Success Higher Education Center Selects UH to Participate in National Project on Excellence Resources Related Publications: Barefoot, B.O. Gardner, J.G., Curight, M.,Morris, L., Schroeder, C.C., Schwartz, S.W., Siegel, M.J., & Swing, R.L. (2005). Achieving and sustaining institutional excellence for the first year of college. San Francisco: Jossey-Bass. Fink, L.D. (2003). Creating significant learning experiences. San Francisco: Jossey-Bass. Gardner, J.N. & Barefoot, B.O. (2012). Your college experience: Strategies for success. Boston: Bedford/St. Martin's. Greenfield, G.M., Keup, J.R., & Gardner, J.N. (2013). Developing and sustaining successful first-year programs: A guide for practitioners. San Francisco: Jossey-Bass. Habley, W.R., Bloom, J.L., & Robbons, S. (2012). Increasing persistence: Research-based strategies for college student success. San Francisco: Jossey-Bass. Hunter, M.S., Tobolowsky, B.F., & Gardner, J.N. & Associates (2010). Helping sophomores succeed: Understanding and improving the second-year experience. San Francisco: Jossey-Bass. Kuh, G. D., Kinzie, J., Schuh, J. H., Whitt, E. J. & Associates (2005). Student success in college: Creating conditions that matter. San Francisco: Jossey-Bass. Levine, A., & Dean, D.R. (2012). Generation on a tightrope: A portrait of today's college student. San Francisco: Jossey-Bass. Tinto, V. (2012). Completing college: Rethinking institutional action. Chicago: University of Chicago Press. Upcraft, M.L., Gardner, J.G., & Barefoot, B.O., (2005). Challenging and supporting the first year student. San Francisco: Jossey-Bass. University of Houston Ezekiel W. Cullen Bldg., Room 203 Houston, TX 77204 832-842-0550 About the Office of the Provost Travels With Shasta Cougar Milestones Office of the Provost Staff Faculty Awards Student Success Undergraduate Academic Advising UHin4: Four Year Graduation Plan Provost Summer Read Program Cub Camp: Student-Run, Student Led University Success Policies and Resources SACSCOC University Accreditation ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies