Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Equity, Inclusion & Community Impact Inclusion right arrow down arrow About right arrow down arrow Meet The Team CDO Roundtable Diversity Council D&I Resource Liaisons Student Diversity & Inclusion Council Employee Resource Groups Guiding Principles Equity & Inclusion App Feedback Equity & Inclusion right arrow down arrow Community Education & Workshops right arrow down arrow Workshop Request Form Equity & Inclusion Conference right arrow down arrow Call for Concurrent Session Proposals Equity & Inclusion Incentive Grants Marian Spencer Equity Ambassador Award Services right arrow down arrow Services Request Form Equal Opportunity & Access right arrow down arrow Affirmative Action Plan & Equal Employment Opportunity Section 504/ADA Grievance Procedure Complaint Resolution and Consultation Community Education & Workshops right arrow down arrow Equal Opportunity & Access ACADEMY right arrow down arrow Graduate Class of 2021 Inclusive Excellence Workshops The Student Experience right arrow down arrow Semester/Capstone Projects Gender Equity & Inclusion (Title IX) right arrow down arrow Making a Report right arrow down arrow Confidentiality Employee Responsibility Support & Resources right arrow down arrow Supportive Measures Pregnancy and Parenting Resources Responding to Disclosures Resources for Complainants and Respondents Gender Identity Resources Community Education & Training right arrow down arrow Training Request Form Gender and Sexual Diversity Terminology Title IX right arrow down arrow Reporting Options Title IX Sexual Harassment Policy Sex- and/or Gender-Based Misconduct Policy and Procedure Training Materials for UC Title IX Personnel Community Impact right arrow down arrow CPS Strong Make a Gift right arrow down arrow Darwin T. Turner Scholars Program DEI Toolkit Home » About UC » Equity, Inclusion and Community Impact » Equity & Inclusion » Community Education & Workshops Set Navigation title in component Community Education & Workshops Workshop Request Form Equity & Inclusion Conference Call for Concurrent Session Proposals Equity & Inclusion Incentive Grants Marian Spencer Equity Ambassador Award Services Services Request Form Community Education & Workshops Activating Your Values & Personal Power to Impact Positive Change right arrow down arrow Throughout history, individuals have used and abused power to drive changes that reflect their personal values. In this seminar, participants will examine their own values and discover how, making value-based decisions, they can drive positive change in their personal and professional lives. Activism in the Academy: Working Effectively with Contemporary Student Activists right arrow down arrow This workshop looks at collective action among African American college students, the role of the institution, and the ways in which faculty, staff, and leadership can work effectively with this population to advance social justice on campus.Replace this text component with your accordion's content. Creating a Culturally Responsive Classroom right arrow down arrow This session explores the benefits and limitations of the simulation game BaFa’ BaFa’, used as a foundational experience for all students and faculty. Presenters share practical tips for implementing such a program as well as outcome data related to cross-cultural counseling competencies.Replace this text component with your accordion's content. Creating a Culture of Inclusion right arrow down arrow This seminar is a cross-over workshop combining elements of the Anti-Harassment and Informed Discussions sessions. It is, typically, used as the foundation to a series of educational programming.Replace this text component with your accordion's content. Creating a Culture of Respect right arrow down arrow In this interactive session, participants will assess perceptions and experiences in the workplace, agree to a working definition of respect, identify individiual and shared value, share personal reflections on respectful and disrespectful behavior, and explore strategies to address disrespectful behavior. Creating a Culture of Respect 2.0 right arrow down arrow Participants will: review key components of Level 1; define conflict and explore the stages of conflict; identify situations that may cause one to be annoyed, irritated or angry; review the levels of professional behavior and; hone their skill sin addressing disrespectful behavior through scenarios. Diversity, Equity, & Inclusion 101 right arrow down arrow This experiential session lays the foundation for understanding the different and evolving dimensions of diversity, the basic tenets of diversity, systems of inclusion, and strategies to build a more inclusive environment. Emotional Intelligence & Diversity right arrow down arrow This interactive session helps participants to identify, articulate, and manage their feelings and behaviors when encountering difference (people, personalities, or circumstances). Participannts will learn strategies to maintain and control their emotions while calmly addressing the needs of others. Finding Common Ground: Developing a Culture of Trust & Respect right arrow down arrow Designed to be facilitated within units and/or departments, this session explores cultural considerations for building trust between team members and team leaders, engages participants in group level assessment for finding common ground, and provides opportunities for applying the lessons learned through role play and small group discussion. Gender & Generation in the Age of Information right arrow down arrow This workshop explores the impact of age and gender identities on job satisfaction, commitment, and longevity. Participants examine scenarios centered on bias in the workplace and assess the efficacy of various responses. Implicit Bias: A Deeper Dive right arrow down arrow As a continuation of Oops...Did I Do That? Exploring Implicit Bias, this session helps participants identify different types of cognitive biases, audit their personal environments to identify areas for potential bias, clear the smoke of stereotypes, simulate an applicant selection process, and discuss strategies for mindfulness. Inclusive Conversations Level 1: Informed Discussions right arrow down arrow Thought of as the foundation for building skills for participating in courageous conversations, this workshop offers strategies for facilitating difficult conversations around “hot button” issues. Participants enhance their understanding of respectful communication and learn to avoid engaging in destructive speech and behaviors. Inclusive Conversations Level 2: Microaggressions and Unconscious Bias right arrow down arrow Designed to build upon the Informed Discussions module, this interactive workshop assists participants in uncovering unconscious biases and developing strategies for moving beyond them. Inclusive Conversations Level 3: A 360 Degree View of Intercultural Challenges right arrow down arrow This session is the culmination of the courageous conversations set, providing participants with lessons for viewing intercultural challenges holistically and developing effective strategies for resolving intercultural challenges. Making Inclusion a Reality right arrow down arrow As a mini-think tank, this workshop answers the following questions: 1) What are the opportunities and benefits of an inclusive environment? 2) What are our barriers to creating an inclusive culture? 3) What is my role in helping the University of Cincinnati to create an inclusive campus culture?Replace this text component with your accordion's content. The Multigenerational Workforce right arrow down arrow Participants develop an understanding of differences and similarities across generations by reviewing core values and motivators that enhance communication, reduce conflict and strengthen work teams.Replace this text component with your accordion's content. Oops...Did I Do That? Exploring Implicit Bias right arrow down arrow This session helps attendees recognize the ways in which implicit biases manifest and shape their lives, creating false narratives, microinequities, and microaggressive behaviors. Participants begin to identify strategies for increasing consciousness to reduce exclusive practices. Thinking Styles right arrow down arrow By reviewing characteristics of various thinking styles, participants learn to identify their preferred style and design strategies that leverage each style, enhance communication and strengthen work teams. Also, participants will explore unhelpful thinking styles and methods to address them. Transforming Your Team Through Inclusive Leadership right arrow down arrow Designed to engage managers and directors in conversations around issues of diversity, equity, and inclusion, participants in this workshop will increase their understanding of the dimensions of diversity; review the signature traits of inclusive leaders; explore external factors that impact employees and organizations; relate institutional business stratgies to inclusionary practices; and understand the positive effects an inclusive environment has on the institution. Using Group Level Assessment to Assess and Address Disrespectful Conduct: Level 1 right arrow down arrow Using Group Level Assessment (GLA; Vaughn & Lohmueller, 1998), participants in this session will work collaboratively to generate knowledge; advancing their understanding of the cultural difference in perceptions of respectful and disrespectful behavior in the workplace. University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati Oh 45220 513-556-5000 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati Oh 45220 513-556-5000 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top