Skip to main content Navigation Academics Admissions Research Locations Student Life Alumni & Giving Athletics Apply Now Optical Imaging Systems Certificate Request Info Program at a Glance Program Graduate Certificate College(s) College of Optics and Photonics Department(s) Optics and Photonics The Optical Imaging Systems Graduate Certificate is designed to provide working professionals with knowledge and training in optical imaging systems to enhance their career opportunities and meet their current responsibilities. The certificate program compliments their technical backgrounds in science and engineering with the basic principles and applications of optical engineering in imaging, electro-optic systems, radiometry, and optical system design. Please note: Optical Imaging Systems Graduate Certificate may be completed fully online, although not all elective options or program prerequisites may be offered online. Newly admitted students choosing to complete this program exclusively via UCF online classes may enroll with a reduction in campus-based fees. International students (F or J visa) are required to enroll in a full-time course load of 9 credit hours during the fall and spring semesters. Only 3 of the 9 credit hours may be taken in a completely online format. For a detailed listing of enrollment requirements for international students, please visit http://global.ucf.edu/. If you have questions, please consult UCF Global at (407) 823-2337. UCF is not authorized to provide online courses or instruction to students in some states. Refer to State Restrictions for current information. Request Information View Full Description Application Deadlines Spring December 1 Fall July 1 Ready to get started? Apply Today Career Opportunities UCF prepares you for life beyond the classroom. Here, you’ll experience a wide range of opportunity, like learning diverse skills from world-renowned faculty to networking with top employers across Central Florida to gaining first-hand experience in internships nearby. Achieve your degree and more as a Knight. Aeronautical Engineering Professor Ceramic Engineering Professor Chemical Engineering Professor Civil Engineering Professor Corrosion Control Engineer Electrical Engineering Director Electrical Engineering Professor Electronics Engineering Professor Engineering Design Manager Engineering Manager Engineering Research Manager Industrial Engineering Professor Manufacturing Engineering Professor Marine Engineering Professor Mechanical Engineering Director Optical Engineer Ordnance Engineer Photonics Engineer Process Engineering Manager Salvage Engineer Show More Career Opportunities Degree Search College of Optics and Photonics programs Graduate Certificates Optical Imaging Systems Certificate University of Central Florida Colleges Burnett Honors Arts and Humanities Business Community Innovation and Education Engineering and Computer Science Graduate Studies Health Professions and Sciences Medicine Nursing Sciences Undergraduate Studies Hospitality Management Request Information × Enter your information below to receive more information about the Optical Imaging Systems Certificate program offered at UCF. Loading... × The Optical Imaging Systems Graduate Certificate is designed to provide working professionals with knowledge and training in optical imaging systems to enhance their career opportunities and meet their current responsibilities. The certificate program compliments their technical backgrounds in science and engineering with the basic principles and applications of optical engineering in imaging, electro-optic systems, radiometry, and optical system design. Please note: Optical Imaging Systems Graduate Certificate may be completed fully online, although not all elective options or program prerequisites may be offered online. Newly admitted students choosing to complete this program exclusively via UCF online classes may enroll with a reduction in campus-based fees. International students (F or J visa) are required to enroll in a full-time course load of 9 credit hours during the fall and spring semesters. Only 3 of the 9 credit hours may be taken in a completely online format. For a detailed listing of enrollment requirements for international students, please visit http://global.ucf.edu/. If you have questions, please consult UCF Global at (407) 823-2337. UCF is not authorized to provide online courses or instruction to students in some states. Refer to State Restrictions for current information. Degree Requirements Required Courses 6 Total Credits Complete the following: OSE5115 - Interference and Diffraction (3) OSE6211 - Imaging and Optical Systems (3) Elective Courses 6 Total Credits Complete at least 2 of the following: OSE5203 - Geometrical Optics (3) OSE5525 - Laser Engineering (3) OSE6242 - Infrared Systems (3) OSE6265 - Optical Systems Design (3) Grand Total Credits: 12 Application Requirements Admission is open to those with a bachelor's degree in electrical engineering, physics, or a closely related discipline from an accredited institution recognized by UCF. An application to the graduate certificate program and official transcripts must be submitted. Applicants must apply online. All requested materials must be submitted by the established deadline. In addition, applicants to this certificate must provide: Applications are accepted for the fall and spring terms only. Application Deadlines Optical Imaging Systems Graduate Certificate *Fall Priority Fall Spring Summer Domestic Applicants Jul 1 Dec 1 International Applicants Financial Information Graduate students may receive financial assistance through fellowships, assistantships, tuition support, or loans. For more information, see the College of Graduate Studies Funding website, which describes the types of financial assistance available at UCF and provides general guidance in planning your graduate finances. The Financial Information section of the Graduate Catalog is another key resource University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida