Skip to main content Clemson University Degrees Home Degree Programs MENU Language and International Health (B.S.) LEARN MORE ABOUT You have a passion for language and a desire to serve, you want to make a difference in the lives of others and you understand that bilingual communication goes beyond a few signs posted on the wall. The need for bilingual health care providers has grown exponentially in recent years, not just in hospital settings and multicultural community centers but throughout the health care industry. Clemson graduates in language and international health will be qualified to assume positions in a variety of settings, including hospital systems, consulting firms, managed care organizations and pharmaceutical companies. You’ll also be ready to pursue a graduate degree in community health, epidemiology and biostatistics, health administration or medical research. FAST FACTS You’ll complete an internship abroad in a health care setting where your target language is spoken. You'll work closely with faculty in both public health and languages. You’ll have many opportunities to hone your proficiency in your target language by taking a variety of courses in that language, joining a language club or conversation table and interacting with native speakers during your study and internship abroad. Intensive tutoring is available through Clemson's Academic Success Center. The Clemson Language Immersion program helps prepare you for study abroad. WHAT YOU'LL STUDY The program is jointly administered by departments in two Clemson colleges — the Department of Languages in the College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities and the Department of Public Health Sciences in the College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences. This collaborative program offers you an immersive education in both language and public health. You are fully engaged in both fields of study from your very first semester. In public health classes, you’ll study theory and practice, including the history and philosophy of public health and medicine; the organization, management and financing of health services; and the social and behavioral aspects of health, epidemiology, health evaluation methods and health communications. In language studies, you’ll gain communicative competence in Chinese, French or Spanish and an understanding of the peoples, cultures, literatures, technical language, health environments and multicultural issues associated with your target language. All students spend a semester abroad in a country where their target language is spoken. You will take language-intensive courses and complete an internship in a health care setting, such as a public or private hospital, physical or occupational therapy clinic or a community health center, to name just a few locations. Curriculum Language and International Health, B.S. Popular Minors Business Administration Management Political Science Psychology Sociology Similar Majors Health Science (B.S.) Nursing (B.S.) EXPERIENCES BEYOND THE CLASSROOM Honing your skills in your target language is key to success in this program, and you’ll have lots of options to do so outside the classroom from organization meetings to international film viewing to volunteering. Internships Internships abroad are widely varied to suit different goals and interests and are offered in countries around the world, including Argentina, China, Costa Rica, Spain and France. Language Lab The Language Lab offers additional opportunities to practice and advance your language skills with hands-on approaches to media and technology essential for your studies. Join The Language and International Health Society serves as a forum where program majors can meet to exchange information and ideas. It's also a great way to get to know your peers and explore other cultures.Learn More » Symposium During the semiannual Language and International Health Symposium, medical faculty, students, professionals and alumni present their research on health-related topics that impact minorities, immigrant communities and developing countries. CONNECT WITH OTHER STUDENTS Language and International Health Society Service Learning Projects Creative Inquiry AFTER GRADUATION Your college decision isn't really about the next four years. We get it. It's about what doors are opened by your degree and whether those opportunities are what you had envisioned for yourself. Here's a snapshot of what life after graduation looks like for some of our most recent students. WHERE OUR RECENT GRADUATES HAVE GONE KEY 41-100% 21-40% 11-20% 0-10% INTERNATIONAL CITIES Dominican Republic Spain Turkey West Africa RECENT EMPLOYERS Health Communications Specialist Center for Disease Control and Prevention Clinical Research Program Assistant Medical University of South Carolina Patient Care Liaison In Compass Health Administrative Fellow Kaiser Permanente Director of Business Operations Atrium Health RECENT POSTGRADUATE STUDIES MSW University of Pittsburgh MD Medical University of South Carolina M.S. Public Health Baylor University Physician Assistant (PA) Program Mercer University M.S. Public Health George Washington University COMMON CAREER AREAS Business Hospital System Pharmaceutical Company Health Care Consulting Managed Care Organization Non-Profit Public Health Provider Multicultural Community Program Disaster and Disease Relief Policy Development Program Administration Program Evaluation Volunteer Coordination International Relations and Government Translating and Interpreting Diplomacy Foreign Affairs Public Service Institutional and Community Development FIND OUT MORE Have more questions or want more information? Fill out the form below, which goes directly to the following department contact. If you’d also like to receive general University information from Clemson’s admissions office, please follow the link to the right and sign up to join our mailing list. Jessica Garcia Recruiter jgarci6@clemson.edu Department Website College Website Loading... Department Website College Website Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Line Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2015 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on Google+ Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on YouTube Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram Search Clemson University degrees Clemson Degree Programs Search Alphabetical List Schedule a Visit Campus Life Admissions Costs & Financial Aid Similar Majors To Language and International Health (B.S.) Health Science (B.S.) Nursing (B.S.)