Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. International Services International Services right arrow down arrow Admissions and Arrival right arrow down arrow Cost and Finances Apply to UC right arrow down arrow Transfer to UC Exchange and Visiting Student Programs DACA Students Next Steps to Enroll Orientation & Check-in Visas and Immigration right arrow down arrow Students right arrow down arrow F-1 Students J-1 Students Faculty, Staff and Interns right arrow down arrow J-1 Scholars J-1 Interns H-1B Workers E-3 Status O-1 Status TN Status Permanent Residency Dependents Change Your Status Government Updates Visa Fees Life at UC right arrow down arrow Student Experiences Essential Resources right arrow down arrow Housing and Dining Transportation Finances Healthcare and Insurance Law and Safety Academics Student Employment right arrow down arrow On Campus Off Campus OPT (F-1 Students) right arrow down arrow OPT Seminar CPT (F-1 Students) Fellowships and Assistantships (J-1) Academic Training (J-1) Social Life Hiring, Hosting and Admitting right arrow down arrow Hiring International Workers right arrow down arrow Students Hosting Visitors and Delegations Admitting Students Using iBearcatsGlobal Credential Evaluation Taxes right arrow down arrow How to File right arrow down arrow Non-Resident with US Income Non-Resident with No Income Resident Alien with No Tax Treaty Resident Alien with a Tax Treaty SSN & ITIN right arrow down arrow Social Security Tax Refund Contact Us iBearcatsGlobal Home » About UC » International Services » Life at UC » Social Life Set Navigation title in component Student Experiences Essential Resources Housing and Dining Transportation Finances Healthcare and Insurance Law and Safety Academics Student Employment On Campus Off Campus OPT (F-1 Students) OPT Seminar CPT (F-1 Students) Fellowships and Assistantships (J-1) Academic Training (J-1) Social Life Social Life Make UC and Cincinnati your home. Start by finding students who are having the same global experience that you are or meeting students who are curious about your country and your travels. You'll find a warm welcome! IPALS International Partners and Leaders (IPALs) is a student group run through UC International. These international and domestic students are UC International's ambassadors on campus. They help host events so students from many different cultures can share experiences and make new friends. All students are welcome at the events, so follow the IPALs social media (@ucipals) and UC International's social media to find out what is happening. If you are interested in supporting UC's international students, learn more about applying to join this group of student leaders through CampusLink. Contact the IPALS International student groups There are many other international student groups on campus. You can search "international" or a specific country name or cultural term in the organizations tab of CampusLink to see whether there is a group you would like to join. Can't find one? Start your own! Search CampusLife Start a Student Organization Explore Cincinnati Since when do pigs fly? What's the Big Red Machine? Why is there a district called Over the Rhine when the nearest river is named the Ohio? If you live in Cincinnati, you'll learn the answers to all of those questions, and many more. You'll understand Cincinnati's character as a surprisingly international city, headquarters to almost a dozen Fortune 500 companies, that still thinks of itself as a solidly German-American town and still splits itself east/west along a canal that was paved over a century ago. We're a midwestern city perched on the southern-most edge of the U.S.'s northern states, just over the mountains from the eastern seaboard and a long day's journey from the prairies and plateaus of the greater midwest. We have the oldest city food festival in the U.S. and the big sister to New York City's famous Brooklyn Bridge. Our distinctive collection of 19th-century Italianate buildings has rapidly filled with exciting restaurants in the 21st century. A glorious art deco train station houses some of our museums, and a museum houses a collection of iconic signs that signal Americana the world over. A journalist once called Cincinnati, perched along the Ohio River, "Ohio's front porch." We hope you'll find it a welcoming place. UC International 7148 Edwards Center One 47 W. Corry Blvd. Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-4278 international.students@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati UC International 7148 Edwards Center One 47 W. Corry Blvd. Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-4278 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top