Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Office of Nationally Competitive Awards NCA right arrow down arrow About NCA right arrow down arrow Programs and Events Understanding Fellowships Frequently Asked Questions Contact Us News Awards right arrow down arrow Core Awards right arrow down arrow Fulbright U.S. Student Program Gaither Junior Fellows Program right arrow down arrow Gaither Info Session Goldwater Scholarship right arrow down arrow Goldwater Info Session Marshall Scholarship right arrow down arrow UK Awards Info Sessions Mitchell Scholarship right arrow down arrow UK Awards Info Sessions Rhodes Scholarship right arrow down arrow UK Awards Info Sessions Truman Scholarship right arrow down arrow Truman Info Session Udall Scholarship right arrow down arrow Udall Info Session Priority Awards right arrow down arrow Boren Awards right arrow down arrow Boren Info Session Critical Language Scholarship right arrow down arrow CLS Info Session Fulbright UK Summer Institutes right arrow down arrow Fulbright UKSI Session Gates Cambridge Scholarship right arrow down arrow UK Awards Info Sessions Knight-Hennessy Scholarship National Science Foundation Graduate Research Fellowship Paul & Daisy Soros Fellowships for New Americans Schwarzman Scholarship right arrow down arrow Schwarzman Scholarship Info Session Other Awards right arrow down arrow International Studies International Students Underrepresented and Minority Students Specific Interests or Disciplines Applying right arrow down arrow Deciding to Apply Preparing Your Application right arrow down arrow Recommendation Letters Essay Strategies Developing as a Candidate The Leadership Essay Student Spotlight right arrow down arrow 2021–22 Award Winners 2020–21 Award Winners 2019–20 Award Winners 2018–19 Award Winners NCA Ambassadors Fulbright@UC right arrow down arrow Info Session Recordings UC Fulbright Winners Fulbright Boot Camp Aspire Scholars For Faculty Home » Campus Life » Office of Nationally Competitive Awards » Awards » Priority Awards » Fulbright UK Summer Institutes Set Navigation title in component Core Awards Fulbright U.S. Student Program Gaither Junior Fellows Program Gaither Info Session Goldwater Scholarship Goldwater Info Session Marshall Scholarship UK Awards Info Sessions Mitchell Scholarship UK Awards Info Sessions Rhodes Scholarship UK Awards Info Sessions Truman Scholarship Truman Info Session Udall Scholarship Udall Info Session Priority Awards Boren Awards Boren Info Session Critical Language Scholarship CLS Info Session Fulbright UK Summer Institutes Fulbright UKSI Session Gates Cambridge Scholarship UK Awards Info Sessions Knight-Hennessy Scholarship National Science Foundation Graduate Research Fellowship Paul & Daisy Soros Fellowships for New Americans Schwarzman Scholarship Schwarzman Scholarship Info Session Other Awards International Studies International Students Underrepresented and Minority Students Specific Interests or Disciplines Fulbright UK Summer Institutes The Fulbright UK Summer Institutes are three or four week programs for US undergraduate students. Participants can explore the culture, heritage and history of the UK while experiencing higher education at a UK university. There are several UK Summer Institutes available every year. Each Institute is hosted by a different university, and each focuses on a specific historical or cultural context, or a subject or topic. You do not need to be familiar with these to apply and are encouraged to explore your interests. This award does not require university endorsement. However, we strongly recommend that you work closely with NCA as you prepare your application. Deadlines National Deadline: February 2023 Award Details right arrow down arrow Depending on the Institute, students will have the opportunity to: Study alongside leading academics and professionals Develop knowledge in specific fields Experience cultural and social events Visit UK cultural sites and areas of scenic beauty Receive credit to transfer to their home institution Meet people from different backgrounds and cultures Become an ambassador for studying in the UK, for the Fulbright Commission and their host institution(s) The Institute costs covered by the Fulbright Commission and its partner institutions include: Roundtrip US-UK airfare Tuition and fees at the host institution Accommodation In some cases, a small daily allowance for meals Institutes offered in the Summer 2022 cycle: The Fulbright Scotland Summer Institute on Technology, Innovation and Creativity is a three-week academic and cultural programme for US students, hosted by the Glasgow School of Art and the University of Strathclyde. The Fulbright University of Bristol Summer Institute is a three-week cultural and academic programme, exploring the intersection of Arts, Activism and Social Justice. The Fulbright Aberystwyth University Summer Institute is a three-week cultural and academic programme focusing on contemporary issues in Farming and Agriculture, through the lens of Wales, and is hosted by Aberystwyth University. The UCL Summer School gives students from universities around the world the opportunity to live in central London and experience life as a UCL student for 3 weeks in July 2022. Participants can choose between four different modules in the area of Geography and the Built Environment. Who Should Apply right arrow down arrow Eligibility Criteria To apply, you must: Be a US citizen and possess a US passport Have had little or no study/travel outside of the US or North America Applicants who have spent more than four weeks outside of the US/North America in the last five years would not be eligible. Applicants who have spent up to four weeks outside the US/North America in the last five years may be at a disadvantage, but strong applications will be considered. Have a minimum GPA of 3.7 Be at least 18 years old by the start of the programme Be able to participate in the programme in its entirety Have at least two years of undergraduate study remaining after the Institute finishes Please refer to the UK Summer Institutes website for a more detailed list of the eligibility criteria. Selection Criteria The best applications are from well-rounded students who can demonstrate: Strong academic ability Ambassadorial skills Intercultural sensitivity Genuine desire to learn more about the UK and to share aspects of American culture Extracurricular activities Community involvement Leadership potential Plans to further the Fulbright mission and give back to the US upon returning Application Components right arrow down arrow Official transcripts Short-answer essays (2) Personal Statement Current Affairs essay Recommendations (2) How to Apply right arrow down arrow In the fall, attend an NCA Learning Series session on the Fulbright UK Summer Institutes Complete two NCA forms: Intake form Records Release Form and submit to nca@uc.edu Launch your online application (application opens in November) NCA is available to provide feedback on essays. We are happy to obtain official transcripts free of charge for any student who requests one from us no later than two weeks prior to the national deadline. Complete and submit application by National Deadline: February 2023 Helpful Links, Tips, and Reminders right arrow down arrow Start early and revise often. Though this is a direct-apply award with no campus endorsement process, NCA is happy to provide feedback on essays. The earlier you start, the more benefit you derive from the process. Information on this page is intended to supplement, not supplant, your own careful review of the official UK Summer Institutes website. If you find any discrepancy between the two, the UK Summer Institutes website takes precedence. Though you should seek out others’ advice and feedback on your application, the essays should be your original work (no one should be writing your essays for you). UC’s Student Code of Conduct applies. Recent Awardees right arrow down arrow Morgan Dent - Scholar, Queen's University Belfast, 2020. Chloe Elleman - Scholar, Queen's University Belfast, 2019. Office of Nationally Competitive Awards 707A Swift Hall 513-556-1003 nca@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Office of Nationally Competitive Awards 707A Swift Hall 513-556-1003 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top