Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Prospective Newly Admitted Current Alumni Columbia University School of General Studies Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Admissions Educational Financing Academics Student Services About Undergraduate Admissions How to Apply Eligibility Application Deadlines and Decisions Information Sessions/Campus Visits Transfer Students Postbac Premed Admissions How to Apply Eligibility Application Deadlines and Decisions Information Sessions/Campus Visits Newly Admitted Students International Students Planning Day Placement Exams University-Wide Placement Exams U.S. Military Veterans International Dual Degree Programs Types of Financial Aid Institutional Scholarships Federal and State Grants Loans Private Scholarships and Grants Student Employment Financial Aid for Military Veterans Post-9/11 GI Bill® and the Yellow Ribbon Program Veterans Request for Certification Cost of Attendance Applying for Financial Aid Prospective Students Newly Admitted Students Current Students University Employees Postbac Premed Students Counseling Appointments Enrollment Update Form Student Account Refunds Undergraduate The Core Curriculum Degree Fulfillment Course Listings Majors and Concentrations Research Opportunities Study Abroad Academic Calendar Postbac Premed Program Curriculum & Courses Sample Schedule Course Listings Preparatory Coursework Previously Completed Coursework Glide Year Master’s Programs Academic Calendar Applying to Medical School General Admission Linkage Admission Linkage Specific Program Requirements Reapplicants Letters of Recommendation Academic Policies Registration Enrollment and Courseload Leaves and Withdrawals Academic Integrity and Standards Faculty of Arts and Sciences Undergraduate Announcements Postbac Premed Announcements Academic Advising Academic Resource Center Programs & Services Jumpstart Series Tutoring Peer Advising Campus Services Forms and Guides Graduation Health and Wellness Housing International Students Medical School Fair Planning Your Future Accelerated Master's Programs Fellowships and Research Premedical Clinical and Research Positions Student Life Leadership Development Multicultural & Social Justice Education Programs Student Organizations Upcoming Events Veterans Resources and Initiatives Leadership Mission History Statistics and Facts Notable Alumni University Policies Events Staff Directory Faculty News Press Coverage Media Inquiries School of General Studies You are here: Home News 2022 Grad Profile: JP Bouvet Profile 2022 Grad Profile: JP Bouvet April 27, 2022 JP Bouvet Undergraduate Where are you from? New York City Major: Psychology Tell us about your path to GS! I've been a professional musician since I dropped out of music school 10 years ago. Some of what this entails includes work with my band, Childish Japes, touring with artists like Steve Vai and Zakk Wylde as part of guitar supergroup Generation Axe, and running my subscription-based educational drum website where I specialize in teaching improvisation. Psychology and meditation had been long standing passions of mine, and my desire to take this interest more seriously continued growing until I could no longer ignore it. Like I did with music years ago, I felt I had to scratch the itch and establish a proper study, if only to see if the interest would endure. Needless to say, it did! I am looking forward to pursuing graduate study in the field, and hopefully one day becoming a therapist in addition to my work in music. What has been your proudest Columbia moment? As simple as it sounds, I am proud of my GPA. Not having been in a real academic setting since high school (music school is more like band camp), I had been doubtful I would be able to keep it up. Who are some people who have contributed the most to your Columbia experience? One of the simplest but greatest joys of the last few years has been sitting with the couple close friends that I made at Columbia and talking about everything and anything. The curiosity, knowledge, life experience, good humor, and open-mindedness of these friends makes them a unique and wonderful addition to my life. What are your plans for after graduation? My wife is pregnant with our first child! So, I will spend the next few years being a new father and finishing several exciting music projects that have been on the back burner during school. Once my kiddo starts going to kindergarten, I plan on returning to grad school to do a masters in something like social work, and continuing to work toward becoming a therapist. What advice would you give to a Columbia student starting their GS journey? It is unsettlingly fashionable to be cynical. Instead, take your classes, yourself, and this institution seriously. Speak your mind with force, especially if you feel that your opinion is uncommon or underrepresented. You will quickly get good at, and then tire of, writing safe and expected opinions into your papers. So, every now and then, try to prove a controversial point in a paper just for the exercise and the challenge of it. Tags Student Profile Undergraduate News May 27, 2022 Join Us: Columbia Reunion Weekend in New York City May 26, 2022 Lewisohn Hall Summer Closure | Summer 2022 Temporary Relocation to Uris Hall May 26, 2022 Postbac Premed Program Institutional Scholarship Application May 24, 2022 GS Celebrates the Class of 2022 at Class Day Ceremony May 24, 2022 Academic Resource Center Summer Offerings Admissions Undergraduate Admissions Postbac Premed Admissions Newly Admitted Students U.S. Military Veterans International Dual Degree Programs Educational Financing Types of Financial Aid Financial Aid for Military Veterans Cost of Attendance Applying for Financial Aid Counseling Appointments Enrollment Update Form Student Account Refunds Academics Undergraduate Postbac Premed Program Applying to Medical School Academic Policies Faculty of Arts and Sciences Student Services Undergraduate Announcements Postbac Premed Announcements Academic Advising Academic Resource Center Campus Services Forms and Guides Graduation Health and Wellness Housing International Students Medical School Fair Planning Your Future Premedical Clinical and Research Positions Student Life Veterans Resources and Initiatives About Leadership Mission History Statistics and Facts Notable Alumni University Policies Events Staff Directory Faculty News Press Coverage Media Inquiries Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close