Skip navigation Columbia University Faculty & Staff Students Info for - Choose - Faculty & Staff Students News Events Forums Alumni Give Experience SIPA Dean's Messages About SIPA Why SIPA? SIPA Stories Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Centers & Institutes Columbia & New York City Global & UN Connections Student Organizations Ideas Lab Dean's Public Policy Challenge Grant Tech & Policy @ SIPA Entrepreneurship & Policy @ SIPA Central Banking and Financial Policy @ SIPA Kent Global Leadership Program on Conflict Resolution Academics Degree Programs Concentrations & Specializations International Fellows Program Dual Degree Programs Courses Capstone Workshops Executive Education Admissions What We Look For How to Apply Financial Aid Application Status Accept Your Offer Connect with SIPA Admissions FAQs Meet a Current Student Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Research & Publications Libraries & Campus Resources Careers Career Education Career Resources Internship Program Job & Internship Postings Employment Statistics Career FAQs For Employers Experience SIPA Dean's Messages About SIPA Why SIPA? SIPA Stories Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Centers & Institutes Columbia & New York City Global & UN Connections Student Organizations Ideas Lab Dean's Public Policy Challenge Grant Tech & Policy @ SIPA Entrepreneurship & Policy @ SIPA Central Banking and Financial Policy @ SIPA Kent Global Leadership Program on Conflict Resolution Academics Degree Programs Concentrations & Specializations International Fellows Program Dual Degree Programs Courses Capstone Workshops Executive Education Admissions What We Look For How to Apply Financial Aid Application Status Accept Your Offer Connect with SIPA Admissions FAQs Meet a Current Student Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Research & Publications Libraries & Campus Resources Careers Career Education Career Resources Internship Program Job & Internship Postings Employment Statistics Career FAQs For Employers Search form Search You are here Home News Emerging Voices Program Seeks to Add Diversity in National Security Professions Alumna Mila Tuttle provides pilot funding to Saltzman Institute. You are here Home News November 9, 2021 emerging voices - program.jpg The Saltzman Institute of War and Peace Studies has inaugurated a new pilot program, Emerging Voices in National Security and Intelligence. The Saltzman Institute of War and Peace Studies has inaugurated a new pilot program, Emerging Voices in National Security and Intelligence, that will expand curricula at SIPA and Columbia and encourage female, BIPOC, and first-generation students (undergraduate and graduate alike) to consider and pursue professional opportunities in national security and related fields. The Emerging Voices program, which draws on a generous gift from Mila Tuttle CC ’96, MIA ’05, is led by Professor Keren Yarhi-Milo, director of the Saltzman Institute, and Senior Research Scholar Peter Clement. Planned components include four new courses on intelligence and national security, an annual conference, a speaker series, career-focused activities, and financial support for both a postdoctoral research scholar and promising undergraduate students. The initiative formally launched on October 21 with the event “How Diversity Affects National Security: Aspirations and Realities,” featuring speakers Michèle Flournoy, former U.S. under secretary of defense for policy, and Carmen Medina, former deputy director of Intelligence at the Central Intelligence Agency. Tuttle joined Yarhi-Milo, Clement, and Dean Merit E. Janow in welcoming guests. She said her donation, which is supporting the program’s pilot phase, was inspired by Yarhi-Milo’s vision for the Saltzman Institute. She also emphasized her own hopes for the next generation of national security professionals. emerging voices - yarhi-milo tuttle janow clement.jpg Professor Keren Yarhi-Milo, College and SIPA alumna Mila Tuttle, Dean Merit E. Janow, and Senior Research Scholar Peter Clement were on hand for the launch of the Saltzman Institute's new Emerging Voices program. “We must include more women and more diverse voices from all pockets of this planet at the table and in the rooms where decisions are made,” Tuttle said. “Their perspectives and lived experiences are essential to bring forth a world at peace, and that is what Emerging Voices in National Security and Intelligence is all about…. When we are more inclusive, we can find the best people and the best ideas.” Citing figures from the Office of the Director of National Intelligence, a Saltzman Institute video said women comprise 39.3 percent of the intelligence community, and professionals from minority backgrounds 27 percent. Yarhi-Milo underscored her own desire to help cultivate diversity in her field, but also noted that “being passionate… is not enough.” “We at the Saltzman Institute were incredibly lucky that Mila Tuttle read an interview in which I discussed these issues and ideas, and decided to pick up the phone and say ‘I want to help you do that,’” Yarhi-Milo recounted. “We cannot be more grateful for Mila’s generosity… we literally could not have launched this program without her.” A veteran of the financial industry, Tuttle is currently the host and executive producer of Future Hindsight, a podcast focused on increasing civic engagement. She earned her undergraduate degree at Columbia and today sits on the boards for both Columbia College and its alumni association. Outside of the University, she is also a board member at organizations including the Kitchen, a nonprofit art space in New York City. For more information about the Emerging Voices program, contact Assistant Director Ingrid Gerstmann. To support Emerging Voices or learn more, contact Associate Dean Beth L. Mauro or telephone 347-387-7344. — Oğulcan Varlı MIA ’22 Watch now: “How Diversity Affects National Security: Aspirations and Realities” How Diversity Affects National Security: Aspirations and Realities Video of How Diversity Affects National Security: Aspirations and Realities SIPA Magazine SIPA_Magazine-2021_Cover.png The School of International and Public Affairs' print publication features articles by faculty, students, and alumni, as well as current news about SIPA's programs, events, and alumni. View Archive Journal of International Affairs jia-magazine-cover.png A leading peer-reviewed journal published by the School of International and Public Affairs. Visit Website Share This Top Connect with Us Facebook LinkedIn YouTube Twitter Instagram Twitter June 1, 2022 RT @ColumbiaUEnergy: "There are going to be tipping points with this transition and tipping points in technology, and I have no doubt th… https://t.co/Kl0BvFY4gk June 1, 2022 RT @Columbia: Explore the rich history of the LGBTQ+ movement at Columbia, the scholarship of our faculty on related issues, even… https://t.co/SQC3HllMcz COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY School of International and Public Affairs Main Address 420 West 118th Street New York, NY 10027 Non-Discrimination Statement and Policy Office of Admissions and Financial Aid 514 West 113th Street New York, NY 10025 SIPA Admission Tel (212) 854-6216