Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Search Type Faculty & Staff Event Featured Profile News Opportunity Resource Student Research Project Videos Search Menu Info for… [Select an Audience] [Select An Audience] Admitted Graduate Students Current Graduate Students Employers Departments» Applied Physics and Applied Mathematics Biomedical Engineering Chemical Engineering Civil Engineering and Engineering Mechanics Computer Science Earth and Environmental Engineering Electrical Engineering Industrial Engineering and Operations Research Mechanical Engineering Admissions» Application Requirements Apply Admissions Events Campus Tours Frequently Asked Questions Graduate Funding Opportunities Tuition and Financial Aid Visit Us Brochures Graduate Student Life» Professional Development & Leadership Housing New Student Checklist Student Organizations Campus Resources Graduate Career Placement Graduation Class Day 2022 events for Graduate Students Fellowships & Opportunities The Graduate Student Affairs Team Graduate Students Resources Events & Activities Diversity and Community Engagement» Events Student Life Bridge to PhD Program Graduate Enrollment Services» Registration Requests Change of Status Change of Status Forms Learning Online Resources List» Columbia Engineering COVID-19 Emergency Fund for Doctoral Students Virtual Event Opportunities» Welcome New Students!» New Student Checklist Admitted Student Webinars Applying for a Visa Campus Resources Connect Engineering Welcome Day & Orientation Housing Information International Student Panel Frequently Asked Questions Program Kick-Off Schedule Apply Now News Bulletin Graduate Engineering Home Graduate Enrollment Services Below you will find information about registration, academic policies, and other academic procedures. Please read the instructions carefully and consult with your department before submitting a request. Steps to Register Meet with your Academic Advisor in your Department to discuss your Program Plan. Review the Registrar’s Directory of Classes. Review Registration Timeline. Log on to your SSOL (Student Services Online) account. During your scheduled registration appointment, register for classes using SSOL. Registration for MS Students Registration for Masters Students in SEAS: Beginning with registration in April 2018, master’s students will be able to register for a maximum of 18 credits, including courses for which the student is registering on the waitlist. As has been past policy and practice, graduate students may not take more than 15 credits per semester, and students are reminded that they are billed per credit. In addition, graduate students are reminded that if they drop classes after the last day of the Change of Program (add/drop) period, they will be charged tuition for the dropped classes.. Master’s students in SEAS will be limited to the following parameters: 1st Year students will only be able to be simultaneously registered and waitlisted for credits up to 18 credits. 2nd Year students will only be able to be simultaneously registered and waitlisted for credits up to 12 credits. For example, if you are a 2nd year student and you are registered for 10 credits and want to waitlist a class for 3 credits, you will not be able to. Your total waitlisted/registered credits would be 13 which would be above the 12 credit max. You will either need to register or waitlist a class that is 2 credits or drop a class you are registered for to waitlist the 3 credit class. If you are a 1st year student, currently registered for 12 credits and waitlisted for 3 credits and want to register for an open 4 credit course, you will not be able to. Your total waitlisted/registered credits would be 19 which is above the 18 max. You will need to either drop a class or remove yourself from a waitlist. Registration for Doctoral Students Doctoral students cannot register part-time.There are three full-time registration categories for Doctoral students. Please make sure to confirm your registration category with your department administrator. Full Residence Unit (RESI G0001, call number 99991) – “R.U.” is for students who will be taking courses or who will still be within their first six semesters. The completion of six R.U.s is a requirement for the MPhil and PhD degrees. Extended Residence (EXRS G0001, call number 77771) – “E.R.” is for students who are beyond the first six semesters of their PhD program and are serving as Teaching Assistants (TAs), as Research Assistants (RAs), as Research Fellows, or as Core Preceptors. Matriculation and Facilities (MTFC G0001, call number 88881) – “M&F” is exclusively for PhD students who are beyond their first six semesters, who will not be teaching, and who are instead: completing a degree requirement such as a language examination or qualifying examination preparing the dissertation proposal, or writing or distributing the dissertation please note, students should not register for M&F for over two semesters. In extenuating circumstances, students may petition Graduate Student Affairs for a third term of M&F. For more information about each registration category, please see the Residence Unit Student Guide. Doctoral students must register continuously until they distribute to their committee the copy of the dissertation that will be evaluated at the defense; if the dissertation defense is scheduled for a subsequent term, students need not register again. Matriculation and Facilities (M&F) Policies for Doctoral students Columbia Engineering PhD students can only register for M&F during the last year of the doctoral program for a maximum of two semesters. Prior to registering for M&F the student must inform their advisor and the department chair that they entering their final year and only working on writing or distributing their dissertation. Part-time vs Full-time Part-time and full-time statuses depend on your degree and number of points (equal to "credits" at other institutions). One point represents one hour of contact with a professor each week for the length of the term. Most classes are three points. Degree Credits Required Max Time Allowed Part-Time Half-Time Full-time MS 30-36 depending on degree program Please check with your department 5 years Less than 6 credits Min 6, less than 12 credits Min 12+ credits Doctoral (PhD only) 60 credits (includes approved advanced standing) 7 years NA NA All Doctoral candidates are required to register full-time. Please refer to this link for registration rules. Doctoral (EngScD) 60 credits 7 years Must obtain approval, please inquire with the Office of Graduate Student Affairs Must obtain approval, please inquire with the Office of Graduate Student Affairs 12 credits+ All students should plan their academic programs with their department. Should a graduate student need more time to complete their degree program, a petition for an extension to their program must be submitted to the department and the Office of Graduate Student Affairs. International Students (F-1 or J-1) are required to be full-time. These students should contact ISSO to inquire about dropping courses at any point during their program. Since the cost of tuition generally increases each academic year, students are encouraged to complete their program in the shortest time possible that fits with their own schedule and constraints. Adding/dropping Courses after Change of Program Period Graduate Students are cautioned that there are no refunds for courses dropped after the University's Change of Program Period. Even if you are adding a course, the cost of the new course will not be “offset” by dropping (swapping) with a discarded course. Students will be charged in full for both courses. Because of this, we encourage students to be fully advised as to their intended course load each term. Students who desire to add or drop courses after the add/drop timeline will need to complete the Registration Adjustment Form and submit the request to their department. SSOL cannot be used for this purpose as faculty and school approval are required. Changing Degree Program after Change of Program Period The change of program period only allows you to add or drop courses. If a graduate student wants to “transfer” into another department, they must complete at least one semester in their current program and submit an admissions application for the program that they wish to enroll in the future. If the student is admitted, then their degree program status will change. For further questions about transferring, please check with Graduate Admissions. Changing Course Grading Options Graduate students must speak to their department before selecting P/F for a course. If approved, please review the timeline established by the Registrar’s office for students wishing to change their grading options (i.e. Letter Grade to Pass/Fail etc.). The Registration Adjustment Form is used for this purpose as well. Pass/Fail courses do not count towards the degree. After the last day of the change of grade option period, there is no uncovering or changing of P/F or letter grades under any circumstances. Columbia University Cross-Registration The following should be noted: All students will need departmental permission to take non-program-related courses If approved, students can take courses outside of their requirements. However, they should be aware that these courses may not count towards their degree program Students who take undergraduate courses through Engineering will be charged graduate-level tuition for those courses Cross-registration requests require approval from non-Engineering schools and the graduate student’s department Please be aware of eligibility requirements when registering. Some courses may be restricted Students wishing to take graduate courses at the Columbia Business School (CBS) must follow Business school registration procedures and receive approval from their department Students wishing to obtain academic credit for courses taken at Columbia but outside of the School of Engineering will need to inquire about advanced standing Columbia Engineering Cross-Registration Cross-registration within Columbia Engineering must approved by the graduate student’s home department and the host department. For example, if you are a MECE student and you want to register for a CS course, then you will need to obtain approval from MECE and CS. Contact Us Make an appointment to meet with a member of SEAS Graduate Student Affairs: Assistant Dean Appointments: Graduate students with questions about academic concerns, progress toward degree, leaves of absence, and general concerns about school/life balance may make an appointment with the Assistant Dean Yannick L Brookes. Student Life Appointments: Graduate students with questions about housing, student groups and programming, and GSA events should contact Andy Chae, Associate Director of Graduate Student Life. Enrollment and Registration Appointments: Graduate students with questions about enrollment, registration, or graduation clearances should contact Alexis Moore, Associate Director of Operation and Enrollment Services. Registration Requests Registration information, adding and dropping a course, etc. MORE Change of Status Learn how to request a change in your student record. MORE Learning Online Success in online classes can require a different approach compared to face-to-face instruction. Here are some tips to help you maintain your academic performance while learning online. MORE Tuition and Fees Tuition and fees for the upcoming academic year are updated routinely during the summer. For more information, please click the link below: Tuition and Fees Academic Integrity To learn more about our policies and procedures regarding academic integrity, please click on the link below: Academic Integrity Policies and Procedures GRADUATE STUDENT HANDBOOK This student handbook contains most of the policies guiding your tenure as students at Columbia. You are responsible for knowing the contents and following all policies contained within. Student Handbook Office of Graduate Student Affairs 500 W. 120th Street New York, NY 10027 Admissions (212) 854-4688 | [email protected] Academics and Student Affairs (212) 854-6438 | [email protected] Apply Now Plan a Visit Directory Columbia Engineering Columbia University