Academic Planning >> Skip to main content Toggle navigation University of Pennsylvania School of Nursing About Admissions Academics Innovation Research Practice Community Global Health Diversity News & Events Information for: Students Faculty Alumni Parents Giving Give Now Penn Nursing Search SNAP SNAP Welcome to Student Nurses at Penn (SNAP)! SNAP is the School of Nursing’s main and oldest undergraduate student organization that is committed to creating programming and opportunities for nursing students. Come to our GBMs and other events for studying tips, career advice from SON faculty/classmates, tips on securing an externship, and more. Enjoy prizes from SNAP and learn more about how to become active in the School of Nursing. SNAP prides itself on being an organization that helps nursing undergraduates find opportunities, resources, and platforms to develop leadership that will extend from the classroom, the hospital, and beyond. Learn more about us in the tabs on the right! Get Involved with SNAP! Check out our Instagram page @penn_snap and Facebook https://www.facebook.com/PennSNAP ! Join our listserv and earn points to become a member of SNAP: tinyurl.com/joinsnap2022 Please email Dana Shulman at dshul@nursing.upenn.edu with information on any events you would like posted to the SNAP website. Faculty Advisor: Dr. Diane Spatz Dr. Diane Spatz (PhD, RN-BC, FAAN) is SNAP’s incredible faculty advisor. She received her BSN, MSN, and PhD at the University of Pennsylvania. In addition to making sure we have all the resources and support we need to run smoothly, she is also the Helen M. Shearer Term Professor of Nutrition and the Director of the Lactation Program and the Mother’s Milk Bank at CHOP. Her 10 Step Model to Promote & Protect Human Milk and Breastfeeding in Vulnerable Infants is used worldwide. Dr. Spatz’s case study course is one of the only undergraduate courses in human milk and breastfeeding in the world. She also provides guest lectures on breastfeeding and research in the BSN and MSN programs and mentors students at all levels (BSN, MSN, and PhD). Selected Career Highlights include being the Chair of the Expert Panel on Breastfeeding for the AAN, the AAN representative for the United States Breastfeeding Committee, and being a Winner of the Edge Runner Award from the AAN. Student Nurses at Penn About Join Events and Updates Professionalism Community Service Peer Advising SNAP Gear Scholarships and Awards Resources Related: Claire M. Fagin Hall 418 Curie Boulevard Philadelphia, PA 19104-4217 Telephone: (215) 898-8281 Admissions: (215) 898-4271 Contact Us Maps & Directions School Directory Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues & Get Help Logins: Web Support Sharepoint Login Editor Login Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn YouTube