<form runat="server"></form>
<WebPartPages:SPWebPartManager runat="server"/>
 Skip to Main Content HBS Home About Academic Programs Alumni Faculty & Research Baker Library Giving Harvard Business Review Initiatives News Recruit Map / Directions MBA FAQ Introduce Yourself Blog Visit Apply Academic Experience Entrepreneurship Student Life Career Path Admissions Financial Aid …→ Harvard Business School→ MBA→ Student Life Student Life Activities, Government & Clubs Campus People Community Values The First-Year Experience The Second Year Experience The HBS Community → Student Life Student Life Activities, Government & Clubs Campus People Community Values The First-Year Experience The Second Year Experience The HBS Community Get an inside look at how student life unfolds First Year Second year Student Profiles MBA 2020 Swoope, VA Erin Kaivan Erin KaivanErin Kaivan MBA 2020 Swoope, VA MBA 2020 Bronx, NY Brandon Lovell Brandon LovellBrandon Lovell MBA 2020 Bronx, NY MBA 2020 Buenos Aires, Argentina Ignacio Lartirigoyen Ignacio LartirigoyenIgnacio Lartirigoyen MBA 2020 Buenos Aires, Argentina Student Clubs & Associations Student clubs play an important role in the student experience. Most campus activities are organized by student clubs and the Student Association (student government). Explore clubs and activities that match your particular interests. A Vital CommunityA Vital Community    Leadership & Values The teaching of ethics here is explicit, not implicit, and our community values of respect, honesty, integrity, and accountability are reinforced every day. Residential Life “A friend who just entered the Class of 2018 recently shared with me that upon letting a few mentors know about her acceptance, one of them called her immediately and said — I have only one piece of advice for you: live on campus. My thoughts on this advice? Absolutely true.” Wendy Lin MBA 2016 Read the Blog Post “A friend who just entered the Class of 2018 recently shared with me that upon letting a few mentors know about her acceptance, one of them called her immediately and said — I have only one piece of advice for you: live on campus. My thoughts on this advice? Absolutely true.” Wendy Lin MBA 2016 Read the Blog Post The HBS Community 5 Reasons to Join a Club at HBS When students arrive on campus for the first time, the suspense of meeting Section mates, preparing for potential cold calls, and understanding campus food options can feel overwhelming. Having the option to join a club that mirrors any facet of who you are helps greatly in the transition to life as an MBA student over the next two years. Having people to lean on during challenging times is what forges lifelong friendships and is one of the things that makes HBS such a vibrant community. While each club on campus builds its own micro-community, there are over ten affinity clubs that create fellowship among those with similar life experiences. When students arrive on campus for the first time, the suspense of meeting Section mates, preparing for potential cold calls, and understanding campus food options can feel overwhelming. Having the option to join a club that mirrors any facet of who you are helps greatly in the transition to life as an MBA student over the next two years. Having people to lean on during challenging times is what forges lifelong friendships and is one of the things that makes HBS such a vibrant community. While each club on campus builds its own micro-community, there are over ten affinity clubs that create fellowship among those with similar life experiences. Virtual Campus Tour Experience our 40-acre campus through the eyes of an MBA student. →Play the Tour Celebrating the MBA Class of 2020 Support Services Discover the resources available to HBS students with a documented disability or learning difference, or who may have a chronic medical condition or mental health concerns. ǁ MBA Admissions Harvard Business School Spangler Welcome Center (Spangler 107) Boston, MA 02163 Phone: 1.617.495.6128 Email: admissions@hbs.edu →Map & Directions →More Contact Information Make a Gift Site Map Jobs Harvard University Trademarks Policies Digital Accessibility Copyright © President & Fellows of Harvard College