Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Apply Visit Give Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links Menu Main Nav Back Back Close About BC Overview President's Message Mission & History Facts & Figures Notable Alumni Campuses, Maps & Directions Trustees & Leadership Related Links Diversity BC Fact Book Office of University Communications BC Media & Publications Office for Institutional Diversity Admission Overview Apply Questbridge Applicants International Applicants Homeschooled Applicants Transfer Applicants Transfer Credit Veteran and ROTC Applicants Test-Optional Policy 2022-23 Early Decision vs. Regular Decision First-Year Admission Profile Visit Discover BC Hotels, Directions, and Parking Contact Admission Affordability Majors & Minors Morrissey College Majors Choosing BC Related Links Undergraduate Tuition & Financial Aid Financial Aid Office Graduate Admission Offices Academics Overview Schools & Colleges Majors & Minors Libraries Professional & Continuing Education Excellence & Innovation Academic Advising Related Links Academic Calendar Office of the Provost Academic Advising Center Core Curriculum Student Services Campus Life Overview Diversity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Student Organizations Sports & Recreation Arts & Culture Related Links Student Affairs McMullen Museum Robsham Theater Research Overview Research Centers & Institutes Undergraduate Research Opportunities Faculty Awards & Grants Graduate Fellowships Research Support Related Links Vice Provost for Research Sponsored Programs Research Integrity and Compliance Technology Transfer and Licensing Jesuit, Catholic Overview Catholic Intellectual Tradition Jesuit Resources Related Links Division of Mission & Ministry Campus Ministry Center for Student Formation The Church in the 21st Century Center Related Links Student Affairs McMullen Museum Robsham Theater Close Directory A to Z Listing Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Campus Life HOME Campus Life In This Section Campus Life Overview Diversity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Student Organizations Sports & Recreation Arts & Culture Education is a process of discovery and development. At Boston College, you engage in that process in the classroom and through programs across the campus that inspire creativity, nurture friendship, cultivate leadership, and promote social good. Live on Campus Housing and Dining Explore our varied living options. Visit Residential Life FRESH to Table at Corcoran Commons Living at BC Stay Well Health & Wellness Find balance and ways to live a healthy live while you are here. Office of Health Promotion Campus Recreation University Counseling University Health Services “No other school put service at the forefront of their mission. That really spoke to me. I thought ‘This is going to be a community of people who are going to be engaged in conversation and are going to set the world aflame.’ I wanted to be one of those people. ” Chiamaka Okorie '17, MLK Scholarship winner Get involved STUDENT CLUBS and ORGANIZATIONS Turn your interests into action with more than 273 student-run groups. Keep Active Athletics AND Recreation Keep moving and motivated with our Division I sports, club programs and intramurals. Campus Recreation Division I Sports Intramurals Club Sports Group Fitness Play Live on Campus Housing and Dining Explore our varied living options. Get Involved Student Clubs and Organizations Turn your interests into action with more than 273 student-run groups. Stay Active Athletics and Recreation Keep moving and motivated with our Division I sports, club programs and intramurals. Be Creative Arts and Culture Music, literature, dance, theater—showcase your talents through our arts programs. Find Support Off Campus Off-Campus Living Get assistance on issues related to rental policies, roommate and landlord concerns, and learn how to be better community member. What's going on at BC? Arts & Culture Arts & Culture Social Thea Bowman AHANA and Intercultural Center Learn more about our community that supports and empowers students, with a particular focus on AHANA, multicultural and multiethnic students. Learn more First Year Experience Make your first year a memorable one–starting with orientation and other welcome programs. Learn more Faith, Service, and Personal Development Discover more about yourself by serving others. Uncover what is most important to you with workshops, retreats and other resources. Learn more Career Explorations Define your ideal career – and get the guidance you need to achieve your goals. Learn more Facts & Figures 3,600 student interviews conducted on campus each year through the Career Center 30 residence halls with more currently under construction 47,000 tickets sold online for Robsham Theater events last year 20,377 undergraduate visits per year to the University Health Services' Primary Care Center Back To Top Back To Top 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Jobs at BC Give Connect With Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube LinkedIn Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College