Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu Division of Student Affairs Housing and Residential Engagement Main Navigation About Us Show Extended Mission Meet Our Staff Contact Us Student Employment and Leadership Opportunities Parking Information Student Housing Policies Current Residents Show Extended Payment Information Resident Mailing Addresses Wi-Fi for Entertainment Devices Lockouts Dining Services FAQ's Submit a Maintenance Request The Gastronome Community Market Future Residents Show Extended Housing Information Housing Communities Student Housing Suites How to Apply for Housing Payment Information Theme Communities What to Bring on Move-in Day International Students International Programs & Global Engagement On-Campus Housing for International Students Housing Tours Tour Information Campus Tours Residential Engagement Show Extended Residential Engagement Faculty in Residence Theme Communities Housing Policies Of The Month Awards Housing Student Organizations About RSA About NRHH Resources Show Extended SwakU Gifts and Care Packages MicroFridge® with Safe Plug® GradGuard Renters insurance Spectrum Fire Safety Report Off-campus Housing Events and Conference Services Show Extended Meeting Room Reservation Request Form Summer Conferences Dining and Catering Tabling Request Form Marketing Requests Contact our Events and Conferences Team Take a Housing Tour Submit a Maintenance Request Contact Us Housing Portal Mission Statement Cal State Fullerton currently provides residence hall and apartment style living for approximately 2,000 students that is safe, clean and very convenient. Living on campus is an excellent way to enhance your educational experience. Being a member of a living and learning community can help strengthen both your personal growth and academic success. You will have the opportunity to develop leadership skills, attend educational, cultural and social programs, and interact more closely with faculty and university staff members. Living in student housing has been proven to help residents achieve higher grades, increase their leadership skills and graduate. Our diverse community also provides a safe and welcoming environment to learn about others as well as yourself. We encourage you to get involved, study hard, make new friends and reach higher. Remember, we’re here because you’re here. Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Commitment Statement Cal State Fullerton Housing and Residential Engagement is committed to cultivating and promoting an inclusive and respectful environment for our residential community and guests. We are committed to creating opportunities to engage in self-discovery and critical inquiry for all members of our community. We aim to empower, educate, and activate our residential community to challenge prejudice, promote justice, and embrace differences. We recognize that members of our community may hold multiple marginalized identities and are impacted by intersecting forms of oppression and discrimination. Housing and Residential Engagement strives to actively combat these challenges through peer and staff support and an intentional residential learning model that creates an environment in which all students can learn, connect, and grow. Sustainability in Student Housing Cal State Fullerton has been focused on incorporating “green” design, construction and renovation elements into its buildings and outdoor space. The five residence halls (Elm, Fig, Holly, Juniper, and Pine) and the Gastronome became the first student housing complex in California to be awarded the Platinum Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) certification by the U.S. Green Building Council in 2011. The LEED certification is based on a number of components that include sustainable site development, water savings, energy efficiency, indoor environmental quality and material selection. In the summer of 2016, the majority of the interior and exterior lighting in the Doubles and Singles Apartments were retrofitted to LED fixtures, reducing energy consumption by an estimated annual savings of 250,000 kWh. CSUF Housing Leading California USGBC Recognition GBIG Recognition Center for Sustainability Sustainability at CSUF larrymartin@fullerton.edu (657) 278-4380 Dr. Larry Martin Executive Director Hello new and returning residents. We’re glad you’ve decided to make our housing community your home during the current academic year! For our new students, transitioning into college is often both exhilarating and terrifying at the same time. Whether you are a first-time freshman or a transfer student from a community college, the adjustment process is often wrought with questions, awkward moments of feeling lost on campus and a general sense of feeling overwhelmed. This can be particularly true when you don’t know who to ask for help. I’m hopeful you’ve had a chance to meet your Resident Advisor and/or Community Coordinator who can be a wealth of information on how to get connected to resources on campus. In addition, if you’re unsure who to talk to, please stop by the Housing Office, email us at housing@fullerton.edu, or call us at (657) 278-2168. This site is maintained by Housing and Residential Engagement. Last Published 4/13/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact housing@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.10 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.