Skip to content Clemson University Clemson University Search Menu Close Sorry, your browser does not support inline SVG. Sorry, your browser does not support inline SVG. Apply Giving News Resources for Students Faculty & Staff Parents Alumni Clemson University Academics Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Academics Home Employment Opportunities Apply for Admission Colleges College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business College of Education College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences College of Science Graduate School Academic Resources Academic Calendar Registrar Division of Undergraduate Studies Center for Career and Professional Development Academic Success Center GRAD 360° Libraries Outside the Classroom PEER/WISE Call Me MISTER® Creative Inquiry and Undergraduate Research Cooperative Education University Professional Internship and Co-op Program (UPIC) Study Abroad Admissions Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Admissions Home Schedule a Tour Apply for Admission Applying to Clemson First-Year Undergraduate Transfer Undergraduate International Undergraduate Graduate Students Academic Opportunities Majors Graduate Programs Online Graduate Programs Scholar Programs Paths to Graduate School Honors College Experiential Learning Financial Aid Tuition and Fee Calculator Undergraduate Financial Aid Graduate Fellowships and Awards Residency Requirements Campus Life Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Campus Life Home Club Sports Brooks Center for the Performing Arts Join Your Clemson Family Finding Your Community Living-Learning Communities Student Veterans Multicultural Programs FIRST Army ROTC Air Force ROTC Services On Campus Housing & Dining Campus Recreation Parking and Transportation Student Health Services TigerOne Card Services Clemson Athletics Get Involved Clubs and Organizations Fraternity and Sorority Life Orientation Ambassadors Tiger Media Graduate Student Government Undergraduate Student Government Research Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Research Home Clemson University Research Foundation (CURF) Division of Research Research Opportunities Student Research at Clemson Creative Inquiry Research Facilities Postdoctoral Affairs Serving South Carolina Through Research School of Health Research Public Service and Agriculture Clemson Experimental Forest Clemson Extension Clemson Research and Education Centers Public Service and Agriculture Research Farm Services Innovation and Economic Development Corporate Partnerships and Strategic Initiatives Clemson University International Center for Automotive Research (CU-ICAR) Clemson University Restoration Institute (CURI) Clemson University Biomedical Engineering Innovation Campus (CUBEInC) Center for Human Genetics Innovation Campus and Technology Park About Clemson Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back About Clemson Home Clemson News Clemson Athletics For Tigers Applying to Clemson Working at Clemson Traditions Military Heritage Things To Do in Clemson Visit Clemson Campus Resources Employment Opportunities Home and Garden Information Center Brand Guidelines CCIT Academic Calendar Training ClemsonForward Campus Leadership Board of Trustees President Academic Affairs and Provost Inclusion and Equity Student Affairs Faculty Senate Staff Senate Search Resources for Current Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni EUREKA! Apply Community Experiences Research Projects Poster Forums Forward Arrow Poster Forums Back Arrow Back Accepted EUREKA! Students Apply Giving News Sikes Hall Icon Main Menu Forward Arrow Icon Back Arrow Icon Back Clemson University Academics Academics Home Employment Opportunities Apply for Admission Colleges College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business College of Education College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences College of Science Graduate School Academic Resources Academic Calendar Registrar Division of Undergraduate Studies Center for Career and Professional Development Academic Success Center GRAD 360° Libraries Outside the Classroom PEER/WISE Call Me MISTER® Creative Inquiry and Undergraduate Research Cooperative Education University Professional Internship and Co-op Program (UPIC) Study Abroad Admissions Admissions Home Schedule a Tour Apply for Admission Applying to Clemson First-Year Undergraduate Transfer Undergraduate International Undergraduate Graduate Students Academic Opportunities Majors Graduate Programs Online Graduate Programs Scholar Programs Paths to Graduate School Honors College Experiential Learning Financial Aid Tuition and Fee Calculator Undergraduate Financial Aid Graduate Fellowships and Awards Residency Requirements Campus Life Campus Life Home Club Sports Brooks Center for the Performing Arts Join Your Clemson Family Finding Your Community Living-Learning Communities Student Veterans Multicultural Programs FIRST Army ROTC Air Force ROTC Services On Campus Housing & Dining Campus Recreation Parking and Transportation Student Health Services TigerOne Card Services Clemson Athletics Get Involved Clubs and Organizations Fraternity and Sorority Life Orientation Ambassadors Tiger Media Graduate Student Government Undergraduate Student Government Research Research Home Clemson University Research Foundation (CURF) Division of Research Research Opportunities Student Research at Clemson Creative Inquiry Research Facilities Postdoctoral Affairs Serving South Carolina Through Research School of Health Research Public Service and Agriculture Clemson Experimental Forest Clemson Extension Clemson Research and Education Centers Public Service and Agriculture Research Farm Services Innovation and Economic Development Corporate Partnerships and Strategic Initiatives Clemson University International Center for Automotive Research (CU-ICAR) Clemson University Restoration Institute (CURI) Clemson University Biomedical Engineering Innovation Campus (CUBEInC) Center for Human Genetics Innovation Campus and Technology Park About Clemson About Clemson Home Clemson News Clemson Athletics For Tigers Applying to Clemson Working at Clemson Traditions Military Heritage Things To Do in Clemson Visit Clemson Campus Resources Employment Opportunities Home and Garden Information Center Brand Guidelines CCIT Academic Calendar Training ClemsonForward Campus Leadership Board of Trustees President Academic Affairs and Provost Inclusion and Equity Student Affairs Faculty Senate Staff Senate Search close EUREKA! Undergraduate Research Program Apply Community Experiences Research Projects Poster Forums Accepted EUREKA! Students Clemson Home CU Honors College Opportunities Intellectual Growth Current: EUREKA! A Summer Program for New Clemson Honors Students “ “EUREKA! 2020 made my transition to college a breeze. Despite COVID-19, the program allowed me to find my best friends and make important connections, which led me to continue research with my EUREKA! mentor during the school year!” Liz Dillard Financial Management Major Former EUREKA! Participant Get a Head Start on Campus Life and Research at Clemson EUREKA! gives 50 students (25 in-person and 25 online) the chance to dive into the research experience before their first year begins. This five-week summer program is now available both in-person and online, with spaces for 25 incoming first-year Honors students in each delivery option to work with some of Clemson’s top faculty. Working as part of a team or one-on-one, EUREKA! gives you the chance to engage early and could lead you on a path toward your next great discovery. You will also be able to connect with academic mentors and stand out for Rhodes, Goldwater, Fulbright and other major fellowships — not to mention using your summer to familiarize yourself with campus offerings, make friends and get a head start exploring research. About EUREKA! Nearly everyone knows the story of the famous Greek mathematician Archimedes who, upon discovering his famous principle of fluid displacement while in a bath tub, ran naked through the streets shouting “Eureka!,” Greek for “I found it!” Clemson University Honors College students have the opportunity to share Archimedes’ spirit of discovery. Experiences in Undergraduate Research, Exploration and Knowledge Advancement (EUREKA!) is a unique and exciting program that will enable Honors students to pursue research and scholarly activities with faculty across all disciplines. The EUREKA! Program virtually brings together approximately 50 incoming first-year students, who have been accepted into Clemson Honors, where they actively participate in research projects or other scholarly activities. The students are not provided a stipend or wages. In addition to their research activities the students will participate in virtual speaker discussions on various topics designed to orient them to academic life at Clemson and provide them with the basic skills needed to perform research in a broad range of areas. Social activities will include weekly virtual social events during the summer portion of the program, a closing dinner, whitewater rafting, and cultural and sporting events when we return to campus. EUREKA! participants will choose from research projects proposed by Clemson's faculty. Participants will work with a variety of formats, depending on the nature of their project. Some participants, particularly those in the sciences and engineering disciplines, will work with a laboratory group on some aspect of a new or existing research project. This could involve a single faculty member and their research group of graduate students, undergraduates, and postdoctoral associates or might involve a team of faculty members and their groups. The former is typical of any number of Research Experiences for Undergraduates (REU) programs that exist at Clemson, while the latter is the preferred model for Center for Advanced Engineering Fibers and Films (CAEFF), Center for Optical Materials Science and Engineering Technologies (COMSET) and other collaborative centers on campus. Students in non-laboratory areas, such as the humanities and some social sciences, will work independently to pursue a scholarly project under the direction of one or more faculty members. A final symposium will be held after the program. The participants will present posters describing their work and all members of the university community will be invited. It is also expected that many of the EUREKA! participants will participate in symposia associated with other summer research programs that they are involved in. To provide additional incentive for them to excel in their projects, EUREKA! participants will also be expected and encouraged to present their work at local professional meetings such as the South Carolina Academy of Sciences. Why You Should Apply EUREKA! provides an excellent jumpstart for college life. You will acquire your "college feet" by interacting with other members of the campus and in-person or virtually learning where academic buildings and the best places to eat are located. You'll also make a large group of friends that share your interests. Your participation helps remove the fear of not knowing anyone when you first enter college. You will also meet amazing faculty and speakers. Many students find it easier to learn college time-management skills during EUREKA!, when they are conducting research and have the benefit of unmanaged free time, but not the pressure of academic grading. No library tour or orientation class will give you the insight that a summer of working with Clemson faculty and students will provide. EUREKA! students establish relationships not only with their faculty advisor, but also with the advisor’s research group and other members of the Clemson University community, and it is anticipated that this “family of mentors” will provide lasting and valuable support throughout their academic career, even beyond their time at Clemson. Many EUREKA! participants continue working on their project throughout the academic year and during subsequent summers and will develop an academic maturity far beyond a typical undergraduate student. These students will be strong applicants as Rhodes, Goldwater, Marshall, Truman and Fulbright Scholars, and their potential for these awards will be recognized much earlier than in the past. One of the program's goals is to help strengthen students' applications to summer programs in their junior and senior years – and eventually for graduate studies at other high caliber universities. Important Dates Important EUREKA! Dates: What When Application open for EUREKA! 2022 (both online and in-person) April 1, 2022 (11:59 p.m.) Application due date May 8, 2022 (11:59 p.m.) Notification of admission to EUREKA! Week of May 22, 2022 Program fees due electronic payment RECEIVED, not postmarked) June 5, 2022 2022 EUREKA! Program Dates June 20 - July 22, 2022 (Online) with check-in week of June 13, 2022 June 24 - July 30, 2022 (In-person) Itineraries coming soon! Who is Eligible ALL accepted incoming first-year Honors students are eligible to apply for EUREKA! Participants are admitted by application. Students are eligible to participate in EUREKA! one time only. You must be enrolled as a full-time student at Clemson University. Students participating in the virtual EUREKA! program must have a computer with a camera and microphone as well as a strong internet connection. Blending Academics and Fun While the primary focus of the EUREKA! Program is early-start research, we offer a significant amount of social activities that keep participants busy in the evenings and on the weekends. Participants are required to attend daily research hours and all social activities on the published itinerary; however, there is also significant amount of free time during the program. All attendees are treated like enrolled college students. While attendees do have participation responsibilities, the program is not heavily regulated. Program Policies Program participants are held to local, state, and federal laws as well as Clemson University's alcohol and drug policy. The EUREKA! program has a ZERO TOLERANCE policy concerning drugs and alcohol. Students found in violation of these laws and policy will be dismissed from the program. No program refunds will be issued for dismissed students. Attendance Policy Students are expected to attend 100% of EUREKA! events. The online program option offers more location flexibility and requires less time each day, while the in-person option is really a 24/7 immersive experience. Please keep this difference in time commitment in mind when applying. Online Format In addition to research hours, there will typically be one additional meeting each day. However, there are several daily meetings during our career events. All required meetings will be posted on the online itinerary, which is subject to change. Students can participate from any location, provided the following are true for the entirety of the activity: Strong internet connection Cameras on Microphone (external or through the device) available Fully focused and actively participate when appropriate (no driving, playing games, etc.) Definitions Late refers to joining a meeting after the scheduled start time. If a student is chronically late, the student will meet with the EUREKA! Director. Absent refers to missing 10% or more of the scheduled meeting (for an hour-long meeting, missing 6 minutes is absent). If a student is absent three times, the deposit will be forfeited, and the student will be removed from the program. In-Person Format In addition to daily research hours, there are several events, both social and academic, throughout the program. Students are expected to live on-campus for the duration of the program and are required to attend the entirety of all events (scheduled beginning to scheduled end) in-person. Please do not make any personal appointments that would require you to leave campus for the duration of the EUREKA! program. If a student is chronically late, the student will meet with the EUREKA! Director. The cost of any event(s) a student misses from the in-person itinerary will be charged to the student after the program ends. All itinerary events are subject to change. Contact EUREKA! The EUREKA! Undergraduate Research Program is offered through the Clemson University Honors College. For more information, please contact: EUREKA! Program 180 Cribb Hall Clemson, SC 29634-5106 Phone: 864-656-4762 Fax: 864-656-1472 E-mail: eureka@clemson.edu Accepted Students EUREKA Brochure (PDF) Research Focus Community Focus How to Apply EUREKA! Faculty Mentors in the News Creating Opportunities for Students Seifert Scholars is newest program to support undergraduate genetics and biochemistry students Clemson University's Seifert Scholars program allows up to three undergraduate researchers to spend six weeks of the summer researching in a Eukaryotic Pathogens Innovation Center lab, which is directed by EUREKA! faculty mentor Kerry Smith. Read the Story Clemson University research underscores importance of AI security Clemson University is adding to its portfolio of artificial intelligence research with a new project aimed at protecting next-generation AI systems from attacks without sacrificing the systems’ performance, accuracy or complexity. The new project is led by Yingjie Lao, an assistant professor in the Holcombe Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering and a EUREKA! faculty mentor. Find Out How Clemson University Facebook Instagram Twitter Linkedin Youtube Tiktok Policy/Terms of Use Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Copyright © 2022 Clemson University • Clemson, South Carolina 29634 Clemson University Facebook Instagram Twitter Linkedin Youtube Tiktok Resources A-Z Index Campus Map CU Safety Directory Webcams Apply to Clemson