About Meetings & Events Food Offices Services Diversity Student Engagement Home About Annual Report Advertise in the MU Reservation Form Advertise in the MU Architecture Awards & Recognition ISU Memorial Union Harold Pride Service Medallion Past MU Awards Ceremonies Roger Ferris: MU Student Employee Award Building Hours Contact Us Workorder Request Key / Electronic Card Access Request Employment Current Openings Application Creative Job Fair Gold Star Hall History Timeline Jobs & Internships for Creatives Maps & Directions MU 2 You Video Series Mission Vision Values Renovations In the MU Floors 4-6 Renovation Building History Contact Us MU Suggestion Box Parking Peak Performance Leadership Policies and Forms MU Graphics Request Incident Report Postings & Promotions Mechanical Work Order Request Staff Directory Story of the Memorial Union Video Traditions, Myths & Stories Parking & Maps Parking Parking Ramp Permit Application Automated Pay Stations Hosted Event Parking Validation Request Form Maps & Directions Building Directory Building Maps Accessible Entrances Directions to the MU Transportation Gold Star Hall Gold Star Hall Ceremony 2018 Ceremony 2017 Ceremony 2016 Ceremony 2015 Ceremony 2014 Ceremony 2019 Ceremony World War I World War II Korea Vietnam Somalia The Global War on Terrorism Criteria The History of Gold Star Hall Services In The Memorial Union Meetings & Events Space Requests MU Room Request University Outdoor Space Request Booth and Table Request Requesting Rooms on Campus Extended Hours Request Form Event Promotion Room Amenities Room Rates & Capacities Room Rates & Capacities FY23 A/V Packages & Pricing Event Equipment & Services Event Authorization Policies & Guidelines MU Food Policy Resources ISU Catering Approved Food Vendor Form Bus Unloading and Loading Event and Meeting Room Photo Gallery Contact Us Services Diversity Food MU Food Court MU Market and Café Panda Express and Sushi by Panda™ ISU Catering Vending Student Engagement Arts & Entertainment Leadership & Service Offices Menu Home | Services | Lounges | Multicultural Center Multicultural Center Located on the Second Floor by Parking Ramp For more information email mcc@iastate.edu Fall and Spring Semester Hours Monday-Thursday: 8am-11pm Friday: 8am-5pm Saturday: Closed Sunday: 5pm-11pm Summer Hours Monday-Friday: 10am-5pm Saturday: Closed Sunday: Closed Multicultural Center Mission The primary mission of the Multicultural Center is to develop a sense of community between students, staff, and faculty of color on the Iowa State University campus. The Multicultural Center will also play a major role in educating all members of the ISU community on the cultural histories and heritages of U.S. ethnic minority groups and help further the understanding and appreciation for the differences that exist among and between them. The overall intent of the Center is to create an environment where awareness of one's cultural identity and a deeper understanding and respect of others' differences with respect to culture, are readily accepted and embraced. Resources in the Multicultural Center: Four desktop computers with printer access A comfortable lounge with 40" flat screen television Kitchenette Two private study/reflection rooms A library for relaxing and browsing A multipurpose room that can be reserved for meetings and events Lockers available for students on the go! Reserve the Multicultural Center's Multipurpose Room The Multipurpose Room of the Multicultural Center can fulfill your need for meeting space, receptions, and many other uses. Please reach out to Multicultural Student Affairs at 294-6338 or omsa@iastate.edu to reserve this space, which is free to student organizations. You can also fill out a reservation request online. Please note that any catering for events held in the Multipurpose Room must be done through ISU Dining. Multicultural Center Art Philosophy The art philosophy of the Multicultural Center is to embrace, express, and celebrate the diverse cultures of Iowa State University and create a welcoming space for students. Furthermore, the Multicultural Center will inspire pride, support, and love through cross cultural experiences and dialogues. Distinctive and unique artworks in stoneware were created especially for the Multicultural Center by Steve and Miki Cunningham of West Des Moines, Iowa. Featured pieces are a mirror, mosaic panels and four vessels, all with messages tucked into their construction. Overall title: "Unity Thru Clay" Mirror: "Reflection on Diversity" Three-Panel Mosaic: "You Are Not Alone" Large Bowl: "Friendship Bowl" Donut-Handled Vessel: "Chingoo" (friends) Tornado vessel with rocks: "Come-Together" Platter: "Community" Connect with us! Memorial Union Foundation Fund Your generous contributions help preserve the spirit of Iowa State Memorial Union for future generations. There are many ways to give. Choose the one that's right for you. Give to the mu ISU Memorial Union Iowa State University 2229 Lincoln Way Ames, IA 50011-1130 Information Desk: 515-296-6848 Contact Us Iowa State University Memorial Union Iowa State University 2229 Lincoln Way Ames, IA 50011-1130 Information Desk: 515-296-6848 Connect with us! ISU Memorial Union Iowa State University 2229 Lincoln Way Ames, IA 50011-1130 Information Desk: 515-296-6848 Contact Us Connect with us! Memorial Union Foundation Fund Your generous contributions help preserve the spirit of Iowa State Memorial Union for future generations. There are many ways to give. Choose the one that's right for you. Give to the mu ISU Memorial Union Iowa State University 2229 Lincoln Way Ames, IA 50011-1130 Information Desk: 515-296-6848 Contact Us Connect with us! Memorial Union Foundation Fund Your generous contributions help preserve the spirit of Iowa State Memorial Union for future generations. There are many ways to give. Choose the one that's right for you. Give to the mu Iowa State University Memorial Union Iowa State University 2229 Lincoln Way Ames, IA 50011-1130 Information Desk: 515-296-6848 Contact Us Connect with us! Copyright © 1995-2022, Iowa State Memorial Union. All rights reserved. Non-Discrimination Statement and Information Disclosures | Sitemap WEB DEVELOPMENT BY GLOBAL REACH © 2022 Iowa State Memorial Union. All rights reserved.