Skip to main content Go to site search Go to primary navigation Go to resources navigation Penn COVID-19 Response » Penn Home Toggle Site Navigation Toggle Site Search Academics More Academics Undergraduate Graduate Schools Global Initiatives Interdisciplinary Online Learning Off-campus Learning Libraries Admissions & Aid Athletics Research & Innovation More Research & Innovation Research Enterprise Research News Life at Penn More Life at Penn Arts & Culture Community Involvement More Community Involvement Penn & Philadelphia Diversity Groups & Organizations Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Safety & Security More Safety & Security Emergency Contacts Emergency Preparedness Spirituality & Religion About More About Introduction to Penn History Facts News, Media, & Communication Services Sustainability FAQ Penn’s Interim President, Wendell Pritchett Trustees & Administration Policies Toggle Site Search Resources Current Students Faculty & Staff Parents Alumni Visitors A-Z Directory Webmail Services Give to Penn Search Search Close Breadcrumb Home / Services / Transportation & Parking Transportation & Parking There are numerous convenient and sustainable ways to travel to, from, and around the Penn campus. Penn’s “cleaner, greener” buses are part of the University’s Sustainable Transportation Initiative to promote environmentally responsible commuting. Sustainable Transportation Penn’s campus is well served by an extensive network of subway, bus, regional rail, and trolley lines that are located around the campus where public transit stops are never more than a five-minute walk from any part of campus. Discounted passes for the Philadelphia and New Jersey transit systems are available to full-time Penn students, and to assist Penn faculty and staff commuters who choose to use public transportation, Penn offers discounted options and pre-tax benefits through a variety of programs. University Transit Options Penn Transit Services Penn Transit's comprehensive system provides integrated transit on and around campus free of charge to all PennCard holders. Penn Buses Penn Bus East and West run on fixed routes in the evenings seven days a week. Look here for schedules and current arrival times. Penn Shuttles Penn Transit operates four shuttle options Penn Accessible Transit, Pennovation Shuttle, Penn FMC shuttle, and Penn’s On-Request Evening Shuttles. LUCY: Loop through University City The SEPTA-operated shuttle connecting Penn’s campus and 30th Street Station. Alternative Modes of Transportation Ride Sharing Options Commuter programs including car sharing (Enterprise CarShare & Zipcar), Carpool and Van Pool. Carpool Discounts Penn’s Carpool Program applies faculty and staff parking discounts through pre-tax payroll deductions. Bicycling Information about bike policies, storage, safety, and resources; interactive campus bike map. Penn also offers a Bike Commuter Expense Reimbursement Program for faculty and staff who commute by bike. Walking Penn is a pedestrian-friendly environment with Locust Walk, its iconic pedestrian street running through the center of campus. Parking Penn Parking Services Information about where to park, permits, policies, applications, and fee schedules for students and faculty/staff. Where to park at the Hospital of the University of Pennsylvania. Occasional Parking To support commuters who choose to use public transportation, Penn offers discounted parking options for times when it is necessary to drive to campus. Interactive Parking Map Interactive parking map for the University’s schools, hospitals, and medical centers. The map includes hours of operation, rates, and GPS coordinates for each parking facility. Directions and Parking at the Perelman Center for Advanced Medicine The Ruth and Raymond Perelman Center for Advanced Medicine is located adjacent to the Hospital of the University of Pennsylvania. Offices & Services A complete directory of the administrative offices and services that keep the Penn community moving. Human Resources & Employment Questions about benefits, career opportunities, professional development, and more, all answered here. Human Resources Student Services Information about all aspects of student life, from housing, health, and wellness to student organizations and employment. Student Services Residential Services A comprehensive overview of the residential resources and services Penn provides. Residential Services Retail Penn offers a host of convenient retail options on and around campus and online. Look for special discounts for Penn students, faculty, and staff. Retail Transportation & Parking There are numerous convenient and sustainable ways to travel to, from, and around the Penn campus. Transportation & Parking Event Planning Your online resource for planning an event or reserving a space on campus Event Planning Offices & Services Landing Page A complete directory of the administrative offices and services that keep the Penn community moving. Services Philadelphia, PA 19104 Telephone: (215) 898-5000 Contact Us Maps Parking Navigate Alumni Athletics Diversity Health Care Libraries Online Learning Penn Global Penn's Heritage As America’s first university, Penn has a history that dates back to 1740 and shares many ties with the colonial city of Philadelphia and the birth of our nation. Our History Disclaimer Emergency Services Nondiscrimination Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement Back To Top