Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Mathematics and Technology with Teaching Major You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Mathematics and Technology with Teaching Major Apply Visit Request More Info Mathematics and Technology with Teaching Major Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Mathematics and Technology with Teaching Major The Bachelor of Science in Mathematics and Technology with Teaching Major in the College of Science and Technology at Temple University not only gives you a pathway to earning your teaching certification, but also the background needed to teach mathematics or engineering. Students are prepared to enter careers teaching these scientific disciplines with this 123-credit-hour degree, offered through the TUteach program. Learn how mathematics is used in all branches of engineering, the fundamentals of inquiry-based teaching and problem-solving in engineering design. Mathematics and Technology with Teaching BS majors gain experience in School District of Philadelphia classrooms under the guidance of Temple faculty and Philadelphia secondary school teachers. You’ll have the skills to help students think critically and ask questions about science. The curriculum requires students to pick a concentration through the College of Engineering. You’ll choose from one of the following tracks. Bioengineering highlights how engineering principles can solve problems and lead to new discoveries in biology and medicine. Energy emphasizes the concepts, theory and application of energy, radiant energy, and renewable and alternative energy. Environment explores the life and physical sciences, from atom structure and microbiology to environmental field techniques and pollution prevention. Robotics focuses on electrical engineering and digital circuit design In addition to your engineering track, you’ll study the foundations of both engineering and mathematics. You will learn to develop an overview of the development of modern science and mathematics, honing your knowledge of algebra, calculus, and probability theory, as well as engineering technology and problem solving. Through the College of Education and Human Development, you’ll take coursework in project-based instruction, teaching diverse learners and developing an inclusive classroom, and using state-of-the-art technology in designing science and mathematics lessons. The curriculum emphasizes how secondary school students grow to learn and understand scientific ideas and theories. You’ll become an integral part of helping shape their experiences in STEM. Students in this program will learn to use effective communication techniques and strategies that engage students in the learning process. Guide them in forming an interest in science and mathematics, help them develop their curiosity and encourage them to pursue further scientific study. You’ll be paired with a TUteach advisor who will guide you through your time in the program. Advisors assist with understanding curriculum requirements, finding internship opportunities and completing the paperwork required to become a candidate for the Pennsylvania Praxis certification exam. The required Praxis exam assesses the skills and knowledge of all individuals preparing to become teachers for kindergarten through grade 12. The Praxis exam you take depends on the state in which you want to become licensed and the scientific discipline you want to teach. Temple TUteach TUteach is a collaboration between the College of Science and Technology and the College of Education and Human Development. TUteach integrates a secondary school (grades 7 through 12) mathematics or science teaching track so you can become eligible to take the Praxis certification exam upon graduation. Learn more about the TUteach program degrees. Classes & Curriculum As a Mathematics and Technology with Teaching Major, you will broaden your knowledge with a combination of required and elective courses. These include 14 mathematics courses, seven education courses, four engineering courses and two writing-intensive courses. Learn more about Mathematics and Technology with Teaching Major required courses. Related Graduate Degrees Accomplished Teaching MSEd* Higher Education MEd* Higher Education EdD* Mathematics MS Mathematics PhD Middle Grades and Special Education MEd* Secondary Education MEd* Secondary Education and Special Education MEd* Urban Education MEd* Urban School Leadership MEd* Related Graduate Certificates College Access and Success* Digital Education Leadership* Information Science and Technology Instructional Learning Technology* Student Affairs Leadership* Teaching in Higher Education* Urban Education* *College of Education and Human Development Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, the Bachelor of Science offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. Learn more about our tuition and fees. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $20,568.00 per year Out-of-state: $33,792.00 per year Our Academic Advisors Center for Academic Advising and Professional Development The Center for Academic Advising and Professional Development in the College of Science and Technology helps you navigate New Student Orientation, advises on specific degree programs and courses, provides post-graduation guidance, and offers peer support. You can also be matched with a qualified student ambassador/ombudsperson who will further assist with degree and academic questions or concerns. Learn more about the Center for Academic Advising and Professional Development's academic advisors and student ambassadors/ombudspersons. Program Contact Contact the following faculty for more information about the Mathematics and Technology with Teaching degree. Boris Datkovsky is a content advisor in the Department of Mathematics Phone: 215-204-7847 Email: bdats@temple.edu Shawn Fagan is the director of undergraduate studies in the College of Engineering. Phone: 215-204-7852 Email: angelone@templ.edu Maria Lorenz is a content advisor in the Department of Mathematics. Phone: 215-204-7852 Email: angelone@templ.edu Kathleen McKinley is a faculty advisor in the College of Science and Technology. Phone: 215-204-9252 Email: kathleen.mc.kinley@temple.edu Irina Mitrea is chair of the Department of Mathematics. Phone: 215-204-7852 Email: imitrea@temple.edu Kenneth Ruff is an advisor in the TUteach program Phone: 215-204-3628 Email: kruff@temple.edu Susan Varnum is a program director and professor in the Department of Chemistry Phone: 215-204-6390 Email: susan.varnum@temple.edu Student Clubs & Organizations Student clubs and organizations in the College of Science and Technology provide opportunities to meet with peers, network with professionals or scientists in your field of study and learn about internship opportunities. The College of Science and Technology offers 15 major clubs and 12 prehealth clubs for undergraduate students. Enhance your academic study and social life by participating in a club related to your major or interests. Students pursuing a Mathematics and Technology with Teaching Major degree may be interested in the following clubs and organizations. The Alliance for Minority Participation in STEM works to increase opportunities for students and help them complete their undergraduate and graduate degrees in STEM fields. The Association for Computing Machinery promotes the academic, professional and social development of students interested in computer technology. The Association for Computing Machinery for Women provides support and advocacy for women pursuing careers in technology. The Association for Women in Mathematics - Temple University Chapter promotes equal opportunities for women in the field and encourages them to seek careers in mathematics. Leadership, Education and Development in Science empowers Philadelphia middle school students to take an interest in STEM through mentor-led science experiments. The Math Club is a community of students and College of Science and Technology faculty that promotes mathematics through social activities and discussions. The Society for Industrial and Applied Mathematics is a professional society for students interested in applied, computational or industrial mathematics. Members attend seminars, explore career opportunities and meet with scientists in the field. TU Dev is a community of students with a mutual interest in software design that fosters discussions on emerging trends and technologies in the field. Explore the full list of College of Science and Technology student clubs and organizations. Study Away Deepen your understanding of your math, natural science or computer science coursework by experiencing firsthand how such disciplines are studied overseas. Temple’s study abroad program offers College of Science and Technology students opportunities to spend a summer or semester studying in Germany, Italy, Japan and Spain. Learn more about your options for studying away. College of Science and Technology undergraduate students can also take part in international research. These opportunities include the following external scholarship programs. The Benjamin Gilman International Scholarship provides funding for underrepresented students to study in nontraditional destinations such as Australia and Eastern Europe. The Boren Scholarship Summer STEM Initiative offers undergraduate STEM majors opportunities to participate in a language-intensive program. The Indian Institute of Science Education and Research and Temple offer opportunities for students in biology, chemistry and physics programs to work in research groups in Pune, India, over the summer. The Siena Biomedical Research Program provides the opportunity for students to spend their summer working full time in a biotechnology and pathology lab based in Tuscany, Italy. The Sicily Applied Biotechnology Program allows students to learn the biological basis behind the technology used for art conservation and then apply that knowledge in the laboratory and in the field. Learn more about study abroad programs for College of Science and Technology students. Accreditation As a division within Temple University, the College of Science and Technology is accredited by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education. ST-MTTC-BS Additional Program Information Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Mathematics and Technology with Teaching Major Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Visit Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Visit Request More Info