Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Coronavirus COVID-19 right arrow down arrow COVID-19 Data Dashboard Academics right arrow down arrow Academic Calendar Off Campus Learning Campus Life right arrow down arrow Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Campus Recreation & Athletics Transportation Testing & Quarantine right arrow down arrow Quarantine & Isolation COVID Check App Self-Administered Wellness Check Self Reporting Campus Safety Measures right arrow down arrow Visitors Events Travel & Study Abroad Research Facial Masks Social Distancing Vaccines Home » Novel Coronavirus (COVID-19) » Campus Safety Measures » Visitors Set Navigation title in component COVID-19 Data Dashboard Academics Academic Calendar Off Campus Learning Campus Life Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Campus Recreation & Athletics Transportation Testing & Quarantine Quarantine & Isolation COVID Check App Self-Administered Wellness Check Self Reporting Campus Safety Measures Visitors Events Travel & Study Abroad Research Facial Masks Social Distancing Vaccines Campus Visitors UC is a public university that boasts campuses that are among the most beautiful in the country and especially welcoming to visitors.   Visitors: Please be aware of and comply with UC’s current health and safety expectations. Use the UC COVID Check App Visitors are strongly encouraged to use the App before arriving on campus. The App is a great way for a visitor to obtain information should they receive potential exposure on campus. Please note that all visitors come to campus at their own risk. Invited visitors or guests University-sponsored or invited visitors must abide by established safety protocols while on campus. All UC campus visitors are required to review and comply with the following prior to visiting campus: · Personal wellness considerations · Indoor masking requirements · Social distancing requirements · Those at higher risk for severe illness · Additional safety and wellness resources International travel All visitors returning from international travel: Currently, guidance from the CDC related to international travel applies as to requirements to test, self-monitor, isolate or quarantine.  University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45221 513-556-6000 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45221 513-556-6000 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top