Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. International Services International Services right arrow down arrow Admissions and Arrival right arrow down arrow Cost and Finances Apply to UC right arrow down arrow Transfer to UC Exchange and Visiting Student Programs DACA Students Next Steps to Enroll Orientation & Check-in Visas and Immigration right arrow down arrow Students right arrow down arrow F-1 Students J-1 Students Faculty, Staff and Interns right arrow down arrow J-1 Scholars J-1 Interns H-1B Workers E-3 Status O-1 Status TN Status Permanent Residency Dependents Change Your Status Government Updates Visa Fees Life at UC right arrow down arrow Student Experiences Essential Resources right arrow down arrow Housing and Dining Transportation Finances Healthcare and Insurance Law and Safety Academics Student Employment right arrow down arrow On Campus Off Campus OPT (F-1 Students) right arrow down arrow OPT Seminar CPT (F-1 Students) Fellowships and Assistantships (J-1) Academic Training (J-1) Social Life Hiring, Hosting and Admitting right arrow down arrow Hiring International Workers right arrow down arrow Students Hosting Visitors and Delegations Admitting Students Using iBearcatsGlobal Credential Evaluation Taxes right arrow down arrow How to File right arrow down arrow Non-Resident with US Income Non-Resident with No Income Resident Alien with No Tax Treaty Resident Alien with a Tax Treaty SSN & ITIN right arrow down arrow Social Security Tax Refund Contact Us iBearcatsGlobal Home » About UC » International Services » Visas and Immigration » Faculty, Staff and Interns Set Navigation title in component Students F-1 Students J-1 Students Faculty, Staff and Interns J-1 Scholars J-1 Interns H-1B Workers E-3 Status O-1 Status TN Status Permanent Residency Dependents Change Your Status Government Updates Visa Fees International Faculty, Staff and Intern Visas People from around the world work at UC under a variety of visa statuses. Each of these statuses comes with its own rules, regulations and processes that you need to follow if you want to apply to work at UC. Don't see a status listed? Contact our office to discuss further. J-1 Scholars The J-1 visa is separated into many categories, including research scholars, professors, short-term scholars and specialists. In these categories, scholars can conduct research, observe, teach, lecture or consult for the University of Cincinnati. J-1 Scholar Information J-1 Interns The University of Cincinnati J-1 Intern program is designed for current or recently graduated international students to gain experience in their academic field in the United States. J-1 Intern Information H-1B Workers H-1B workers are employed in many positions at the University of Cincinnati, including professors (tenure track or adjuncts), post-doctoral fellows, research assistants and more. H-1B Worker Information O-1 Status O-1 status is available to persons of extraordinary ability in the sciences, business, athletics, and education. O-1 Visa Information E-3 Status E-3 status is available for Australian nationals to work in positions that meet government requirements of a "specialty occupation." E-3 Visa Information TN Status TN status permits qualified Canadian and Mexican citizens to seek temporary entry into the United States to engage in professional business activities. TN Visa Information UC International 7148 Edwards Center One 47 W. Corry Blvd. Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-4278 international.students@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati UC International 7148 Edwards Center One 47 W. Corry Blvd. Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-4278 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top