Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index Office of the Provost Menu Search TTU Office of the Provost President’s Excellence in Teaching Professorships Application Year 2018-2019 Qualifications and Nomination Process Open to tenured associate professors and professors in all colleges who have served at least 3 years at Texas Tech. Faculty who hold administrative appointments (e.g., chairs, directors, associate deans); instructors, professors of practice, and research professors; faculty members who hold an endowed professorship; and Horn Professors are not eligible. Nominees may not currently hold or also be a nominee for the President's Excellence in Research Professorships. Nominations should be based on work performed and achievements accrued while at Texas Tech. This is year two of a two-year rollout of Presidential Professorships. There will be up to 25 professorships awarded this year, split between teaching professorships and research professorships. This call is for the teaching professorships, anticipating from 11 to 13 awards. Nominations will be accepted beginning September 15, 2018, with a deadline of October 19, 2018. Late nominations will be ineligible. College nominations are to be submitted to the Office of the Provost via email with a single PDF document for each nominee (submit to rob.stewart@ttu.edu and micah.m.logan@ttu.edu). Each department and college should follow its existing procedures for identifying award nominees. Nominations proceed from faculty through and with approval of their department chairs. Nominations should then be forwarded to the respective dean's office for approval and submission to the Office of the Provost. The chair's and dean's support is to be indicated on the attached form. Up to three nominations from each college (five from Arts & Sciences) will be accepted. Completed nomination packets must be received from deans' offices to be eligible. Nomination packets should provide clear documentation of excellence in teaching. Required components of the nomination are: The form signifying department chair's and dean's support for the nomination (see attachment). A narrative from the nominee about her or his qualifications for the professorship (limited to 1 page). A plan describing the intended use of the professorship funds (limited to 1 page). An abbreviated CV highlighting teaching contributions and achievements (limited to 2 pages). A maximum of two internal or external letters of support that clearly demonstrate the nominee's contributions to teaching in the discipline. Indications of work in the scholarship of teaching are especially valuable. Supplemental documentation (limited to 5 pages). Supplemental documentation may draw from these sorts of information (in no particular order of value): evidence of consistently outstanding formal student ratings of instruction, noteworthy peer evaluations of teaching and courses, other correspondence from students attesting to the impact of the nominee's teaching, university teaching awards, evidence of course or curriculum innovations, record of publications or professional presentations with students, evidence of other student achievement connected with the nominee, impacts through student advising, and awards from external associations recognizing the nominee's contributions to teaching in the discipline. The total nomination packet should be no more than 15 pages in length, inclusive of abbreviated CV, nominee's narrative of qualifications, nominee's plan for the professorship funds, letters from colleagues, and other supporting components. Nominations will be reviewed by a teaching excellence committee appointed by the Office of the Provost with representation from among academic departments, colleges, and other offices concerned with or contributing to the university's teaching mission. Recommendations of the committee will be reviewed by the provost and vice provosts, then referred to the president for final approval. The term of appointment is 3 years, which can be renewed for an additional 3 years. Annual faculty reviews and chairperson assessments during the appointment should consider accomplishments associated with the professorship. Renewal applications for a second 3-year appointment should include a current CV, a report from the faculty member describing accomplishments using the professorship, and supporting letters from the department chair and dean emphasizing the contributions of the faculty member over the 3-year period in which s/he has held the professorship. Appointments are limited to maximum of 6 consecutive years. After a 3-year hiatus, a person who has previously held a professorship for 6 years may submit a new nomination and full application. Each faculty member who holds a professorship will receive a minimum of $5,000 per year in discretionary funding to be used in support of teaching and curricular developments. Up to 50% of the funds may be used to support summer salary. Nomination Routing for The President's Excellence in Teaching Professorship Office of the Provost Address 104 Administration Building, Box 42019, Lubbock, Texas 79409-2019 Phone 806.742.2184 Email provost.communications@ttu.edu Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock, Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversityJun 24, 2021 9:03 AM Office of the Provost About Office of the Provost About Back Provost Communications Leadership Office of the Provost About Leadership Back Meet the Provost Staff Directory Individual College Administration University Strategic Plan Academic Calendar Office of the Provost About Academic Calendar Back Provost Planning Calendar New Faculty Bios Academic Affairs Office of the Provost Academic Affairs Back Academic Affairs Provost Units COACHE Faculty Job Satisfaction Institutional Effectiveness Councils, Committees, Centers & Institutions Professional Licensure Faculty Resources Office of the Provost Faculty Resources Back Policies Office of the Provost Faculty Resources Policies Back Tenure & Promotion Tenure & Promotion FAQs Faculty Handbook Operating Policies & Procedures Required & Optional Language for Syllabi Curriculum Office of the Provost Faculty Resources Curriculum Back Core and Multicultural Curriculum Writing Intensive Requirement Lab Science Requirement Curricular Proposals Communication Literacy Academic Program Terminology Prospective Faculty Office of the Provost Faculty Resources Prospective Faculty Back Prospective Faculty About Texas Tech About Lubbock Education Housing Health Care Transportation Arts, Culture & Entertainment Sports & Recreation Shopping & Dining Dual-Career Couples Texas Tech Human Resources Faculty Enrichment Office of the Provost Faculty Resources Faculty Enrichment Back 2020-2022 Facult Convocation Program President's Excellence in Teaching Professorship President's Excellence in Research Professorship Big XII Faculty Fellowships Faculty Award Incentives & Recognition Integrated Scholars Spring 2020 Report of the Faculty Success Task Force Faculty Success Initiative Faculty Ombudsperson For Department Chairs/School Directors Campus Climate Initiatives Office of the Provost Initiatives Back Worldwide eLearning Success & Retention Outreach & Engagement OnRamps Dual Enrollment Osher Lifelong Learning Institute (OLLI) Faculty Success Signature Educational Experiences Office of the Provost Signature Educational Experiences Back Pi Squared: Program in Inquiry and Investigative Thinking Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index