Navigation Home About COVID-19 Work Overview Contact Tracing Social Needs Response Team (SNRT) COVID-19 Communications University’s COVID Response Initiatives Overview Penn Community Scholars Service Link Junior Scholars Forum Walk with a Future Doc Walks 2 Wellness NatureRx at Penn Penn Food and Wellness Collaborative Healthy Penn Service Corps Public Health Pipeline Program Healthy Library Initiative Education and Training Overview Master of Public Health Program Fieldwork: Host a Student Seminars Learning Institutes Fellows Overview Fellow Information Fellows-in-Residence Senior Fellows Associate Fellows Adjunct Fellows Events Overview Seminar Series Learning Institutes CPHI Events Archive About COVID-19 Work Overview Contact Tracing Social Needs Response Team (SNRT) COVID-19 Communications University’s COVID Response Initiatives Overview Penn Community Scholars Service Link Junior Scholars Forum Walk with a Future Doc Walks 2 Wellness NatureRx at Penn Penn Food and Wellness Collaborative Healthy Penn Service Corps Public Health Pipeline Program Healthy Library Initiative Education and Training Overview Master of Public Health Program Fieldwork: Host a Student Seminars Learning Institutes Fellows Overview Fellow Information Fellows-in-Residence Senior Fellows Associate Fellows Adjunct Fellows Events Overview Seminar Series Learning Institutes CPHI Events Archive Engage with CPHI Join Our Mailing List Search CPHI Initiatives Penn Food and Wellness Collaborative Penn Food and Wellness Collaborative The Penn Food and Wellness Collaborative is a new initiative bringing together partners from the Center for Public Health Initiatives, Facilities and Real Estate Services, Wellness at Penn, Penn Sustainability, Student Intervention Services, and others across Penn, as well as the Philadelphia Orchard Project. This year marks the expansion of the Penn Park Orchard into Penn’s first campus urban farm, the Penn Park Farm. The farm will be host to a wide variety of programming including class visits, internships, workshops, volunteer opportunities, and events, with an emphasis on promoting wellness on campus. The Farm The main location for the Penn Food and Wellness Collaborative will be the Penn Park Farm, located in Penn Park, one of Penn’s largest green spaces. Nestled between open recreational fields and the existing Penn Park Orchard (the orchard will also be a part of the Penn Food and Wellness Farm), the Penn Food and Wellness Farm site is visible from the South Street bridge and accessible via pedestrian paths from Shoemaker Green and the Penn Ice Rink. The Penn Food and Wellness Farm will boast a hoop house for season extension, in-ground beds for growing and an orchard. The farm will utilize sustainable growing practices. The Food Produce grown from the Penn Food and Wellness Farm will be directed towards two major priorities: Access and Education Access: Sustainable, fresh produce will be sent to the Agatston Urban Nutrition Initiative (AUNI), a program within the Netter Center for Community Partnerships. AUNI will then use this produce in their Good Food Bag program that provides affordable, chemical free, bags of produce to low income, first generation students at Penn through a partnership with the Greenfield Intercultural Center. Education: Our produce will also be utilized in educational opportunities at the farm such as cooking classes, medicine making workshops, events. The Programs The Penn Food and Wellness Collaborative will be at the intersection of countless educational and wellness related programs on campus. Some examples of workshop and event topics include organic growing, yoga, healthy cooking and nutrition, food justice, sustainability and more. The Penn Food and Wellness Farm will also be a flagship site for other wellness programs from Wellness at Penn and the Center for Public Health Initiatives such as the Nature Rx initiative and the Weekly Themed Wellness Walks. Students There are many ways to get involved with the Penn Food and Wellness Collaborative. Stay tuned for student jobs, volunteer opportunities, leadership position and more. The Penn Food and Wellness Farm is also available as a space for outdoor events. Faculty and Staff The Penn Food and Wellness Collaborative welcomes collaboration with Penn’s incredible faculty and staff. The farm is a great place for field trips, hands on learning and has the capacity to serve as an outdoor laboratory for research. Staff can also host events at the farm, weather permitting. The Philadelphia Community Community members are always welcome at volunteer days and events hosted by the Penn Food and Wellness Collaborative. Center for Public Health Initiatives Anatomy Chemistry Building, Room 148 3620 Hamilton Walk Philadelphia, PA 19104 Directions to CPHI Email:  Fax: 215.573.9025 University Mail Code: 6011 Links to Public Health-Related Programs at UPenn ASPPH News and Events Campus Health at UPenn Check Out CPHI on Twitter Follow Us on Facebook Follow Us on Instagram © The Trustees of the University of Pennsylvania | Site best viewed in a supported browser. | Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help | Privacy Policy | Site Design: DART Web Team.