Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Undergraduate Admissions and Orientation Start Here The UofM Experience Visit Connect Apply Admitted Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact The Basics Info For... High SchoolFreshmenTransferInternationalOnline (UofM Global)ReadmitsGraduateLaw SchoolNon-Degree SeekingParents & FamiliesHS Counselors Application Process Deadlines Costs + Value Tuition OverviewResidency PolicyBorder County Waivers Paying for College Student Right To Know Take Action Request Information Apply to UofM Campus Visits and Events Contact Us Follow Us Online FacebooktwitterYoutube Home Undergraduate Admissions and Orientation Admissions Basics The Application Process Application Process Check out this video for tips on applying to UofM: TIP: Applying early in the fall semester is truly the best way to prepare for college enrollment. We advise future Tigers to apply before December 1. We’ll continue rolling admissions review through spring and summer. Admissions Requirements View requirements for admittance to the UofM Review Requirements > Application Checklist Ready to apply? Download this checklist to track your progress. Download Checklist > Submit Application Ready to apply? Start Your Application. Apply Now > Apply to UofM ✔️ ... What Next? Application Acknowledgement Following completion and successful submission of the online application, you will receive an immediate confirmation of receipt. One to three business days after submitting your application (online or paper) you will receive an official acknowledgement message. The acknowledgement message will arrive in your personal e-mail account (if provided on the application) or by standard mail. The acknowledgement message will provide you information on how your application is being processed, including term of application and student level. This information is important for you to know in the event something is incorrect on the application – you can contact our office to correct it. Please note: Once an application has been submitted online, you will be unable to make corrections or updates yourself. You will also receive your University of Memphis assigned ID in the acknowledgement message. This ID is referred to as your student ID, Banner ID, or U number. The ID is important as you move through the admissions / enrollment process. This acknowledgment message should not be confused with an offer of acceptance. Comprehensive Review The University of Memphis evaluates candidates for admission on a rolling, space-available basis. The Admissions Committee considers the kind of applicant you are (freshman, transfer, readmit, etc.), and all the corresponding information provided in support of the application, including both academic and non-academic support, and conducts a comprehensive review. The Admissions Committee evaluates each applicant to determine if there is sufficient evidence to suggest that student is capable of success at the University of Memphis. At times, more information may be requested by the committee to help make a better, more informed decision. Please note the State of Tennessee requires that all degree-seeking candidates have US History as part of their curriculum. While most students complete that requirement while still in high school, others will have to complete some courses at the University to resolve it. Applicants who completed US History in high school will be required to forward their high school transcript to the Office of Admissions to verify completion. Admission Decision Admission analysts typically reviews completed application files within 5-7 business days except during peak periods which will extend processing time. All documentation submitted in support of the application is used to help determine if a student is admissible. Please review the application requirements to see information about high school units and test scores. You will be notified of your admission decision by standard mail and email. In the event you are offered admission, your notification will include a 20-digit student account activation code. You will need that code to grant access to your student email and your myMemphis accounts. Instructions for establishing access are provided in the admission packet. To maintain the best contact with the University, we recommend you activate your account as soon as possible. That address is where “official” University communication will be sent. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 4/6/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.