Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Housing and Residence Life Housing 101 Residence Halls Resident Resources Conference Housing International Students About Us Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Living on Campus Apply for Housing Housing Rates What to Bring Communities Meal Plans Immunization Form Accessibility Emotional Support Animals Housing Policies Take Action Apply for Housing FAQ Schedule a Tour Contact Get social with us! InstagramFacebooktwitter Home Housing and Residence Life Living on Campus Living Learning Communities Living Learning Communities Living Learning Communities are specialized programs that combine the conventional residential experience with support from faculty, integrated resources from sponsoring departments, and a 360-degree approach to student learning. Living Learning Community members have frequent interaction with faculty and develop strong relationships with fellow students. Residents have access to many special resources, programs and activities, such as freshman orientation, seminars, tutors, mentoring programs, and smaller classes or reserved space in regular courses. In fact, many residence halls have classroom space located just a few steps from student rooms There are numerous benefits of participating in a Living Learning Community that extend to students, parents and the University of Memphis. Research shows that learning community students have higher GPAs, are more involved, and have increased graduation rates. Additionally, participation encourages students to make meaningful connections with their peers, faculty, and university staff, ultimately assisting in their transition to college life. Living Learning Communities offer a dedicated and distinctive themed living option to students and each community is tailored to a specific academic major or area of study. Residents maintain a genuine sense of community and receive lots of faculty interaction and guidance. All the Living Learning Communities are carefully planned and supported by University Housing staff along with the members of the community. Since all the members share interest in their community's theme, you can expect to build genuine professional relationships and life-long friends. Emerging Leaders Housing Emerging Leaders Housing is a neighborhood of exceptional students seeking to gain and enhance leadership skills. Our students participate in the University of Memphis' Emerging Leaders Scholarship Program (ELP) and work closely with faculty and staff to actively engage in leadership education. ELP students participate in a four-year intensive leadership training experience designed to enhance personal leadership and contribute significantly to a balanced, well-rounded college experience. Emerging Leaders Housing gives residents the opportunity to live in the type of community they will one day work to create. For more information, please email Student Leadership & Involvement at studentinvolvement@memphis.edu or call 901.678.8679. Engineering Housing Engineering Housing residents are paired with alumni and professional engineering mentors to network, learn career opportunities and share tips for collegiate and professional success. Members tour Memphis industries, engage faculty and staff outside of the classroom, and collaborate with peers in other engineering disciplines. Engineering Housing allows students to develop peer relations, collaborate with other engineering disciplines, and prepare to enter the workforce. For more information or to become a mentor, please call 901.678.4557 or email Isaiah Surbrook at i.surbrook@memphis.edu. Kemmons Wilson School - Living Learning Community New for the Fall 2021 - Spring 2022 Academic Year, the Kemmons Wilson School (KWS) LLC will consist of students pursuing degrees in the Sport and Leisure Management or Hospitality and Resort Management programs. Living with fellow LLC students who share your career interests will provide you with many benefits, including the opportunity to participate in entertaining activities that enhance academic and personal development, connection with industry mentors, faculty and peers. Students will train with and Insider's Pass to explore Memphis Attractions and become experts of tourism and attractions in the Memphis area. Join our KWS family! For more information, contact 901.678.5211 or email Marta Lopez-Flohr at mlpzflhr@memphis.edu. First Generation Living Learning Community(1GLLC): A First Scholars Initiative First Generation Living Learning Community is an intentional grouping of students housed together wanting to maximize their opportunities for success as being one of the first in their family to attend college. This community emphasizes the shared experience and sense of responsibility many first generation students feel as they navigate their college life. Students participate in a common academic course during their first semester that focuses on the development of academic skills and strategies proven to enhance student success. Members also benefit from mandatory one-on-one academic coaching, in-hall study space, and community mentorship from University of Memphis first generation student leaders. For more information, please email 1GLLC@memphis.edu. First Scholars Living Learning Community First Scholars Living Learning Community is a purposeful community of 20 first-year students selected to participate in the First Scholars Program. First Scholars focus on community and campus engagement, leadership development, and successfully transitioning to college as a first-generation college student. As part of this First Scholars cohort, students will all take the same ACAD 1100 course taught by the First Scholars Program Coordinator to foster a deep understanding of the academic skills and strategies proven to enhance student success. Each participant is assigned a peer mentor to help navigate the first year. First Scholars will work with the Program Coordinator to form an individual strategic plan to meet their academic, social and co-curricular goals. For more information, please email Jacki Rodriguez at jpsavell@memphis.edu or call 901.678.6041. Helen Hardin Honors Housing Helen Hardin Honors Housing gives students the opportunity to take classes, participate in social activities, and live with other academically talented students. Students take core interdisciplinary courses together during the first year in the program and create a strong learning community. Members are exposed to social and academic programs to enhance academic and personal success such as a welcome dinner, pizza parties with professors and study abroad workshops. For more information, please call 901.678.2690. Music Scholars Housing Music Scholars Housing provides students with formal and informal activities to advance their musical and academic development along with real-world interaction with faculty. Members are encouraged to evaluate the place and purpose of music in their lives as a career, creative outlet, lifelong avocation or a means of serving their community. Students living in Music Scholars Housing have a 24/7 musical experience with lots of learning at home and in the classroom. Music Scholars are required to take Music Theory I and II, a music history, applied music lessons, and large ensembles. For more information, please call 901.678.3766. ROTC Housing ROTC Housing facilitates a strong sense of connection and belonging, and lays the foundation for successful learning and intellectual growth. ROTC Housing offers a unique curriculum, positive atmosphere and rewarding environment to help members have a first-class collegiate experience. All military branches offered under the College of Arts and Sciences are represented. Residents participate in out of class activities to further their development into "Global Officers." For more information, please call 901.678.4025. Theatre & Dance Scholars Housing UofM Theatre and Dance students experience learning inside and outside of the classroom, work together on projects and homework and build lasting relationships within a community that supports and encourages the arts. For more information, please email Kristin Shupe at kshupe@memphis.edu or call 678-2523. Student Interest Communities Lambuth Nursing Housing Housed at Carney-Johnston Hall, Nursing Housing at Lambuth provides a mixture of residential experiences and immersive study options for the field of Nursing. Faculty and staff enable students to thrive in their studies, socialize with others on campus and acclimate to the exciting and challenging Nursing curriculum. For more information, please email Corey Moore at cmoore31@memphis.edu. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 1/20/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.