Skip to content Clemson University Clemson University Search Menu Close Sorry, your browser does not support inline SVG. Sorry, your browser does not support inline SVG. Apply Giving News Resources for Students Faculty & Staff Parents Alumni Clemson University Academics Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Academics Home Employment Opportunities Apply for Admission Colleges College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business College of Education College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences College of Science Graduate School Academic Resources Academic Calendar Registrar Division of Undergraduate Studies Center for Career and Professional Development Academic Success Center GRAD 360° Libraries Outside the Classroom PEER/WISE Call Me MISTER® Creative Inquiry and Undergraduate Research Cooperative Education University Professional Internship and Co-op Program (UPIC) Study Abroad Admissions Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Admissions Home Schedule a Tour Apply for Admission Applying to Clemson First-Year Undergraduate Transfer Undergraduate International Undergraduate Graduate Students Academic Opportunities Majors Graduate Programs Online Graduate Programs Scholar Programs Paths to Graduate School Honors College Experiential Learning Financial Aid Tuition and Fee Calculator Undergraduate Financial Aid Graduate Fellowships and Awards Residency Requirements Campus Life Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Campus Life Home Club Sports Brooks Center for the Performing Arts Join Your Clemson Family Finding Your Community Living-Learning Communities Student Veterans Multicultural Programs FIRST Army ROTC Air Force ROTC Services On Campus Housing & Dining Campus Recreation Parking and Transportation Student Health Services TigerOne Card Services Clemson Athletics Get Involved Clubs and Organizations Fraternity and Sorority Life Orientation Ambassadors Tiger Media Graduate Student Government Undergraduate Student Government Research Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Research Home Clemson University Research Foundation (CURF) Division of Research Research Opportunities Student Research at Clemson Creative Inquiry Research Facilities Postdoctoral Affairs Serving South Carolina Through Research School of Health Research Public Service and Agriculture Clemson Experimental Forest Clemson Extension Clemson Research and Education Centers Public Service and Agriculture Research Farm Services Innovation and Economic Development Corporate Partnerships and Strategic Initiatives Clemson University International Center for Automotive Research (CU-ICAR) Clemson University Restoration Institute (CURI) Clemson University Biomedical Engineering Innovation Campus (CUBEInC) Center for Human Genetics Innovation Campus and Technology Park About Clemson Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back About Clemson Home Clemson News Clemson Athletics For Tigers Applying to Clemson Working at Clemson Traditions Military Heritage Things To Do in Clemson Visit Clemson Campus Resources Employment Opportunities Home and Garden Information Center Brand Guidelines CCIT Academic Calendar Training ClemsonForward Campus Leadership Board of Trustees President Academic Affairs and Provost Inclusion and Equity Student Affairs Faculty Senate Staff Senate Search Resources for Current Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Human Factors Institute Apply Giving News Sikes Hall Icon Main Menu Forward Arrow Icon Back Arrow Icon Back Clemson University Academics Academics Home Employment Opportunities Apply for Admission Colleges College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business College of Education College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences College of Science Graduate School Academic Resources Academic Calendar Registrar Division of Undergraduate Studies Center for Career and Professional Development Academic Success Center GRAD 360° Libraries Outside the Classroom PEER/WISE Call Me MISTER® Creative Inquiry and Undergraduate Research Cooperative Education University Professional Internship and Co-op Program (UPIC) Study Abroad Admissions Admissions Home Schedule a Tour Apply for Admission Applying to Clemson First-Year Undergraduate Transfer Undergraduate International Undergraduate Graduate Students Academic Opportunities Majors Graduate Programs Online Graduate Programs Scholar Programs Paths to Graduate School Honors College Experiential Learning Financial Aid Tuition and Fee Calculator Undergraduate Financial Aid Graduate Fellowships and Awards Residency Requirements Campus Life Campus Life Home Club Sports Brooks Center for the Performing Arts Join Your Clemson Family Finding Your Community Living-Learning Communities Student Veterans Multicultural Programs FIRST Army ROTC Air Force ROTC Services On Campus Housing & Dining Campus Recreation Parking and Transportation Student Health Services TigerOne Card Services Clemson Athletics Get Involved Clubs and Organizations Fraternity and Sorority Life Orientation Ambassadors Tiger Media Graduate Student Government Undergraduate Student Government Research Research Home Clemson University Research Foundation (CURF) Division of Research Research Opportunities Student Research at Clemson Creative Inquiry Research Facilities Postdoctoral Affairs Serving South Carolina Through Research School of Health Research Public Service and Agriculture Clemson Experimental Forest Clemson Extension Clemson Research and Education Centers Public Service and Agriculture Research Farm Services Innovation and Economic Development Corporate Partnerships and Strategic Initiatives Clemson University International Center for Automotive Research (CU-ICAR) Clemson University Restoration Institute (CURI) Clemson University Biomedical Engineering Innovation Campus (CUBEInC) Center for Human Genetics Innovation Campus and Technology Park About Clemson About Clemson Home Clemson News Clemson Athletics For Tigers Applying to Clemson Working at Clemson Traditions Military Heritage Things To Do in Clemson Visit Clemson Campus Resources Employment Opportunities Home and Garden Information Center Brand Guidelines CCIT Academic Calendar Training ClemsonForward Campus Leadership Board of Trustees President Academic Affairs and Provost Inclusion and Equity Student Affairs Faculty Senate Staff Senate Search close Human Factors Institute Clemson Home Centers and Institutes Current: Human Factors Institute Human Factors Institute The Institute was formed by Clemson University faculty conducting research in human factors and ergonomics. There is an Institute Director and Associate Director. All other faculty members of the institute are considered Institute Associates. Graduate and undergraduate students who play a significant role in the Institute through funded research are named Fellows and Junior Fellows of the Institute respectively. The Institute received official approval through Clemson University’s Board of Directors and South Carolina’s Commission of Higher Education and began operations on January 15, 2009. Award Stimulus To help stimulate or complete research projects within the membership of the HF Institute and their graduate students. Requests can be submitted for all funding requirements related to research, but justification must be provided regarding how the funding will further the mission of the Institute. Favor will be placed on requests that clearly support the mission of the Institute, have a likelihood of leading to future activity and lead to a clear milestone. Cost-share where other funding sources are leveraged is desirable. While salary support can be requested, its likelihood of funding is low, and it would require a clear product that directly supports the future success of the Institute. HFI Student Travel Awards Awarded to a student who is the presenting author at a conference and mentored by a member of the Institute. The amount of this award cannot exceed $500. Limit 1 award per student/year. Subject to fund availability. To apply for funding, please fill out this form. Director’s Awards These are available on a rolling application basis and simply require a submission to the Director via e-mail. It is recommended that the e-mail request follow application outline. The amount of the request cannot exceed $1000. Approval is at the discretion of the Director. To apply for funding, please fill out this form. Participating Clemson University Partners Department of Industrial Engineering School of Computing Arts, Architecture, & Humanities Department of Automotive Engineering Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering School of Education Department of Psychology Richard Pak Name: Richard Pak Title: Professor and Director Department: Psychology Research Interests: My interest is in the psychological issues around the use of automation and autonomy (across a variety of contexts) such as trust, workload, acceptance, ethics, and performance. I'm also interested in individual differences and how they affect performance with autonomous technology. Office: Brackett 410B Phone: 864-656-1584 Email: richpak@clemson.edu David Neyens Name: David Neyens Title: Associate Professor Department: Department of Industrial Engineering Research Interests: Dr. Neyens is interested in examining the impact of technology and tools in healthcare and how interventions can support the delivery of safe, effective, and efficient care. Dr. Neyens used statistical modeling techniques to use big data and population-level data to address human factors research questions. In his lab, Dr. Neyens and the students also use systems engineering techniques to explore systematic and distributed risks in healthcare. Office: 124 Freeman Hall Phone: 864-656-4719 Email: dneyens@clemson.edu Kapil Chalil Madathil Name: Kapil Chalil Madathil Title: Tiencken Endowed Associate Professor Department: Departments of Civil and Industrial Engineering Research Interests: Dr. Chalil Madathil's area of expertise is in applying the knowledge base of human factors engineering to the design and operation of sustainable human-computer systems that involve rich interactions among people and technology. His research covers the entire spectrum of system design: from identifying the user needs to designing and developing computing systems that inform and motivate user behavior and empirically evaluating the efficacy of these interventions. Using qualitative and quantitative methodologies, his research attempts to understand how humans perceive, make sense of, and interact with human-machine systems. Office: Lowry 212 Phone: 713-294-6499 Email: kmadath@clemson.edu Guo Freeman Name: Guo Freeman Title: Assistant Professor Department: Human-Centered Computing Division, School of Computing Research Interests: Dr. Freeman's research focuses on mediated experience and social dynamics forged surrounding technological objects and collaborative systems including multiplayer online games, esports, live streaming, social VR, and social media. She brings an interdisciplinary perspective to these topics and contributes to a better understanding of the specific ways in which interactive technologies affect and support interpersonal relationships and group behaviors, in order to design and develop more inclusive, supportive, and fulfilling collaborative online systems. Office: McAdams 204 Email: guof@clemson.edu Benjamin Stephens Name: Benjamin Stephens Title: Professor Department: Psychology Research Interests: Attention, especially conspicuity, within visual domains of trip-and-fall incidents, and other fall hazards. Office: Brackett 312L Phone: 864-656-4982 Email: bstephe@clemson.edu Chris Pagano Name: Chris Pagano Title: Professor Department: Psychology Research Interests: My research interests pertain the human perception and motor control with an emphasis on how perception can occur without the need for internal mental representations or mental deliberations. In designing displays and controls for human-machine interaction, I investigate ways in which the interface can similarly support 'direct' perception and action, freeing the user from unnecessary cognitive burdens. I investigate how people calibrate to altered perceptual conditions (e.g., weighted limbs, tools, altered avatars in VR). This work has implications for understanding how attachments to the body, like tools, racquets, prosthetic limbs, exoskeletons, etc., come to be perceived as part of the body and how they come to be used proficiently. Office: Brackett 312-F Phone: 864-656-4984 Email: cpagano@clemson.edu D. Matthew Boyer Name: D. Matthew Boyer Title: Research Associate Professor Department: Engineering & Science Education / Office of the Associate Dean for Research Research Interests: I collaborate on interdisciplinary research and development projects that integrate technology and learning. My current work focuses on learning environments, mixed (augmented and virtual) reality, and game- and simulation-based learning. Office: Riggs 114 Phone: 864-656-4440 Email: dmboyer@clemson.edu Shelia Cotten Name: Shelia Cotten Title: Associate Vice President for Research Development; Provost's Distinguished Professor Department: Sociology, Anthropology, & Criminal Justice; Communication Research Interests: My research focuses on technology use and impacts across the life course. Much of my research is focused on emerging technologies such as autonomous vehicles, wearables, smart homes, etc. and older adults in particular. Office: Strom Thurmond Institute Phone: 864-656-1299 Email: scotten@clemson.edu John DesJardins Name: John DesJardins Title: Hambright Leadership Professor Department: Bioengineering Research Interests: "Designing Future Orthopaedic Implants Total-Joint-Replacement Design Kinematic and kinetic performance Biomaterials tribology, friction, and wear Knee-joint anatomy and function Translational Orthopaedic Research Quantifying effectiveness of novel surgical techniques Evaluating fracture-fixation design Orthopaedic rehabilitation Prosthetics and Orthotics Helmet Design and Impact Evaluation Sports Performance and Rehabilitation" Office: Rhodes Annex 204 Phone: 864-650-0748 Email: jdesjar@clemson.edu Yue Wang Name: Yue Wang Title: Associate Professor Department: Mechanical Engineering Department Research Interests: My research interests lie in the intersection between control theory, robotics, and human-robot interaction. I seek to quantify human trust to robots and human regret in decision-making under uncertainty. I then utilize these models to design robot motion planning and control that allow them to work better with humans. Office: 237 Fluor Daniel Building Phone: 864-656-5632 Email: yue6@clemson.edu Ge Lv Name: Ge Lv Title: Assistant Professor Department: Departments of Mechanical Engineering and Bioengineering Research Interests: My research focuses on the design and control of lower-limb wearable robots, i.e., exoskeletons and prostheses, to improve life quality for individuals with disabilities. To achieve this goal, I investigate control and optimization algorithms, implement them on physical robotic devices, and verify the potential outcome via biomechanics studies on human subjects. Office: Fluor Daniel 250 Phone: 864-656-7291 Email: glv@clemson.edu Dawn Sarno Name: Dawn Sarno Title: Assistant Professor Department: Psychology Research Interests: Dr. Sarno applies visual attention techniques (e.g., eye tracking) to further our understanding of human performance in applied tasks such as baggage screening, radiology, and cybersecurity. Additionally, in each of these applied areas, Dr. Sarno is interested in how we can develop interventions that improve human performance, particularly across the lifespan. Office: Brackett Hall 312-I Phone: 864-656-4983 Email: dmsarno@clemson.edu Sudeep Hegde Name: Sudeep Hegde Title: Assistant Professor Department: Industrial Engineering Research Interests: My research focuses on the study of adaptive performance in complex sociotechnical systems, such as healthcare. I have applied concepts and techniques in cognitive systems engineering, such as the critical decision method and cognitive task analysis to understand decision making and performance among physicians, nurses and other domain stakeholders. My work has resulted in novel interfaces for decision making and training in surgery, emergency medicine, and a self-reporting tool for hospital staff to share semi-structured narratives of adaptation in everyday work. Office: 272 Freeman Phone: 864-656-0111 Email: sudeeph@clemson.edu Rick Tyrrell Name: Rick Tyrrell Title: Professor Department: Psychology Research Interests: Expertise and interests in human vision and visual perception, particularly in challenging visual conditions. Especially interested in visual issues associated with driving at night. Office: 319-B Brackett Hall Phone: 864-656-4977 Email: tyrrell@clemson.edu Jackie Cha Name: Jackie Cha Title: Assistant Professor Department: Department of Industrial Engineering Research Interests: My research applies human factors to improve the lives of professionals by leveraging new technologies to enhance their performance and thus their interactions with society. My lab aims to measure and use human data for skills assessment, intervention, and ultimately enhance team performance. My focus is primarily on surgical care and other areas of healthcare. Office: Freeman 268 Phone: 864-656-1874 Email: jackie@clemson.edu Kelly Caine Name: Kelly Caine Title: Associate Professor Department: School of Computing Research Interests: Dr. Caine is an expert in research methods, usable security and privacy, human-computer interaction, human factors, health informatics, and designing for special populations. Office: McAdams Hall Email: caine@clemson.edu June J. Pilcher Name: June J. Pilcher Title: Alumni Distinguished Professor Department: Department of Psychology Research Interests: I have an extensive background in applied psychology research. My research is broadly based on stress and fatigue and examines their impact on performance, health, and well-being. Office: Brackett 312-G Phone: 865-656-4985 Email: jpilche@clemson.edu Andrew Duchowski Name: Andrew Duchowski Title: Professor Department: Visual Computing, School of Computing Research Interests: My research and teaching interests are rooted in eye tracking and the capture and analysis of human visual attention. Office: McAdams 309 Phone: 864-656-7677 Email: duchowski@clemson.edu Bob Sinclair Name: Bob Sinclair Title: Professor Department: Psychology Research Interests: My research focuses on Occupational Health Psychology - the application of theories and methods of psychology to the study of worker safety, health, and well-being. Most of my current research focuses on (1) economic stressors (such as job insecurity and perceived income inadequacy) and health, (2) building organizational climates that enhance worker safety, health, and well-being, and (3) occupational health risks in special populations such as gig workers, healthcare (physicians/nurses) and military personnel. Office: Brackett 319A Phone: 864-656-3931 Email: rsincla@clemson.edu Divya Srinivasan Name: Divya Srinivasan Title: Professor Department: Industrial Engineering Research Interests: I study biomechanics, physical ergonomics and human movement control. I am interested in studying human behaviors to understand and improve how humans physically interact with tools and technologies (in the workplace), what kinds of design approaches and work strategies are effective for improving performance and reducing risks of fatigue and MSDs, and how to train for achieving such impact. Our lab is currently focused on a variety of human-robot interaction problems, including those involving wearable technologies such as exoskeletons. Office: Freeman Hall 277A Phone: 864-656-5645 Email: sriniv5@clemson.edu Nathan McNeese Name: Nathan McNeese Title: College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences Dean's Professor; Assistant Professor of Human-Centered Computing Department: Human-Centered Computing Research Interests: A great deal of my work focuses on how to: 1) better understand human-AI teaming interactions, 2) develop more effective human-AI teams, and 3) develop AI agents that are able to conceptualize, develop, and partake in teamwork behaviors. Office: 119 McAdams Email: mcneese@clemson.edu Sab Babu Name: Sab Babu Title: Associate Professor Department: Division of Human Centered Computing, School of Computing Research Interests: Perception-Action in VR, Cybersickness, Virtual Humans and Avatars, 3D Human-Computer Interaction Office: 121 McAdams Hall Email: sbabu@clemson.edu Thomas Britt Name: Thomas Britt Title: Professor Department: Psychology Research Interests: His current research programs investigate how stigma and other barriers to care influence employees in high stress occupations seeking needed mental health treatment, and the identification of factors that promote resilience among employees in high stress occupations. His research has been funded by multiple grants and contracts from the Department of Defense, the Intelligence Community, and NASA. Office: 410G Brackett Hall Phone: 864-656-4979 Email: twbritt@clemson.edu Dustin Souders Name: Dustin Souders Title: Assistant Professor Department: Psychology Research Interests: Dr. Dustin J. Souders works in the areas of human factors, aging, and transportation safety. As head of the STAAR Lab, his research focuses on leveraging advanced vehicle technologies, from advanced driver assistance systems to fully autonomous vehicles, to safely maintain older adults‚Äô mobility. Dustin has worked with teams from several engineering disciplines and social sciences on a wide range of policy-relevant issues surrounding the application of vehicle automation to safely improve individuals' quality of life. His lab equipment includes a state of the art driving simulator, head-mounted eye tracker, and VR headset that are used to study drivers' interactions with advanced vehicle technologies. Office: 410A Phone: 864-656-4986 Email: djsoude@clemson.edu Jamiahus Walton Name: Jamiahus Walton Title: Assistant Professor Department: Industrial Engineering Research Interests: Generally, my research focuses on teams, team training, virtual collaboration, computer-supported cooperative work, and Human-Agent Teams (HATs). Office: Freeman 270 Phone: 864-656-3114 Email: jamiahw@g.clemson.edu Adam Hoover Name: Adam Hoover Title: Professor Department: Electrical and Computer Engineering Research Interests: My current research focuses on tracking systems. Tracking can refer to physical problems, such as locating where things are in the world, and also signal problems, such as identifying the relative health of an individual's blood pressure over time. Image and signal processing, mHealth, state space modeling, filtering, and embedded computing form the background of my work. My group works with many types of sensors, and often builds embedded systems that prototype novel tracking ideas. I am currently an Associate Editor for the IEEE Journal of Biomedical and Health Informatics. Office: Riggs 313a Phone: 864-650-6026 Email: ahoover@clemson.edu Lesley Ross Name: Lesley Ross Title: Associate Professor Department: Department of Psychology Research Interests: Dr. Ross is the SmartLife Endowed Chair of Aging and Cognition, Director of the Institute for Engaged Aging, Co-director of the Study for Healthy Aging & Applied (SHAARP) lab, and an Associate Professor of Psychology. She examines trajectories of cognitive, physical and everyday functioning with a focus on the development of interventions to to maintain healthy brain aging, mobility, and independence for adults. She utilizes an array of methodologies including neuropsychological/cognitive, physical, sensory, and health assessments in the lab; ecological momentary assessments of cognition and lifestyle factors within everyday life; neuroimaging and biological specimen collection; driving simulation; and active and passive assessments of functioning within the real world. Email: Laross@clemson.edu Bart Knijnenburg Name: Bart Knijnenburg Title: Associate Professor Department: School of Computing Research Interests: I study the psychological principles behind the decisions people make in online environments. Using Big Data and Machine Learning principles, I try to make these decisions a little easier with education, better user interfaces, and ‚Äúsmart default settings‚Äù. Among other application areas, my research is mainly focused on Usable Privacy and on Recommender Systems. Methodologically, I specialize in conducting large-scale online user experiments. Office: McAdams 205 Email: bartk@clemson.edu Andrew Robb Name: Andrew Robb Title: Assistant Professor Department: School of Computing Research Interests: I am broadly interested in research exploring how virtual reality experiences and technologies impact user experience and human behavior, especially when these effects could have relevance at a societal level. Specific focus areas include 1) understanding how long-term experience with VR changes the way people use and behave in virtual environments, 2) exploring how social interactions differ when mediated through virtual reality, and 3) investigating how perception and action is affected by the characteristics of virtual systems. Other areas of interest include presence, virtual avatars and virtual agents, locomotion in virtual reality games, and user interface design for immersive systems. Office: McAdams 122 Phone: 407-802-7724 Email: arobb@clemson.edu Marissa Shuffler Name: Marissa Shuffler Title: Associate Professor Department: Psychology Expertise: Dr. Marissa Shuffler has over a decade of experience conducting basic and applied research in the areas of team development, leadership, and organizational effectiveness. Her research focuses on the study of scientifically derived, innovative interventions needed to develop, sustain, and maximize inter- and intra-team functioning and well-being in high risk and complex environments including healthcare systems, the military, and spaceflight. Current projects include an NSF-funded interdisciplinary effort to explore the future of human-robot teaming in future construction sites, as well as an NSF-sponsored Future Manufacturing seed grant with mechanical and automotive engineering researchers exploring the role of intelligent agent-human teaming in future manufacturing. Shuffler is also working with colleagues at Rice, Florida Tech, University of Georgia, and Aptima to develop a novel experimental testbed to study team composition and teaming dynamics for the U.S. Army Research Institute. Office: Brackett Phone: 864-656-2831 Email: mshuffl@clemson.edu Gregory S. Batt Name: Gregory S. Batt, Ph.D. Title: Associate Professor Department: Food, Nutrition, and Packaging Science Department, Clemson University Research Interests: Greg earned his Ph.D. in mechanical engineering and a M.S. in packaging science while working at Clemson University. Starting as a packaging test lab technician in 2001, he progressed through the ranks to his current role as an associate professor with teaching, research, and service programs focused in packaged-product dynamics. Recently, Greg’s research has focused on the multi-axis motion of transport vehicles, the development of tribo-electric generators for energy harvesting during transport, and the characterization and modeling of football helmet facemasks. Greg serves as the director of the Clemson Packaging Dynamics Laboratory which has provided industry packaging testing services to over 350 companies and houses the Clemson Headgear Impact Performance (CHIP) lab. The CHIP lab provides state of the art facilities for Ph.D., M.S., and undergraduate students in various departments across campus such as Bioengineering and Mechanical Engineering. Teaching and researching in packaging dynamics at Clemson University for over 20 years Director of the Clemson Packaging Dynamics laboratory Co-director of the Clemson Headgear Impact Performance (CHIP) laboratory Department of Psychology Copyright © Clemson University Department of Psychology | 418 Brackett Hall 864-656-3210 | Email Us | Website Updates intro-arrow Engage With Us Through Facebook Clemson University Facebook Instagram Twitter Linkedin Youtube Tiktok Policy/Terms of Use Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Copyright © 2022 Clemson University • Clemson, South Carolina 29634 Clemson University Facebook Instagram Twitter Linkedin Youtube Tiktok Resources A-Z Index Campus Map CU Safety Directory Webcams Apply to Clemson