Skip to main content University of California Return to home page menu mobile menu open Main Navigation Campuses & locations Toggle subnavigation for Campuses & locations Find your place at UC Student success Toggle subnavigation for Student success FirstGen Graduate students Transfer students Undergraduate research Undocumented students Alumni outcomes For California Toggle subnavigation for For California Double the Pell Carbon neutrality Health Research UC Votes About us Toggle subnavigation for About us Leadership Information center Sustainability Get involved Toggle subnavigation for Get involved Advocate For alumni Top Menu Admissions Jobs News Search Next-gen faculty How we’re helping today’s students become tomorrow’s college leaders It starts with getting to graduate school Award-winning graduate research See the brilliance on display at UC’s annual Grad Slam contest, including UC Berkeley grad student Justin Lee’s first-place talk on how he’s working to stop COVID by jamming the machinery the virus uses to copy itself. Meet the Grad Slam champions “I love being able to contribute something new to a field, to do something that hasn’t been done.” Evelyn Hernandez UCSF Ph.D. student, biochemistry and molecular biology Creating new knowledge UC’s 29,000 doctoral students are an unrivaled force for innovation. Is grad school right for you? Breaking news UC announces Native American Opportunity Plan The University of California will ensure that in-state systemwide Tuition and Student Service Fees for California students from federally recognized Native American tribes are fully covered by grants or scholarships under a new plan. Learn more about UC's Native American Opportunity Plan 10 campuses. Endless possibilities. All campuses have something amazing to offer We’re building a culture of academic excellence on our campuses. See the places where research thrives. Witness the innovations of the future. Meet incredible people and enjoy the diverse culture and unique views from each one. UC San Diego San Diego is doing things a little differently. It’s second in the world in research universities and has over 130 undergraduate courses across five disciplines. But there are also seven colleges here, with their own theme and educational requirements. UC Irvine Irvine is home to independent thinkers. With a friendly on-campus vibe and a diverse research community, people feel right at home here. UC Riverside Riverside is well established as one of the top universities in the world. But apart from rankings, the research done here is unparalleled. It’s one of the leading universities to offer faculty-led research to all undergrads. UCLA Anything is possible at UCLA. We’re more than just our accolades. We’ve done some incredible things and created over 140 companies with technology developed here. It’s easy to see how UCLA is redefining the future. UC Santa Barbara Santa Barbara encourages students to challenge themselves freely. Here we equip them with the creative freedom to open doors and aim for academic excellence Plus, it’s right on the beach for a stunning view. UC Santa Cruz With ground-breaking disciplines, towering redwood forests, and a unique cityscape, UC Santa Cruz is pretty spectacular. Quality research means quality results. And there’s plenty of space for intellectual exploration at this stunning hillside campus. UC Merced Welcome to California’s newest base for advanced research. We’ve got all the latest facilities to aid students and researchers. Not to mention our backdrop, Yosemite National Park: The greatest natural research facility of all. UC San Francisco Compassion and patient care go hand in hand with groundbreaking research and teaching. That’s the heart of UC Health. And at UCSF, we run one of the nation’s best medical centers —changing people’s lives every day through health and science. UC Berkeley 107 Nobel laureates. 19 Pulitzer Prizes. 207 Olympic medals. Berkeley’s accolades speak for themselves. This dynamic campus has the most eclectic, exciting mix of students in California. UC Davis Research is at the heart of UC Davis. It’s ranked as one of the top public research universities in the world. Davis is famous for unparalleled academics and research opportunities with an easy-going college town feel. Explore the UC story through data See detailed metrics on student enrollment, graduation rates, alumni outcomes and more about the University. Visit the Information Center 83% of undergrads come from California 2 out of 3 California students who applied last year got in. 56% of California undergrads pay no tuition UC has one of the strongest financial aid programs in the nation. 86% of undergrads earn a diploma Most students complete their studies in just over four years. The University of California opened its doors in 1869 with just 10 faculty members and 40 students. Today, the UC system has more than 280,000 students and 227,000 faculty and staff, with 2.0 million alumni living and working around the world. Subscribe to our newsletter Email address Subscribe UC quick links Campuses & locations Student success About us Get involved Press releases Contact us External resources Apply or transfer Office of the President Academic Senate Board of Regents UCnet: Employee resources Footer Links 2 Accessibility Terms of Use Copyright © The Regents of the University of California Social Facebook Twitter Instagram TikTok YouTube LinkedIn