https://wwww.healthyhorns.utexas.edu/ APPOINTMENTS MyUHS SERVICES ABOUT UHS LOCATION CONTACT Monday - Friday, 8am to 5pm by appointment Coronavirus updates COVID Positive: What To do Medical emergencies and what to do when UHS is closed Nurse Advice Line Charges and Insurance Immunizations and medical clearance requirements Medical and immunization record requests Search a health topic Meet the staff Tour UHS Eligibility to use UHS Affordable UT Student Health Insurance Plan Your feedback Incoming students International students LGBTQIA+ inclusive healthcare Longhorn Wellness Center Emergency HIV risk reduction Pharmacy Resources Sexual Assault Forensic Exams Volunteering FOLLOW US (512) 471-4955 Email UHS LOCATION 100 West Dean Keaton Student Services Building (SSB) https://www.healthyhorns.utexas.edu/ Appointments MyUHS Services About UHS Location Contact UHS Longhorn Wellness Center Information: (512) 475-8252 longhornwellnesscenter@austin.utexas.edu Location: 100 West Dean Keeton, Student Services Building (SSB 1.106) Summer Hours: Monday - Thursday 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Fridays: Office closed Closed Saturday and Sunday and UT Holidays LWC team members are available Monday - Friday 8:30 a.m. to 5 p.m. VIRTUAL OFFERINGS FOR GROUPS REQUEST WORKSHOPS GET INVOLVED Our aim is to promote well-being for all students. A student's health and their ability to thrive academically are closely linked. The Longhorn Wellness Center (LWC) supports the missions of University Health Services and the Counseling and Mental Health Center by addressing priority college health issues. We do this using multi-level, evidence-based prevention strategies such as peer education, social marketing, social norm campaigns, environmental changes, and strategic campus partnerships. Check out our Canvas course with modules about student well-being. Our Programs and Initiatives AlcoholEdu & SAPU Alcohol risk reduction & sexual assault prevention Alcohol & Consent Project BASICS and CASICS Making safer decisions around substance use BeVocal Bystander intervention programs Be That One Suicide prevention and mental health promotion Bruce the Bat Social norms campaign Healthy Student Orgs Health resources for student orgs Healthyhorns Play It Safe Healthy sexuality program HealthyhornsTXT Supporting the health and academic success of students at UT Longhorn Wellness Peer Educators Love Your Body Positive body image promotion Mental Health Ambassadors Program Mental Health Conversations Mental health simulation platform mindful UT A resource for mindfulness-related opportunities and programs Prescription Drugs Prescription drug misuse prevention RA Resources Information for health and wellness programming Longhorn SHARE Project Mental heath peer support program Get Kinetic Physical Activity and social connection for Kinsolving Residence Hall Sleep & Napping Healthy sleep promotion Texas Well-Being Promoting well-being in learning environments Thrive@UT A free app to enhance the well-being of UT-Austin students VAV-Theatre for Dialogue Interactive theater to prevent interpersonal violence Voices Against Violence Interpersonal violence prevention UT Body Project Cultivating healthier norms around body image Our Strategy The Longhorn Wellness Center addresses priority health issues on campus. Our evidence-informed approach includes multi-level prevention strategies such as peer education, health education, social marketing, social norms initiatives, environmental change strategies, and strategic campus partnerships. Our Purpose Our purpose is to contribute to a culture of well-being at UT Austin by providing evidence-informed health promotion, resources, skills and support that are responsive to the needs of our community. Our Values Community We center our work around the needs, interests, and passions of students by actively collaborating with partners across the campus and community. Diversity, Equity, Inclusion and Access We strive to better understand and promote the intersections between well-being, identities, culture, and environment. We work to eliminate health disparities. Growth Our work is grounded in evidence, and we engage in meaningful learning experiences to expand knowledge, skills, and effectiveness. We commit to learning from success and failure. Sustainability We use resources ethically and intentionally and are committed to the continuity of wellness promotion at UT Austin. Public health practice We utilize public health practices to create change at the population and environmental levels, while incorporating perspectives from multiple disciplines to encourage innovation in prevention practices. Community We center our work around the needs, interests, and passions of students by actively collaborating with partners across the campus and community. Diversity, Equity, Inclusion and Access We strive to better understand and promote the intersections between well-being, identities, culture, and environment. We work to eliminate health disparities. Growth Our work is grounded in evidence, and we engage in meaningful learning experiences to expand knowledge, skills, and effectiveness. We commit to learning from success and failure. Sustainability We use resources ethically and intentionally and are committed to the continuity of wellness promotion at UT Austin. Public health practice We utilize public health practices to create change at the population and environmental levels, while incorporating perspectives from multiple disciplines to encourage innovation in prevention practices. A Focus on Data Assessment and evaluation are at the core of our work. We ground our initiatives and programs in research and evaluation that ensure these efforts are needed, relevant, and effective. In addition to ongoing assessment of our various initiatives, we adminster the National College Health College Health Assessment to inform our health promotion efforts. Stay Connected Follow us on Twitter, Facebook and Instagram and sign up for our Healthyhorns TXT to get tips and up to date information on staying healthy! The Wellness Network is a campus-wide coalition committed to assessing and addressing the health and wellness needs of students, faculty, and staff at The University of Texas at Austin. Learn more about Longhorn Wellness Center staff here INFORMATION Home Medical emergencies / After-Hours care Appointments Service extension fee Diversity statement STI Testing Sexual assault forensic exams Tour UHS Eligibility to use UHS Medical withdrawal & course load reductions Medical and Immunization record requests Patient rights and responsibilities Campus concealed carry Hours Parking Jobs Volunteering You Share, We Care Monday - Friday, 8am to 5pm by appointment (512) 471-4955 Email UHS University Health Services is committed to providing high-quality care to patients of all ages, races, ethnicities, physical abilities or attributes, religions, sexual orientations or gender identities/expression. SPECIFIC QUESTIONS? Incoming Students International Students Dell Medical Students LGBTQIA+ Inclusive Healthcare Parents Faculty and Staff LOCATION 100 West Dean Keeton Student Services Building (SSB) FOLLOW US Monday - Friday, 8am to 5pm by appointment (512) 471-4955 Email UHS University Health Services is committed to providing high-quality care to patients of all ages, races, ethnicities, physical abilities or attributes, religions, sexual orientations, or gender identities/expression. INFORMATION Home Medical emergencies / After-Hours care Appointments Service extension fee Diversity statement Get yourself tested Sexual assault exams Tour UHS Eligibility to use UHS Medical withdrawal & course load reductions Medical and immunization record requests Patient rights and responsibilities Campus concealed carry Hours Parking Jobs Volunteering You Share, We Care LOCATION 100 West Dean Keeton Student Services Building (SSB) FOLLOW US SPECIFIC QUESTIONS? Incoming Students International Students Dell Medical Students LGBTQIA+ Inclusive Healthcare Parents Faculty and Staff Home l ©2022 The University of Texas at Austin l UT Emergency Information l Accessibility l Privacy l Finding Credible Health Information Online l Report violence, misconduct, harassment or discrimination l Staff Intranet