Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu Division of Information Technology Main Navigation About IT Services Show Extended Students Faculty / Staff CEDA Software Show Extended Students Faculty / Staff Events & Projects IT Strategic Plan Student Password Policy Based on CSU security best practices, the campus password expiration guideline requires that all students change their campus supplied credential password annually. Note: Your CSUF Portal and student email passwords are the same. Changing Your Password Login to your Portal In the upper right corner click on your Profile icon Click on Settings Under Student Account Setting s click on Edit next to Change Portal Password Type in your current, new and confirm new passwords Click on Update Update your password for the campus WiFi on your devices. Changing Your Security Questions Setting up security questions will allow you to use the self-service password reset option if you forget your password. Login to your Portal In the upper right corner click on your Profile icon Click on Settings Under Student Account Setting s click on Edit next to Password Reset Security Questions Select 3 different questions and provide answers. Note: the word/pharse you use for your answer is not case sensitive Click on Update Password Requirements Between 12-20 characters Contain at least 3 of the following criteria: Uppercase letters Lowercase letters Numbers Special Characters These are the allowed characters: ! @ $ % & * ( ) , . - _ + No part of your name can be used You cannot use your last 24 campus passwords Update Password On Mobile Devices After you have changed your campus password, you will need to update your smartphone/tablet/laptop with the new password for the campus WiFi network and/or your student email Update WiFi Password Apple Devices Android Devices Student Email on Devices If you have connected your student email to your smartphone/tablet/laptop you will need to update it with the new password. Update Student Email Password Update Password On iFullerton After you have changed your campus password, you will need to update your smartphone/tablet with the new password for the iFullerton App Apple Devices Tap More tab at the bottom Tap Log Out button Sign in with username and password Android Devices Tap the grey Info (i) button toward the bottom of the Home Menu Tap Log Off button Sign in with username and password Forgot Your Password Reset Your Password Online Unable to reset your password online because you forgot your security questions? You can: Call the Student IT Help Desk at (657) 278-8888 Walk-in: Student Genius Center, Pollak Library North - 1st Floor You will be required to verify ID via Zoom (for phone support) AND show a valid photo ID such as driver's license, state ID, or passport (for phone and walk-in support). Passwords will not be reset over email or chat This site is maintained by Division of Information Technology. Last Published 4/18/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact helpdesk@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.10 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.