Skip to main content The Magazine of the University of Central Florida | Archives In This Issue Spring 2022 A Generational Effort For two decades, the UCF Business Incubation Program has supported the growth of hundreds of local small businesses to diversify the Central Florida economy. Now, the program is positioning itself for a new generation of success. Elevating Expression Shawn Welcome ’17 reflects on the power of poetry in a community as he begins his term as Orlando’s poet laureate. Why I Believe in Medical City After graduating from UCF’s first class of medical school graduates, Elona Rrapo Kaso ’13MD ﻿has returned to Lake Nona to work and help train students at the Orlando VA Medical Center. She shares what it’s like to see the development of Medical City and UCF’s College of Medicine. Relationship Goals If you aren’t taking these six actions, you should be, according to experts at UCF’s Marriage and Family Research Institute. Artistic Celebration Flying Horse Editions celebrates 30 years of supporting artistic works and research with an exhibit featured in UCF’s Art Gallery. Ingenuity at Work Developments from UCF faculty advance their fields while making societal impacts. Together Again For the first time since the start of the pandemic, UCF’s Gather Luncheon returned to campus to promote community building and healthy eating. We’re Here to End This These UCF researchers shine a light on what it takes to end domestic violence, and they have a question for everyone: Who’s willing to help break the cycle? More Than Words UCF’s Communication Disorders Clinic provides essential training for its graduate students and critical services to the local community. Making Waves Thanks to NASA-developed technology, this UCF alum’s company is working to achieve clean water globally. Quite a Catch UCF researchers receive a new, custom boat to continue studying sea turtles. Not Your Average Students Education is a lifelong endeavor, as evidenced by this comparison of two of UCF’s oldest and youngest students. Powering Potential UCF’s new Microgrid Control Lab simulates a modern grid control room and will serve as a hands-on learning and research facility. On Campus — Spring 2022 From new winter celebrations to new campus murals and learning technology, there’s plenty of ways Knights are staying engaged at UCF. Pegasus The Magazine of the University of Central Florida In This Issue Archives Powering Potential UCF’s new Microgrid Control Lab simulates a modern grid control room and will serve as a hands-on learning and research facility. The new Microgrid Control Lab in the College of Engineering and Computer Science is preparing the next generation of engineers to operate the modern grid and meet the rapidly increasing need for sustainable, affordable and reliable energy. The lab, which is co-sponsored by Florida Power & Light (FPL) and GE Digital, is a state-of-the-art research facility for faculty and students. Located on the first floor of Research 1 on the main campus, it features control center equipment and software that students can use to simulate and test real-life grid control operations, including finding ways to optimize and secure the grid of the future. “This new facility is exactly the kind of strategic partnership that makes UCF a premier choice for students with future-focused career goals.” — UCF President Alexander N. Cartwright 1,400+ Current undergraduate and graduate electrical and computer engineering students at UCF 400 Approximate number of UCF alumni employed by FPL and GE Digital 6 Faculty members involved with the lab — Associate Professor Aleksandar Dimitrovski, Assistant Professor Qifeng Li, Assistant Professor Junjian Qi, Pegasus Professor and Lab Director Zhihua Qu, Associate Professor Wei Sun and Assistant Professor Qun Zhou In the new lab, students will have access to software to simulate and test real-life grid control operations, including finding ways to optimize and secure the grid of the future. (Photo by Paul Waide, Florida Power & Light) The lab provides capabilities of both software modeling and hardware-in-the-loop testing for microgrid modeling and control. Nicole Dudenhoefer ’17 Spring 2022 Share this content on Facebook Tweet this content Related Stories FPL, GE Digital Launch New Lab for UCF Engineering Students Strengthening Our Nation Custom Solar Sculpture Built by UCF Students More from the Spring 2022 Issue Making Waves Thanks to NASA-developed technology, this UCF alum’s company is working to achieve clean water globally. Ingenuity at Work Developments from UCF faculty advance their fields while making societal impacts. Relationship Goals If you aren’t taking these six actions, you should be, according to experts at UCF’s Marriage and Family Research Institute. Elevating Expression Shawn Welcome ’17 reflects on the power of poetry in a community as he begins his term as Orlando’s poet laureate. Together Again For the first time since the start of the pandemic, UCF’s Gather Luncheon returned to campus to promote community building and healthy eating. Not Your Average Students Education is a lifelong endeavor, as evidenced by this comparison of two of UCF’s oldest and youngest students. Quite a Catch UCF researchers receive a new, custom boat to continue studying sea turtles. Why I Believe in Medical City After graduating from UCF’s first class of medical school graduates, Elona Rrapo Kaso ’13MD ﻿has returned to Lake Nona to work and help train students at the Orlando VA Medical Center. She shares what it’s like to see the development of Medical City and UCF’s College of Medicine. On Campus — Spring 2022 From new winter celebrations to new campus murals and learning technology, there’s plenty of ways Knights are staying engaged at UCF. A Generational Effort For two decades, the UCF Business Incubation Program has supported the growth of hundreds of local small businesses to diversify the Central Florida economy. Now, the program is positioning itself for a new generation of success. More Than Words UCF’s Communication Disorders Clinic provides essential training for its graduate students and critical services to the local community. Artistic Celebration Flying Horse Editions celebrates 30 years of supporting artistic works and research with an exhibit featured in UCF’s Art Gallery. We’re Here to End This These UCF researchers shine a light on what it takes to end domestic violence, and they have a question for everyone: Who’s willing to help break the cycle? Like us on Facebook Follow us on Twitter Find us on Instagram Follow us on YouTube Pegasus Magazine Suggest a Story Tell Us What You Think Update Your Address © University of Central Florida 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, FL 32816