Skip to main site navigation Skip to main content Keeping St. John's Healthy Apply Deposit Give Programs Return to St. John's University homepage Search Search by keyword Search by purpose I amSelect an optionFuture StudentCurrent StudentAlumniFaculty & StaffParent looking forTake Me There Schools and Colleges Menu About Faith & Mission Leadership & Administration History & Facts Equity and Inclusion A Five-Year Plan for St. John’s Future Campuses and Locations News & Media Student Consumer Information Academics Find a Program Schools and Colleges Global Programs Libraries Research Summer Session Centers and Institutes Our Faculty Academic Resources Course Offerings Office of the Registrar Commencement Admission and Aid Tuition and Financial Aid Scholarships Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission Transfer Admission International Admission Connect With Us Other Programs Life at St. John's New York City Campuses The World, Your Classroom Residence Life Career Services Student Services Spectrum Student Development Student Conduct Health and Wellness New Student Orientation Parent and Family Connections Title IX Public Safety Alumni and Friends Ways to Contribute Get Involved Benefits and Resources Success at St. John's Athletics Red Storm Sports Tickets Schedules Sports Camps and Clinics Red White Club News Locations Events Resources Admissions Faculty & Staff MySJU For Students [email protected] John's Student Employment Choose Language Select LanguageEnglishAfrikaansAlbanianArabicArmenianAzerbaijaniBasqueBelarusianBengaliBosnianBulgarianCatalanCebuanoCroatianCzechDutchEsperantoEstonianFilipinoFinnishFrenchGalicianGeorgianGermanGreekGujaratiHaitian CreoleHausaHebrewHindiHmongHungarianIcelandicIgboIndonesianIrishItalianJapaneseJavaneseKannadaKhmerKoreanLaoLatinLatvianLithuanianMacedonianMalayMalteseMaoriMarathiMongolianNepaliPersianPolishPortuguesePunjabiRomanianSerbianSlovakSlovenianSomaliSpanishSwahiliTamilTeluguThaiTurkishUkrainianUrduVietnameseWelshYiddishYorubaZulu Follow Us Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn YouTube TikTok Student Employment click to pause sliderclick to play slider Home About Leadership and Administration Administrative Offices Human Resources Recruitment Student Employment Recruitment Administrative and Staff/Clerical Positions Faculty Positions College of Pharmacy and Health Sciences School of Law St. John’s College of Liberal Arts and Sciences The Lesley H. and William L. Collins College of Professional Studies The Peter J. Tobin College of Business The School of Education University Libraries Graduate Assistantships and Fellowships Student Employment Student Worker Resource Guide Supervising Student Workers Guide to Student Employment Student Worker Resource Guide Our Mission The mission of student employment is to provide the means for students to help defray college expenses, expand the educational experience, and help prepare for “life after college.” Professional experiences can enhance the academic learning process and give students the opportunity to serve and learn in a values-based, mission-oriented setting. St. John’s University provides current undergraduate students with a range of part-time employment opportunities throughout many of the University’s departments and schools. Each year, the University employs about 1,500 student workers on all campuses. Working at St. John’s while attending school allows students to gain valuable skills and job experience, and can help to offset the cost of tuition and living expenses. Follow these 4 easy steps to apply for a Student Worker Position STEP 1: There are two distinct types of student positions: Regular Student Worker and federal College Work-Study. Before you apply for any position, you must find out if you qualify for Work Study: read this (PDF). STEP 2: Review the open positions below by campus and select up to 3 positions that interest you. If you qualify for financial aid under federal College Work-Study, you can select from the available Work-Study jobs; if not, select from the available Regular Student jobs. (Note: International and graduate students are not eligible for federal Work-Study.) STEP 3: Now you are ready to complete a Student Employment Application. You will need to include up to 3 job ID's from Step 2 to identify the positions for which you wish to apply. You can access the Student Employment Application by logging into UIS. Once you are logged in to the University system, click the Student Tab, then Student Employment, and then Student Employment Application. STEP 4: Email your resume to each of the hiring managers listed for the position(s) to which you applied. That's it! You have applied for student worker jobs, and you will hear from the hiring manager if there is an interest in your candidacy. The Student Employment team is here to help you, so contact us if you need assistance. Contact Us Office of Human Resources The University Center, Suite C 8000 Utopia Parkway Queens, NY 11439 Hours Monday through Thursday 8:30 a.m. – 5 p.m. Fridays 8:30 a.m. – 3 p.m. Mary Cascio Student Employment Manager 718-990-2331 [email protected] Darren Russell Student Employment Specialist 718-990-2497 [email protected] Graduate Assistantships and Fellowships A limited number of Graduate Assistantships and University Fellowships are granted to various academic departments within each school and college of the University. Graduate Assistantships are also available in administrative departments. To learn more, visit Graduate Assistantships and Fellowships on the Office of Graduate Admission website. Open Positions Queens Campus Staten Island Campus Rome and Paris Seasonal Positions St. John's often has open positions that are available during school breaks. Please see below for additional information. Queens Campus The following student worker positions are currently open. The University offers two types of jobs for students: work-study positions (funded by a federal grant) and regular student positions (not funded by the federal grant). Before you apply for a work-study position, be sure that you qualify. Not sure? Find out more about the federal college work-study program. *Most recent positions are located by category at the bottom of the page. College Work Study - University Customer Service Call Center Click to Open Title: Student Worker Department: University Call Center Campus: Queens Student Requested: College Work Study Job ID: S01969-231 Job Purpose: Provide customer service support for Enrollment Management as well as designated departments and operations. Provide professional, quality telephone support and customer service assistance to all university customers including prospective and matriculating students, parents and alumni, as well as general public queries. This position is a front line, customer service ACD telephone position that requires precise attention to detail, strong customer service skills with a professional and courteous work ethic and demeanor. Work hours are varied. This position is currently an on-campus position but has the possibility of becoming remote should the circumstance arise. Job Responsibilities: Responsibilities (include but are not limited to): Provide courteous and expedient telephone customer service and support Respond to general inquiries regarding the University, including but not limited to inquiries about Admissions, Registrar, Financial Aid and Loans, and IT Help Desk Support student outreach campaigns for various departments by contacting customers via telephone Satisfy, respond to or redirect (as necessary) all incoming calls utilizing various systems and applications Attend ongoing training to keep current with information and systems Maintain a timely and efficient workflow of calls processed based on department objectives and standards Assist other team members as needed and designated by the department Provide insight, suggestions and comments on operational procedures, call analysis and training issues to management, which would contribute to an increase in efficiency, productivity and quality of service Report to work as scheduled, log on to ACD and process assignments as delegated by department management Additional responsibilities as required by Management Equipment Used: Computers, ACD phone system. Qualifications: Must have good interpersonal and communication skills, both verbal and written Quick learner (i.e. has the ability to learn and retain large, detailed amounts of information) and decision maker with the ability to solve problems Precise attention to detail, strong customer service skills, and a professional, courteous work ethic Skill Development Areas: • Communication, Time Management, Multitasking In addition to completing the online student employment application, students should send a copy of their resume to Sir William Otis at [email protected] or Rosalie Romano at [email protected] College Work Study - Office of Global Programs - Finance Office Click to Open Title: Student Worker Campus: Queens Student Requested: College Work Study Job ID: S01969-105F Job Purpose:The student worker will work directly under the Manager of Global Programs - Fiscal Affairs and Planning. An opportunity for the student to leverage analytical and technical skills learned in the field of Business, while assisting with day to day financial operations of Global Programs. Job Responsibilities: Review vendor invoices and process payments via wire transfers and online check requisitions. Request new vendor set ups. Review faculty and admin expense reimbursement requests to ensure accuracy and compliance. Assist with the organization of external programs and bed sale partner management process including updating weekly reports, drafting contracts, preparing invoices and processing payments. Assist with financial and budget forecasts based on year-end revenue and expenses. Process budget transfer on line using Banner. Assist with various yea-end processes/reporting. Equipment Used: Computers, fax machine, photocopier, scanner Qualifications: Must be a student in good academic standing (2.0 GPA). Attention to detail. Intermediate computer skills, with knowledge of Microsoft Word and Excel. Ability to handle sensitive matters in a professional manner. Ability to work at least 10 hours per week. Ability to work well with others. Willingness to tackle new projects and take initiative. Training will be provided. Skill Development Areas: Accounting, Finance, Pharmacy majors preferred In addition to completing the online student employment application, students should send a copy of your resume to Maria Handler at [email protected] College Work Study - Internal Audit Click to Open Title: Student Worker Campus: Queens Student Requested: College Work Study Job ID: S01969-179 Job Purpose: The student will provide clerical support, research and basic accounting duties to the Internal Audit department. Job Responsibilities: Handle highly sensitive matters with utmost confidentiality Compile, organize and maintain records updated for easy access Type documents and correspondence and make phone calls as needed Assist with the creation and maintenance of databases and Excel spreadsheets Participate in assignments as needed from start to completion Perform analysis, calculations, verifications, and prepare written summaries Examine accounts, research discrepancies, and reconcile balances Research and compile information, reports and summaries Review files and records to resolve discrepancies related to various transactions Assist in coordinating with other departments to obtain information and to resolve numerous questions related to various transactions Learn University policies and procedures in related areas Perform other office duties as assigned, including filing, scanning, etc. Equipment Used: Computers, fax machine, photocopier, scanner. Qualifications: Ability to communicate effectively, verbally, and in writing Ability to prioritize, work independently and mange time effectively Ability to identify issues and provide solutions Basic understanding of Microsoft Excel, Word, and the Internet Ability to handle sensitive matters in a professional manner. Attention to detail Adaptable and able to work collaboratively Ability to work between 15-20 hours per week during the fall semester This is a year-round position with the ability to work during breaks and the summer Skill Development Areas: Analytical attention to details, along with the ability to sort and manage data for problem solving In addition to completing the online student employment application, students must also send a copy of their resume, a schedule of availability along with their expected graduation date to Mr. Jorge Osorio at [email protected] College Work Study - Student Affairs Operations Staff Click to Open Student Affairs Operations Staff Campus: Queens Department: Student Affairs – Operations & Event Support Services Staff Student Requested: College Work Study Job ID: S01969-205E Job Purpose: The D’Angelo Center Operations Staff is responsible for assisting with the management of the facility during the week, evening hours and some nights and weekends. It is imperative that the Operations Staff be familiar with the building, its equipment, policies, programmatic services, and the day to day schedule of events. The position also requires knowledge of the University. The role of Operations Staff encompasses problem solving, interpreting policies, and serving as a student resource. Job Responsibilities: Audio/Visual Team Provide audiovisual support for the Little Theatre and for select locations around campus. Event Reservation and Virtual Event Logistics Assist with the review and processing of room requests into Banner. Communicate with event planners to confirm and/or change event details. Manage the distribution of Facilities Confirmation Passes to event planners & campus support teams. Event Support Team Setup, facilitate, and/or monitor in person event and meeting spaces in the D’Angelo Center and select locations across campus, in addition to virtual event support. Operate as a Virtual Event Space Compliance Auditor to ensure each event adheres to the Code of Etiquette established for Student Organizations. Provide post event reporting to ensure that quality standards are met for eligibility to continue Student Organization programming. Facilitate event check-in and attendance tracking in the D’Angelo Center and across campus, ensuring capacities adhere to social distancing policies. Collect funds associated with event entry fees. Reception/Customer Service Staff / Campus Concierge Information Station General upkeep of the building & ensures correct placement of furnishings throughout the building. Assist Managers with D’Angelo Center opening and closing procedures. Inspect rooms within the D’Angelo Center and Little Theatre for damages, cleanliness and document any issues that need to be addressed; provide documentation to the Supervisor. Assist with the management of the D’Angelo Center Game Room. Check bulletins for unauthorized or outdated posters and flyers and remove them if necessary. Knowledgeable of emergency procedures and troubleshooting concerns within the D’Angelo Center. Understand and follow the policies and procedures of St. John’s University D’Angelo Center. Attend staff meetings and training sessions as needed. Other duties as assigned. Equipment & Software Used: iPod Touch, Laptops, Pipe & Drape, Banner, Zapier, Social Tables, Google Calendar, Google Sheets, etc. Qualifications: Familiarity with campus involvement, events, and university-wide policies. Excellent communication skills and detail oriented. Ability to work well with others. Ability to work between 15-20 hours per week, including evenings and weekends. Skill Development Areas: Active Listening, Customer Service, Time Management, Multitasking, Communication, Automation Software Unusual Physical Demands: Ability to lift up to twenty (20) lbs. All new employees receive training. In addition to completing the online student employment application on MySJU, interested applicants must complete the following form: Operations Employment Application College Work Study - Residence Life Click to Open Title: Student Worker Campus: Queens Student Requested: College Work Study Job ID: S01969-206 Job Purpose: The student worker will assist with the overall day-to-day functioning of the Office of Residence Life by providing customer service for University administrators, parents, and students. They will perform office tasks such as filing, answering phones and responding to inquiries. This position is available for both the academic year and the summer. Job Responsibilities: Assist with answering telephones, faxing, filing correspondence, running errands on campus, stuffing envelopes, typing and making copies. Greeting students, parents, administrators, answer questions, and provide excellent customer service. Build and review packets for the department. Other administrative duties or special projects as assigned. Equipment Used: Computers, fax machine, Xerox, scanner, swipe technology. Qualifications: Familiarity with general office equipment. Good computer skills (Microsoft Word or Excel) Excellent customer service and communication skills. Ability to handle both confidential and sensitive matters in a professional manner. Must have good phone etiquette. Ability to work well with others. Willingness to tackle new projects and take initiative. Flexible schedule (if required) Skill Development Areas: Customer Service, Time Management, Communication, Time Management, Multitasking, Intercultural Proficiency In addition to completing the online student employment application, interested student must also send a copy of your resume to Michelle McCullers at [email protected]. College Work Study - Business Affairs - Accounts Payable Click to Open Title: Student Worker Campus: Queens Student Requested: College Work Study Job Purpose: Support to AP department for the year-end close, summer and academic year. Job ID: S01969-302P Job Responsibilities: Assist with calling the vendors to request invoices, faxing, and sorting mail, filing correspondence, stuffing envelopes and making copies. Help with check requisition cover page print for PO invoices Data entry into a Microsoft Excel spreadsheet. Make suggestions on how to streamline a process or task that is manual. Build and review packets for the department. Other administrative duties or special projects as assigned. Equipment Used: Computers, fax machine, photocopier and scanner. Qualifications: Good computer skills (Microsoft Word and Excel). Excellent communication skills and detail oriented. The ability to handle confidential matters and to be professional. Ability to work well with others. Willingness to tackle new projects. Ability to work between 15 – 20 hours per week and during the summer. Flexible schedule from 8:30am-4:30pm Skill Development Areas: Listening, Customer Service, Time Management, Multitasking, Communication, Intercultural proficiency. In addition to completing the online student employment application, interested students should also send their cover letter and resume to Jim Abbatello at [email protected] or Cindy Jimenez at [email protected] College Work Study - Center for Latin American & Caribbean Studies (CLACS) Click to Open Title:Student Worker for the Center for Latin American & Caribbean Studies (CLACS) Campus:Queens Student Requested:College Work Study Job ID: S01969-540 Job Purpose: The student worker will be assisting CLACS on a variety of tasks. The worker will do administrative work such as filling and typing documents, answering the phone, making photocopies, or assisting in academic research and lecture preparation as needed by the chair. This will be an academic year position. Job Responsibilities: Assist with answering phones and emails. Verbal communication with a wide variety of cultural backgrounds Perform administrative and organizational office duties. Manage all incoming and outgoing correspondence for the Office. Ensure printers and copiers are regularly filled with paper and ensure inventory of supplies is properly stocked. Assist in scheduling content and publishing materials for events across different platforms. Assist the department in coordinating office procedures or activities. Assist the Center Director with the Adult Literacy Program. Equipment Used: Computers, fax machine, photocopier, scanner, swipe technology. This job operates in a professional office environment. Routinely uses a computer, standard office equipment such as copiers, phones/voice mail, fax, scanner, printers, etc. Qualifications: Good computer skills and experience posting a variety of content across different platforms. Good communication skills and an ability to alter voice/tone through social media. Attention to detail and an ability to think creatively and efficiently while maintaining organization. Experience with graphic design (Photoshop, Canvas, etc) desired, but not required. Knowledge of Spanish and Latino culture desired. Ability to handle sensitive matters in a professional manner. Related work experience preferred. Ability to work at least 10 hours per week. Ability to work well with others. Skill Development Areas: Social Media, Communication, Time Management, Multitasking, Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram. In addition to completing the online student employment application students should also submit their cover letter and resume to Dr. Alina Camacho-Gingrich at [email protected]and to Diana Flores at [email protected] College Work Study - Student Financial Services Click to Open Campus: Queens Department: Student Financial Services Job ID: S01969-152 Student: College Work Study Work Schedule: Monday through Friday flexible hours depending on class schedule. Hours will be assigned between 8:30 a.m. and 4:30 p.m. with periodically evenings until 7:00 p.m. Duties and Responsibilities: Assist in the Financial Aid office, filing, typing, and other duties as assigned. Assist with answering telephones, faxing, filing correspondence, running errands on campus, stuffing envelopes and making copies. Other administrative duties or special projects as assigned. Qualifications: Computer skills: Microsoft Office (Word, Excel), good phone and communications skills. The ability to handle confidential matters and to be professional. Ability to work well with others. Willingness to tackle new projects. Ability to work between 10-15 hours per week; may be some evenings, weekends, and holidays may be required. Flexible schedule. Comments: Applicants must be able to work some evening hours during the registration periods. Applicants must be able to work throughout the summer. In addition to completing the online student application, interested candidates should submit their resume to Kerri Scianna at [email protected] College Work Study - Animal Care Center Click to Open Title: Student Worker Campus: Queens Student Requested: College Work Study Job Purpose: Assist technicians with the care of laboratory animals by providing clean cages, food, fresh water and enrichment. General care of the facility to include sweeping, mopping and disinfection of surfaces. Assist secretary and supervisor with paperwork, filing and organizing. Position is open year round. Job ID: S01969-586 Job Responsibilities: Change cages as needed and ensuring food and fresh water is available. Sweeping, mopping and disinfection of all rooms and general spaces. Assist in cage wash responsibilities. Assist in receiving and storing of supplies as needed. Assist secretary and/or supervisor with paperwork/filing/organizing Holiday and weekend work may be required. Equipment Used: Cage washer; bedding changing stations; copier; shredder. Qualifications: Excellent communication skills and an ability to work as part of a team. Attention to detail. Ability to handle sensitive matters in a professional manner. Ability to lift/carry up to 40 pounds. Ability to work at least 10 hours per week. Morning hours (between 8am and 12PM) are preferred. Weekend/Holiday hours differ. Skill Development Areas: Time Management, Multitasking; Teamwork Unusual Physical Demands: Ability to lift 40 pounds for a limited amount of time. In addition to completing the online student employment application, students should also send a copy of your resume to Eileen Hussey at [email protected] or Nancy Collazo at [email protected] College Work Study - LGBTQ+ Center Click to Open Title:Student Workers for LGBTQ Center Campus: Queens Student Requested: College Work Study Job ID: S01969-279 Job Purpose: Student workers will be integral staff members at the SJU LGBTQ+ Center. This new campus hub will be launching events throughout Spring 2022 with a grand opening planned for Fall 2022. Student team members will directly be involved in the daily operations of the Center. Desirable skill areas include events and planning, organizational, communication (verbal and written), research, media and/or tech. This position reports to the LGBTQ+ Center Directors. Job Responsibilities: Administrative and desk duties, including greeting and assisting Center visitors Data entry, mailing management, other clerical duties as assigned Assist in planning, organizing, and hosting programming events Maintain organization of marketing materials, graphic designs, event descriptions, and photographs for efficient use Support marketing and promotional efforts, externally and internally— including through social media Communicate and coordinate with other campus organizations Maintain relationships with community partners Equipment Used: Computers (Mac), photocopier, scanner Qualifications: Excellent computer skills and experience posting a variety of content across different platforms Effective verbal and written communication skills, including willingness to communicate with other team members and stakeholders via email, phone, virtual platforms Experience with graphic design (Photoshop, Canva, etc.), desired but not required Demonstrated knowledge (or desire to learn) of marginalized communities and historically underrepresented groups Ability to handle sensitive matters in a positive and professional manner Commitment to maintaining confidentiality when required Interest in autonomous work including occasions without direct supervision Flexibility in scheduling, ability to assist with evening events when necessary Skill Development Areas: Events, Media, Research, Marketing & Promotion, Organization, Networking In addition to completing the online student employment application interested candidates should send a cover letter/statement explaining why they feel they would be a good fit for this position, in addition to their resume to Dr. Candice Roberts at [email protected] College Work Study - Marketing & Communications - Digital Marketing Team Click to Open Title: Student Worker Campus: Queens Student Requested: College Work Study Job Purpose: Help the digital team with accessibility checks and ongoing quality assurance throughout the University’s digital platforms. Job ID: S01969-251 Job Responsibilities: Assist in conducting ongoing content reviews and audits. Assist in updating content that does not meet our standards or have errors. Equipment Used: Computers, SaaS Qualifications: Excellent computer skills. Excellent communication skills. Attention to detail and an ability to think creatively and efficiently while maintaining organization. Ability to handle sensitive matters in a professional manner. Related work experience preferred. Ability to work at least 10 hours per week. Ability to work well with others. Willingness to tackle new projects and take initiative. Flexible schedule Skill Development Areas: Communication, Time Management, Multitasking Unusual Physical Demands: N/A In addition to completing the online student employment application, interested students should send a copy of your resume to Patricia Watts at [email protected]. College Work Study - Office of Human Resources Click to Open Title: Student Worker - Office of Human Resources Campus: Queens Student Requested: College Work Study Job ID: S01969-261 Job Purpose: To create a paperless office. This will be accomplished by converting documents and other papers into a digital form using online or cloud storage. The objective by going paperless: cost savings, greater productivity, save space, make documentation and information sharing easier, and keep personal information more secure. Job Responsibilities: Collaborate with HR business units to identify and assess needs. Organize paper documents and files within filing cabinets and recycle outdated documents. Digitize papers and files for electronic storage. Create system for organizing digital files and upload documents. Archive or discard physical papers and files that have been electronically stored. Assist the department in creating office procedures. Equipment Used: Computers, photocopier, and scanner Qualifications: Excellent computer skills. Attention to detail and an ability to think creatively and efficiently while maintaining organization. High level of confidentiality. Ability to handle sensitive matters in a professional manner. Ability to work at least 10 hours per week. Ability to work well with others. Willingness to tackle new projects and take initiative. Flexible schedule. Skill Development Areas: Communication, Time Management, Multitasking Unusual Physical Demands: N/A Interested students should send a copy of their resume and schedule of availability (days & times available to work) to Cathleen Dewick at [email protected] College Work Study - Office of Human Resources - Benefits Click to Open Title: Student Worker Campus: Queens Student Requested: College Work Study Job ID: S01969-293 Job Purpose: To assist the Benefits Team with daily tasks. Job Responsibilities: Assist with answering telephones, faxing, emailing, making copies, filing correspondence, letter mail merges, entering data into Excel spreadsheets, stuffing envelopes (prepare mass mailings for Open Enrollment, annual required notices, and other essential announcements), scanning documents Search for information using Internet search engines when required Assist on special projects as needed, including high level confidential tasks Hand delivery of important documents on campus Assist with sorting and distributing mail for Benefits Department May need to greet walk-ins, answer questions and direct to the proper individuals Data entry Collaborate with the team on process improvement Other administrative duties or special projects as assigned Equipment Used: Computers, fax machine, photocopier, and scanner Qualifications: Familiarity with office equipment such as computer, fax machine, photocopier and scanner Good computer skills (Microsoft Word and Excel preferred) Excellent communication skills and detail oriented Ability to handle confidential matters and to be professional Ability to work well with others Willingness to tackle new projects and initiatives Ability to work between 15 – 20 hours per week Must be able to work during the summer Skills/Competencies: Customer Service: Responds to employees in a timely manner, committed to satisfying internal clients, treats customers in a courteous, professional manner Communication: Expresses ideas effectively; organizes and delivers information appropriately; listens actively Planning and Organizing: Plans and organizes tasks and responsibilities to achieve goals; effectively multi- tasks and sets priorities Integrity: Maintains confidentiality and professionalism Reliability: Completes work in a timely manner; takes ownership and responsibility for job performance In addition to completing the online student application, interested students should send a copy of your resume to Grace Zontini at [email protected] College Work Study - University Learning Commons - Tutor Click to Open Title: Tutor Campus: Queens Department: University Learning Commons (ULC) Student Requested: Work Study student Job ID: S01969-141 Provide tutoring to St. John’s University students so they may clarify learning obstacles and practice study strategies. Hours are flexible with tutoring sessions offered both in-person and remotely. Day, evening, and Sunday hours are available. Tutors needed in Biology, Chemistry, Physics, Accounting, Economics, Business Law, History and Theology. Individuals with expertise in these subjects are encouraged to apply. Compensation for this position is $15.50 per hour. Job description: Attend tutor training at the beginning of the semester, to earn National Tutoring Association (NTA) certification Meet with students individually or in small groups to provide academic assistance Maintain an up-to-date schedule of work hours per week Keep regular and accurate records of tutoring sessions Read and respond to emails in a timely fashion Submit required paperwork (time sheets, schedules, etc.) in a timely fashion Remain in good academic and judicial standing at the University Qualifications: Overall GPA of 3.70 (exceptions will be made on a case-by-case basis) Provide two (2) letters of recommendation from a St. John’s University faculty member One of the letters must be from a professor who has taught you in the subject you wish to tutor. The second letter may be from a professor in the same subject area or from a professor who has taught you in any subject Attach and send an “unofficial” transcript (grade record) with your application. (Found on UIS/Student/Student Records/Academic Record/Unofficial Transcript) Must have an operational computer with webcam and reliable internet connection Strong interpersonal and communication skills Reliability and a strong work ethic Patience and a desire to help others succeed In addition to completing the online student employment application, all resumes, letters of recommendation and transcripts must be e-mailed to Linda Dersch at [email protected] College Work Study - School of Law - Law Library Click to Open Job Title: Student Worker Campus: Queens Campus Student Requested: College Work Study Department: School of Law Library, Circulation/Reserve Job ID: S01969-424 Job Responsibilities: Perform clerical and public service functions, including checking out books, handling returns, answering phones, making copies, scanning documents, data entry, filing, updating legal materials, hanging signs, and delivering documents, books, and a/v materials. Assist library patrons in the use of library copiers, scanners, and printers. Assist library patrons in reserving study rooms. Reshelving and shifting books, stacks maintenance including shelf reading, scanning barcodes and dusting, retrieving books from all floors of the library. Deliver books and/or other materials in the building and other buildings on campus. Retrieve items from other campus libraries. Locate books and other resources using the online catalog, and library databases. Daily library maintenance, including wiping down all frequently used surfaces in the circulation area. Participate in assigned projects. Qualifications: Basic computer literacy; familiarity with Microsoft Word, Excel and Power point Good interpersonal skills, communications skills and detail oriented Must be flexible; this person will be assigned additional duties as deemed necessary. Ability to move a cart of books, reach high areas with the use of a step stool. Students will work in an environment that may have daily exposure to dust. Students must be available to work several shifts during the mornings, afternoons, or evenings. Hours are flexible but students should be able to work 12 - 20 hours per week. Summer Schedule: Monday – Thursday: 9am – 6pm Friday 9am – 5pm Saturday – Sunday: 10am – 6pm Fall Semester Schedule Monday – Thursday 8am – 8pm Friday 8am – 5pm Saturday – Sunday 10am – 6pm In addition to completing the online student application, students must send their cover letter and resume to Josh LaPorte, Reference & Access Services Librarian, at [email protected] College Work Study - Sociology & Anthropology Click to Open Title: Student Worker (R) – Sociology and Anthropology Department Campus: Queens Student Requested: College Work Study Job ID: S01969-545 Job Purpose: Assisting the Chair’s Secretary in efforts to support Department Chair, faculty and students as needed throughout the academic year. The main focus of this position is to help faculty members in the Sociology and Anthropology Dept. conduct research. Job Responsibilities: CWS Student to be assigned to full-time department faculty and are expected to assist in conducting research within their discipline. Other administrative duties or special projects as assigned by Chair or Chair’s Secretary. Equipment Used: Computers, photocopier, scanner, fax machine, swipe technology, etc. Qualifications: Must be a Social Science Major. Desire to provide research support to faculty. Familiarity with office equipment helpful but will train (computer, fax machine, scanner, Xerox machine, etc.) concerning office procedures. Good computer skills (Microsoft Word and Excel). Excellent communication skills and pleasant demeanor is necessary. Research and detail oriented. Library Proxy will allow for retrieving materials requested by Faculty. Willingness to take on new projects. Ability to work between 10 – 12 hours per week. Skill Development Areas: Research abilities, Social Media, Time Management, et al. In addition to completing the online student employment application, students should please send a copy of your resume to Ms. Mary Alison Cunneen at [email protected]. College Work Study - Public Safety - StormCard Office Click to Open Title: Student Worker Campus: Queens Student Requested: College Work Study Job ID: S01969-305S Job Purpose: Public Safety student workers provide the University community and our guests with professional customer service regarding our Parking and StormCard Programs. Job Responsibilities: (Fast paced, multi-tasking environment) Provide exceptional customer service (answer questions, and direct to the proper individual(s)) General office duties (examples: answering telephones, faxing, file management, running errands on campus, stuffing envelopes, and making copies) Issue Parking Permits and updating the parking database Taking photographs and creating StormCards Troubleshooting (technology, StormCard & Parking issues and customer concerns) Assist in special projects and events (other administrative duties as assigned) Perform Data entry as required into spreadsheets and databases Collaboration on improving office policy and procedure Understanding of the University Parking Rules and Regulations Working hours range between 7am – 11pm, weekends as required – throughout the calendar year Equipment Used: Computers, fax machine, photocopier, cameras, scanner, swipe technology, electronic locks Qualifications: Willingness to learn and contribute to a team Prior customer service experience preferred Familiarity with basic office equipment Good computer skills (Microsoft Word, Excel) Excellent communication skills and detail oriented The ability to handle confidential matters and to be professional Ability to work well with others Willingness to tackle new projects Ability to work between 15 – 20 hours per week including possible night and weekend shifts. Willingness to work the summer, winter, and spring breaks Willingness to model the STJ Student Code of Conduct Skill Development Areas: ID-card production (photography); Customer Service, Time Management, Multitasking, Communication skills (verbal and listening), Technology Unusual Physical Demands: Light lifting, ability to walk distances within campus In addition to completing the online employment application, students must also send a copy of your resume to Kaidan Puglisi [email protected] College Work Study - University Freshman Center - SAFE Program Click to Open Title: Student Worker – SAFE (Student and Faculty Engagement) Campus: Queens Student Requested: College Work Study Job ID: S01969-129S Job Purpose: SAFE (Student and Faculty Engagement) is a program which provides freshman and sophomore students with faculty and staff support to create an atmosphere that is conducive to the student’s successful transition to college life. The work-study student will report to the Director of the University Freshman Center and the professor who leads the SAFE program. This person should have great communication skills and someone who is a clear self-starter. The ideal candidate should want to develop skills and training in the field of higher education and/or psychology (mental health counseling, social work, clinical, etc.) The work-study student will also have the opportunity to gain a wealth of real-world experience that can be applied to the real world. Job Responsibilities: Communicate professionally with faculty, administrators, staff, and parents via letters, email, phone conversation and in-person meetings Present important program related information during summer training sessions with mentors and SAFE staff meetings. Manage and respond to mentor feedback forms on a regular basis Serve as the liaison between the mentors, students, and the Freshman Center Attend and participate in SAFE events Participate in Freshman Move-In Day Update the SJU Banner system and the University Freshman Center database according to the documentation guidelines established by the SAFE program Engagement and outreach to first-year students. Assist students by answering basic questions regarding University processes and procedures. Referrals to an advisor are made as needed. Follow-up with at-risk students Filing, scanning, other general office duties Secondary responsibilities: Assist with the front desk including answering phones/taking messages and other necessary tasks that help the office run smoothly. Orientation/training will be provided to ensure these tasks are done in a professional manner. While this position is predominantly working with the SAFE program, the candidate chosen will be expected to shift and conduct various projects in the Freshman Center as needed. Qualifications: Excellent writing and oral presentation skills Excellent computer and technology skills (mail merge) Extensive knowledge of Microsoft Office (Word, Excel, PowerPoint) and other related programs Experience required: Public speaking Additional comments: This position will start in the summer with the possibility of continuing through the fall semester. Summer Start: June 1st – June 30th. Hours per week will be between 10-20 hours, excluding breaks and University holidays. In addition to completing the online student employment application, students should also submit their resume and schedule of availability (day & times you can work) to Lakeisha Armstrong at [email protected] or Saima Khan at [email protected]. College Work Study - Business Affairs - Accounting Click to Open Title: Student Worker Campus: Queens Student Requested: College Work Study Job Purpose: Assist the Accounting department with daily tasks as needed. Job ID: S01969-302A Job Responsibilities: Assist in generating general ledger reports and reconciling general ledger numbers to other reports. Prepare and update various Excel spreadsheets. Enter journal entries to the University’s Accounting Information System & Banner Perform mail merge function is MS Word for Unclaimed Property Notifications. Assist in the departmental effort regarding the year-end close and audit, including helping prepare financial statements and gathering support documentation for auditors. Assist in coordinating with other departments to obtain information and to resolve numerous problems related to various transactions. Assist in handling complaints or concerns received from various internal and external customers and work towards their resolution. Other duties as assigned. Equipment Used: Computers, fax machine, photocopier, scanner, swipe technology. Qualifications: Accounting or Finance major preferred. Basic accounting principles. Excellent communication and organizational skills. Attention to detail and an ability to think creatively and efficiently while maintaining organization. Learn to multitask and prioritize assignments. Basic knowledge and understanding of MS Excel & MS Word. Ability to gather evidence and support. Ability to work at least 10-15 hours per week during the semester and able to work during the summer months. Ability to work well with others. Willingness to tackle new projects and take initiative. Problem-solving skills. Skill Development Areas: Communication, Time Management, Multitasking In addition to completing the online student employment application, interested students should send their resume to Irma Gevero at [email protected] or Jill Wong at [email protected]. College Work Study - Business Affairs - Investment Office Click to Open Title: Student Worker - Investment Office Campus: Queens Student Requested: College Work-Study Job ID: S01969-302I Job Purpose: Are you interested in investments and portfolio management? We are looking for an energetic and hard-working student to help support the future of St. John’s University. As a student worker, you will gain exposure to a variety of investment firms, investment strategies, and valuable insights into the financial services industry. Some common tasks you may encounter include record retention and retrieval, note-taking during calls and meetings, database construction, and investment performance monitoring. This position is offered during the Fall, Spring and Summer semesters. This position is required to work in the office. Job Responsibilities: Participate in the institutional investment community, representing St. John’s University, sharing information, and assessing trends. Maintain, update, and enhance the Investment Offices’ databases. Attend and take notes on manager diligence meetings and internal presentations. Interface with the University’s investment managers. This may include documenting materials, coordinating meetings, and distributing surveys/data requests. Monitor and evaluate the performance of existing investments and investment managers through continuous review of portfolio analytics, meetings, and manager communications. Adhere to and ensure compliance with the Endowment’s investment policy, the Investment Office’s policies and procedures, and all relevant legal, regulatory, and ethical standards. Equipment Used: Computers, photocopier, scanner, swipe technology. Qualifications: A passion for financial markets and investing. Attention to detail and an ability to think creatively and efficiently while maintaining organization. Exceptional organizational skills and ability to multitask. Strong quantitative skills. Excellent computer skills (MS Word, PowerPoint, and Excel). Excellent communication skills. Ability to handle sensitive matters in a professional and timely manner. Related internship/work experience preferred but not required. Ability to work at least 10 hours per week. Willingness to tackle new projects and take initiative. Flexible schedule. Skill Development Areas: Finance, Investments, Communication, Time Management, Multitasking. In addition to completing the online student employment application, interested students should send a copy of your resume to Mr. James Wollweber at [email protected]. College Work Study - Campus Recreation Click to Open Department: Campus Recreation Title: Student Worker Student Requested: College Work Study Job ID: S01969-378 General Responsibilities The Campus Recreation Staff is responsible for providing the entire University Community with the opportunity to participate in a variety of formal and informal activities. Our staff is required to have knowledge of our operations which include Taffner Field House and the Fitness Center in Carnesecca Arena. The position also requires knowledge of the University as a whole. The role of a Campus Recreation Student worker encompasses problem solving, interpreting policies, safety and serving as a student resource. Specific Tasks and Responsibilities Observe and delegate for Taffner Field House and the Fitness Center daily operations Communicate any issues within the facilities to a Campus Recreation Supervisor Assist Building Managers with opening, closing and daily procedures of all facilities Ability to assist all Fitness Center users on proper operation of all fitness equipment Assist in the updating of calendars, bulletin boards and flyer racks around the facilities Required to keep an active log of rental equipment and notify a supervisor when any equipment is missing or damaged Be aware of emergency procedures of all Campus Recreation’s facilities and operations Provide customer service to all patrons that participate in our programs and utilize our facilities and services Understand, follow, and enforce all the policies and procedures of both Taffner Field House and the Fitness Center Attend staff meetings and training sessions as needed Responsible for going on errands when needed Responsible for overall safety and cleanliness of Taffner Field House and the Fitness Center; restock supplies Pick up weights and other equipment left out and re-stack appropriately Enforce policies with patrons Other duties as assigned Transferable Skills Effective leadership and oral communication skills, working with students, administrators, faculty and overall St. John’s University community; identify information sources appropriate to a problem or need and formulate questions to clarify a problem; make decisions that will maximize both individual and collective good. In addition to completing the online student employment application, interested students should submit their resume to Dorothy Longworth at [email protected] College Work Study - Tobin College of Business - Graduate Division Click to Open Title: Student Worker Campus: Queens Campus Student Requested: College Work Study Job Purpose: S01969-442G Provide customer service support for the Peter J. Tobin College of Business Graduate Division Dean’s Office. Provide professional, quality telephone support and customer service assistance to all students and office guests. Assist with administrative duties and special projects as assigned. This position is a front line, customer service position that requires attention to detail, strong customer service skills with a professional and courteous work ethic and demeanor. Job Responsibilities: Assist with answering telephones, faxing, scanning, filing correspondence, running errands on campus, preparing mailings, typing, making copies and special projects. Greet students and office guests, answer questions and direct to the proper individual(s). Data entry into a Microsoft Excel spreadsheet. Equipment Used: computers, fax machine, photocopier, scanner, swipe technology. Qualifications: Good computer skills (Microsoft Word, Excel, Access). The ability to handle confidential matters and to be professional. Ability to work at least 10 - 15 hours per week (Mondays through Thursday 8:30AM to 4:30PM and Friday 8:30AM to 3:00PM). Will work around students’ class schedule. Flexible schedule; Ability to assist with events on afternoons when applicable Skill Development Areas: Listening, Customer Service, Time Management, Multitasking, Communication In addition to completing the online student employment application, interested students should send their resume to Mary Elizabeth Steiner at [email protected] College Work Study - Annual Giving Click to Open Title: Student Worker Campus: Queens Student Requested: College Work Study Student Job ID: S01969-176 Job Purpose: The student will do some research using the internet and data. The student will do some mailing and filing. Other office related duties. This position is open for summer and academic year. Job Responsibilities: Assist with filing correspondence, running errands on campus, stuffing envelopes and making copies. Data entry into a Microsoft Excel spreadsheet. Build and review packets for the department. Other administrative duties or special projects as assigned. Equipment Used: Computers, fax machine, photocopier, scanner. Qualifications: Good computer skills – Microsoft Office. Excellent communication skills and detail oriented. The ability to handle confidential matters and to be professional. Ability to work well with others. Willingness to tackle new projects. Ability to work between 15 – 20 hours per week (business hours 8:30am – 4:30pm/Monday thru Thursday and Friday 8:30 – 3pm) Skill Development Areas: Time Management, Multitasking, Communication. In addition to completing the online student application, interested candidates must send a copy of their resume to Tara Sanon at [email protected] Regular Student - SJU NYGEAR Up - Tutor/Mentor Click to Open Department: SJU NYGEAR UP Program Title: Tutor/Mentor (Regular Student Worker) Location: Mix of SJU office, LIC HS, remote work & various NYC Colleges & Universities *Staff will be assigned locations/programs based on need. This position is available thru Summer 2022. Job ID: S03221-581T Job Purpose: To provide college orientation, academic, social and college preparedness support to "at risk" students in high school and college that will increase their academic performance and preparation for post-secondary education. Job Responsibilities: *Please note that some of these services will take place remotely, however some direct services will be required. Provide academic support to high school students and/or first year college freshman Serve as mentors for HS participants and assist with college preparedness tasks (i.e.- completion of FAFSA, scholarship searches, college applications and research etc.)/ Provide college orientation services for our first-year college students (i.e.- acclimating them to college, course selection, assisting with soft skills which will help them be successful such as time management, organization etc.) Provide workshops to include: college readiness, social emotional support, enhancing soft-skills, budgeting, financial aid assistance etc. Provide academic advisement to project participants Assist with outreach and the collection of project services data (i.e.- attendance, event sign-in sheets, registration forms etc.) Participate in supervision meetings & trainings (mandatory) Minimum Qualifications: A least two years of postsecondary education completed Minimum of 1-2 years of experience working with high school underserved student populations or with college students either in mentoring or college readiness programs. Demonstrated proficiency in any of the following HS academic areas is a bonus (Math, English) Skills/Requirements: Strong work ethic Ability to work independently and as part of a team Excellent communication and problem-solving skills Attention to detail Excellent computer skills (i.e.- Microsoft Office, Excel) Commitment to supporting positive youth development Bilingual (Spanish) strongly encouraged Work Schedule This position includes live & remote work Schedules may vary based on needs Typically, Monday-Friday within the hours of 12:00pm- 7:00pm Some Evenings/Saturdays may be required for special events (infrequently) In addition to completing the online student employment application, students must also send their resume to Alexandra Marquez at [email protected] Regular Student - University Learning Commons - Tutor Click to Open Title: Tutor Campus: Queens Department: University Learning Commons (ULC) Student Requested: Regular Student Job ID: S04048-141 Provide tutoring to St. John’s University students so they may clarify learning obstacles and practice study strategies. Hours are flexible with tutoring sessions offered both in-person and remotely. Day, evening, and Sunday hours are available. Tutors needed in Biology, Chemistry, Physics, Accounting, Economics, Business Law, History and Theology. Individuals with expertise in these subjects are encouraged to apply. Compensation for this position is $15.50 per hour. Job description: Attend tutor training at the beginning of the semester, to earn National Tutoring Association (NTA) certification Meet with students individually or in small groups to provide academic assistance Maintain an up-to-date schedule of work hours per week Keep regular and accurate records of tutoring sessions Read and respond to emails in a timely fashion Submit required paperwork (time sheets, schedules, etc.) in a timely fashion Remain in good academic and judicial standing at the University Qualifications: Overall GPA of 3.70 (exceptions will be made on a case-by-case basis) Provide two (2) letters of recommendation from a St. John’s University faculty member One of the letters must be from a professor who has taught you in the subject you wish to tutor. The second letter may be from a professor in the same subject area or from a professor who has taught you in any subject Attach and send an “unofficial” transcript (grade record) with your application. (Found on UIS/Student/Student Records/Academic Record/Unofficial Transcript) Must have an operational computer with webcam and reliable internet connection Strong interpersonal and communication skills Reliability and a strong work ethic Patience and a desire to help others succeed In addition to completing the online student employment application, all resumes, letters of recommendation and transcripts must be e-mailed to Linda Dersch at [email protected] Regular Student - Campus Recreation Click to Open Department: Campus Recreation Title: Student Worker Student Requested: Regular Student Job ID: S02243-378 General Responsibilities The Campus Recreation Staff is responsible for providing the entire University Community with the opportunity to participate in a variety of formal and informal activities. Our staff is required to have knowledge of our operations which include Taffner Field House and the Fitness Center in Carnesecca Arena. The position also requires knowledge of the University as a whole. The role of a Campus Recreation Student worker encompasses problem solving, interpreting policies, safety and serving as a student resource. Specific Tasks and Responsibilities Observe and delegate for Taffner Field House and the Fitness Center daily operations Communicate any issues within the facilities to a Campus Recreation Supervisor Assist Building Managers with opening, closing and daily procedures of all facilities Ability to assist all Fitness Center users on proper operation of all fitness equipment Assist in the updating of calendars, bulletin boards and flyer racks around the facilities Required to keep an active log of rental equipment and notify a supervisor when any equipment is missing or damaged Be aware of emergency procedures of all Campus Recreation’s facilities and operations Provide customer service to all patrons that participate in our programs and utilize our facilities and services Understand, follow, and enforce all the policies and procedures of both Taffner Field House and the Fitness Center Attend staff meetings and training sessions as needed Responsible for going on errands when needed Responsible for overall safety and cleanliness of Taffner Field House and the Fitness Center; restock supplies Pick up weights and other equipment left out and re-stack appropriately Enforce policies with patrons Other duties as assigned Transferable Skills Effective leadership and oral communication skills, working with students, administrators, faculty and overall St. John’s University community; identify information sources appropriate to a problem or need and formulate questions to clarify a problem; make decisions that will maximize both individual and collective good. In addition to completing the online student employment application, interested students should submit their resume to Dorothy Longworth at [email protected] Regular Student - OIE - Student Ambassador Click to Open Position Title: Student Ambassador - Office of International Education Dates of Employment Term: May 16-August 18, 2022 Location of Employer: Marillac 210 Student Requested: Regular Student Job ID: S03247-128A Campus: Queens Job Summary: Provide assistance and ensure safety for international students and visitors during on- and off-campus activities during special summer programs. Chaperon students to and from NYC tourist attractions, museums, sporting events etc. Responsibilities: Provide exceptional, courteous and knowledgeable customer service to summer program participants. Assist with facilitation of on-campus student events and off-campus excursions including: Set up and breakdown of events involving food, signage, decorations, etc. Disseminate maps, subway and walking directions for student excursions Follow transportation plans and trip agendas Accompany students to and from all events and follow all security precautions Communicate knowledge of culture surrounding excursion or event (e.g. American baseball customs, NYC life or history, etc) Qualifications: Excellent communication skills, both oral and written Cumulative GPA 3.0 or higher Must be at least 18 years of age Ability to stand and walk for extended periods of time Willingness to work with minors. Ability to lift/carry items weighing up to 50lbs Ability to work mornings, nights and weekends as needed Ability to speak a language other than English preferred A note from a physician saying you are fit to work are a requirement for employment pursuant to NYS Department of Health regulations. Evidence of such medical examination shall be required prior to commencing employment. Note and test must be current, within the last year, to be accepted. Candidates will only be considered for this position if the following information is received Completion of the application & submission of the resume to Eugenie Smiddy at [email protected] Completion of the Human Resources online student worker application The employment process consists of application interviews, St. John’s judicial review, and GPA confirmation. Regular Student - Annual Giving Click to Open Title: Student Worker Campus: Queens Student Requested: Regular Student Job ID: S03925-176 Job Purpose: The student has to be able to create a report using data provided. The student worker must have an intermediate level skillset in Excel and knowledge of Access. This position is for summer and academic year. Job Responsibilities: Creating reports Updating reports Data entry into a Microsoft Excel spreadsheet. Other administrative duties or special projects as assigned. Equipment Used: Computers, fax machine, photocopier, scanner. Qualifications: Business/Accounting majors preferred. Good computer skills – Microsoft Office – specifically Excel and Access. Excellent communication skills and detail oriented. The ability to handle confidential matters and to be professional. Ability to work well with others. Willingness to tackle new projects. Ability to work between 15 – 20 hours per week (business hours 8:30am – 4:30pm/Monday thru Thursday and Friday 8:30 – 3pm) Skill Development Areas: Time Management, Multitasking, Communication. In addition to completing the online student application, interested candidates must send a copy of their resume to Tara Sanon at [email protected] Staten Island Campus The following student worker positions are currently open. The University offers two types of jobs for students: work-study positions (funded by a federal grant) and regular student positions (not funded by the federal grant). Before you apply for a work-study position, be sure that you qualify. Not sure? Find out more about the federal college work-study program. College Work Study - Career Services Click to Open Title: Student Worker Campus: Staten Island – Career Services Student Requested: College Work Study Job ID: S01969-354 Job Purpose: Career Services Assistants play a valuable role in supporting the mission of University Career Services, serving as a resource to internal and external constituents, including students, faculty, administration and employers. Job Responsibilities: Assist with answering telephones, faxing, filing correspondence, running errands on campus, stuffing envelopes and making copies. Greet office guests, answer questions and direct to the proper individual(s). Data entry into a Microsoft Excel spreadsheet. Build and review packets for the department. Other administrative duties or special projects as assigned. Resume and cover letter development. Job and internship search basics. Using our online resources (e.g., CareerLink, COACH, Vault) Answer questions about major and career exploration, and how to utilize and access CareerLink Assist staff with career-related research and other special projects Represent Career Services at information tables during freshman orientation, open houses, and other outreach events Assist staff with the development, promotion and staffing of events Contribute to public relations initiatives (social media, blog, live tweeting from events, etc.) Equipment Used: computers, fax machine, photocopier, scanner Qualifications: Experience with Microsoft Office (PowerPoint, Excel preferred) Interest in career readiness and helping other students Excellent communication skills, detail oriented, and presentation skills The ability to handle confidential matters and to be professional. Ability to work well with others. Willingness to tackle new projects. Work Schedule: Approximately 12 - 20 hours weekly, to be scheduled on M-F between 8:30 a.m. and 4:30 p.m. Skill Development Areas: Transferrable skill building experience to add to your resume Exposure to hundreds of internship and full-time job postings Opportunity to network with employers In addition to completing the online student application, students must send a resume to Sophia Fenn at [email protected] College Work Study - Alumni Relations Click to Open Title: Student Worker Campus: Staten Island Student Requested: College Work Study Job ID: S01969-172 Job Purpose: Reporting to the Director of Alumni Relations, this individual will provide administrative office support through e-mail and phone coverage, general office duties, and assist with event planning and staffing. Job Responsibilities: Answering alumni relations main phone line, assisting with alumni inquiries and routing appropriately if needed Assisting in planning alumni events Managing alumni e-mail account Designing Excel spreadsheets, writing e-mail correspondence and mail merges Coding alumni within database according to event participation Expected to staff all alumni events Assemble gift baskets and event giveaways Correspond with alumni through e-mail and phone to schedule meetings, promote events and programs Create content for emails and printed pieces Qualifications: Excellent computer skills and experience posting a variety of content across different platforms. Excellent communication skills and an ability to alter voice/tone through social media. Attention to detail. Ability to think creatively and efficiently while maintaining organization. Ability to handle sensitive matters in a professional manner. Related work experience preferred. Ability to work up to 10 hours per week fall 2021 and spring 2022 semesters. Extremely personable. Sense of humor. Able to work well in either a team environment or on your own. Skill Development Areas: Communication, Project Management, Time Management, Multitasking, Business Writing Unusual Physical Demands: Lifting some boxes or transporting event materials In addition to completing the online student employment application, students should send a copy of your resume to Rita Torsney-Sullivan, Associate Director, Alumni Relations, [email protected] – Subject line: Student Worker – Staten Island Campus College Work Study - Student Life - Campus Recreation Click to Open Department: Student Life - Staten Island Title: Campus Recreation Student Worker Student Requested: College Work Study Job ID: S01969-379 General Responsibilities The Campus Recreation Staff is responsible for providing the Staten Island University Community with the opportunity to participate in a variety of formal and informal activities. Our staff is required to have knowledge of our operations, which include the Fitness Center in Kelleher Center and Campus Center Gymnasium. The position also requires knowledge of the University as a whole. The role of a Campus Recreation Student worker encompasses problem solving, interpreting policies, safety and serving as a student resource. Specific Tasks and Responsibilities Observe and delegate for Kelleher Center Fitness and Campus Center Gym daily operations Communicate any issues within the facilities to a Campus Recreation supervisor Assist with opening, closing and daily procedures of all fitness and recreation facilities Ability to assist all Fitness Center users on proper operation of all fitness equipment Assist in the updating of calendars, bulletin boards and flyer racks around the facilities Required to keep an active log of rental equipment and notify a supervisor when any equipment is missing or damaged Be aware of emergency procedures of all Campus Recreation’s facilities and operations Provide customer service to all patrons that participate in our programs and utilize our facilities and services Understand, follow and enforce all of the policies and procedures of both Kelleher Fitness Center and the Campus Center Gymnasium Attend staff meetings and training sessions as needed Responsible for going on errands when needed Other duties as assigned Transferable Skills Effective leadership and oral communication skills, working with students, administrators, faculty and overall St. John’s University community; identify information sources appropriate to a problem or need and formulate questions to clarify a problem; make decisions that will maximize both individual and collective good. In addition to completing the online student employment application, interested student should send their cover letter, resume, and class schedule to David Gachigo at [email protected] College Work Study - Student Life Click to Open Title: Student Worker - Office of Student Life Campus: Staten Island Student Requested: College Work Study Job ID: S01969-355 Job Purpose: The Student Life Student Worker position is a per semester position. The primary focus is to offer excellent customer service to students as well as assist in day to day office duties. Job Responsibilities: Assist with answering telephones, faxing, filing correspondence, running errands on campus, stuffing envelopes and making copies. Greet office guests, answer questions and direct to the proper individual(s). Data entry into a Microsoft Excel spreadsheet. Create flyers. Other administrative duties or special projects as assigned. Equipment Used: Computers, fax machine, photocopier, scanner, swipe technology. Qualifications: Familiarity with the office equipment - Swipe Technology , fax, computer, photocopier Excellent communication skills and detail oriented. The ability to handle confidential matters and to be professional. Ability to work well with others. Willingness to tackle new projects. Ability to work between 15 – 20 hours per week (occasional evenings/weekends/holidays are required). Flexible schedule (if required). Skill Development Areas: Listening, Customer Service, Time Management, Multitasking, Communication, Intercultural proficiency. In addition to completing the online student employment application, students should send a cover letter and a copy of your resume to David Gachigo, at [email protected] College Work Study - Student Life - Campus Concierge Click to Open Title: Concierge General Staff Campus: Staten Island Student Requested: College Work Study Job ID: S01969-355C Job Purpose: As a member of the Concierge staff you will attend to all of the needs and requirements of the Campus Concierge desk in the Campus Center. This position is for one academic year. Job Responsibilities: Assist with answering telephones and responding to emails regarding Campus Concierge events and/or other campus events. Serve as a customer service representative for the Office of Student Life. You will be expected to know and understand general university-wide policies and information on upcoming events and programs. Properly record and complete ticket and voucher sale transactions for various events including Broadway Shows, on-campus activities, and movie tickets. Retain the most up to date knowledge on daily events. This will require you to check St. John’s Central frequently throughout the day, contact participating offices, review the master calendar, and search through other publications made available to you. Data entry into a Microsoft Excel spreadsheet. Maintain the upkeep of Student Life display cases and post fliers around campus. Other clerical duties or special projects as assigned. Equipment Used: Computers, phone, computer tablets, swipe technology Qualifications: Familiarity with campus involvement, events, and university-wide policies. Good computer skills (familiarity with Excel is required). Excellent communication skills and detail oriented. The ability to handle confidential matters and to be professional. Ability to work well with others Ability to work between 15 – 20 hours per week including nights and weekends. Skill Development Areas: Listening, Customer Service, Time Management, Multitasking, Communication Unusual Physical Demands: Ability to walk one half mile. In addition to completing the online student employment application, interested students should also send a copy of your cover letter, resume, and class schedule to David Gachigo at [email protected] College Work Study - CCPS Click to Open Title: Student Worker Campus: Staten Island Student Requested: College Work Study Job Purpose: Assist the department with administrative and clerical tasks. Job ID: S01969-493 Job Responsibilities: Assist with answering telephones, faxing, filing correspondence, running errands on campus, stuffing envelopes and making copies. Greet office guests, answer questions and direct to the proper individual(s). Greet students and their guests and swipe them in. Data entry into a Microsoft Excel spreadsheet. Create presentations in Microsoft PowerPoint. Other administrative duties or special projects as assigned. Dress professionally. Equipment Used: Computers, fax machine, photocopier, scanner, swipe technology. Qualifications: Familiarity with the office equipment (computer, fax, phone). Good computer skills (Microsoft Word, Power Point or Excel). Excellent communication skills and detail oriented. The ability to handle confidential matters and to be professional. Ability to work well with others. Willingness to tackle new projects. Ability to work between 15 – 20 hours per week (evenings/weekends are required). Flexible schedule (if required). Skill Development Areas: Listening, Customer Service, Time Management, Multitasking, Communication, Intercultural proficiency, Student learning. In addition to completing the online student employment application, students must send a copy of your resume to Dina Diodato at [email protected] Regular Student - Student Life - Student Success Center Tutor Click to Open Title: Student Success Center - Tutor Campus: Staten Island - Mahoney Hall 102 Job ID: S04048-355 Job Purpose: The primary functions of the part-time Math tutor are to assist students currently registered at St. John’s University. Part-time tutors should present a professional yet pleasant demeanor and continually work to reinforce knowledge of course content and tutorial methods. This includes attendance at tutor trainings and orientations. As needed, part-time tutors assist with the overall operations (answering phones, creating and distributing advertisement fliers, etc.) of the ULCTutoringCenter. Qualifications: All part-time tutors must: At least one full semester at St. John’s University(Familiarity university coursework) Meet the employment criteria of St. John’s University Have earned a B+ average or better in the course tutored Must be at least a college sophomore. Must submit a Faculty/Staff Recommendation form Complete tutor training Major Duties and Responsibilities: Encourage students to become independent learners through questioning and assessment Act professionally Adhere to work schedule Tutor registered students Check E-mail and/or file for department correspondence Communicate schedule changes, concerns, issues with supervisor Complete paper work (Logs, Sign-in/sign-out sheets, Timesheets, etc.) Create a positive academic learning environment Uphold rules and policies of the center Communicate rules and policies to tutees Continually review subject content Provide office assistance as needed Disclaimer The above responsibilities serve as a guideline for the position. These are general responsibilities and may be modified or altered as necessary. This is not an exhaustive list. In addition to completing the online student employment application, interested students must also email their resume to Rosa Hanco (Assistant Director) at: [email protected] Manhattan Campus The following student worker positions are currently open. The University offers two types of jobs for students: work-study positions (funded by a federal grant) and regular student positions (not funded by the federal grant). Before you apply for a work-study position, be sure that you qualify. Not sure? Find out more about the federal college work-study program. Regular Student - School of Risk Management Click to Open Title: Student Worker (Office Assistant) Campus: Manhattan (Maurice R. Greenberg School of Risk Management, Insurance & Actuarial Science) Student Requested: Regular Student Job ID: S03373-455 Job Purpose: Assist office staff with day-to-day operations. Job Responsibilities: General office support to the Greenberg School of Risk Management (GSRM) Executive Office Assist in facilitating of all GSRM special events to include registration, signage, name tags and catering Schedule and receive catering orders with vendors Ensure room set up is ready for events (tables/chairs) and food delivery. At end of event, ensure all food and items are removed and cleaned for next event/class Review weekly/monthly calendar of scheduled events Coordinate food delivery with other team members in case of absence Keep track of catering invoicing Tasks ranging from copying, sending emails, scanning, sorting documents Assist in organizing, preparing documentation and set-up for 3 board meetings Duplicate CDs/DVDs upon request Keep stock of office supplies, ordering from Staples when necessary Sign for boxes and stored delivered items in appropriate locations Equipment Used: Computers, fax machine, photocopier, scanner, swipe technology. Qualifications: Excellent computer skills, knowledge of Microsoft Word, Excel, PowerPoint Excellent communication skills Attention to detail and an ability to think creatively and efficiently while maintaining organization Ability to handle sensitive matters in a professional manner Related work experience preferred Flexible schedule; ability to work at minimum of 10 hours per week Must be able to work on Tuesdays and Fridays Ability to work well with others Willingness to tackle new projects and take initiative Skill Development Areas: Communication, Time Management, Multitasking Unusual Physical Demands: May be required to lift boxes of copy paper up to 25 lbs. In addition to completing the online student employment application students should also send a copy of resume to Melodee Harper-Fields at [email protected] Rome and Paris The following student worker positions are currently open. The University offers two types of jobs for students: work-study positions (funded by a federal grant) and regular student positions (not funded by the federal grant). Before you apply for a work-study position, be sure that you qualify. Not sure? Find out more about the federal college work-study program. Footer CTA Visit Give Request Info News Events Admission SignOn (UIS, Email, Blackboard, MS) St. John's Connect Notice of Non-Discrimination, Equal Opportunity Locations Queens Staten Island Manhattan Rome Paris Limerick Resources Safety Information Security and Compliance Employers [email protected] John's Faculty & Staff Directory Human Resources Policies Webmail For Students Career Services Academic Calendar Bookstore Title IX Office of the Registrar Contact Us Admission: 718-990-2000 8000 Utopia Parkway, Queens, NY 11439 Choose Language Select LanguageEnglishAfrikaansAlbanianArabicArmenianAzerbaijaniBasqueBelarusianBengaliBosnianBulgarianCatalanCebuanoCroatianCzechDutchEsperantoEstonianFilipinoFinnishFrenchGalicianGeorgianGermanGreekGujaratiHaitian CreoleHausaHebrewHindiHmongHungarianIcelandicIgboIndonesianIrishItalianJapaneseJavaneseKannadaKhmerKoreanLaoLatinLatvianLithuanianMacedonianMalayMalteseMaoriMarathiMongolianNepaliPersianPolishPortuguesePunjabiRomanianSerbianSlovakSlovenianSomaliSpanishSwahiliTamilTeluguThaiTurkishUkrainianUrduVietnameseWelshYiddishYorubaZulu Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn YouTube TikTok © 2022 St. John's University. All rights reserved. St. John’s University admits students of any race, color, national and ethnic origin to all the rights, privileges, programs, and activities generally accorded or made available to students at the University. It does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, national and ethnic origin in administration of its educational policies, admissions policies, scholarship and loan programs, and athletic and other school-administered programs.