Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Division of Student Affairs Student Affairs Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links Student Involvement Menu Main Nav Office of Student Involvement MyBC Back Back Close About Overview Meet Our Staff Contact Programs & Services Overview Senior Week Student Organizations Overview Forms Executive Board Members Event Planning Leadership Development Overview Emerging Leader Program LeaderShape Institute Ever to Excel Awards 2021 Award Recipients Women's Summit Events MyBC Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Division of Student Affairs Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Programs & Services Home Programs & Services The Office of Student Involvement offers resources and support for students to promote learning and build community by focusing on four key areas: student organizations, student governance, leadership education, and campus-wide programming. Campus Activities Board The Campus Activities Board is a student-led group that coordinates campus-wide events, including concerts, dances, off-campus trips, and more. Learn More Emerging Leader Program ELP is a one-year leadership development program for a select group of 50 first-year students that enhances leadership skills and potential, and fosters interpersonal, social, ethical, and moral development. Learn More Ever to Excel Awards These annual awards recognize the outstanding leadership and contributions to campus life of members of the Boston College community. Learn More Leadership Conferences Students have the opportunity to serve as delegates for the ACC Leadership Symposium and the NJSLC (National Jesuit Student Leadership Conference) each year. OSI supports other student leadership conferences as well. Learn More My BC MyBC is an online portal where students can join and/or search for organizations, see what’s happening on campus, track involvement, and more. Learn More Museum Memberships Gain access to some of Boston's best museums with your BC ID. Some museums require tickets available at Robsham Theater Arts Center. Learn More My BC MyBC is an online portal where students can join and/or search for organizations, see what’s happening on campus, track involvement, and more. Learn More O'Connell House Student Union O'Connell House is a home away from home where students can feel comfortable to study, socialize, and spend recreational time on Upper Campus. Learn More OSI Resources and Services Whether it is the Carney Hall recording studio, student lounge and meeting spaces, or support for posting and tabling, OSI provides space and resources for student connection. Learn More Senior Week Senior Week, which takes place just before Commencement, includes the Alumni Toast, Last Call for Office Hours, Dance Through the Decades, Commencement Ball, and more. Learn More Student Involvement Fair Held each fall at the beginning of the academic year, over 200 organizations, programs, and offices participate. Learn More Student Organizations Participating in a student organization creates opportunities to meet others with similar interests, develop leadership potential, and make a positive impact on the BC community. Learn More Sub Turri Sub Turri is the yearbook of Boston College and is created and organized solely by students. Learn More UGBC The Undergraduate Government of Boston College—the official representative voice for students—sponsors educational, social, and cultural programs around campus. Learn More Election Committee This committee enforces the Election Code, manages presidential and vice-presidential debates, approves campaign materials, and assists individuals involved in all elections. Learn More Weeks of Welcome Weeks of Welcome is a series of events where first-year students have the opportunity to meet one another in a fun setting and learn about their new environment. Learn More Back To Top Back To Top Office of Student Involvement Carney Hall, Suite 147 617-552-3480 osi@bc.edu About Programs & Services Student Organizations Leadership Development Events Division of Student Affairs Division of Student Affairs BAIC BC Bands Business Service Center Career Center Counseling Services Graduate Student Life Health Promotion Health Services Residential Life Robsham Theater Student Conduct Student Involvement Student Outreach & Support Women’s Center Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College