Skip to main content SMU Explore SMU Academics Student Affairs About News Events Calendar SMU Research Bush Center Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Apply to SMUGIVE NOW Undergraduate Admission Apply Visit Financial Aid Menu Search Undergraduate Admission Campus Life Spirit and Traditions Spirit and Traditions Campus Life SMU and Dallas Residence Life Dining Health and Safety Spirit and Traditions Diversity At SMU Activities and Organizations Fitness and Recreation Sports Spiritual Life En Español FAQs | Living on Campus FAQs | Student Life A legacy of spirit, tradition and pride The way we welcome new Mustangs, the way we celebrate our most important times of the year and the way we let loose and have a blast – it's all part of what's so great about SMU. We're big on tradition and spirit here on the Hilltop, and we take a lot of pride in our community and the rich, century-long history the University has built. Each of the milestones throughout the year is marked with its own special festivities. From the hectic bustle of Move In Day to the excitement of game day to the joy of Celebration of Lights to the hopefulness of Commencement, the Hilltop's legacy of spirit, tradition and pride shines as bright as the sun in the Dallas sky. From your first Family Weekend to your fiftieth Homecoming game, you'll never stop being a Mustang. Motto The SMU motto is veritas liberabit vos, or, 'The truth will make you free.' Chosen by SMU's first president, it was adopted in 1912 and has been featured in several prominent locations across campus and incorporated into traditional symbols, such as the official SMU seal, which is cast into the rotunda floor of SMU's first building, Dallas Hall. Alma Mater Written by an SMU theology student in 1916 and set to words by SMU's first band director in 1929, Varsity has been proudly sung at University events from opening convocation to commencement to sporting events ever since. Click here to listen. School Colors SMU's official school colors are red and blue. Live Mascot SMU’s live mascot is Peruna IX a miniature Shetland pony, named after an early 20th-century medicine, Peruna Tonic, which was said to have a 'kick.' Mustang fans show school pride with 'pony ears' during school songs, chants, and cheers. Learn about the history of the nine Perunas here. The Boulevard Each fall before home football games, students, faculty, alumni, and staff gather on The Boulevard for pregame picnics and festivities. The Hilltop Dallas may be pretty flat compared to plenty of other areas in the country, but more than a century ago, when our founders set out to find the place to lay the cornerstone of Dallas Hall, they chose the highest point on campus, from where you could look out upon our beautiful city, toward downtown and the prosperous future that was to come. From there, the nickname of the "the Hilltop" was born, and it's the name by which we still refer to our tree-lined, 234-acre campus in the heart of one of the nation's economic and cultural powerhouses. Events PerunaPalooza | The university's springtime festival celebrating Peruna's birthday. Students enjoy games, rides, and activities while helping themselves to a variety of carnival-inspired free food. Celebration of Lights | The entire SMU and surrounding communities gather for this joyous occasion to watch the famous Dallas Hall be lit with thousands of lights. The program begins with hot cocoa and cider accompanied by warm cookies. Guests proceed to gather on the Dallas Hall Lawn and listen to carols performed by SMU students. Next, SMU’s President, R. Gerald Turner, reads the Christmas Story. Upon the conclusion of the Christmas Story, the singing of Silent Night and the lighting of SMU’s stunning Dallas Hall and its surrounding trees conclude the program. Tate Lecture Series | For years, the lecture series has brought some of the most influential politicians, philanthropists, and successful world-changers to campus to encourage and provoke our future world-changers. Apply NowVisit Us Back to top Academics Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Science Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education & Human Development SMU CAPE SMU Libraries The Guildhall Audience Links Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Media Parents Quick Links SMU Ignited: Boldly Shaping Tomorrow COVID-19 Information (Mustang Strong) Bush Center SMU Store Academic Calendar Events Calendar Employment Giving to SMU Virtual Tour Get in Touch Contact Us Maps Directions Compliance Legal Disclosures Report Sexual Harassment Reporting a BIAS Incident HEERF Reporting Emergency Preparedness Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn YouTube © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 Apply First-Year Domestic Student* Application First-Year International Student* Application Transfer Forms and Applications Readmission to SMU Graduate Studies FAQs | Undergraduate Temporary Test-Optional Policy Visit Virtual Campus Experience In-Person Visit Virtual Tour Admission Events Maps and Directions Residential Commons Tour Where to Stay Academics Majors and Minors Schools Faculty Virtual Connections Support and Resources Honors and Scholars Tips SMU Abroad SMU-in-Taos FAQs | Academics Campus Life SMU and Dallas Residence Life Dining Health and Safety Spirit and Traditions Diversity At SMU Activities and Organizations Fitness and Recreation Sports Spiritual Life En Espanol FAQs | Living on Campus FAQs | Student Life Financial Aid Cost of Attendance Types of Aid Access SMU Financial Aid Process Payment Plan Options SMU Net Price Calculator Mustang Scholars Robert H. Dedman Scholarship for North Dallas High School En Español Contact Us Deadlines FAQs FAQs | Financial Aid FAQs | Tuition, Fees, and Deadlines Scholarships and Assistance Connect Meet Your Admission Counselor School Contacts Request Information High School Counselor Information Parent Information Social Media and Zoom Backgrounds Frequently Asked Questions Publications Student Ambassadors Coronavirus (COVID-19) Updates Incoming and Current Students Prospective Student Publications Wallpapers International How to Apply Visit SMU Life in Dallas Living at SMU International Student Events Intercultural Engagement Athletics at SMU Spirit and Traditions Immigration Information Obtaining an I-20 Transfer Benefits of an SMU Education Transfer Scholarships Transfer Admission Application Process Transfer Dates and Deadlines Transfer Pathway Guides Transfer Equivalency Tool Meadows Auditions and Portfolios Transfer Forms and Applications International Transfer Students FAQs Congratulations on your admission to SMU! How Credits Transfer Partnership Programs Menu Search Search Submit Popular Searches Apply Academics Campus Life Majors and Minors Visit Financial Aid Did you know? SMU's main campus is located in the nation's fourth largest metropolitan area, Dallas-Fort Worth, with 7.4 million people and more than 20 Fortune 500 headquarters.Learn More Menu Search