Skip to Main Content Brown University Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events For You Current Students Faculty Staff Parents & Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Give to Brown Site Navigation Academics Undergraduate Graduate & Professional Schools & Colleges Academic Departments Centers & Institutes Libraries & Collections Global Education Non-Degree Programs Admission & Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission Medical School Admission Executive & Professional Admission Tuition & Aid Research Find a Researcher Industry Engagement Conducting Research at Brown Life at Brown Athletics & Recreation Community Health & Wellness Housing & Dining Life in Providence Student Organizations University Events News Featured Events For Journalists Search Menu Breadcrumb Home Academics Undergraduate Education Sub Navigation In This Section Undergraduate Programs The Open Curriculum Open Curriculum at 50 Years Special Programs Advising The Open Curriculum Brown’s flexible yet rigorous approach to education pushes undergraduates to be deeply creative thinkers, intellectual risk-takers and entrepreneurial problem-solvers. What is the Open Curriculum? At most universities, students must complete a set of core courses. At Brown, our students develop a personalized course of study — they have greater freedom to study what they choose and the flexibility to discover what they love. The Architect of Your Own Education Brown’s distinctive approach asks much of students — as the architect of their own education, Brown students are responsible for their own intellectual and creative development. Most undergraduates sample courses in a range of subjects before diving into one of 80-plus academic concentrations for in-depth, focused study. While undergraduates often find the rigor of building a self-directed course of study demanding, the result is a vibrant intellectual environment in which students are fully engaged as they explore courses in any and every discipline, priming them to think creatively and to develop innovative solutions to critical issues. Graduates leave Brown prepared to thrive as independent, innovative leaders no matter what path they choose. Straight from the Source Hear from current students how the Open Curriculum opens minds. What does the Open Curriculum offer students? Yvonne Diabene Close What does the Open Curriculum offer students? How does the Open Curriculum empower you? Shira Buchsbaum Close How does the Open Curriculum empower you? How have you taken advantage of the Open Curriculum? Meisha Lamb-Bell Close How have you taken advantage of the Open Curriculum? How have you taken advantage of the Open Curriculum? Caleb Clarke Close How have you taken advantage of the Open Curriculum? How have you used the freedom of the Open Curriculum? Oren Karp Close How have you used the freedom of the Open Curriculum? Our goal is a high one — that each and every one of our students is engaged, empowered and transformed by their education. What’s unique about Brown is that we elevate the role of students in achieving that goal as active participants in framing their own education. – Rashid Zia, Dean of the College and Brown Class of 2001 alumnus Student Voices Nadia Goldberg Class of 2021 At Brown, Nadia Golberg found a supportive community of collaboration where she can explore a wide range of academic disciplines. Garrett Robinson Class of 2019 California native Garrett Robinson came to Brown to play football. He’s leaving with a whole new perspective on sports, masculinity, urban development and social justice. Jungho (Daniel) Choi Class of 2020 A native of Korea, Daniel Choi came to Brown for the Open Curriculum; what he discovered was a passion for scientific research. Show More Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Snapchat Twitter YouTube Social Media Directory © Brown University Brown University For You Current Students Faculty Staff Parents & Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Academics Undergraduate Graduate & Professional Schools & Colleges Academic Departments Centers & Institutes Libraries & Collections Global Education Non-Degree Programs Admission & Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission Medical School Admission Executive & Professional Admission Tuition & Aid Research Find a Researcher Industry Engagement Conducting Research at Brown Life at Brown Athletics & Recreation Community Health & Wellness Housing & Dining Life in Providence Student Organizations University Events News Featured Events For Journalists Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events For You Give to Brown All of Brown.edu People News Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search The Open Curriculum Open details for The Open Curriculum Bookmark this Page