Skip to main content. ADVISORY | COVID-19 Information × kumc.edu School of Health Professions School of Medicine School of Nursing University of Kansas The University of Kansas Health System The University of Kansas Cancer Center Search within this section Search all sites Home Academics Research Outreach Interprofessional Careers About Our Campuses Make a Gift Info for School of Health Professions School of Medicine School of Nursing Current Students Blackboard Webmail myKUMC Prospective Students Prospective Employees Alumni Faculty & Staff Residents & Fellows Patients Donors Researchers Visitors KU School of Nursing Our Campuses Make a Gift Info for KU School of Nursing Academics Academics Degree Programs Certificate Programs Admissions & Aid Clinical Education APRN Post-Doctoral Fellowship Zimmerman Post-Doctoral Fellowship International Experiences Student Handbook Minimum Technology Requirements Licensure Information Research Research Current Research Center for Healthcare Quality Research and Data Science Postdoctoral Scholars Office of Grants and Research Experts at KU Outreach Outreach Pathway Programs Nurse Academy PrepKC Consulting Professional Identity Interprofessional Interprofessional Center for Health Informatics Center for Interprofessional Practice, Education and Research Careers Careers Career Paths Resources for Students Alumni About About Leadership Faculty & Staff Campuses Student Life Diversity and Inclusion Maps & Directions Accreditation KU Nursing Magazine Make a Gift A center of excellence, KU School of Nursing's nationally ranked programs help students gain the knowledge and skills needed for dynamic careers as clinicians, educators, researchers and leaders. Why Choose KU Student Resources Degree Programs The KU School of Nursing provides a resource-intensive and student-centered environment for every level of a nurse's career, offering bachelor's, master's and doctoral degrees. We also offer continuing education programs, accelerated curriculum, online classes and an RN to BSN option for registered nurses interested in pursuing advanced degrees, and we are the only university in the region to offer a Ph.D. in nursing. All of our degrees and programs are led by dedicated, award-winning and innovative faculty. Explore Our Campuses From our main campus in Kansas City to our satellite campus in Salina and our partnership with community colleges across the state, we are at the forefront of nursing education in Kansas. KU Nursing Campuses 2012-2022 Designated a Center of Excellence in Nursing Education 1906 KU Nursing got its start 115 years ago 8 Community college partners across Kansas Latest News Class of 2022 enjoys return to in-person graduation ceremonies KU master of science in health informatics program earns prestigious CAHIIM accreditation Native Kansan Karen Weis named Christine A. Hartley Rural Health Nursing Endowed Professor at the University of Kansas School of Nursing-Salina Klenke-Borgmann brings simulation research expertise to joint position as nurse scientist at The University of Kansas Health System See all news Latest News KU School of Nursing ranks 22nd on U.S. News Best Colleges ranking Read more KU School of Nursing KU School of Nursing 3901 Rainbow Boulevard Mail Stop 2029 Kansas City, KS 66160 913-588-1619 | TTY 711 soninfo@kumc.edu Make a Gift 3901 Rainbow Boulevard, Kansas City, KS 66160 | 913-588-5000 About Calendar News Equal Opportunity Statement Careers Facebook opens in new tab Twitter opens in new tab YouTube opens in new tab Instagram opens in new tab LinkedIn opens in new tab © 2022 The University of Kansas prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, ethnicity, religion, sex, national origin, age, ancestry, disability, status as a veteran, sexual orientation, marital status, parental status, gender identity, gender expression, and genetic information in the university's programs and activities. Retaliation is also prohibited by university policy. Inquiries regarding our non-discrimination policies should be directed to the Director for the Equal Opportunity & Academic Compliance Office, Mail Stop 7004, 4330 Shawnee Mission Parkway, Fairway, KS 66205, 913-588-5964, 711 TTY (for the Wichita, Salina, and Kansas City, Kansas medical center campuses). Inquiries regarding the University Sexual Harassment Policy should be directed to the Title IX Coordinator at 913-588-8011. Free Expression Statement | Privacy Statement | Notice of Privacy Practices | Consumer Information We use cookies to analyze our traffic & provide social media features. Visit the KU Medical Center Privacy Statement for more information. By closing this window & browsing this site, you agree to our use of cookies.