<form runat="server"></form>
<WebPartPages:SPWebPartManager runat="server"/>
 Skip to Main Content HBS Home About Academic Programs Alumni Faculty & Research Baker Library Giving Harvard Business Review Initiatives News Recruit Map / Directions MBA FAQ Introduce Yourself Blog Visit Apply Academic Experience Entrepreneurship Student Life Career Path Admissions Financial Aid …→ Harvard Business School→ MBA→ Student Life Student Life Activities, Government & Clubs Campus People Community Values The First-Year Experience The Second Year Experience The HBS Community → People→ Portrait Project Portrait Project Israt Tarin MBA 2022 “Tell me, what is it you plan to do with your one wild and precious life?” “I wish you were a boy,” my mother would tell me while growing up. This was difficult for me to hear. I wondered why my gender, which I had no control over, was a cause of disappointment to my mother who loved me so much. As I grew older, I understood that her words were only out of concern. My mother was a brilliant student ꟷ her recitation of William Wordsworth’s “Daffodils” drew crowds of far-flung villagers to the school grounds. Yet, poverty and patriarchy meant she would be married at the age of sixteen while her brothers were afforded the opportunity to pursue higher education. She, however, decided that her daughters would have agency. She convinced my father to change the status quo and ensure we had access to the best education. I, in turn, lapped up every opportunity that I was given and with time learned to ask for opportunities that I wasn’t given. I have gone on to be the ‘first-generation’ in a multitude of areas. Although there is great pride in being the first, my plan in life is to not become the only. So that mothers can instead tell their daughters: “I wish there were more girls like you”. — Israt Tarin The Portrait Project Each year we ask our classmates a straightforward, simple question taken from the lines of a poem by Pulitzer Prize-winning author, Mary Oliver. We share with you intimate and candid responses to this question, "Tell me, what is it you plan to do with your one wild and precious life?" Concept and photography: Tony Deifell, MBA '02 More Portrait Project ǁ MBA Admissions Harvard Business School Spangler Welcome Center (Spangler 107) Boston, MA 02163 Phone: 1.617.495.6128 Email: admissions@hbs.edu →Map & Directions →More Contact Information Make a Gift Site Map Jobs Harvard University Trademarks Policies Digital Accessibility Copyright © President & Fellows of Harvard College