Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Loewenberg College of Nursing About Us Programs & Admissions Student Life Faculty & Staff Research & Initiatives News & Events Giving & Support Scrub Hub Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Programs & Admissions BSN ProgramAdmissions Accelerated BSN ProgramAdmissions RN to BSN Program Admissions Request Info MSN ProgramAdmissions Post MSN ProgramAdmissions PhD ProgramAdmissions Pre-Admit Lambuth FAQs Applied: What's Next? Take Action Schedule a tour Apply now Give now Contact Us Find us on Social Media InstagramFacebooktwitterLinkedIn Home Loewenberg College of Nursing Programs and Admissions RN to BSN RN-to-BSN Program The Loewenberg College of Nursing offers a flexible, accessible, and affordable online RN-to-BSN Program via UofM Global. Nursing faculty are committed to providing high quality, individualized, and learner-centered education for existing registered nurses who possess an Associate Degree in Nursing. The online RN-to-BSN program is accredited through the Commission on Collegiate Nursing Education, the Tennessee Board of Nursing, and the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools. Program Highlights 100% Online 7 week courses Flexible Admissions Potentially finish in 12 months RN-to-BSN Curriculum Printable RN-BSN degree sheet with sample curriculum (pdf) 31 Credit hours SEMESTER 1 SEMESTER 2 NURS 3005/6: Professional Nursing/Seminar NURS 3101/3: Health Assessment/Lab NURS 3400: Clinical Pathophysiology NURS 3000: Pharmacology SEMESTER 3 SEMESTER 4 NURS 4127/9: Community Health/Practicum NURS 4110: Evidence Based Nursing NURS 4205/6: Transitions into Professional Nursing/Practicum For detailed information about the RN-BSN program, including policies, course names and descriptions, visit the Undergraduate Catalog. Cost-Saving Features Credit by Examination (CBE) The Loewenberg College of Nursing (LCON) appreciates the knowledge and skills that RN students bring to the BSN program and acquire through formal mentored residencies and internship programs. Accordingly, students may earn college credit for prior learning experience with approval. Course credit may be earned through a national standardized achievement exam and by professional portfolio. Credit by examination (CBE) can be earned for three RN-BSN courses: Health Assessment & Lab (NURS 3101/3103) Pathophysiology (NURS 3400) Pharmacology (NURS 3000) Students will be awarded college level credit after admission to LCON by successfully passing a professionally recognized national exam at the national proficiency benchmark. CBE can be earned by a) achieving proficiency on a standardized achievement exam taken in the associate degree nursing (ADN) program and b) taking a national standardized exam at LCON. Credit for Prior Learning Credit through prior learning assessment portfolio may be earned for a maximum of four (4) credits in the Transitions into Professional Nursing Practice Practicum (NURS 4206). Professional experiences with validation may include: New graduate residency Preceptor experiences for students and new graduates Professionally recognized continuing education credits Scholarly presentations and publications Clinical project leadership Clinical teaching in higher education Leadership in professional nursing or healthcare organization National nursing certification Residency Requirements Applicants to online and hybrid nursing programs must be residents of a state in which the Loewenberg College of Nursing is authorized to provide distance education. The Loewenberg College of Nursing is NOT authorized to offer distance education in California. Students who reside outside of Tennessee and plan to enroll in an online program of study that leads to advanced nursing licensure are individually responsible for verifying that the program meets the requirements for advanced licensure in their state. Online nursing students should contact the state licensing body from which they will be seeking licensure to ensure eligibility requirements. Students who relocate to California, in which LCON is not authorized to offer distance education, will be required to fulfill their remaining course requirements in Tennessee or another authorized state, or to withdraw from the program. National Council for State Authorization Reciprocity Agreements (http://nc-sara.org). Tuition and Fees For the most current information regarding tuition, visit the University & Student Business Services. Please be advised that there are additional fees for the pre-licensure BSN program: A $30 per credit/audit hour fee is assessed for each nursing course. This applies to all junior, senior, graduate level courses including TN eCampus (formerly RODP). Contact Us Norma Neal RN to BSN Coordinator nneal1@memphis.edu 901.678.3514 Dr. Jill Dapremont Director of RN to BSN Program jdaprmnt@memphis.edu Dr. Jeremy N. Whittaker Associate Dean for Student Success and Inclusion J.Whittaker@memphis.edu 901-678-2879 Admissions Info > Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 3/29/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.