Skip to content Columbia University Irving Medical Center Find People Events Faculty and Staff Resources Give Now Search About Us About Us Facts and Figures Explore CUIMC Events Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion at CUIMC Community Development and Alumni Explore CUIMC Leadership and Administration A-Z Listing Affiliated Hospitals Campus Map and Directions Campus Resources Contact CUIMC Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion At CUIMC, we are committed to continuous improvement in providing culturally inclusive medical education and clinical care. Learn About Our Commitment Education Education Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Mailman School of Public Health School of Nursing College of Dental Medicine VP&S Columbia Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons is dedicated to developing the next generation of leaders in medicine Learn About Our Academic Programs Research Research The Louisa Gross Horwitz Prize Columbia Technology Ventures Research Administration Columbia Clinical Innovation Lab Patient Care Patient Care ColumbiaDoctors Children's Health Columbia Primary Care Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Digital Health Services at Columbia Find a Doctor Search for a provider by specialty, expertise, location and insurance. Schedule an appointment online. Find a Doctor News News For the Media Share Your News CUIMC Update CUIMC Celebrates Columbia Medicine Read the latest news stories about CUIMC faculty, research, and events Explore Our News COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Information for Patients COVID-19 Campus Safety for Employees and Students COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students COVID-19 Information and Resources for Clinical Staff COVID-19 Vaccine Information Learn about COVID-19 vaccine availability and requirements for employees and students at CUIMC Get the Latest Information You are here Home > COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC > CopeColumbia COVID-19 Information for Patients COVID-19 Campus Safety for Employees and Students COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students COVID-19 Information and Resources for Clinical Staff CopeColumbia About The COVID-19 pandemic represents an unprecedented and uniquely trying time for our community, particularly for providers on the front lines, but including all faculty and staff at the medical center. In response, the Department of Psychiatry has partnered with ColumbiaDoctors and NewYork-Presbyterian in developing CopeColumbia, which provides information and resources for the CUIMC community, including counseling sessions, peer support groups, guided meditations, suggested reading, and other resources for managing stress, fear and anxiety. Our Mission Our mission is to foster collective well-being and resilience by sharing evidence-based coping strategies, facilitating access to peer support, and contributing to an inclusive and compassionate culture for faculty and staff of CUIMC and the larger Columbia community. Contact For any questions about CopeColumbia, or if you have any unmet needs, please email CopeColumbia@cumc.columbia.edu. CopeColumbia Support Resources Counseling services are available to all CUIMC faculty, residents, and staff. Sessions provide an opportunity for employees to talk about their experiences, ask questions, and obtain guidance and practical suggestions from our psychiatry faculty. Services are confidential, virtual, and free of charge. What to Expect We are here to support you during this time of crisis. Sessions focus on short-term support and resilience building. If a need to pursue more formal mental health attention is identified, we will assist you in accessing the right resources. Services Offered Individual Time with Psychiatry Faculty Confidential and virtual one-on-one sessions with a faculty member from psychiatry focused on stress management and coping. These 20-minute sessions are meant to be practical and supportive, with an emphasis on enhancing resilience and providing guidance. To schedule a one-on-one session with a psychiatry faculty member, please call 646-774-6311 Peer Support Groups Confidential and virtual department-specific peer support groups are facilitated by psychiatry faculty members. The 30-minute sessions focus on enhancing resilience, sharing experiences, strengthening social support, and coping in the face of the numerous challenges posed by the COVID-19 pandemic. These are not psychotherapy groups, and sessions will not be recorded. This is a confidential, peer-to-peer support process with two psychiatry faculty facilitating the process. To schedule a peer support group session, contact: CopeColumbia@cumc.columbia.edu. Peer Support Group for Leaders and Managers Confidential and virtual department-specific support groups are co-facilitated by psychiatry faculty and organizational psychologists from CUIMC HR. The 45-minute peer-to-peer sessions focus on enhancing resilience, strengthening social support, and reinforcing healthy coping during the COVID-19 pandemic. Participants can share the impact of the current crisis on team morale and productivity, and receive practical guidance. To schedule a group session for leaders and managers, contact CopeColumbia@cumc.columbia.edu. Peer Support Group for ACN Members Confidential and virtual support for staff, teams, and programs within the Ambulatory Care Network (ACN) and the Division of Community and Population Health. The 30-minute groups are co-led by staff within the Behavioral Health ACN services. Sessions are meant to enhance interdisciplinary team resilience and supportive communities by providing space to discuss challenges and strategies. To schedule a group session for ACN Members, contact: CopeColumbia@cumc.columbia.edu. Town Halls These are more structured sessions, where departments and services can dedicate a portion of their team meetings to a CopeColumbia presentation or question and answer session related to stress, mental health responses to Covid and other challenges. A psychiatry faculty member will assist in organizing and will be available during the Town Hall. To schedule a townhall, contact: CopeColumbia@cumc.columbia.edu. Questions If you have questions about CopeColumbia services or programming, contact CopeColumbia@cumc.columbia.edu. Meditation, Relaxation, and Guided Practices Meditation and Mindfulness It's natural to seek out ways to escape or move away from emotional pain and distress, but a perspective of awareness can help confront strong emotions like anger, anxiety, and grief associated with the COVID-19 pandemic. Mindfulness involves present moment awareness through attention, with acceptance and nonjudgment. By bringing intentional awareness to our bodies, minds, and automatic reactions through meditative practice, we prepare ourselves to respond thoughtfully and cope more effectively with uncertainty and distress. Numerous studies have demonstrated the physical and mental health benefits of regular meditative practice for reducing stress and promoting resiliency, especially for those in healthcare professions. Meditation involves learning about ourselves and how to work with our thoughts and feelings, which can facilitate awareness and compassion for ourselves and others. If you are new to mindfulness or guided meditation practice, or wish to broaden your current practice, please consider these resources: What is Mindfulness? How do I Meditate? Meditation and mindfulness can help us reduce stress, cope with pain, and improve our focus as we approach the obstacles of our daily lives. For a helpful guide on how to begin meditating and practicing mindfulness, please see the mindful.org guide on How to Meditate. What are the Benefits of Meditation? Some research suggests that practicing meditation may reduce blood pressure, symptoms of irritable bowel syndrome, anxiety and depression, and insomnia. For a closer look at the benefits of mediation, please see the National Center for Complementary and Integrative Health’s In-Depth Guide to Mediation. What are the Benefits of Relaxation? Relaxation techniques may be helpful in managing a variety of health conditions, including anxiety associated with trauma. For a closer look at relaxation techniques and their benefits, please see the National Center for Complementary and Integrative Health’s Relaxation Techniques for Health. Mindfulness and Relaxation with CUIMC and affiliated providers In the recordings below, you'll be guided by psychiatrist and CUIMC affiliate Dr. Oren Messeri, as he leads a brief, deep-breath meditation for calming the nervous system and a rapid form of breath work to naturally energize. Psychologist Dr. Erin K. Engle, within CUIMC's Department of Psychiatry, incorporates mindfulness meditation and relaxation into therapy to alleviate stress, anxiety, and depression. She provides guided meditation practices here cultivating restorative breath and using guided imagery to promote relaxation and stress-relief. Deep Breathing with Dr. Oren Messeri (3 min.) Restorative Breath Meditation with Dr. Erin Engle (9 min.) Your Safe Place using Guided Imagery with Dr. Erin Engle (12 min.) Additional Guided Practices for Mindfulness and Relaxation The Omega Institute for Holistic Studies offers guided practice for beginners. You may also try Mindfulness Meditation with Jon Kabat-Zinn. For examples of how to practice self-compassion, please see the Center for Mindful Self-Compassion’s 10 Self-Compassion Practices for COVID-19. Apps to Foster Well-Being and Sleep Headspace offers a free year of Headspace Plus to health care workers with an NPI number. Ten Percent also offers free access to health care workers through their Coronavirus Sanity Guide. CBT-i Coach is a free app developed by the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs for those using cognitive behavioral therapy for insomnia. Insight Timer offers guidance for stress and anxiety management and sleep assistance. Podcasts to Help Offset COVID-19 Stress Ten Percent Happier Daily Meditation Meditation Minis Physical Movement and Exercise Resources Join Dr. Rashmi Bismark, MD, MPH as she leads introductory yoga and mindfulness lectures, along with short meditations and movement practices that are accessible and designed with the busy schedules of physicians and healthcare providers in mind. Join Dr. Dori Abel, a PGY-2 Pediatric Resident at NewYork-Presbyterian Morgan Stanley Children's Hospital and instructor at CorePower Yoga, teaching a Yoga Sculpt Class-A Fitness Class incorporating bodyweight resistance, cardio, and power yoga in a high energy, upbeat format. Join Jeffrey Chand, acupuncturist and Qigong instructor for Invigorating Qigong. Reducing Stress and Social Isolation and Promoting Resilience Resilience is a set of psychological traits or abilities that reduces the impact of stress on well-being. These evidence-based skills can be taught and built with practice, and better prepare individuals to cope effectively with challenges. Coping with COVID-19: Helping Healthcare Professionals Take Care of Themselves with Anne Marie Albano, PhD, ABPP Mental Health of Frontline Providers During COVID-19 Outbreak with Anna E. Allmann, PhD Growing Resilience with Anna E. Allmann, PhD CUIMC resources Worried Sick: Fighting Stress and Anxiety in the Midst of COVID-19 CUIMC COVID-19: 5 Tips to Face Your Anxiety Columbia University Department of Psychiatry Coping with Anxiety and Stress in the Age of Coronavirus Interview with Dr. Anne Marie Albano Reduce social isolation, form community, & nourish individuals creatively through narrative medicine Narrative Medicine Holiday Stress: A Resource CopeColumbia and the UCSF Cope Wellbeing Teams Outside Resources Russ Harris’ FACE COVID Compassion Resilience Toolkit Healthcare Personnel and First Responders: How to Cope with Stress and Build Resilience During the COVID-19 Pandemic CDC Surviving and Thriving after Trauma Psychology Today Building Resilience in the Era of COVID-19 Psychology Today Trauma, Grief, and Loss Resources When faced with trauma, grief, and loss, self-care becomes critically important. We encourage you to take advantage of the counseling resources above (CopeColumbia Support Resources), and to take advantage of the resources below for managing shock, stress, and trauma associated with COVID-19. Trauma Trauma occurs when individuals are exposed to events that involve witnessing death, risk of harm to oneself or those who are cared for, or violence. People can experience trauma reactions when they directly witness these events, when they learn about such events occurring to a loved one, or if they are exposed to details indirectly. These traumatic events can overwhelm our normal ways of coping with stress – even the most resilient people who generally handle stress well will experience emotions or symptoms that may be unfamiliar to them in the face of traumatic events. First responders and other medical staff who have been working with Covid-19 patients in New York City have experienced a level of stress well beyond what most have been trained to handle. Fortunately, even when traumatic events affect us deeply, there is excellent evidence that we can adapt, learn additional coping strategies, and foster resiliency in ourselves and each other. Here we share some resources that experts in trauma have found to be helpful in understanding and coping with traumatic stress. Loss, Grief, and Complicated Grief The loss of a close relationship is a profound experience. When we experience the loss of a loved one or a close friend or colleague, our lives are deeply impacted. Feelings of grief are a natural reaction to loss, and commonly include longing, sadness, confusion, anger, resentment, anxiety, or a sense of detachment. The process of mourning, or integrating acute grief feelings, often entails experiencing waves of painful emotions, interspersed with periods of connection, meaning, and hope. Although there is no right or wrong way to grieve, by revisiting painful emotions, and confronting practical life changes following loss, we ultimately find a sense of peace, and healing, with time. Certain situations may disrupt the process of mourning, thereby making grieving “complicated.” Many who have lost a loved one to COVID-19 have been deprived of an opportunity to say goodbye, due to a changeable medical course or the need to remain socially distant. Additionally, certain thoughts, feelings, and behaviors also stand to disrupt the natural process of grief. Intense feelings of anger, non-acceptance of a loss, or feelings of survivor guilt, can inhibit the grieving process or make it more difficult. For front line healthcare professionals, losing a colleague to COVID-19, while having to continue the professional demands of caring for others without ample opportunity to grieve, is an additional complicating factor. Additionally, the sheer volume of patient loss due to COVID-19, highlights trauma as a related factor that intensifies a sense of being “stuck” in the intense emotional pain associated with initial acute grief. Developed by Kathy Shear, MD, Complicated Grief Treatment (CGT) is the most extensively tested treatment for complicated grief and has the most evidence base as a grief treatment, with studies showing over 70% of those who received CGT much improved. For more information on CGT, please see these resources from Columbia's Center for Complicated Grief. General Resources Columbia’s Center for Complicated Grief offers these guidelines for Managing Bereavement Around Coronavirus (COVID-19) The Center for the Study of Traumatic Stress offers these guidelines for Sustaining the Well-being of Healthcare Personnel During Coronavirus and Other Infectious Disease Outbreaks The British Association for Counselling and Psychotherapy offers guidelines on What to Expect When Being counseled for Trauma and PTSD Resources for Healthcare Providers Emergency Responder Tips for Taking Care of Yourself (CDC) Facts sheets for Providers, Families, Leaders Mental Health First Aid for First Responders (Deborah Glasofer, PhD) CopeColumbia Videos In these video resources, Department of Psychiatry faculty provide helpful insight on how to manage stress and anxiety during difficult times. Check back frequently as more videos become available. CopeColumbia 2021 Year-End Video: CUIMC Employee Gratitude CopeColumbia: The Power of Practicing Gratitude Managing Anxiety: "Catch it. Check it. Change it." — Rachel E. Ginsberg, PhD Nine Tips for Coping and Thriving During Difficult Times — Anna Allmann, PhD Six Principles for Adapting to Stress — Jared K. O'Garro-Moore, PhD Nueve consejos para afrontar y prosperar durante tiempos difíciles — Alexandra Canetti, MD CopeColumbia Events and Webinars Past Events and Webinars In these webinars, faculty provide helpful insight on how to manage stress and anxiety during difficult times. Check back frequently as more webinars become available. Surviving Pandemic Fallout: What Do We Need Now? CopeColumbia presents a four-part series: "Surviving Pandemic Fallout: What Do We Need Now?" Erin Engle, PsyD, and Elizabeth Fitelson, MD, lead each discussion in partnership with CopeColumbia colleagues and CUIMC faculty. Workshop No. 1: Coping with Uncertainty and Stress Workshop No. 2: Surviving Loss and Change Workshop No. 3: Managing Self-Criticism, Shame, and Guilt Workshop No. 4: Deepening Professional and Personal Values and Meaning Bold Conversations on Race for Healing and Reshaping our Medical Center Community CopeColumbia, in collaboration with CUIMC Human Resources and the Office of Faculty Professional Development, Diversity & Inclusion, presents a series of workshops on race for healing and reshaping our medical center. Bold Conversations for Healing and Reshaping our Medical Center Community: Honoring the Legacy of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Bold Conversations for Healing and Reshaping Our Medical Center Community: Workplace Racism in the Era of COVID-19 Bold Conversations for Healing & Reshaping Our Medical Center Community Additional Workshops Challenging Times Call for Challenging Conversations: Supporting Healthcare Leaders and Managers in Navigating Return to On-site Work CopeColumbia—in partnership with CUIMC Human Resources and the Office of Work/Life—held a 60-min workshop for CUIMC faculty and staff in leadership or managerial roles who have employees reporting to them or are responsible for leading teams. The workshop focused on supporting leaders and managers in navigating a return to on-site work, with emphasis on teaching and applying validation skills through case examples On Managing Back-to-School Anxiety: Resources for Caregivers Evolving mandates, recommendations, and expectations surrounding COVID-19 and the return to in-person education have created confusion and anxiety for many parents and their children. These resources provide helpful insight into how to help children and teens cope with uncertainty and overcome anxiety as they return to school this fall. Videos Helping Our Youth Manage Back-to-School Anxiety TedMed 2020 “How to Raise Kids Who Can Overcome Anxiety” — Anne Marie Albano, PhD New York Presbyterian Youth Anxiety Center Webinar Series: Pandemic Parenting Tip Sheets Morgan Stanley Alliance for Children’s Mental Health “Tips for Supporting Teens’ Mental Health This Fall” English Spanish Websites Center for Disease Control: Return to School Guidelines Public Broadcasting Service (PBS): Emotions and Self-Awareness Worry Wise Kids: Information for caregivers about childhood anxiety Association for Behavioral and Cognitive Therapies – Therapist Directory Blog Posts Easing Back-to-School Anxiety in the COVID Era — Alyssa Ames-Sikora, PhD “How Can I Help My Child Cope with Back-to-School Anxiety?” — John Piacentini, PhD, ABPP “The Return to School: Tips for Parents of Anxious Children” — Allison Winik, PhD Additional Resources for Supporting Children and Family Many of us are experiencing new parenting challenges during the COVID-19 pandemic, including talking with children about COVID-19, maintaining daily structure, overseeing homeschooling, and keeping our children healthy and safe. As healthcare providers, it can be particularly difficult to balance these parenting tasks with increasing work demands and pressures. The resources below are provided to support parents during this difficult time. General Parenting Tips Tips for Parents on Coping with COVID Lauren Hoffman & Steve Mazza 5 Flawless Parenting Tips for Coping with Change: COVID-19 The Flawless Foundation Parent/Caregiver Guide to Helping Families Cope With the Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) National Child Traumatic Stress Network Being Good Enough Right Now is OK Anxiety and Depression Association of America (ADAA) Coping with Corona Virus Related Challenges Webinar Webinar with Dr. Anne Marie Albano Supporting Families of Healthcare Workers Exposed to COVID-19 CSTS Doing what matters in times of stress: an illustrated guide WHO Talking with Your Child About Coronavirus Talking with Children About Coronavirus CUIMC Today How to Talk to Your Anxious Child or Teen About Coronavirus ADAA COVID-19 Coloring Book for Young Children (English, Spanish, other languages) Manuela Molina Explaining Death to Children Webinar Webinar with Dr. Anne Marie Albano Support Grieving Children and Teens during the COVID-19 Global Health Crisis The Dougy Center Homeschooling Media Habits During COVID-19: Children & Teens on Screens in Quarantine AACAP Comic: How to Turn Your Home into a School without Losing Your Sanity NPR Suddenly Homeschooling Audible Kids Virtual Field Trips Racism, Stress, and Coping The COVID-19 pandemic has accentuated significant health disparities for Black and Latinx communities in the U.S. Populations of color have contracted COVID-19 at higher rates than White individuals; with greater morbidity and mortality.1,2 We are learning that systemic racism is a major factor in these disparate outcomes: a disproportionate number of African-American and Latino individuals work in settings that are high risk for exposure, and they are more likely to lack medical insurance, the means to be tested for coronavirus, to be adequately treated for underlying conditions, or to receive early treatment for COVID-19.2 The stress and trauma of racism in our society for communities of color is informed by a long history of violence and social injustice. The effects of systemic racism, especially on African-Americans in our country, permeates our society with consequences including negative outcomes for physical and mental well-being. Images, media portrayals and public discourse have triggered post-traumatic stress symptoms across in many of us, with the heaviest toll being that on racial minorities. Protests have sparked a discussion most feel is long overdue to address the effects of oppression on African-Americans after the senseless murders of George Floyd and Breonna Taylor. We are aware that these conversations, although emotionally charged, are necessary for change; take courage and bravery to achieve a more racially just society. The mental health effects of racism are vast. The inability for communities of color to access mental health resources creates a barrier to the path of treatment and recovery. Lack of resources coupled with distrust of the medical field due to past transgressions towards African-Americans, in particular, and the stigma associated with mental health treatment in communities of color create a perfect storm for untreated intergenerational mental health illness. Growth and Change Columbia University Irving Medical Center and other institutions around the country have acknowledged the historical systemic racism that exists and are committed to making change. As part of CopeColumbia’s commitment to promoting the health and well-being of our entire community, we encourage peer-supported open dialogue around mental health challenges that include racial disparities. Our efforts aim to enhance resilience and coping amongst peers while promoting healing, growth, and avenues for change. CopeColumbia Webinars Bold Conversations for Healing & Reshaping Our Medical Center Community (Login Required) — CopeColumbia and CUIMC Human Resources sponsored a one-hour panel discussion with members of the CUIMC community, who spoke about some of their personal experiences with racial stress in the workplace and the emotions those situations provoked. Panelists described individual strategies and responses that were helpful in addressing the issues and feelings they faced. The panel featured: Sandra Harris, Associate Vice president for Government and Community Affairs Ofole Mgbako, MD, Clinical Post-doctoral Fellow, Division of Infectious Diseases and Research Post-doctoral Fellow, HIV Center for Clinical and Behavioral Studies Warren Ng, MD, Associate Professor of Psychiatry, Medical Director Outpatient Behavioral Health, Director of Clinical Services in the Division of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry, CopeColumbia Faculty D. Anne Stewart, Department Administrator/Chief Financial Officer to the Department of Emergency Medicine Moderator: Patrice K. Malone, MD, Assistant Professor of Psychiatry, CopeColumbia Faculty Other Informative Media David Williams on the Ezra Klein Podcast regarding Social Determinants of Health Unequal Care: Mental Health and Black Americans The Mental Health Effects of COVID-19 on Communities of Color References 1 Gross, C.P., Essien, U.R., Pasha, S. et al. Racial and Ethnic Disparities in Population-Level Covid-19 Mortality. J GEN INTERN MED (2020) 2 Price-Haywood, E.G., Burnton, J., Fort, D. et al. Hospitalization and Mortality among Black Patients and White Patients with Covid-19. NEJM (2020) On Managing Political Stress and Related Stressors Leaders across the world have been struggling with how to adjust to the “new normal” of COVID-19 and the impact on their workforce. In addition to rising COVID-19 cases, leaders have seen employees cope with stressors including the consequences of systemic racism, the impact of climate change, as well as exhaustion and burnout. The US election and its aftermath have the potential to be disruptive and exacerbate stress among our workforce. These issues have implications for health, safety, justice, and economic wellbeing, and some of our colleagues understandably feel that they and their families are particularly vulnerable. Our diverse healthcare workforce may have a range of intense emotional reactions. In the face of these ongoing challenges, compassionate leadership is increasingly important. Leaders can take simple yet powerful actions during this time to create more explicitly caring work cultures. Workers across universities and healthcare systems are eager and ready to engage in efforts to improve the culture and work environment. As a leader, it may be difficult to know what support your staff needs because we are in such uncharted territory. Staff might also feel hesitant to reach out for help—especially in healthcare, where there is a culture of self-reliance and a perceived stigma against accessing support for emotional needs. Studies have shown that staff who feel supported by their leaders are more productive and resilient to stress. Below are some ideas that we hope you may find helpful during this stressful time. General Recommendations for Supporting Staff Check-ins during Standing Meetings: One of the best strategies for building institutional resilience is to use pre-existing meetings and infrastructure rather than building anew. Given the intensely divisive political climate, we suggest planning ahead and knowing that people may be stressed and may need to express their thoughts and feelings more regularly in meetings. These standing meetings are a great opportunity to build staff support and resilience. The first step is knowing what is stressful for your team. We recommend following some of the steps outlined below: Create space to understand the sources of stress Carve out 5-10 minutes in your agenda at the beginning or end of every meeting to understand sources of stressors (both at home and at work). “This is an incredibly challenging time. Our work is really stressful, and you might be experiencing new stressors at home, too. I want to understand what’s been difficult so we can figure out what resources might help.” Assure your staff that you hear them Simply reflecting, “I hear that you are worried about X (e.g., getting sick, civic unrest). That makes total sense.” Work to develop approaches to address concerns Managers should be open and non-defensive to criticism of how they or the University are adding to stress, and try to address these quickly or by the next meeting. Inform them of available resources "There are several resources to support wellbeing at CUIMC, like CopeColumbia. I have used it and encourage you all to check it out.” Incorporate wellbeing skills and discussions using resources from CopeColumbia You can point to a certain section you/they thought was helpful, and then follow-up with a group practice of a skill with simple discussion questions: What did you like about that skill? What did you learn? How might this be incorporated into your week? Provide breaks: Frequent short breaks in the workday can help promote wellbeing. Many people are reporting “Zoom fatigue” as back to back virtual activities do not have the natural breaks and transitions that we normally have when working in-person. Consider reducing hour-long meetings to 50 minutes and encourage staff to stand and stretch or connect with colleagues informally in the last 10 minutes. Recognizing Stress and Providing Support: As a leader, you recognize that staff have limits. They are under incredible stress at work and at home, and simply acknowledging this stress is validating. Staff should be encouraged to care for themselves and get good sleep, drink water, and exercise. You may also think about having individual check-ins with staff whose behavior has changed so you can review these support resources with them. See more resources below to get the support you need. Encourage informal group meetings: Virtual coffee breaks, lunch meetings, happy hours, and Slack groups are ways many groups have found helpful to maintain a sense of connection to the team and the organization and to access peer support. Use your best judgment as a manager to consider which of these informal opportunities might work for your team, and whether your presence is needed or might inhibit free communication. Gratitude: Simple and genuine expressions of gratitude toward staff is very important. Leaders should recognize and thank individuals and teams for the work they are doing during regular weekly meetings. Gratitude helps most when we state specific descriptions of what they did and the impact it had. Appreciate differences among your staff: Several studies have identified particularly vulnerable populations to the psychological impact of the pandemic. These include front-line providers, people with children at home, and individuals early in their career. It is also important to consider the effects your employees may experience due to recent racially driven incidents. These groups may benefit from individualized attention to address their concerns. Supporting yourself: Being a leader during the COVID-19 crisis is very stressful. It is important that you get the support you need as well. Remember to help yourself first. Think about using the resources available to you via CopeColumbia. If you are able to maintain your own wellbeing, your team will benefit. Recommendations Specific to the 2020 U.S. Election What if I have my own opinions about the election results? Do I voice these? It is best to recognize that there may be a diversity of political preferences on your team, and workers may be concerned that if their opinions differ from yours as the manager, the work relationship may be impacted. What if staff want to discuss the election or politics? Instead of talking about the political candidates, focus on the values of the organization and how people may feel the election might impact these values. State explicitly that all views are welcome, and yet political discussions in the workplace are potentially divisive and not helpful to your shared mission. Discourage discussions of the politics themselves and focus on fears relevant to work. There will likely be political discussions anyway; be prepared to intervene (below). What if the discussions on my team become contentious? As a leader, you have managed many difficult conversations. We can simultaneously stand up for the right to have a minority or unpopular opinion while at the same time making sure everyone is respected. In general, focus on the importance of listening and understanding, rather than persuading or defending. It is ok to set limits by explicitly saying that you are willing to have the group discuss a range of opinions as long as they are expressed respectfully. It is also important to let your team know that people can express how particular opinions make them feel. If the discussion does become contentious or the conversation seems uncivil, you may need to intervene. Explicitly tell the group that the discussion does not seem productive. Leaders may be placed in the role of "referee" and may need to call out statements or actions that are out of bounds, not because of the point of view but rather because of how it's expressed. Examples of problematic interactions and how to intervene: Statements that are generalizations about groups, are negative and personal about another employee, or are dismissive of the experiences and emotions of individuals, are all problematic and should be identified as such explicitly. Employees should be reminded that comments that are discriminatory or create a hostile work environment are unacceptable and may trigger disciplinary action. It is completely acceptable to halt political discussion if these become divisive or disrespectful. You might need to say, for example, “We need to take a break from discussing politics right now, as I think it’s causing problems. If you want to re-engage outside of work in a productive conversation, that’s great, but we have to find ways to work together.” Resources CopeColumbia During weekly meetings, leaders should talk about the opportunity to seek more support via CopeColumbia (e.g., “Feeling stressed is not a sign of weakness, it is normal in these circumstances. I want to share some resources that might help our team to become stronger.”) If your Department or Division would like to arrange a Wellbeing Town Hall or Peer Support Group, please email us at CopeColumbia@cumc.columbia.edu. A member of our team can discuss these services with you. If you prefer more individual support, please call 646-774-6311 to schedule 1:1 counseling. The other sections on this page include curated wellness resources for individuals, resources and support for families, as well as content regarding grief, loss, trauma and anti-racism resources. Additional External Resources This document was created by members of the UCSF Cope and CopeColumbia teams who are faculty members in the Departments of Psychiatry at University of California, San Francisco, and Columbia University Irving Medical Center respectively. The UCSF Cope program has additional resources on their website that may be of interest. References Antares Foundation. Managing Stress in Humanitarian Aid workers: Guidelines for Good Practice. March 2012. Galea S, et al. The Mental Health Consequences of COVID-19 and Physical Distancing: The Need for Prevention and Early Intervention. JAMA Internal Medicine. Published on-line April 10, 2020. Gustavsson, ME et al. Moral Distress among Disaster Responders: What is it? Prehospital and Disaster Medicine 35(2):212-219, 2020 Kisel S, et al. Occurrence, prevention, and management of the psychological effects of emerging virus outbreaks on healthcare workers; rapid review and meta-analysis. BMJ 2020; 369:m1642. Lai J et al. Factors Associated with Mental Health Outcomes Among Health Care Workers Exposed to Coronavirus Disease 2019. JAMA Network Open. 2020;3(3): e203976. Rossi R, et al. Mental Health Outcomes Among Frontline and Second-Line Health Care Workers During the Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) Pandemic in Italy. JAMA Network Open. 2020;3(5):e2010185 Shanafelt, T, et al. Understanding and Addressing Sources of Anxiety Among Health Care Professionals During the COVID-19 Pandemic. JAMA. Published online 4/7/20. Mellins CA, Mayer LES, Glasofer DR, Devlin MJ, Albano AM, Nash SS, Engle E, Cullen C, Ng WYK, Allmann AE, Fitelson EM, Vieira A, Remien RH, Malone P, Wainberg ML, Baptista-Neto L. Supporting the well-being of health care providers during the COVID-19 pandemic: The Cope Columbia response. Gen Hosp Psychiatry. 2020 Sep 9;67:62-69. doi: 10.1016/j.genhosppsych.2020.08.013. Epub ahead of print. PMID: 33059217; PMCID: PMC7480793. Mental Health Treatment Columbia Psychiatry is world renowned for mental health treatment and has many resources available to support faculty, staff, and resident mental well-being. If you or anyone you know is experiencing any level of distress, below is a list of resources at Columbia, as well as several national hotlines. How to Access For faculty and staff ColumbiaDoctors faculty practice includes traditional clinic-based care and intensive outpatient treatment programs. See patient care or call 212-305-6001. For residents Contact Dr. Laurel Mayer at lsm16@cumc.columbia.edu for resources. For Immediate Care NY Presbyterian Hospital Emergency Department Broadway between 167th Street and 168th Street 212-305-2995 National Suicide Hotlines NYCWELL: Call 1-888-692-9355 or visit NYC WELL online. NYS Emotional Support Helpline: 1-844-863-9314 Suicice Prevent Hotline: 1-800-273-TALK (8255) The Trevor Project hotline for LBGT teens: 1-866-488-7386 SAMHSA Disaster Distress Helpline For the deaf and hard of hearing: 1-800-799-4TTY For chat: Suicide Prevention Lifeline Chat For text: Vist Crisis Textline or TEXT 741741 Recursos en Español La pandemia de COVID-19 representa un momento sin precedentes y únicamente difícil para nuestra comunidad, particularmente para proveedores de primera línea. En respuesta, el Departamento de Psiquiatría ha colaborado con ColumbiaDoctors y NewYork-Presbyterian para crear CopeColumbia, donde encontrará información y recursos para la comunidad de CUIMC, incluyendo sesiones de consejería, grupos de apoyo entre pares, meditaciones guiadas, lectura sugerida, y otros recursos para manejar el estrés, el miedo, y la ansiedad. Si tiene cualquier pregunta sobre CopeColumbia, o si tiene cualquier necesidad insatisfecha (inluyendo la necesidad de insumos, favor de enviar un correo electrónico a CopeColumbia@cumc.columbia.edu. Abajo se encuentran varios recursos, organizados por categoría. Recursos de Consejería de CopeColumbia Estos servicios se ofrecen al personal de CUIMC en todos los departamentos y ofrecen a los empleados la oportunidad de hablar sobre sus experiencias, hacer preguntas, y obtener consejos y sugerencias prácticas de nuestro cuerpo docente de psiquiatría. Los servicios son confidenciales y gratis. Servicios Ofrecidos Tiempo individual con el cuerpo docente de psiquiatría: sesiones de 20 minutos se enfocan en manejar el estrés y maneras de sobrellevar la situación actual. Grupos de apoyo entre pares: grupos de apoyo serán específicos al departamento que serán dirigidos por dos miembros de nuestro cuerpo docente de psiquiatría. Cada grupo reunirá por 30 minutos y se enfoca en crear resiliencia, compartir experiencias, aumentar el apoyo social, y maneras de sobrellevar la situación actual y los desafíos de la pandemia COVID-19. Es una sesión confidencial con apoyo entre pares. Como Acceder Servicios de Consejería Para sesiones individuales, tendremos varias horas a diario cuando el personal de todos los departamentos puede llamar y estará conectado inmediatamente con un miembro del cuerpo docente de psiquiatría. El número que se debe llamar es 646-774-6311. lunes–jueves: 8 a.m. – 8 p.m. viernes: 8 a.m. – 6 p.m. sábado & domingo: 11 a.m. – 5 p.m. Todo el personal y el cuerpo docente de CUIMS es elegible para CopeColumbia. Estamos aquí para apoyarle durante este momento de crisis. Estas sesiones se enfocan en el apoyo a corto trecho. Si se identifica la necesidad de atención de salud mental más formal, le ayudaremos a acceder los recursos apropiados. Recursos de video Nueve consejos para afrontar y prosperar durante tiempos difíciles — Alexandra Canetti, MD Meditación, Relajación, y Prácticas Guiadas La meditación y concientización pueden ayudarnos a reducir el estrés, sobrellevar el dolor, y mejorar la concentración mientras enfrentamos los obstáculos de nuestras vidas diarias. La meditación puede reducir la presión sanguínea, síntomas del síndrome del colón irritable, la ansiedad, la depresión, y el insomnio. La aplicación Headspace ofrece un año gratis de Headspace Plus para trabajadores de salud con un número NPI. También ofrece sesiones de meditación gratis en español para apoyar a la gente durante la pandemia. Las técnicas de relajación pueden ayudarle a manejar una variedad de condiciones de salud, incluyendo la ansiedad asociada con el trauma. Abajo se encuentra un video de una sesión de relajación muscular progresiva: Relajación Muscular Progresiva de Jacobson. Recursos sobre el Trauma, el Luto, y la Pérdida Cuando nos enfrenta el trauma, el luto, o la pérdida, el auto-cuidado se vuelve crítico. Les sugerimos que aproveche de los recursos de consejería arriba (vea Recursos de Consejería de CopeColumbia) y que aproveche los recursos abajo para manejar el choque, el estrés, y el trauma relacionado con COVID-19. Recursos Consideraciones psicosociales y de salud mental durante el brote de COVID-19 Hoja de datos para proveedores, familias, y líderes Recursos para Apoyar a Niños y Familias Muchos de nosotros estamos pasando por nuevos desafíos al ser padres durante la pandemia de COVID-19, incluyendo hablar con los niños sobre COVID-19, mantener una estructura diaria, supervisar la escuela virtual en casa, y proteger a los hijos por mantenerlos saludables y seguros. Como proveedores de atención de salud, puede ser particularmente difícil mantener el equilibrio entre estas tareas de ser padres y las demandas y presiones mayores del trabajo. Los recursos abajo son para apoyar a los padres durante este momento difícil. Sugerencias Generales para Padres Guía de ayuda para padres y cuidadores para ayudar a las familias a enfrentar la enfermedad Coronavirus 2019 (COVID-19) Sobrellevar los desafíos relacionados con el coronavirus. Para ver el video con subtítulos en español, apriete primero “cc” y despues el símbolo de ajustes (la rueda) > subtítulos > Auto-translate y seleccionar “Spanish” Ser “lo suficientemente bueno” ahora está bien. Para ver la página en español, desplace hacia abajo hasta que vea “Translate this page” y haga clíc en la bandera de España o seleccione el idioma “Spanish.” Hablar con Su Hijo sobre el Coronavirus Cómo ayudar a los niños y adolescentes a superar los acontecimientos catastróficos y otras experiencias traumáticas COVIBOOK: Libro para colorear para niños pequeños sobre COVID-19 Cómo hablar con su niño o adolescente ansioso sobre el coronavirus. Para ver la página en español, desplace hacia abajo hasta que vea “Translate this page” y haga clíc en la bandera de España o seleccione el idioma “Spanish.” Recursos para la Reducción del Estrés y Desarrollar Resiliencia La resiliencia es un grupo de rasgos o capacidades psicológicas que reducen el impacto del estrés en el bienestar. Estas destrezas están comprobadas a funcionar y se pueden enseñar y aprender con práctica, y así preparar mejor a los individuos a sobrellevar efectivamente los desafíos. Recursos Menos estrés en menos de un minuto Manejando el estrés asociado con el brote del virus COVID-19 Trastorno por estrés postraumático Cómo ayudar a los niños y adolescentes a superar los acontecimientos catastróficos y otras experiencias traumáticas Cómo manejar la ansiedad ante una situación que provoca ansiedad Consideraciones psicosociales y de salud mental durante el brote de COVID-19 Hacer frente al estrés durante la pandemia del coronavirus (COVID-19) Recursos Adicionales de los Centros de Control de Enfermedades (CDC) Enfermedad del coronavirus 2019 (COVID-19) Preguntas frecuentes sobre COVID-19 Additional External Resources Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Emergency Responder Tips for Taking Care of Yourself (CDC) Managing Anxiety and Stress (CDC) Healthcare Personnel and First Responders: How to Cope with Stress and Build Resilience During the COVID-19 Pandemic What Workers and Employers Can Do to Manage Workplace Fatigue during COVID-19 Uniformed Services University – Center for the Study of Traumatic Stress Facts sheets for Providers, Families, Leaders American Psychiatric Association APA Resources for Providers, Families and Healthcare Leaders American Psychological Association Seven Research Findings that can help People Deal with COVID-19 American Foundation for Suicide Prevention Protecting your Mental Health During the Coronavirus Outbreak Interviews and blogs from Columbia faculty Coping with Anxiety and Stress in the Age of Coronavirus (featuring Anne Marie Albano, PhD) Mental Health First Aid for First Responders (Deborah Glasofer, PhD) Coalition to End Social Isolation & Loneliness Social Isolation & Loneliness During COVID-19 How to Stay Connected During Physical Distancing Mayo Clinic Maintaining Human Connection in the Time of Social Distancing Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian About Us Careers News Education Patient Care Research Resources at CUIMC Columbia University Irving Medical Center 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Back to top