Skip to main content Search form Search Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers Contact Give About Search Menu Public Health Now News Events Publications Topics Student Voices Celebrating the Centennial Our Work to Address COVID-19 Columbia Public Health Magazine Academics Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy & Procedures Office of Education Research Featured Research Global Health Centers Programs Grants & Awards Corporate Partnerships People Our Faculty Current Students Friends and Supporters Partners Alumni Become a Student Meet Our Faculty Life & Community Degree Finder How to Apply Career Services More Information Master of Public Health Degree Programs Certificate Program Core Curriculum Search You are here Home Become a Student Career Services Employers Career Day Winter Storm Update/Impacts to Campus and Services Last Updated 12:50pm Fri May 6 See Coronavirus Updates for information on campus protocols. Career Day Post a Job Recruit With Us Recruiting Policy Facts & Figures Career Day Post a Job Recruit With Us Recruiting Policy Facts & Figures Career Day Upcoming Career Day Our upcoming Virtual Spring Career Days 2022 will be held on Friday, March 18 (employers A-M), and March 25 (employers N-Z), 2022 from 12-5pm EST. Registration is now available. These events have limited capacity and all employers must be able to bring at least 3 representatives for the duration of the fair. We have other recruitment options available; please contact us at msphocs@cumc.columbia.edu to discuss. Early registration is strongly encouraged. Spaces are limited and registration does not guarantee a space available; you will be notified when your registration is approved. Our last several fairs sold out. The deadline to register is March 4, 2022. To register: 1. Log in to CareerLink If you already have an account in Mailman CareerLink, log in. Your username is your email address. If you previously had a CareerLink account, but do not recall you password, please click "Forgot Password" (below the Sign In button). If you do not have a CareerLink account, click on “Sign Up” on the right-hand side of the page. 2. Register for the Fair Click on “Attend Events--Spring 2022 Career Day (A-M)” (if your company's name starts with the letters A-M) or "Attend Events--Spring 2022 Career Day (N-Z)" (if your companys' name starts with letters N-Z) on the right-hand side of the page. Click on the “Registration" link. Select the Registration type (Corporations are $150, nonprofits and government agencies are $75; a limited number of fee waivers are available for small nonprofits or government agencies with no recruitment budget; contact us to discuss) Fill out the information for your organization, then click Next; add your organization's logo, industry, website address, organization description (overview), the academic departments you'd like to recruit, job titles, and whether you are open to hiring international students. Choose your payment method. NOTE! Payments must be made via a separate URL, and payment must be received before the fair. Enter the number of representatives attending. IMPORTANT! You MUST include contact information for each representative. Under "Meeting Instructions" please add the hyperlink/URL for the Zoom, GoToMeeting, or other virtual meeting space for each representative. You can also add a phone number under Alternative Instructions. Enter your "Expected Chat Time" per student. This allows students to know how long the wait will be to speak with your representatives. If you would like to allow a Group Chat, please include the URL for this open meeting and list the times you will hold Group Chats. Click "Review and Confirm." You're finished with initial registration. You can always Modify later. You should see an invoice page. Don't forget to click the payment link if paying by credit card! 3. Wait for Career Services Confirmation The Office of Careers & Practice reviews registrations on a weekly basis. Your registration is not confirmed until you receive a confirmation email from us. 4. You will receive additional instructions via email after you register. Additional tips on Symplicity career fairs are here and training videos are here. Questions? Please contact Adi Clerman or msphocs@cumc.columbia.edu for more information. More to Explore Friday 03June COVID-19: From Causes to ConsequencesMay 27 2022 Family Size May Influence Cognitive Functioning in Later LifeMay 12 2022 Public Health Leaders Urge SCOTUS to Uphold Roe v. WadeMay 4 2022 Asia and Africa Have Similar Aging Burden as the WestMay 4 2022 Sign up for Transmission Columnbia Mailman Connect with Us Public Health Now News Events Publications Topics Student Voices Academics Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy & Procedures Office of Education Research Featured Research Global Health Centers Programs Grants & Awards Corporate Partnerships People Our Faculty Current Students Friends and Supporters Partners Alumni Become a Student Meet Our Faculty Life & Community Degree Finder How to Apply Career Services More Information Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health | 722 West 168th St. NY, NY 10032 Site Map Privacy Columbia University Irving Medical Center Copyright © Columbia University 2019 Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers