Skip to main content Skip to main content Follow Us Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us Twitter Skip to main content Log In Log In Student Login Log In Instructor Login Log In Canvas Login Canvas Login My Profile My Applications My Enrollment History My Certificate Plan My Account My Saved Items Log Off Contact Us Contact Us Help Help <span class="sr-only">Number of items in the shopping cart: </span><span id="cartCount"></span> Number of items in the shopping cart: Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Program Search Programs and Courses Areas of Study Career Building College Prep Communications & Marketing Creative Development Design & UX Engineering & Technology Humanities & Fine Arts Languages Legal & Finance Management & Leadership Program Types Certificate Programs Short Courses Corporate Programs & Customized Learning Instructors Resources for Current Instructors Instructor Portal Canvas for CAPE Instructors Become a CAPE Instructor Propose a Course Help Center New Students Payment Options & Financing Veterans Benefits FAQ Current Students Student Portal Canvas Zoom Instructors Instructor Portal Canvas for Instructors Policies & Procedures Parking & Maps About About Us Contact Us Blog Navigate Search Skip to main content CAPE Program Search All Programs & Courses All Programs & Courses Areas of Study Certificate Programs SMU College Prep Customized Learning Short Courses Areas of Study Areas of Study Career Building Communications and Marketing Creative Development Design and UX Engineering and Technology Humanities and Fine Arts Languages Legal and Finance Management and Leadership Courses Instructors Instructors Propose a Course Help Center Help Center Canvas for CAPE Courses Information about SMU NetIDs Frequently Asked Questions Instructor Portal Parking & Maps Payment Options and Financing Policies and Procedures Student Portal Digital Badges Adding Your SMU Certificate Credential to LinkedIn Veterans Zoom About SMU CAPE About SMU CAPE Contact Us ☰ CAPE Help Center Parking & Maps Parking & Maps Virtual Parking Permits On the SMU campus, License Plate Recognition technology (LPR) and Virtual Permits have replaced all paper permits. LPR technology uses optical character recognition to automatically read license plate characters. SMU operates mobile LPR, which uses vehicle-mounted cameras to verify plates in all campus lots. Virtual permits are free of charge for CAPE instructors and students. If you park on campus without a virtual permit you will receive a parking citation with an associated $50 fine. Request a virtual parking permit for the current term SMU Main Campus in Dallas Parking on the SMU Main Campus requires a parking pass at all times. Generally, SMU CAPE parking passes allow holders to park in any surface lot marked All University Parking (AUP), as space allows. Parking passes also may be used in the upper levels of Airline, Binkley, Mustang, or Moody Parking Centers. Additional lots may be available to SMU CAPE students after 5 p.m. Monday–Friday and on weekends. Please note that parking availability may be limited during special events, such as SMU home football games, etc. SMU East Campus in Dallas Parking on the SMU East Campus (between Central Expressway and Greenville Avenue) requires a parking pass at all times. Most East Campus classes take place at the SMU Global, Online and Continuing Education building. The closest student parking for the SMU Global, Online and Continuing Education building is the surface lot just east of the building, at 5551 SMU Boulevard. Additional east campus parking is available at a convenient surface lot on the corner of Dyer Street and Central Expressway. Off-Campus Parking & Shuttles in Dallas For DART users, DART offers two free shuttles from Mockingbird Station, providing regular service Monday through Saturday to the SMU campus. Routes include the SMU GO building and several parking centers: Museum Express (Route 743)—Bush Center and Meadows Museum Mustang Express (Route 768)—throughout the SMU Campus Schedules and routes may vary; please visit DART for details. Useful Maps SMU Interactive Campus Map Parking Contact Information Phone: 214-768-7275 Email: parking@smu.edu Website: smu.edu/parking Parking & Maps Parking Permit Instructions Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University 5539 SMU Blvd, Dallas, TX 75206 instagram twitter linkedin facebook