Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Search BC.edu Links Agora Portal Directory A to Z Listing Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close BC News > Campus & Community > Around Campus > BC "Mile 21" offers new lineup of Marathon Day events BC "Mile 21" offers new Marathon Day lineup Daylong slate of campus events includes exclusive Jason Derulo concert Against the backdrop of the 126th running of the Boston Marathon on April 18, recording artist and TikTok superstar Jason Derulo will headline a concert on campus exclusively for Boston College students. His performance is the featured event in special BC “Mile 21” daylong student programming spearheaded by the Office of the Vice President for Student Affairs. In an email announcement, Associate Vice President for Student Engagement and Formation Tom Mogan—describing the Boston Marathon as holding “a special place in the history of the City of Boston and Boston College”—outlined programming planned with campus partners including the Campus Activities Board, Undergraduate Government of Boston College, BC Athletics, and Campus Ministry that is “designed to celebrate Marathon Monday and to bring out the best of our community.” "We are beyond excited about our Mile 21 programming," said Vice President for Student Affairs Shawna Cooper- Gibson, who will be among this year's Marathon runners. Meetings with students, she said, revealed a "a real need to enhance social experiences on Marathon Monday and Student Affairs, along with campus partners from Athletics and Campus Ministry, took up the charge." A popular singer, songwriter, and dancer who has sold more than 30 million singles, Derulo will take the stage at 10 a.m. in the Mods parking lot. The concert is free for BC students with a ticket and BC ID. A Breakfast Bingo event kicks off the day from 8 a.m.–10 a.m. on Maloney Lawn, with game prizes including an iPad. BC Mile 21 T-shirts will be given out while supplies last, beginning at 8 a.m. A Field Day will take place from noon to 2 p.m. on Maloney Lawn, with a DJ, contests, games, food trucks, and more. Students are encouraged to support Marathon participants throughout the day at a BC Mile 21 cheering section on Commonwealth Avenue. In addition to Cooper-Gibson, University community members among the runners will include Matt Razek, Office of Student Involvement associate director of student programming, and UGBC President Jack Bracher ’22, among others. Students also can attend the Boston Red Sox-Minnesota Twins game at Fenway Park with discounted $5 tickets; bus transportation leaves campus at 10 a.m. For additional event information and ticketing details as they are available, visit the BC Mile 21 website. University Communications | April 2022 Related links BC Mile 21 Running for a Cause: Meet three BC community members running for the Campus School Back To Top Back To Top Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College