Skip to Main Content Brown University News from Brown Site Navigation Featured Events For Journalists Search Menu On the first episode of "Faculty in Focus," Tricia Rose, left, discusses the origins of her interest in hip-hop music with University Provost Richard Locke, right. Photo: Nick Dentamaro Topics University Initiatives Date October 9, 2019 2019-10-09 Media Contact Jill Kimball [email protected] 401-863-5450 All News Share Facebook Twitter Linkedin Email New podcast spotlights faculty research at Brown “Faculty in Focus,” hosted by University Provost Richard Locke, features interviews with faculty members about their research and its impact on society. PROVIDENCE, R.I. [Brown University] — Brown University’s Office of the Provost this week launched “Faculty in Focus,” a new podcast that gives Brown faculty a chance to share key takeaways from their research. According to “Faculty in Focus” host and University Provost Richard Locke, the podcast is intended to raise awareness of faculty work and the positive impact it has on society, both locally and globally. In one-on-one interviews with Locke, professors at Brown demystify their research, offer insights into what sparked their interest in their areas of study and share what continues to drive their curiosity today. “On and beyond our campus, there’s an interest in knowing more about the research that our faculty conduct, the courses they teach, and the questions and problems inspiring their ongoing curiosity,” Locke said. “This podcast is just one way that we seek to satisfy this interest, and to elevate awareness of the exceptional scholarship taking place at Brown by faculty across the University, which is making a difference in the world.” The podcast series kicked off with an interview with Tricia Rose, director of the Center for the Study of Race and Ethnicity in America and a professor of Africana studies at Brown. In the episode, Rose discusses the origins of her interest in hip-hop music, the triumphs and trials she faced pursuing her field of study, and the ways in which she remains optimistic as she delves into the causes and ramifications of racism. In subsequent episodes this fall, “Faculty in Focus” will feature the work of Professor of Economics John Friedman and Carney Institute for Brain Science Director Diane Lipscombe. Podcast episodes are available on the Office of the Provost website, as well as on Spotify, Soundcloud and the Stitcher app. Episodes will soon be available on Apple Podcasts. Tags Faculty and Staff Research Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Snapchat Twitter YouTube Social Media Directory © Brown University Brown University For You Current Students Faculty Staff Parents & Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Featured Events For Journalists Topics Arts and Humanities Environment Health and Medicine News and Events Science and Technology Social Sciences Student Life University Initiatives Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events For You Give to Brown All of Brown.edu People News Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search New podcast spotlights faculty research at Brown Open details for New podcast spotlights faculty research at Brown Bookmark this Page