COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Engineering Education, Graduate Certificate Graduate CertificateEngineering Education All Programs College of Engineering College of Applied Studies Intervention Services and Leadership in Education The College of Applied Studies, in conjunction with the College of Engineering, is proud to offer Wichita State's certificate of engineering education. This graduate certificate will equip you with the knowledge, skills and confidence for a successful career as an engineering educator. Learn how Engineering Education is the right fit for you. Contact Coordinator Curriculum The 12-credit-hour certificate provides joint mentorship from College of Applied Studies and College of Engineering faculty. Courses include: Learning Theory and Instruction Principles of Measurement and Program Evaluation Advanced Methods: Developing Critical Thinking and Creative Thought Internship: Developing Critical Thinking and Creative Thought View the curriculum Admission to the program There are two paths to admission to the program: For those already enrolled in graduate school, simply complete the Declaration of Intent to Pursue a Certificate Form. Prospective students should apply using the Graduate School application for admission. Graduate School Application Inside the Program WSU expands high school engineering education A new program initiated by WSU's National Institute for Aviation Research teaches high schoolers how to use computer-aided design software. It's the primary software used by Wichita manufacturers and is widely used across the world. Students will be more prepared for applied learning opportunities once they enter college. 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©