Skip to main content Search: Submit Search Search Filters Search This Site Search Cornell Main Menu Toggle Search Form Home Studying at Brooks Undergraduate Programs Undergraduate Majors Undergraduate Minors Student Life Student Resources Master’s Programs Cornell Institute for Public Affairs Sloan Program in Health Administration PhD Program Policy Analysis and Management PhD Experiential Learning Capital Semester Cornell in Washington Research & Impact Centers, Programs & Institutes People Directory Meet The Dean About Us Home Research & Impact Centers, Programs & Institutes Research & Impact Centers, Programs & Institutes Cornell Population Center Institute of Politics and Global Affairs Cornell Program in Infrastructure Policy Rick Geddes, Academic Director and Founder of CPIP CPIP News and Events Cornell Infrastructure Leadership Webinar Series CPIP Research Annual Reports Working Papers Advisory Board CPIP Affiliates Hyperloop Career Opportunities Support CPIP CPIP Teaching Global Infrastructure Teaching and Training Experience CPIP Sabbatical Visitors Health Econ Seminars VERB Seminars Past VERB Seminars Ireland Masterclass in Health Economics Home Research & Impact Centers, Programs & Institutes Cornell Program in Infrastructure Policy Educating the next generation of infrastructure leaders Connect with us Say hello on LinkedIn The Cornell Program in Infrastructure Policy (CPIP) is focused on improving the delivery, maintenance, and operation of physical infrastructure. This will be accomplished through dedicated teaching, research, and outreach efforts in infrastructure policy. A key focus will be on infrastructure funding and financing. CPIP coordinates scholars across multiple disciplines both inside and outside of Cornell University who share an interest in public policies impacting infrastructure. CPIP develops and disseminates research relevant to those policies. CPIP collaborates with partners in the public, private, and non-profit sectors to achieve those goals. Educate the next generation of infrastructure leaders and professionals at both the undergraduate and graduate levels Coordinate an active global network of researchers in infrastructure policy Disseminate research findings through conferences policy briefs, media availability, and other outreach efforts Maintain a web presence dedicated to global infrastructure policy issues Track data on infrastructure projects and policies relevant for assessing innovative approaches The Need Aging infrastructure, growing demand in a number of sectors, and constrained state and local budgets are placing severe stress on the delivery of critical infrastructure services. New policy approaches, educational programs, and outreach efforts are needed to address this acute problem. Questions? Director: Rick Geddes Executive Director: Richard Coyle Advisory Board President: Anthony Ferrari Support Infrastructure Research Donate Here The Infrastructure 2.0 Project will focus on developing public policies to support infrastructure that is sustainable in its financing, use, and maintenance. Innovative public policies, including new funding and financing approaches such as tolling and public private partnerships, can help address those concerns. The Infrastructure 2.0 Project will assess those and other innovative policies to improve the sustainability of America’s infrastructure. Short menu Studying at Brooks Home FAQs Research & Impact People Cornell Jeb E. Brooks School of Public Policy Martha Van Rensselaer Hall Cornell University Ithaca, NY 14853 Contact Us Follow us on: Cornell University ©2022 University Privacy Web Accessibility Assistance