Skip to main content Go to site search Go to primary navigation Go to resources navigation Penn COVID-19 Response » Penn Home Toggle Site Navigation Toggle Site Search Academics More Academics Undergraduate Graduate Schools Global Initiatives Interdisciplinary Online Learning Off-campus Learning Libraries Admissions & Aid Athletics Research & Innovation More Research & Innovation Research Enterprise Research News Life at Penn More Life at Penn Arts & Culture Community Involvement More Community Involvement Penn & Philadelphia Diversity Groups & Organizations Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Safety & Security More Safety & Security Emergency Contacts Emergency Preparedness Spirituality & Religion About More About Introduction to Penn History Facts News, Media, & Communication Services Sustainability FAQ Penn’s Interim President, Wendell Pritchett Trustees & Administration Policies Toggle Site Search Resources Current Students Faculty & Staff Parents Alumni Visitors A-Z Directory Webmail Services Give to Penn Search Search Close Breadcrumb Home / Life at Penn Life at Penn Take a stroll down Locust Walk, sit and chat with Ben on the Bench, cheer on the Quakers, and become a part of Penn’s many unique and historic traditions. Play Campus Life Students at Penn live and learn in a vibrant city full of opportunities. Try out clubs and activities that spark your curiosity—you’ll definitely discover the unexpected along the way. Housing & Dining With a multitude of housing and dining options both on and off-campus, all members of the University community can find the accommodations that make Penn feel like home. Groups & Organizations Participate in social, political, artistic, and multicultural activities that put learning into practice. Arts & Culture From the one-of-a-kind museums on campus to accomplished student performances in music, dance, and theater, culture and the arts play a leading role in life at Penn. Athletics & Recreation A proud member of the Ivy League, Penn offers many unique and exciting opportunities for students, faculty, and staff to cheer on the mighty Quakers, participate in competitive team sports, and stay physically fit. Life at Penn Campus Media Penn supports news publications that tell the ongoing story of the University community, communications services for external media, telephone and video services, and other media resources. CAMPUS MEDIA Wellness & Identity Resources that emphasize holistic health including safety, happiness, mental health, resilience, and financial well-being. Diversity Understanding and appreciating diversity is one of Penn’s most important priorities and is fundamental to success in today’s world. Spirtuality & Religion The many spiritual and religious organizations on campus provide a wealth of opportunities to practice faith and fellowship within supportive, welcoming communities. Health & Wellness Penn is deeply dedicated to high quality patient care and the advancement of medical, nursing, and veterinary science. It is also committed to providing the support, resources, and practical tools to ensure the wellness of its community. Safety, Security, & Emergency Preparedness Penn’s Division of Public Safety works alongside the campus community to keep the University neighborhood safe. Beyond Campus More than a campus, Penn flourishes in and is enriched by a vibrant urban ecosystem steeped in history and brimming with arts, culture, and innovation. Penn & Philadelphia Get to know the City of Brotherly Love and Sisterly Affection and Penn’s place in it. Penn & Philadelphia Community Involvement Penn weaves civic awareness and action into campus life and beyond. Community Involvement Explore Life at Penn Arts & Culture Community Involvement Diversity Groups & Organizations Health & Wellness Housing & Dining Penn & Philadelphia Safety & Security Spirituality & Religion Philadelphia, PA 19104 Telephone: (215) 898-5000 Contact Us Maps Parking Navigate Alumni Athletics Diversity Health Care Libraries Online Learning Penn Global Penn's Heritage As America’s first university, Penn has a history that dates back to 1740 and shares many ties with the colonial city of Philadelphia and the birth of our nation. Our History Disclaimer Emergency Services Nondiscrimination Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement Back To Top