Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Fraternity and Sorority Life Interfraternity Council Interfraternity Council IFC Recruitment Multicultural Greek Council Multicultural Greek Council MGC Intake National Pan-Hellenic Council National Pan-Hellenic Council NPHC Intake Panhellenic Council Panhellenic Council Panhellenic Recruitment Parent and Families ☰ Fraternity and Sorority Life Interfraternity Council IFC Recruitment IFC Recruitment The Interfraternity Council holds a formal recruitment process each January for all students and an informal process for upper class students each fall. Registering early is highly recommended, as the cost increases throughout the registration process. Students interested in joining should refer to the eligibility requirements as well as any required events listed in the schedule of events. We look forward to helping you explore the membership opportunities in the IFC community! How to Join Recruitment Expectations IFC strives to create a positive experience for all those involved in the recruitment process. To ensure this, each potential new member will sign an agreement on the first day of recruitment to abide by the SMU and IFC policies. Students who violate this agreement may be disqualified from joining a fraternity that semester. In addition, any student who commits a conduct violation at any point during recruitment week will be removed from the recruitment process and not allowed to accept a fraternity bid. Schedule IFC Formal Recruitment Formal recruitment registration opens: Friday, September 24th at 8:00AM Registration cost is $200 until November 30th Formal recruitment registration closes: Tuesday, November 30th at 5:00PM- there are no exceptions to this deadline. IFC Block Party – October 18thfrom 5:30pm-8:00pm on the North Boulevard near the flag pole -This event is Mandatory for all PNMs to attend. If you are unable to attend, IFC will hold a makeup event on November 4th (location and time TBD). Those who register early will receive email updates via Campus Director. Formal Recruitment 2022 Orientation- Wednesday, January 12th First Round- Thursday, January 13th Invitation Round- Friday, January 14th Bid Day- Saturday, January 15th Registration & Payment There are NO exceptions to the registration deadline. The register button can be found at the bottom of the page. IFC Formal Recruitment Registration: Friday, September 24th at 8:00AM: Formal recruitment registration opens Registration cost is $200 until November 30th Formal recruitment registration closes: Tuesday, November 30th at 5:00PM- there are no exceptions to this deadline. IFC Block Party – October 18thfrom 5:30pm-8:00pm on the North Boulevard near the flag pole -This event is Mandatory for all PNMs to attend. If you are unable to attend, IFC will hold a makeup event on November 4th (location and time TBD). Those who register early will receive email updates via Campus Director. Formal Recruitment 2022 Orientation- Wednesday, January 12th First Round- Thursday, January 13th Invitation Round- Friday, January 14th Bid Day- Saturday, January 15th Ready to register for IFC recruitment? Click the button below to visit the registration page. Register for Formal Recruitment Here Apply Visit School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share