Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index Undergraduate Admissions Menu Search TTU Undergraduate Admissions International Admissions FAQ's Am I required to quarantine after travel/when arriving in the U.S./at TTU? The safety of all Red Raiders is our primary concern. Texas Tech University continues to follow recommendations from the CDC, local, state, and national guidelines for information related to the pandemic. Texas Tech University is committed to your safety. Learn more about how the campus is addressing the needs of students, faculty, and staff during the pandemic. The CDC has published the following information related to travel and COVID-19. The U.S. Department of State has released the following details regarding COVID-19 Travel Restrictions and Exceptions. All air passengers coming to the United States, including U.S. citizens, are required to have a negative COVID-19 test result or documentation of recovery from COVID-19 before they board a flight to the United States. See the CDC site for more information. Masks are required on planes, buses, trains, and other forms of public transportation traveling into, within, or out of the United States and in U.S. transportation hubs such as airports and stations. Learn more about the availablity of COVID-19 vaccinations on campus. Can I take classes online from my home country if I cannot enter the U.S.? We realize that not all Red Raiders are able to join us on the main campus at this time due to pandemic related issues. The online course options are a great alternative for the Spring 2022 term. Step 1: Once you make the decision to study online, simply contact your TTU International Undergraduate Admissions Counselor. They will update your admissions information in our system to reflect this change and you will then be considered an online student for the upcoming semester. Please do so ASAP! Step 2: If you haven't already, please go to the website below and register for your Red Raider Orientation (RRO): http://www.redraiderorientation.ttu.edu/ Step 3: Follow the steps as listed to complete the online modules and participate in virtual advising and class registration. As an online student, it is very important that you are enrolled in asynchronous courses (no assigned dates/times), which will allow you to have access at any time. Please work with your academic advisor to register! They are aware of the scheduling needs and will be happy to assist you. In addition, remember to register for a full course load (12 -15 hours ) in order to be considered for merit scholarships. More information regarding scholarship criteria and requirements can be found here: /scholarships/incFreshman.php If you have additional questions related to your RRO session, please reach out to the Transition & Engagement Office at 806.742.2993 as they will be able to best assist you. Students who are unable to obtain a visa for the Spring term should enroll online in distance education course work. Students who begin the fall term online will remain online (from their home countries) for the remainder of the term. This allows students to begin their program without delay. If students should receive a visa appointment after the January 12th start date, they must remain enrolled in online classes and will not be able to enter the U.S. until the Fall 2022 term. Our international admissions counselors will work with students to provide updated I20's with the spring start dates as that term approaches. Go Tech! Will International Undergraduate Admissions Counselors/Staff be available for one-on-one virtual appointments? International undergraduate admissions counselors will be scheduling appointments with students who are interested in meeting one-on-one virtually in place of in-person meetings until further notice. Prospective students can contact their International Undergraduate Admissions Counselor directly or request a virtual advising appointment. What are the deadlines for admission? First Time Students Spring 2022 10/01/2021 Summer & Fall 2022 04/01/2022 Transfer Students Spring 2022 12/01/2021 Summer & Fall 2022 06/01/2022 We encourage students to apply early which allows ample time for processing documentation and immigration paperwork for visa appointments. We will work beyond these priority deadlines to assist students who are interested in attending Texas Tech University. For information on how to apply to Texas Tech University, please visit the following pages: International Prospective Students Apply Now! International Admissions Staff If I cannot pay the application fee due to economic hardship from COVID-19, can I get a fee waiver? We understand that these are difficult times. Currently, our office does not offer fee waivers. What is the best way to submit my documentation to Texas Tech International Undergraduate Admissions? Students have the option to submit "unofficial" documentation for evaluation purposes and admission consideration. These documents can be used by our office to make an admission decision. However, students will still be required to request and submit OFFICIAL documentation from all institutions attended by the end of their first term- upon matriculation to the university. All documents submitted must be in PDF form for processing Students can upload "unofficial" documentation through the TTU Student Portal at www.raiderconnect.ttu.edu This includes transcripts, letters of recommendation, resumes, copies of exit exams, diplomas All test scores must be sent directly to TTU from the testing agency. The international institutional code for TTU is: (TOEFL-B100) (SAT-6859) (ACT 4220) Students can request this process through their school counselors/Registrar. These school officials can do the following: Contact the International Undergraduate Admissions office to request access through the Counselor Portal: internationals@ttu.edu Submit electronically through TREx, SPEEDE, eScrip-Safe, National Student Clearinghouse, or Parchment Submit in a sealed envelope via mail to: International Undergraduate Admissions Office- 601 Indiana Ave., P.O. Box 45004, Lubbock, TX 79409-5004 How can I prove English proficiency during COVID-19? We understand that many test sites have closed and/or cancelled test dates. We will accept the Duolingo English Test as an alternative to the TOEFL and IELTS. The minimum Duolingo score is 100. https://englishtest.duolingo.com/ ETS is also offering a Home Edition of the TOEFL. More information can be found at https://www.ets.org/s/cv/toefl/at-home/ Texas Tech will also accept the following English proficiency options. MY ACT / SAT Test was cancelled, what should I do? TTU is Test Optional through Fall of 2022. Some applicants may feel that an SAT or ACT score does not fully reflect their academic preparedness or potential. If this is the case for you, Texas Tech University has enacted a test optional admission policy for students applying for 2021 & 2022 terms. This policy allows students the option to apply without consideration of SAT or ACT scores. At the time of application, students will share their plans regarding the submission or consideration of SAT or ACT as part of their application. Students selecting this option will have their application and supplemental information evaluated in a holistic manner. We welcome any student, regardless of testing plan, to submit additional material (detailed in the Supplemental Application Items) that they feel best highlights their skills, talents, and potential contributions to Texas Tech. This policy has been approved by the Texas Tech University System Chancellor (March 2021). Students are encouraged to include the following supplemental application items in these cases: Essays using prompts from ApplyTexas or Common App Letter(s) of Recommendation Resume IB, A-Levels, or other test scores Awards, achievements, leadership roles, and service activities The file will be evaluated for intellectual curiosity and academic rigor, demonstrated leadership and problem-solving ability, contributions to community, socioeconomic background and family responsibilities, special talents and awards, and diversity of experience and background. After the holistic review, a decision will be rendered by the review committee for test optional students. If a student was evaluated test optional and denied, the student may choose to submit a test score and request a re-evaluation with the score being considered. Scholarship Consideration Texas Tech University is proud to offer a high quality education at an affordable cost. We continue to be recognized as a best value university for your return on investment. Students who apply test-optional will be evaluated holistically for merit scholarships. While students may be test optional for admissions, students still have the opportunity to submit test scores for scholarship consideration. We will continue to monitor the ability of SAT and ACT to administer their exams which can be used for merit scholarship consideration but not always required for competitive-based scholarships. Students are able to submit scores until June 1 of their senior year to qualify for merit scholarships. After that, merit scholarships are available based on availability of funding. Students are considered for competitive-based scholarships with their application for admission. For merit scholarship consideration, international students are highly encouraged to take the SAT or ACT when possible and submit official test score reports directly from the testing agency. The Texas Tech international institutional testing codes are as follows: SAT: 6859 ACT: 4220 How do I register for Red Raider Orientation? Red Raider Orientation (RRO) is designed to help you become familiar with campus, learn about campus resources, meet other new students, and register for classes. Due to the uncertainty of the COVID-19 pandemic, we have chosen to adjust the Red Raider Orientation program to a hybrid model with both online and in-person components. This 4 step RRO process includes self-paced online modules, synchronous virtual academic advising and class registration sessions during the summer months supplemented by in-person campus experiences, followed by even more activities during Raider Welcome (the weeks before classes begin). Register today: RRO website What do I need to do when I transition to the Lubbock campus? If you were already on an F1 visa, you will need a new I-20 for the upcoming term If you are a new student studying online and did not have an F1 visa, you will need to submit documentation for your I-20 and apply for your visa If you deferred your application for admission to an upcoming term, you will need to reach out to your International Admissions Counselor. If you plan to live in TTU housing on campus, you will need to apply for housing prior to the term (Spring- mid October, Fall- May) All international students must have the TTU insurance or equivalent. Please contact Student Health Services for additional information. Incoming First year student students who do not meet the exemption requirements must provide documentation of MMR (Measles, Mumps, and Rubella) and Meningitis vaccines before enrolling in classes. Some international students are also required to be screened for tuberculosis. For additional information, please contact Student Health Services. As an international student, I am concerned about COVID-19 impacting my ability to get a visa. What should I do if I have already applied? COVID-19 may impact an international student's ability to obtain a visa in some countries as we approach the beginning of the semester. Please contact the U.S. embassy in your country for information on applying for a student visa after you have completed your application process and have been accepted to the university. Currently, U.S. embassies have suspended all visa services worldwide and we do not know when this will be lifted. It is best to check with the embassy in your region for guidance. What if I am unable to obtain a visa for the upcoming semester due to Embassies and Consulates being closed? We recognize that your ability to arrive on campus for the start of the semester may not be in your control. If this happens, the Office of International Affairs/ International Undergraduate Admissions and your academic college will work with you to determine how best to proceed so you can enroll and begin your studies at Texas Tech University. We are prepared to have you enroll, receive remote advising for the term you were accepted for, and take online coursework as currently allowed by Department of State. If you are unable to enroll online, we may defer your term of entry up to one year for on-campus study in the U.S. Please request a deferral form from your international admissions counselor for processing. Your international admissions counselor can update your session dates on your I-20 if you choose to defer your admission to a later term. How will students take the TSI test if campus is closed? Students can now test online and scheduling is available 24/7 by appointment through the TTU Academic Testing Services website. The information can be found by selecting TSI (under Exam Services) for general information and then accessing the link for setting up TSI testing off-campus. Students will need to follow the instructions on this page for scheduling appointments for testing. There is a $50 non-refundable fee for each test administration. TTU Academic Testing Services staff members will be available by phone and email to assist students with questions. The direct link to find the TSI information for setting up off-campus TSI testing is provided below. https://www.depts.ttu.edu/testing/TSIvoucher.php Will Texas Tech University accept transfer courses from my current college or university if the grading system used is PASS/FAIL? Texas Tech University will accepted courses graded as PASS (or similar) as applicable towards major/degree requirements provided those courses were taken in the spring or fall 2020 terms. For a complete list of degree requirements please visit our online Transfer Equivalency Search website. If I remain in my home country and do part of my program online, will I be eligible for Optional Practical Training (OPT)? To be eligible for OPT, you must attend on-campus classes for one full academic year, which is Fall and Spring. If you are in a one year program such as Data Science, you will not be eligible for OPT if you attend the Fall term online. You should defer your application to the following Summer. For more information about OPT, please visit /international/isss/f1/optstudents.php Undergraduate Admissions Like Undergraduate Admissions on FacebookLike Undergraduate Admissions on Facebook Follow Undergraduate Admissions on twitterFollow Undergraduate Admissions on twitter Follow Undergraduate Admissions on InstagramFollow Undergraduate Admissions on Instagram Address Texas Tech University, 2500 Broadway, Lubbock, TX 79409 Phone (806) 742-1480 Email admissions@ttu.edu Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock, Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech University May 31, 2022 11:10 AM Undergraduate Admissions Admission Undergraduate Admissions Admission Back Become a Red Raider Undergraduate Admissions Admission Become a Red Raider Back I'm Admitted I’m a High School Student I’m a Transfer Student I’m a Former Tech Student I’m an International Student My Students Want to be Red Raiders Admission Resources Undergraduate Admissions Admission Admission Resources Back En Español Find my Counselor Important Dates Other Admission Residency Determination Resources Request Information Academics Undergraduate Admissions Academics Back Academics Undergraduate Admissions Academics Academics Back Areas of Study Majors A-Z Colleges Online and Regional Programs Enrichment Undergraduate Admissions Academics Enrichment Back Undergraduate Research Study Abroad Honors College Preparation for Success Explore Undergraduate Admissions Academics Explore Back Schedule a Tour Watch our Videos Take a Virtual Tour Chat with Current Students Campus Tours & Events Undergraduate Admissions Campus Tours & Events Back Schedule a Tour Undergraduate Admissions Campus Tours & Events Schedule a Tour Back Campus Tours Large Group Tours Contact Us Attend an Event Undergraduate Admissions Campus Tours & Events Attend an Event Back On-Campus Events Regional Events Explore Undergraduate Admissions Campus Tours & Events Explore Back Watch our Videos Take a Virtual Tour Campus Life Undergraduate Admissions Campus Life Back Live Undergraduate Admissions Campus Life Live Back Campus Experience Dining Housing Safety Connect Undergraduate Admissions Campus Life Connect Back Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Spirit & Traditions Student Organizations Recreation Explore Undergraduate Admissions Campus Life Explore Back Schedule a Tour Watch our Videos Take a Virtual Tour Chat with Current Students Cost & Aid Undergraduate Admissions Cost & Aid Back Find Value at Texas Tech Financial Aid Undergraduate Admissions Cost & Aid Financial Aid Back Cost of Attendance Net Cost Calculator Important Dates Financial Aid Forms Scholarships Undergraduate Admissions Cost & Aid Scholarships Back For Incoming Freshmen For Incoming Transfers Frequently Asked Questions Explore Undergraduate Admissions Cost & Aid Explore Back Schedule a Tour Watch our Videos Take a Virtual Tour Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index