Skip to content Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Find People Events Global Health Donate Search About Us About Us Explore VP&S Message from the Dean VP&S History Celebrating the Leadership of Lee Goldman Facts & Statistics 2021 State of the School Explore VP&S Leadership and Administration Campus Resources and Facilities Events Community Programs Contact Us Education Education Academic Programs Residencies, Fellowships, and Training Student Resources Office of Innovation in Health Professions Education Academic Programs MD Program MD Dual Degrees and Special Programs Program in Genetic Counseling Programs in Human Nutrition Programs in Occupational Therapy Programs in Physical Therapy PhDs in Biomedical Sciences Additional Master's Degree Programs Additional Educational Opportunities MD Program Join our MD program to become a physician with compassion, a sense of self, and true grit in all medical pursuits. Explore Our Program Research Research Office for Research Areas of Research Research Faculty Honors and Awards For Researchers For Researchers Core and Shared Facilities Research Resources Funding Areas of Research VP&S continues to be a world leader across the entire spectrum of basic science, translational, and clinical research Learn About Our Research Patient Care Departments & Centers Departments & Centers Affiliated Hospitals and Institutions Basic Science Departments Centers and Initiatives Clinical Departments and Divisions Faculty Initiatives Clinical Departments and Divisions Our mission is to provide world-class patient care, foster innovative research, and train the next generation of leaders in medicine. View Clinical Departments and Divisions You are here Home > Education > Academic Programs > Programs in Physical Therapy > Commencement Programs in Physical Therapy Commencement Alumni Portal Director's Welcome Doctor of Physical Therapy EdD Program Orthopedic Residency Performing Arts Fellowship Columbia RunLab PACE Laboratory PT Faculty Practice Continuing Education Giving Social Justice Stand Against COVID Commencement The Columbia University Programs in Physical Therapy is thrilled to announce in-person commencement has finally returned! Columbia University Commencement The Columbia University Commencement is taking place on Wednesday, May 18th, 2022 from 10:30 a.m. - 12 p.m. at our Morningside campus. Programs in Physical Therapy Convocation and Reception Our students will graduate and receive awards on May 17th, 2022. Ceremony details are below: Ceremony Date: May 17th, 2022 Time: 10:00 a.m. - 12:00 p.m. Event Details: Alumni Audiotorium, 650 W 168th St. *The last day for students to claim tickets for our ceremony is May 10th, 2022. Following our Ceremony, we will have a Reception. Reception details are below: Reception Date: May 17th, 2022 Time: 12:30 p.m. - 3:00 p.m. Event Details: 50 Haven Ave. Celebration Event for the Classes of 2020 & 2021 Columbia University will be hosting a special celebration event for the classes of 2020 & 2021. Alumni from those two classes have been sent email instructions on how to claim tickets for this event. The last day to claim tickets is Monday May 2nd, 2022. The Celebration Event will take place on the Morningside Campus on May 19th, 2022. Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian ColumbiaDoctors About VP&S Careers Education Research Administration Inside VP&S Columbia University Irving Medical Center Vagelos College of Physicians & Surgeons 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Back to top