Skip to main content Toggle Tools navigation Toggle Site Navigation Toggle Search University of Cincinnati UC Home Support UC Directories UC Tools Canopy & Blackboard Catalyst OneStop Student Email Faculty / Staff Email Shuttle Tracker UCFileSpace UC Flex/ESS IT Help UC VPN Concur Success Factors Enter a search term to search UC pages or the directory. Search String University of Cincinnati Transfer Advising Major/College Change Advising Non-Matriculated Advising Senior Audits Events Meet Our Team About Contact an Advisor Instagram Twitter Home Non-Matriculated Advising Non-Matriculated Advising You may take classes at UC without being enrolled in a UC degree program. This type of student is referred to as non-matriculated, which is an academic term meaning "not enrolled in a degree program." For advising-related questions, including help for visiting students and senior audits, please contact our advising team. Apply to become a non-matriculated student Before you apply, please be aware of the following: Are you transferring your UC coursework back to your home institution? It is highly recommended that you verify with your home institution the transferability and applicability of the UC course(s) prior to registration. No financial aid for non-matriculated students As a non-matriculated student please be aware that you will not be eligible for financial aid. Financial aid is limited to students in a degree-seeking program. Tuition cost per credit hour Please note that the tuition cost per credit hour varies by campus. See all tuition prices. Step 1: Complete the Basic Data Form. This form enables our Registrar's Office to create or update your student record. Step 2: Approximately 2-3 business days after submitting the form, you will receive a confirmation email from the Registrar's Office. This email will be sent to the address you stated in the Basic Data Form. Please note that if you were previously a student at UC, you will not recieve this email. Once you're a non-matriculated student After successfully completing the application steps and receiving the confirmation email, you are ready for the next steps. The following guide provides information on how to register for classes and stay connected. Your UC username (aka 6+2) When accessing the tools referenced throughout this guide, you will need your UC username, commonly known as your 6+2. Instructions on how to set up your 6+2 are outlined in the confirmation email from the Registrar’s Office. Connecting at UC For security purposes, your UC email is the official way for UC faculty, staff, and students to connect with you. Please make sure you routinely check your UC email at mail.uc.edu. Find and register for classes You can search for classes in Catalyst, which is UC’s central student information system. Once you’ve found your class(es), you can register, but before you do so, please be aware of the following: Bursar Pre-Registration Agreement: Complete all service indicators (holds) listed on your account in Catalyst. A common one is the Bursar Pre-Registration Agreement. You will be required to release this hold before you are eligible to register. Course permission: Make sure you meet any prerequisites listed for the class or classes you are interested in. If you do not meet the prerequisites for a class, you can request class permission. This process varies by college, so make sure you follow the instructions. Manage your class Most classes at UC use Canvas for learning materials, lectures, and assignments. As a student at UC, you will also have access to a broad selection of online tools, such as Office 365 and WebEx. These tools are housed under Canopy. If you have advising needs Most advising offices use My Bearcat Network for appointment scheduling. As a non-matriculated student, you may schedule an appointment with one of our advisors for any advising needs. Please note, we are only able to advise on undergraduate courses. Request your UC transcript upon completion When you have successfully completed your UC coursework, review the process for requesting a transcript. You can also use your transcript as proof of enrollment. Resources Bearcat Card Student ID All Cincinnati students are required to have a photo ID, the Bearcat Card. A valid student ID is required to use libraries, computer labs, sport and recreation facilities and campus dining centers. The UC ID also serves as the Bearcat Campus Card, a debit card that can be used in all campus vending machines, shops and campus bookstore, as well as select off-campus eateries. To obtain a student ID card, please contact the Badge & Key Office. Blackboard and Canvas Blackboard and Canvas are learning management systems (LMS) that allow instructors to post course syllabi and instructional materials, send notifications, provide discussion boards for students, and much more. Starting in the fall semester of 2020, all courses will switch over to Canvas, but most courses are already using Canvas. If you're unsure what LMS your instructor is using for their course, please contact them directly. Once you are officially a student and have registered for courses, you will automatically be granted access to the course in the relevant LMS. Bookstore Our bookstores offer all required and recommended textbooks and course packs plus everything from school supplies to light dorm room furniture. In-store and online. UC email A UC email account is provided to all University of Cincinnati students and will be used for all official university communications. One Stop Cincinnati's central administration service, One Stop Student Services, enables you to take care of business online or in person without having to run all over campus. You can register for classes, accept your financial aid award, pay your bill, check your grades, request a transcript and more. Parking View parking maps, buy your parking pass, and get updates about event parking. Motorist assistance is also available. Student Health Insurance Student Health Insurance is required if you enroll for six or more credit hours. Eligible students are billed automatically for single coverage unless insurance is waived or dependent coverage is requested. Transfer & Transition Advising Center 120 University Pavilion 2618 McMicken Circle Cincinnati, OH 45221 Phone: 513-556-9000 Alerts Clery and HEOA Notice Notice of Non-Discrimination eAccessibility Concern Privacy Statement Copyright Information © 2018 University of Cincinnati This website offers many PDF files for download, which require Adobe Reader to view.