Menu Close Menu Skip to content Information For: Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Friends & Supporters A to Z index Search for: Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health Email People Departments Calendar Careers my.harvard Giving About Faculty & Research Admissions & Aid Academics Executive/Continuing Ed News Department of Epidemiology Department of Epidemiology Menu Search for: Home About Welcome from the Chair Department History Contact Us Department Newsletter Standing Committees People Faculty Researchers Staff Educational Programs Degree MPH in Epidemiology – 45 credit (Online) Master of Science in Computational Biology and Quantitative Genetics- 80 Credits Master of Science – 80 Credit Master of Science – 42.5 Credit (Academic Year) Master of Science – 42.5 credit (Summer Only) Curriculum Contact Us PhD Population Health Sciences Areas of Specialization Cancer Epidemiology and Cancer Prevention Cardiovascular Epidemiology Clinical Epidemiology Environmental and Occupational Epidemiology Epidemiologic Methods Epidemiology of Aging Genetic Epidemiology and Statistical Genetics Infectious Disease Epidemiology Neuro-Psychiatric Epidemiology Nutritional Epidemiology Pharmacoepidemiology Reproductive, Perinatal, and Pediatric Epidemiology Summer Program in Epidemiology Research Programs Prospective Students Department Course Listing Harvard Epidemiology Masters Program Frequently Asked Questions Diversity Current Students Department Course Listing Student Resources/Forms Recent Dissertations Student Handbook SM2 Program Assistants Student Highlights Postdoctoral Fellowship Funding Opportunities Rose Traveling Fellowship Program Alumni Fundraising Faculty Job Postings Seminars in Epidemiology 2020 Seminars 2019 Seminars 2018 Seminars 2017 Seminars 2016 Seminars 2015 Seminars Cutter Lecture & Symposium Special Events 2016 – 2020 2010 – 2015 Epi in the News Department of Epidemiology Coronavirus (COVID-19) News Articles Archives News Archive 2019 – 2020 2017 – 2018 2014 – 2016 2010 – 2013 Welcome to the Department of Epidemiology We study the frequency, distribution, and determinants of disease in humans, a fundamental science of public health. In addition to pursuing groundbreaking global research initiatives, we educate and prepare future medical leaders and practitioners as part of our mission to ignite positive changes in the quality of health across the world. Innovative Educational Programs: Onsite and Online We are committed to enriching the academic experience for our talented students, empowering them with the critical thinking and problem-solving skills they need to address current and future public health challenges. We offer more than seventy courses covering a broad range of topics including cancer, infectious disease, reproductive and cardiovascular epidemiology. Degree programs include Master of Public Health (now available online), Master of Science (one- and two-year degrees), and the Ph.D. in Population Health Sciences. Students specialize in one of twelve areas of interest and can choose from a wide variety of course offerings. Located in Thriving Medical Science Community The Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health is in the center of the Longwood Medical Area, a Boston healthcare hub that is home to the Harvard Medical School, Brigham and Women’s Hospital, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, and many other venerable institutions dedicated to improving public health worldwide. This energetic environment offers engaged students a wealth of invaluable resources as they launch their professional careers. Renowned Faculty and Dynamic Student Body Our impressive faculty, led by Department Chair Professor Albert Hofman, is comprised of more than seventy-five members, including thirty-five core professors working onsite in our Boston location. Recognized for their expertise in a wide array of disciplines, our team remains at the forefront of epidemiology, actively engaged in research and regularly publishing their findings in the most respected health journals. Our researchers strive to enhance the validity and efficiency of epidemiological investigation methodologies, and expand the practical applications for these tools. The primary goals of our collaborative, multidisciplinary research are to effectively control and ultimately prevent human disease. Learn more about some outstanding accomplishments of the exceptional students in our diverse department community. Department of Epidemiology Mission Research Well-grounded multidisciplinary research toward assessing the distribution and determinants of human illness with the aim of establishing reasoned preventive measures. Methodology Continuous efforts to improve methods for epidemiological investigation, to enhance validity and efficiency, and to expand the scope of activities in which epidemiologic methods can be usefully applied. Education Preparation of future researchers and practitioners in the field of epidemiology, as well as dissemination of knowledge to health professionals and the general public. As the reach of the School of Public Health is global in scope, so too is our research program. We are committed to the enhancement of quality of health not only in our own country, but internationally. The Department of Epidemiology has a long tradition of teaching and research in the epidemiology of cancer, cardiovascular disease, and other chronic diseases, as well as in epidemiologic methodology. The department is innovative, collaborative and continuously celebrates a commitment to ignite positive changes in the world of Public Health. To learn more about our department’s community, past and present, watch the “100 Years, 100 Stories” video. Feature Articles Postdoc Spotlight: Mary Wesley July 7, 2021—Mary Wesley is a teaching fellow in the Department of Epidemiology and a graduate of the Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health. Learn how she supports the Delta Scholars Program in this Q&A. Read more here From the Field: A Story of Collaboration, Persistence, and Adaptation in Ethiopia June 17, 2021—Meet Solomon Teferra and Tamrat Abebe and find out how they adapted their lab to help process COVID-19 samples and tests during the pandemic. Read more here 50 Years Ago: Q&A with Alumnus Noel Weiss June 11, 2021— Noel Weiss, Professor Emeritus in the Department of Epidemiology, University of Washington School of Public Health, is an epidemiologist who has worked extensively on the causes of cancer. Fifty years ago, he was a student at Harvard Chan School writing his thesis. Read more here New Faculty Q&A: Issa Dahabreh January 1, 2021— Issa Dahabreh is an Associate Professor of Epidemiology, with a secondary appointment in the Biostatistics department who uses data from diverse sources to address causal questions. Read more here Student Spotlight: Amanda Pasko April 6, 2020—Amanda Pasko is a first-year masters student studying nutritional epidemiology at the Harvard Chan School and an award-winning track and field runner. Read more here Postdoc Spotlight: Emily Harrison March 13, 2020—Emily Harrison is a Postdoctoral Fellow in Epidemiology and the History of Science at Harvard University researching the history of epidemiology. Read more here What’s New in Epi? Epidemiologists in Action Join us as we wrap up another school year by taking a look at back at some of the highlights from 2021-2022. Click on the link to watch. Spring 2022 Rose Traveling Fellowship Awardees Congratulations to the five spring 2022 Rose Traveling Fellowship Program awardees. Click on the title to learn more about the program. Register Now for the CAUSALab Summer Courses This summer learn from experts on causal inference! Click on the title for more information and to register. Marc Lipsitch Receives ACE Special Award Marc Lipsitch is the 2021 recipient of the American College of Epidemiology's Special Award which this year recognizes a distinguished epidemiologist. Marc Lipsitch and Rebecca Kahn to Help Establish New CDC Center Congratulations to Marc Lipsitch & Rebecca Kahn who have been chosen to help establish a new center at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Albert Hofman Appointed a Knight of the Order of the Lion of the Netherlands Congratulations to Department Chair Albert Hofman, who has been named a Knight of the Order of the Lion of the Netherlands. Welcome from the Chair Albert Hofman, Stephen B. Kay Family Professor of Public Health and Clinical Epidemiology, welcomes you to the Department of Epidemiology. Hofman has served as the department chair since 2016. Read his welcome here. Faculty Job Openings Assistant or Associate Professor of Epidemiology, Infectious Diseases For more information on either position, click here: Faculty Job Postings Epicenter Weekly Email Newsletter Want to keep up-to-date on the latest department news? Sign up here: Epi YouTube Epi TwitterMy Tweets News from the School Congratulations graduates! Probing disease disparities Saving a daughter, starting a career Tackling disparities and stigma around obesity, mental health Information For: Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Friends & Supporters About Key Facts Renaming the School Office of the Dean Location and Facilities Administrative Offices Contact Us Faculty and Research Faculty and Researcher Directory Academic Departments, Divisions and Centers International Research Postdoctoral Research Fellows Office of Faculty Affairs Faculty Searches Office of Diversity and Inclusion Admissions & Aid Why Harvard Chan Degree Programs Non-Degree Programs Financial Aid Student Experience Career Advancement Apply Academics Academic Departments Divisions Research Centers Flagship Initiatives International Research Research Administration and Support Degree Programs Fellowships and Residencies Summer Programs Continuing Professional Education Interdisciplinary Concentrations Academic Calendar Harvard Chan Viewbook Executive/Continuing Ed Program Offerings Custom Programs Request Information News and Resources About ECPE Contact News Featured News Press Releases Student Stories In the News Newsletters HPH Magazine Why Public Health? Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health 677 Huntington Avenue Boston, MA 02115 +1 (617) 495‑1000 Twitter Facebook YouTube LinkedIn Instagram iTunes Harvard Chan Home Contact Us Harvard University Home Make a Gift Privacy Policy Report Copyright Violation Accessibility Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College