Skip to main content Toggle subitems Main navigation Meet Princeton Toggle sub-items In Service of Humanity Facts & Figures History Honors & Awards Contact Us Visit Us Our Faculty Our Students Our Alumni Our Staff Our Leadership Academic Freedom and Free Expression Academics Toggle sub-items Studying at Princeton Library Areas of Study Humanities Social Sciences Engineering Natural Sciences Advising Academic Calendar Course Tools Learning Abroad Career Development Continuing Education Innovative Learning Research Toggle sub-items Engineering & Applied Science Humanities Natural Sciences Social Sciences Interdisciplinary Approach Dean for Research Office External Partnerships Facilities & Labs One Community Toggle sub-items Lifelong Connections Student Life Arts & Culture Athletics Living in Princeton, N.J. Housing & Dining Activities & Organizations Cultural & Affinity Groups Health & Wellness Religious Life Serving the Public Good Families Admission & Aid Toggle sub-items Affordable for All About Financial Aid Current Undergraduate Financial Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission For International Students Utility menu News Events Work at Princeton Services & Resources Work-Life Balance Links for Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Giving Search Sites & People × Our Students Curious, Committed, Creative Princeton students are driven by the desire to push the boundaries of knowledge and service on campus and around the world. Student Profiles Akil Word-Daniels, Graduate Student . Akil Word-Daniels, a Princeton Ph.D. student in electrical engineering, balances his study of quantum cascade lasers with activities such as intramural softball and playtime with his dog, Zoe. Learn more Paulita Lara Mejia, Class of 2018 . Born in Ecuador but raised mainly in the U.S., Paulita Lara remembers asking herself at International Orientation, “Am I really that international?” After meeting her classmates from around the world, she was surprised to learn that many students had lived in several nations and cultures. Learn more Naoum Fares Marayati, Class of 2019 . Naoum Fares Marayati, a psychology major from Syria and North Carolina, stays busy studying psychology, advising students in Forbes College, singing in an a cappella group and exploring new interests. Learn more Camden Olson, Class of 2019 . Camden Olson, an ecology and evolutionary biology major, wants to dedicate her career to helping those with disabilities by training and raising service dogs. Learn more Newby Parton, Class of 2018 . Newby Parton grew up in McMinnville, Tennessee, a small town where nearly a quarter of the residents live below the poverty line, and most of the students who graduate from its only public high school stay pretty close to home. Learn more Shruthi Rajasekar, Class of 2018 . Music major Shruthi Rajasekar has been awarded a Marshall Scholarship to pursue graduate studies in the U.K., with a long-term goal of writing an opera set in India. Learn more Facts & Figures 5,267 Undergraduate enrollment 98% Undergraduate students living on campus 50% Undergraduate men 50% Undergraduate women 2,946 Graduate enrollment Show Me More Facts and Figures Students in the News Award World Series of Birding title goes to a Princeton student team . The Princeton Tiger Shrikes started the competition in the pre-dawn hours at a marsh near the New York border and finished at the Cape May shore, tallying 205 species. Read more Princeton marks more than 50 years of kosher dining on campus . In 1971, Princeton was one of a few schools in the country to open a university-sponsored kosher kitchen on campus. Today, the Center for Jewish Life's dining hall is a popular campus spot for students from all backgrounds. Read more After Princeton graduation, ROTC students are commissioned as U.S. Army and Marine Corps officers . Sixteen members of Princeton’s Class of 2022 became commissioned officers in the U.S. Army and Marine Corps on May 24 during a ceremony led by Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Gen. Mark Milley, Class of 1980. Read more ‘The value of persistence’: Princeton Class of 2022 celebrates Commencement . The University awarded 1,234 undergraduate degrees and 655 graduate degrees during a Commencement ceremony held in Princeton Stadium on Tuesday, May 24. Read more Learn More About Our Students Office of Admission - Student Blog Office of the Dean of the College Office of the Dean of Undergraduate Students The Graduate School Campus Life Meet Princeton In Service of Humanity Facts & Figures History Honors & Awards Contact Us Visit Us Our Faculty Our Students Our Alumni Our Staff Our Leadership Academic Freedom and Free Expression Contact links Contact Us Accessibility Advanced People Search Media Inquiries Website Feedback Visiting links Plan a Visit Maps & Shuttles Varsity Athletics Giving to Princeton Academic links Library Academic Calendar Student Links Faculty & Staff Links Footer social media Facebook Twitter Instagram Snapchat LinkedIn YouTube Social Media Directory Equal Opportunity and Nondiscrimination at Princeton University: Princeton University believes that commitment to principles of fairness and respect for all is favorable to the free and open exchange of ideas, and the University seeks to reach out as widely as possible in order to attract the ablest individuals as students, faculty, and staff. In applying this policy, the University is committed to nondiscrimination on the basis of personal beliefs or characteristics such as political views, religion, national or ethnic origin, race, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, pregnancy, age, marital or domestic partnership status, veteran status, disability, genetic information and/or other characteristics protected by applicable law in any phase of its education or employment programs or activities. In addition, pursuant to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 and supporting regulations, Princeton does not discriminate on the basis of sex in the education programs or activities that it operates; this extends to admission and employment. Inquiries about the application of Title IX and its supporting regulations may be directed to the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, Office for Civil Rights, U.S. Department of Education or to the University's Sexual Misconduct/Title IX Coordinator. See Princeton’s full Equal Opportunity Policy and Nondiscrimination Statement. Princeton University Princeton, NJ 08544 Operator: (609) 258-3000 © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Subfooter links Copyright Infringement Privacy Notice