COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Esports Management, Minor MinorEsports Management All Programs College of Applied Studies Sport Management A minor in esports management from Wichita State combines your passion for esports with basic sport management best practices, preparing you with the foundational skills to develop gaming events and other forms of esports-centric programming. Learn how esports management is the right fit for you. Request Info Start Your Application Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the program To take courses in the College of Applied Studies, you must first be admitted to Wichita State. For WSU's admission requirements, and to apply, click the link below. Admission requirements Curriculum The minor consists of 12 credit hours of sport management courses, including one required course— Overview of Esports—and nine additional hours based on your interests and career goals. Options include Introduction to Sport Management, Practicum in Sport Management, Sport Public Relations, Sport Marketing, Selling in the Sport Industry, Sport Tournament and Event Management or Sport Facility Management. View the curriculum Careers Thanks to WSU's extensive network of employer connections, students in every major have opportunities to gain real-world experience—helping them build a resume, make professional connections and land their dream jobs. Learn more about careers in this field Similar Programs Sport Management Management Game Design Computer Science Applied Computing Communication - Electronic Media 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©