Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Prospective Newly Admitted Current Alumni Columbia University School of General Studies Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Admissions Educational Financing Academics Student Services About Undergraduate Admissions How to Apply Eligibility Application Deadlines and Decisions Information Sessions/Campus Visits Transfer Students Postbac Premed Admissions How to Apply Eligibility Application Deadlines and Decisions Information Sessions/Campus Visits Newly Admitted Students International Students Planning Day Placement Exams University-Wide Placement Exams U.S. Military Veterans International Dual Degree Programs Types of Financial Aid Institutional Scholarships Federal and State Grants Loans Private Scholarships and Grants Student Employment Financial Aid for Military Veterans Post-9/11 GI Bill® and the Yellow Ribbon Program Veterans Request for Certification Cost of Attendance Applying for Financial Aid Prospective Students Newly Admitted Students Current Students University Employees Postbac Premed Students Counseling Appointments Enrollment Update Form Student Account Refunds Undergraduate The Core Curriculum Degree Fulfillment Course Listings Majors and Concentrations Research Opportunities Study Abroad Academic Calendar Postbac Premed Program Curriculum & Courses Sample Schedule Course Listings Preparatory Coursework Previously Completed Coursework Glide Year Master’s Programs Academic Calendar Applying to Medical School General Admission Linkage Admission Linkage Specific Program Requirements Reapplicants Letters of Recommendation Academic Policies Registration Enrollment and Courseload Leaves and Withdrawals Academic Integrity and Standards Faculty of Arts and Sciences Undergraduate Announcements Postbac Premed Announcements Academic Advising Academic Resource Center Programs & Services Jumpstart Series Tutoring Peer Advising Campus Services Forms and Guides Graduation Health and Wellness Housing International Students Medical School Fair Planning Your Future Accelerated Master's Programs Fellowships and Research Premedical Clinical and Research Positions Student Life Leadership Development Multicultural & Social Justice Education Programs Student Organizations Upcoming Events Veterans Resources and Initiatives Leadership Mission History Statistics and Facts Notable Alumni University Policies Events Staff Directory Faculty News Press Coverage Media Inquiries School of General Studies You are here: Home Student Services Student Life Student Organizations Student Organizations Since learning extends beyond the classroom, GS Student Life encourages students to become involved in programs and activities that enhance their educational experience and personal growth. A wide range of student organizations address both personal and professional interests in the arts, politics, identity, culture, sports and recreation, religion, and many more, all of which provide opportunities to enrich student life, the Columbia community, and Columbia's New York City neighbors. Expand all Collapse all General Studies Student Council The General Studies Student Council (GSSC) pursues academic, political, social and administrative initiatives, and serves as a liaison between the student body, the GS administration, University offices, and student organizations. Members of the GSSC plan academic and social events on campus, enact policies that positively impact GS students, collaborate with the other student councils at Columbia, and work with University administrators. Contact gssc.gs.columbia.edu [email protected] General Studies Student Council Facebook Page Postbac Premed Student Council (PPSC) and Auxiliary Groups The Postbac Premed Student Council (PPSC), which is made up of Postbac Premed and GS undergraduate premed students, works closely with the premedical advisors to build a supportive community. Contact ppsc.studentgroups.columbia.edu [email protected]du Currently, the PPSC supports several auxiliary groups that align with particular medical interests and scope, listed below. Students interested in forming new auxiliary groups under the PPSC should contact the current board members to inquire on processes and requirements for gaining recognition. American Medical Women's Association (AMWA) AMWA aims to promote women in medicine, connect students to professionals in the field, and advocate for women's health issues. Contact [email protected] The Columbia Society for Medical Humanities (CSMH) CSMH is committed to providing the Columbia community with a public forum focused at the intersection of medicine and the humanities. Contact [email protected] Columbia Society for Medical Humanities Website Columbia Society for Medical Humanities Facebook Page Crafting for a Cause: A Wellness Initiative Crafting for a Cause serves to promote wellness through crafting by providing students with a creative outlet to de-stress as well as community outreach opportunities. Contact [email protected] The Emergency Medicine Club The Emergency Medical Club aims to enhance Postbac Premed students’ knowledge of the field of emergency medicine. Contact [email protected] Healthcare Innovation Club (HICCUP) The Healthcare Innovation Club Changing Underlying Problems (HICCUP) seeks to foster an understanding of advances in biotechnology situated within the context of the complex global healthcare infrastructure. The club hopes to educate students on biotech topics such as gene and cell therapy, mRNA drug development, neuro modulation and digital therapeutics as well as healthcare infrastructure topics such as clinical trial design, payer and provider incentive structures, and the COVID-19 response. HICCUP believes that the aspiring medical practitioners of Columbia’s post baccalaureate program are the perfect audience for this education as we set off for careers within a system we ought to know more about. Contact [email protected] Integrative Medicine Integrative Medicine focuses on how to combine healing systems such as nutrition, mindfulness, and ancient traditional medicines with biomedicine in order to heal the whole rather than individual parts of the self. Contact [email protected] Columbia Integrative Medicine Club Facebook Group International Student Group (ISG) ISG is dedicated to providing support to international premedical students on campus, and to promoting and fostering discussions surrounding global health. Contact [email protected] Journal Club The Postbac Premed Journal Club is a new opportunity for postbac students to learn how to read, interpret, and discuss scientific literature, become aware of and involved in existing research opportunities, and hear from Columbia University faculty and outside investigators about their research. Contact [email protected] Primary Care Club Connections The Primary Care Club is a new organization that was founded as a supportive peer network of pre-health students at Columbia, committed to exploring their interests in the various primary care specialties through career workshops, group discussions, and shadowing resources. Contact [email protected] The Queer Health Alliance The Queer Health Alliance aims to provide a community for queer and allied premedical students at Columbia where they can share experiences, discuss relevant issues (such as LGBTQ Health issues and disparities), and build a network. Contact [email protected] Social Justice Medicine (SJM) SJM works to establish a foundational knowledge of social justice medicine among premedical students through classroom-based and experiential learning opportunities. Contact [email protected] Columbia Social Justice Medicine Facebook Page The Surgical Society The Columbia PMA Surgical Society was founded to introduce premedical students to lectures, programs, and discussions to nurture an interest for those considering a career in surgery. Contact [email protected] Columbia PMA Surgical Society Facebook Group Yoga and Meditation Club The Columbia PMA Yoga and Meditation Club is a safe space for students to relieve stress and explore kinesthetic awareness through the physical, spiritual, and meditative practice of yoga. Contact [email protected] Columbia PMA Yoga and Meditation Club Facebook Group GS-Focused Student Organizations GS Student Life advises student organizations that support the GS community. Arts Collective (ArtC) ArtC is an student organization, recognized by the Activities Board at Columbia, dedicated to providing spaces for artistic expression. Contact [email protected] Columbia Recovery Coalition The Columbia Recovery Coalition is an association of Columbia University students dedicated to the unique concerns and interests of those who are in recovery, or may be interested in recovery, from any substance abuse or other emotional or traumatic situation. Contact: [email protected] Columbia Recovery Coalition Facebook Columbia University Family Support Network (CUFSN) CUFSN is a student organization, recognized by the Student Governing Board, dedicated to meeting the needs of students in GS and across the university, with families. They work to provide resources and develop family-friendly programming. Contact [email protected] The Food Pantry at Columbia The Food Pantry and Columbia envisions a campus in which every student, regardless of their affiliation or socioeconomic status, has sufficient access to nutritious food. The mission of the Food Pantry is to relieve hunger through the acquisition and distribution of food to those students who most need it, and to lead our campus community in the fight against hunger. Contact [email protected] The Food Pantry at Columbia Website GS Alliance GS Alliance is a student organization, recognized by the Student Governing Board, dedicated to the advancement of education and advocacy regarding issues of special interest to the LGBTQA community and its allies. Contact [email protected] Koreans in GS (KIGS) KIGS is a student organization, recognized by the Activities Board at Columbia, dedicated to building community among Korean students at GS. Contact Koreans In General Studies Facebook Group Military Veterans of Columbia University (MilVets) MilVets is a student organization, recognized by the Activities Board at Columbia, dedicated to serving the needs of military veterans and their families on campus. Contact [email protected] Medical Veterans of Columbia University (MedVets) MedVets is a student organization dedicated to serving military veterans interested in health and medicine. Contact: [email protected] Student of Color Alliance (S.O.C.A.) S.O.C.A. is a student group dedicated to providing a space to discuss issues affecting GS students of color. Contact [email protected] University-Wide Student Organizations Columbia University has more than 500 student organizations that are open to students in all four undergraduate schools, including students in the School of General Studies. To learn more about student groups on campus, students can use LionLink to search for student organizations, check out member rosters, view a calendar of upcoming student group events, and more. Club Sports and Intramurals Club Sports at Columbia University is home to 36 student run recreational and sports organizations. Students with common interest in recreation and sports organize these Club Sports to collectively pursue their passions. The Columbia Intramural Program provides Dodge Fitness Center members with opportunities to participate in competitive leagues and tournaments in a variety of team and individual sports and activities. Forming New Student Groups and Organizations Students are encouraged to contact GS Student Life for more information by emailing [email protected]. To learn about the student organization governing boards at Columbia University, including steps to gaining official recognition, please visit the Columbia Activities Board (ABC) or the Student Governing Board (SGB). Fraternity and Sorority Life Fraternities and Sororities have been a part of Columbia University for over 175 years and have existed by virtue of the University's endorsement and support. The 28 sororities and fraternities at Columbia are open to every full-time undergraduate in any division of the University. GS students have the opportunity to familiarize themselves with various chapters on campus during each organization's recruiting program. Columbia University Activities Day Activities Day is a special event at the start of the fall semester where students have the opportunity to meet student leaders from more than 500 clubs and organizations, including club sports, community service groups, cultural organizations, performing arts groups, religious and spiritual groups, political and activist organizations, pre-professional and recreational organizations, sororities, fraternities, and student government, to name a few. Student organizations and clubs fill College Walk, Low Plaza, and Butler Plaza with colorful banners, information for prospective new members, and giveaways for interested students. GS Student Life 308B Lewisohn Hall (212) 854-9536 [email protected] Meet the Team Admissions Undergraduate Admissions Postbac Premed Admissions Newly Admitted Students U.S. Military Veterans International Dual Degree Programs Educational Financing Types of Financial Aid Financial Aid for Military Veterans Cost of Attendance Applying for Financial Aid Counseling Appointments Enrollment Update Form Student Account Refunds Academics Undergraduate Postbac Premed Program Applying to Medical School Academic Policies Faculty of Arts and Sciences Student Services Undergraduate Announcements Postbac Premed Announcements Academic Advising Academic Resource Center Campus Services Forms and Guides Graduation Health and Wellness Housing International Students Medical School Fair Planning Your Future Premedical Clinical and Research Positions Student Life Veterans Resources and Initiatives About Leadership Mission History Statistics and Facts Notable Alumni University Policies Events Staff Directory Faculty News Press Coverage Media Inquiries Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close