Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Information Technology UCIT right arrow down arrow About right arrow down arrow IT College Contacts Diversity and Inclusion Sitemap Services right arrow down arrow Student Hardware Software right arrow down arrow Student Software Productivity (Students) right arrow down arrow Student Printing with Wepa Computer Labs App & Web Development Research Computing Services Connectivity (Visitors) IT NEXT Get Help right arrow down arrow Report an issue Student Quickstart Guide ResNet Documentation Center Home » About UC » IT@UC » Services » Productivity (Students) Set Navigation title in component Student Hardware Software Student Software Productivity (Students) Student Printing with Wepa Computer Labs App & Web Development Research Computing Services Connectivity (Visitors) Student Productivity Tools The following tools and services are available to UC students to stay productive online, in the classroom or around campus. Computer Labs and Printing Visit IT@UC Computer Labs located throughout campus. right arrow down arrow View computer lab locations Use MyDesk for remote access to many of the software options available in computer labs. right arrow down arrow View more information about MyDesk Use your Bearcat card for Printing Stations at various locations around campus, including computer labs, libraries, and other UC public locations. right arrow down arrow Learn more about WEPA printing stations Email Access Office 365 student email anywhere, any time, on any device. right arrow down arrow Sign in to Office 365 student email (requires UC login) Get help with setting up email using our Knowledge Base articles File Sharing Store, share, and edit files online with Microsoft OneDrive. right arrow down arrow Microsoft OneDrive, part of the Microsoft Office 365 suite of software tools, is the university's official cloud storage and file-sharing solution. Visit the IT@UC Knowledge Base to get started with OneDrive. Internet - On Campus Get online with UC_Secure, the university's primary wireless network for students, faculty, and staff. right arrow down arrow Connect your computer to UC_Secure. View setup guide for Windows 10. View setup guide for macOSX. View setup guide for Linux. Connect your wireless device to UC_Secure. View setup guide for Apple iOS (iphone, iPad). View setup guide for Android devices. View setup guide for Google Pixel phones. Accept the “netauth.uc.edu” authentication certificate on your wireless device(s). right arrow down arrow You may be prompted to accept the “netauth.uc.edu” certificate on each wireless device you use to connect to UC_Secure on campus. How to accept the “netauth.uc.edu” authentication certificate on your wireless device(s). You may be presented with a screen displaying “netauth.uc.edu” after you log into UC_Secure wireless with your UC username and password. Select “Trust” or “Accept.” That’s IT! You may experience a brief delay while your device connects to UC_Secure wireless. Follow the steps below if you cannot successfully connect to UC_Secure wireless or if you did not select “Trust” or “Accept” when prompted with the “netauth.uc.edu” certificate. Select “UC_Secure” from the list of available networks on your device. Select “Forget This Network.” Go back to the list of available networks and log into “UC_Secure” with your UC username and password. Select “Trust” or “Accept” when presented with the “netauth.uc.edu” certificate. Visitors select the UCGuest wireless connection, which does not require a UC username and password. right arrow down arrow Get help with UCGuest Use the wireless network UC_BYOD in residence halls to connect devices like wireless printers, gaming consoles and wireless-enabled TVs. right arrow down arrow View UC_BYOD FAQs Web Conferencing Use WebEx to host virtual meetings and classes when you can't meet face-to-face. right arrow down arrow Sign in to student WebEx Learn more about WebEx Use Microsoft Teams to host virtual meetings, send instant messages, and collaborate on projects right arrow down arrow Set up Microsoft Teams Learn more about Microsoft Teams Audio Conferencing Learn how to access your recorded Teams meetings University of Cincinnati IT@UC - 51 Goodman Dr. Cincinnati, Oh 45221-0658 513-556-HELP (4357) UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati IT@UC - 51 Goodman Dr. Cincinnati, Oh 45221-0658 513-556-HELP (4357) © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top