Skip to Content See Temple’s coronavirus response. Temple University Schools and Colleges Art & Architecture Business & Management Dentistry Education & Human Development Engineering Environmental Design Law Liberal Arts Media & Communication Medicine Music & Dance Pharmacy Podiatric Medicine Public Health Science & Technology Social Work Theater, Film & Media Arts Sport, Tourism & Hospitality Management Temple.edu Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Housing Financial Aid Campus Life Giving The Fox School of Business at Temple University Search Explore Temple University Apply Alumni Giving Student Tools Contact Us Fox School of Business Full Menu Apply Alumni Giving Student Tools Contact Us About Fox About Fox Life at Fox Visit Fox Strategic Plan Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Get Involved For Parents & Families Student Professional Organizations Faculty & Staff Directory Analytics & Accreditation Resources Academics Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs MBA Programs Specialized Master's The Fox PhD Executive DBA Graduate Certificates International Programs Experiential Learning Advising Apply to Fox Faculty & Research Departments Faculty Directory Institutes & Centers Knowledge Hub Research at Fox Translational Research Open Faculty Positions Adjunct Faculty Newsroom News & Publications Research Events Podcasts Newsletters Faculty Expert Guide Contact Us Industry & Recruiters Hire Fox Students Executive Education Fox Management Consulting Partner With Fox Fox Board Fellows Translational Research Center for Student Professional Development Home > Institutes & Centers > Center for Student Professional Development Related Pages All Institutes & Centers Center for Student Professional Development Contact Us Staff Getting CSPD’d Outcomes Undergraduate Coaching Appointments Professional Development Resources Report your Internship or Post-Graduation Plans Graduate Build Meaningful Connections Develop Your Career Strategy Explore Professional Development Resources Prepare For Your Future Report Your Success Alumni Coaching Appointments Resources Events & Webinars Book Club Alumni Associations Employers Post a Job or Internship on Handshake Engage on Campus Resources and Policies Contact Us Family Calendar of Events Undergraduate Events Graduate Events Events & Webinars Related Pages All Institutes & Centers Center for Student Professional Development Contact Us Staff Getting CSPD’d Outcomes Undergraduate Coaching Appointments Professional Development Resources Report your Internship or Post-Graduation Plans Graduate Build Meaningful Connections Develop Your Career Strategy Explore Professional Development Resources Prepare For Your Future Report Your Success Alumni Coaching Appointments Resources Events & Webinars Book Club Alumni Associations Employers Post a Job or Internship on Handshake Engage on Campus Resources and Policies Contact Us Family Calendar of Events Undergraduate Events Graduate Events Events & Webinars COVID-19 Update To our students and employer partners, In response to COVID-19, maintaining the health and wellness of our community is our number one priority. Our “new normal” is to provide all our career and professional development services both in-person and virtually. Click here to learn more. The CSPD Difference The Center for Student Professional Development (CSPD), is a vital link between Fox School students and the business community. Through an integrated professional development program, unparalleled customer service, and in-depth knowledge of employer needs, CSPD prepares Fox students for the business world and provides recruiters with diverse and professionally polished management talent. Our Mission The Fox Center for Student Professional Development (CSPD) empowers students with life-long skills and a transformative professional development experience based on market-driven expertise. CSPD prepares students for the business world, provides recruiters with diverse and polished talent, and is a vital link between Fox School students and the business community. Our Primary Goals Offer Fox School students opportunities to develop the essential communication and interpersonal skills and ethical values needed for today’s competitive global economy. Work closely with Student Professional Organizations (SPO’s), for purposes of career building, networking, and development of leadership skills, while emphasizing the importance of business ethics. Cultivate relationships with alumni and regional corporations resulting in internship and full-time career opportunities for students and startup partnerships for research projects, executive training, and outreach activities. Integrate the Fox School students into the business community and serve as a recruitment tool for employers, thereby creating a dynamic synergy between the Fox School and its corporate partners. CSPD Professional Development Model Impression Management Development of written, oral, visual, and non-verbal communications that persuade and inspire others. Personal Development Use of self-reflection to develop a course of action to improve specific skills that increase one’s potential. Career & Industry Awareness Demonstration of an understanding of the workplace, various industries, and career options through exploration, research, and experiential learning. Find a Job or Internship on Handshake Sign into Handshake with your AccessNet username and password. Handshake is the innovative recruitment and career management platform for Fox School of Business students and alumni. The platform serves as the go-to resource for jobs, internships, events, and more. Find a “Micro-Internship” on Parker Dewey Parker Dewey connects Fox students with employers on short-term paid projects, usually in the range of 5-40 hours. These short term projects are called “Micro-Internships” and allow Fox students the ability to explore different career paths while demonstrating skills to potential employers. Learn some tips on red flags and how to protect yourself if you may have applied for a fraudulent job. Avoid Fraudulent Job Postings Apply Visit Contact Us Fox School of Business 1801 Liacouras Walk Philadelphia, PA 19122 Phone: 215-204-7676 Graduate: foxinfo@temple.edu Undergraduate: foxvisit@temple.edu Follow the Fox School of Business Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Policies Social Media TUportal TUMail Accessibility Careers at Temple Copyright © Fox School of Business 2022. All rights reserved.