HOME Make a Gift Clemson Home Students Faculty/Staff Alumni Partners A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps CU Safety Phonebook Webcams Make a Gift Toggle navigation HOME DIVISIONS Medical Services Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS) Healthy Campus HEALTH TOPICS ADHD Alcohol and Other Drugs Antibiotics Body Image Building Social Connections Fitness Interpersonal Violence Mental Health Nutrition Social Media and Internet Use Sexual Health Sleep Spring Break Safety Stress Suicide Sustainibility Tobacco Well-being CONTACT ABOUT POLICIES & RECORDS Advance Directives Diversity Eligibility Health Fee Privacy Practice Records & Confidentiality Rights & Responsibilities Aspire to Go Green Sustainability Minor The foundation course for the sustainability minor SUST 2010 (formerly CU 2010) is open to all majors and is designed to familiarize students with the core values of sustainability. If you are interested in minoring in sustainability, speak with your advisor or contact Jennifer Goree at goree@clemson.edu. For more information, visit clemson.edu/sustainability/academics. Sustainability Resources The following resources provide information about the movement to a sustainable world and how you can start making the change to make a difference. Educational Resources NASA - Global Climate Information: Want to know more about the state of our planet? Take a look at what NASA has to say about the causes, effects, and solutions of climate change as well as an overview of other issues that are important to the health of our environment. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change: Do some in depth research on climate science as well as important policy decisions. The IPCC provides some of the most thorough and agreed-upon information of climate change in its Assessment Reports. Project Drawdown: Amid all the discouraging information of impending disaster, Project Drawdown released a plan to reverse climate change in this century. Go look at their top 100 solutions to be inspired and see the future of sustainable development. Sustainable Development Goals: The UN released 17 Sustainable Development goals to track progress as part of a 2030 Sustainable Development Agenda. Check out the “shared blueprint for peace and prosperity for people and the planet”. CONTACT DIVISION OF STUDENT AFFAIRS 202 Sikes Hall, Clemson, SC Copyright 2020 Webmaster