Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. International Services International Services right arrow down arrow Admissions and Arrival right arrow down arrow Cost and Finances Apply to UC right arrow down arrow Transfer to UC Exchange and Visiting Student Programs DACA Students Next Steps to Enroll Orientation & Check-in Visas and Immigration right arrow down arrow Students right arrow down arrow F-1 Students J-1 Students Faculty, Staff and Interns right arrow down arrow J-1 Scholars J-1 Interns H-1B Workers E-3 Status O-1 Status TN Status Permanent Residency Dependents Change Your Status Government Updates Visa Fees Life at UC right arrow down arrow Student Experiences Essential Resources right arrow down arrow Housing and Dining Transportation Finances Healthcare and Insurance Law and Safety Academics Student Employment right arrow down arrow On Campus Off Campus OPT (F-1 Students) right arrow down arrow OPT Seminar CPT (F-1 Students) Fellowships and Assistantships (J-1) Academic Training (J-1) Social Life Hiring, Hosting and Admitting right arrow down arrow Hiring International Workers right arrow down arrow Students Hosting Visitors and Delegations Admitting Students Using iBearcatsGlobal Credential Evaluation Taxes right arrow down arrow How to File right arrow down arrow Non-Resident with US Income Non-Resident with No Income Resident Alien with No Tax Treaty Resident Alien with a Tax Treaty SSN & ITIN right arrow down arrow Social Security Tax Refund Contact Us iBearcatsGlobal Home » About UC » International Services » Visas and Immigration » Students Set Navigation title in component Students F-1 Students J-1 Students Faculty, Staff and Interns J-1 Scholars J-1 Interns H-1B Workers E-3 Status O-1 Status TN Status Permanent Residency Dependents Change Your Status Government Updates Visa Fees Student Visas As you study in the United States, you'll want to make sure that you follow all the necessary rules related to your visa status. Our students typically hold one of the following visa types: F-1 student visa right arrow down arrow Most students at the University of Cincinnati come on an F-1 visa. You are eligible for an F-1 visa if: You want to study at the University of Cincinnati as a full-time undergraduate or graduate student. You will be paying for most of your education through personal or family funds. F-1 Visa Information J-1 student visa right arrow down arrow You are eligible for a J-1 visa if: You are participating in an exchange agreement or program You will be financed directly or indirectly by the US government, the government of your home country or supported substantially by funding from any source other than personal or family funds (scholarships, assistantships, or fellowships) You are pursuing academic training in a non-degree program for under 24 months J-1 Student Visa Information If you don't think either of these visa statuses apply to you, contact our office to discuss your circumstances further. Changing Status If your circumstances change, you may be able to switch to a different nonimmigrant status. Learn more about changing status UC International is here to help. From the time you apply to the time you arrive in Cincinnati, UC International will be here to help you. If you ever have questions about your visa, contact our office and an advisor will answer. UC International 7148 Edwards Center One 47 W. Corry Blvd. Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-4278 international.students@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati UC International 7148 Edwards Center One 47 W. Corry Blvd. Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-4278 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top