Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Apply Visit Give Information For Incoming Students – Summer 2022 Current Students Employers Alumni Veterans Search BC.edu Links Menu Main Nav Back Back Close About Overview Dean's Message Mission & History STM Values Facts & Figures STM Global Diversity at STM Contact Us and Staff Directory Accreditation and Educational Effectiveness Related Links Strategic Plan STM News About BC Admission Overview Why Choose STM? How To Apply Funding Your Studies Scholarships & Assistantships Federal Financial Aid Webinars and Campus Visits Request Information Meet the Admissions Team Partnerships Related Links Living in Boston Facts & Figures FAQ New Student Information Academics Overview Programs Master of Divinity (M.Div.) Master of Arts in Theology and Ministry (M.A.) Master of Theological Studies (M.T.S.) Hybrid M.A. in Theology and Ministry Master of Theology (Th.M.) Ph.D. in Theology and Education Doctorate in Sacred Theology (S.T.D.) Licentiate in Sacred Theology (S.T.L.) Bachelor of Sacred Theology (S.T.B.) Certificate in Theology and Ministry Certificate in Hispanic Ministry Certificate in Religious Education Post-Master's Certificate Certificate in Christian Spirituality Certificate in Ignatian Spirituality Certificate in Spiritual and Pastoral Care Hispanic Ministry Programs Dual Program with M.S.W. Dual Program with M.B.A. Dual Program in Counseling Nondegree Coursework Summer at STM Intensive on the 19th Annotation for Spiritual Directors Courses Summer at STM Summer at Linz Summer at STM Supervised Ministry Spirituality Studies Programs in Hispanic Theology and Ministry STM From a Distance Related Links Current Student Resources Dual Degrees Boston Theological Interreligious Consortium Arts at STM Certificates & Nondegree Faculty & Research Overview Faculty Directory Jeffrey Von Arx, S.J. John F. Baldovin, S.J. André Brouillette, S.J. Francine Cardman Vicente Chong, S.J. Richard J. Clifford, S.J. Andrew R. Davis Daniel J. Daly Dominic F. Doyle Brian Dunkle, S.J. Angela Kim Harkins Colleen M. Griffith Margaret Eletta Guider, O.S.F. Barton T. Geger, S.J. Franklin T. Harkins Thomas H. Groome Mary Jo Iozzio David W. Jorgensen Maria Kakavas L. Callid Keefe-Perry Melissa Kelley Richard Lennan Rafael Luciani Christopher R. Matthews Catherine Mooney Matthew S. Monnig, S.J. Hosffman Ospino Theresa A. O'Keefe Félix Palazzi Andrea Ponzone, J.C.D., LL.B. William D. Roozeboom Jane E. Regan Walter J. Smith, S.J., Ph.D. Thomas D. Stegman, S.J. Judith A. Talvacchia O. Ernesto Valiente Benjamin Valentin Andrea Vicini, S.J. Joseph E. Weiss, S.J. Faculty Expertise New Testament Abstracts Student Research International Fellows Theology and Ministry Library Related Links BC Theology Department Lumen et Vita (STM Student Journal) Institute for Advanced Jesuit Studies Ricci Institute for Chinese-Western Cultural History Center for Teaching Excellence Community Overview Liturgy & Worship Diversity & Dialogue Formation Living in Boston Our Spaces Career Development Student Forum Related Links Current Student Resources BC Campus Ministry BC Graduate Student Life STM Alumni Resources Continuing Ed Overview Crossroads Formación Continua Campus Events / Webinars Registration Instructions STM Webinar Zoom Help Encore The Journey Continues Calling Out From the Depths Close Directory A to Z Listing Search STM site Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Incoming Students – Summer 2022 Current Students Employers Alumni Veterans BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Home Academics Program Details Ph.D. in Theology and Education Ph.D. in Theology and Education Ph.D. in Theology and Education A truly interdisciplinary doctoral program The Ph.D. in Theology and Education prepares future leaders and scholars with a focus on religious education that branches out into practical and pastoral theology and such academic disciplines as religion and society, moral development, and leadership in Catholic education. It has also been effective in preparing undergraduate theology teachers. The program combines resources from STM, the Lynch School of Education and Human Development, and the Graduate School of the Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences. Participants take courses in theology, education, religious education and other subjects as germane to one’s area of research and dissertation topic (philosophy, sociology, etc.). One’s PhD committee, serving for both comprehensive exams and dissertation, is made up of a DREPM faculty person with expertise in religious education, and then one from another area of theology and from the Lynch School. STM Faculty Department of Theology Faculty Lynch School of Education Faculty ph.d. handbook Upcoming Ph.D. Webinars: Tuesday, September 21 at 4:00pm Wednesday, October 27 at 1:00pm Apply Inquire Visit Contact Frequently Asked Questions What do you look for in candidates to this program? What kind of academic background and prior training? Candidates must have a strong academic record, be well recommended by faculty who have taught them at a graduate level (can be in Theology or Education), have a good writing sample; and have a real interest in religious education, or more broadly be willing to study at the interface of theology and education or in practical theology. Some direct experience in teaching or ministerial work is also imperative. How do you define religious education? Definitions vary! However, BC's program is committed to education from and for a faith perspective on life, to nurture people to live into a Transcendent Horizon - God (however understood - though our ethos is distinctly Catholic and Christian). For this reason, the program is well named - a PhD in Theology and Education; we take both components seriously and attempt to integrate them. If you have good religion and good education and put the two together, you will likely have good religious education. What if I want to focus solely on a particular subdiscipline of theology (Scripture, moral theology, Church history, etc.)? That would be fine but it would require taking an "education" approach to those disciplines - how to teach them effectively as well as know about them. If one is interested solely in the study of systematic theology, Scripture, or ethics, etc., then you might consider a Ph.D. in Theology from BC's Department of Theology in the Morrissey College of Arts & Sciences. Can I complete this program without living in Boston? No - BC requires at least two years of residency. At a Glance How long will it take? Most students complete the program over four or five years. Coursework and Residency The program typically includes 50 credits of coursework beyond the master’s degree. The minimum residency requirement is two years of full-time study. Funding All Ph.D. students receive a four-year stipend of $20,500/year, plus a full tuition scholarship. Religious Education Faculty View More View Less Meet some of our current Ph.D. students! Recent Graduate Placements Professor, Jesuit Theological College, Melbourne, Australia Professor of Environmental Ethics, Department of Theology University of Portland Member of Irish Senate Associate Professor of Theology, Aquinas Institute of Theology Director of Contextual Education and Congregational Partnerships, Boston University School of Theology Professor, Mount Mary College Head of Chapel, Trinity Episcopal School for Ministry Associate Professor, Director of Pastoral Ministry Program, Duquesne University Professor of Christian/Jewish Learning, St. Joseph’s University President, College of St. Mary Our Alumni Application Information Print Application Form The application to STM must be completed online. Application Form Please note you can submit your application form once it is completed; you do not need to wait for all of your supplemental materials to arrive. Additional Requirements: International applicants Religious applicants Application Fee A non-refundable fee of $75 is required for every degree and non-degree application submitted. Payment Options Pay by credit or debit card via the web; You can pay the application fee at the same time your submit your application form. However, if you do not pay the fee at the same time you submit your application, you can pay online at a later date through the Agora Portal. You must use your BC Username and password to log in. Pay by check or money order made payable to Boston College, via regular mail. Please include your check with a copy of your application form submission confirmation page and include your name and intended degree program. Please note: The application fee cannot be refunded for any reason. If you qualify for a fee waiver, you should not pay the fee when you submit the application form. Fee waivers are automatically granted to the following applicants: Jesuits, veterans, applicants currently completing a year of service, and current STM students. We do not waive the application fee for other reasons. Standardized Tests The GRE is optional, but preferred. Applicants who do send GRE scores should have them sent directly from ETS. Our GRE code is 2508. English Proficiency Exam All applicants for whom English is not their native language must also provide TOEFL, IELTS, or Duolingo test score results. Read more about special instructions for international applicants here. This webpage will also indicate under with criteria a waiver may be granted. Waivers must be approved in writing by the admissions office. Transcripts We require transcripts from all colleges, universities, seminaries, or theological schools that you have attended. Each transcript should contain a list of all coursework taken, grades/marks received, and, if applicable, degree granted and date of degree confirmation. If your college or university will send official transcripts electronically, they can be emailed to stmadm@bc.edu. Otherwise, transcripts must be mailed and be contained in a sealed, signed envelope. If the official transcript is not English, a translation should be provided with the official document. Please alert us if your transcript will be arriving with a different name than the one you are using on your application (e.g. your maiden name). Please note that your application may be reviewed with unofficial copies of your transcripts, though we prefer official copies at the time of application. If you send unofficial copies, please note that if admitted, you must sent official copies before you begin coursework. In addition, if you are currently finishing a degree, you must send a final, official version of the transcript upon graduating, and before beginning coursework at STM. Mailing Addresses For applicants using the U.S. Postal Service: Boston College School of Theology and Ministry Simboli Hall 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 For applicants using FedEx or UPS, please use this address: Boston College School of Theology and Ministry Simboli Hall 9 Lake Street Brighton, MA 02135-3841 Recommendations Ph.D. applicants are required to submit three recommendations using the online application system. Each recommender should be familiar with the applicant’s academic competence and their capacity for success in a doctoral program. For applicants who have been out of school for a significant amount of time, the recommenders should be familiar with the applicant's professional competence. Please be sure that your recommenders are aware of the application deadlines and online process, and choose them carefully to ensure that they can write on your behalf in a timely manner. Writing Sample The writing sample must be uploaded as part of the application. The sample should be an academic paper of around 25 pages. Résumé The resume must be uploaded as part of the application. It is helpful if you highlight relevant teaching, research, ministry, service, and leadership positions you have held. Personal Statement The personal statement must be uploaded as part of the application. The personal statement should be three pages in length, double-spaced. Your statement should address the following: The academic, professional, and personal development that has motivated you to apply to the STM. Include a sketch of your educational background and interests, any experience you have in ministry and/or religious education, and any other relevant professional and volunteer experience Your understanding of theological education and/or ministry in the context of the Church’s mission How you plan to apply your theological education Given your experience, how you assess your principal strengths for theological education and/or ministry as well as your areas of needed development Information outlining your specific area and field of academic interest, a proposed topic(s) for your research and dissertation, how your previous academic, professional, and/or pastoral experience has prepared you for studies within that particular field, and the STM faculty member(s) with whom you would like to work Required Supplemental Essay "Education is not the filling of a pail but the lighting of a fire." (attributed to the poet William Butler Yeats). Write a 700 word essay (two pages, double spaced, 12 font) in which you propose a vision for research on teaching theology or religious education in ways that "light a fire" of faith in people's lives. Use this essay to briefly name some of your methodological and intellectual commitments. Back To Top Back To Top School of Theology and Ministry Simboli Hall 9 Lake Street Brighton, MA 02135-3841 617-552-6501 About Admission Academics Faculty & Research Continuing Ed/Formación Continua Community Apply Visit Give Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube LinkedIn Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College