Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Accessibility Network Accessibility Network right arrow down arrow Getting Started right arrow down arrow About us Accessibility Commitment and Policy EIT Accessibility Plan FAQ's Accessibility 101 right arrow down arrow Accessibility Definitions Documents right arrow down arrow Microsoft Excel Accessibility right arrow down arrow Guides Checklist Tutorials Microsoft PowerPoint right arrow down arrow Checklist Tutorials Microsoft Word right arrow down arrow Guides Checklist Tutorials PDF Documents right arrow down arrow Guides Checklist Tutorials Websites right arrow down arrow Headers Links Alt Text Color and Contrast Tables Forms Checklists Video & Media right arrow down arrow Ordering & Editing Auto Captions Ordering Professional Captions YouTube Studio Captioning Checklist Purchasing right arrow down arrow Procurement Policy Accessibility Review VPAT Software and Applications Checklist Canvas right arrow down arrow Ally for Canvas Course Syllabus Create an Accessible Canvas Course Checklist Training right arrow down arrow Digital Inclusion Day right arrow down arrow Call for Proposals Schedule of Events Registration Accessibility Compliance Training right arrow down arrow Request Enrollment - Accessibility Compliance Training Home » About UC » Electronic Accessibility » Canvas Set Navigation title in component Ally for Canvas Course Syllabus Create an Accessible Canvas Course Checklist Canvas Faculty: Tips for Accommodations while Teaching Remotely Guidance for faculty and staff teaching students with disabilities. If you are a faculty member who is experiencing disability related barriers to teaching in an online format, please contact the Academic Personnel office or the university’s EIT Accessibility Coordinator. To ensure all students have equal access to the course materials needed to successfully engage in learning, in accordance with the University of Cincinnati EIT Policy, the university asks faculty to provide accessible course content. Below are seven operating principles on how faculty can support students who use various types of assistive technology to access course content. In the 2019-2020 academic year, focus on Operating Principles 1-4—specifically the creation of new learning materials using the built-in accessibility features in frequently-used software: Microsoft Word and PowerPoint, as well as Blackboard and Canvas. Resources are provided with each principle to help you learn how to create accessible course materials. 1. Student requests for accommodations are responded to and supported by faculty right arrow down arrow If a student reaches out to you for an accommodation, work with you partners at the university to provide the requested accommodations within a reasonable time frame. This will increase the ability for the student to be successful in your classroom. Resources Read the Accessibility Resources guide for understanding an accommodation form For additional questions about accommodations, please contact AccessResources@uc.edu. 2. Students are provided with an accessible syllabus right arrow down arrow When you create your syllabus, use accessibility guidelines and best practices to provide an accessible syllabus to your students. Consider including a note on the best way to request an accommodation if needed. Resources There are multiple ways to arrive at an accessible syllabus. Use the UC Syllabus Template created by the Center for the Enhancement of Teaching and Learning Use the Microsoft Word Accessibility Checker Upload your syllabus to Blackboard and use Ally to check and fix your document Create your syllabus in the Canvas syllabus module For more detailed information, read how to make an accessible syllabus 3. Images referenced in a course have appropriate and accurate text-based descriptions right arrow down arrow When you include images within your course documents, include an alternative text description (alt text) that accurately describes the image. Adding alt text allows screen readers to describe any images to students. This is especially important for any image that is used to provide further context or information. Resources Your description should accurately and concisely describe the content and function of the image Your description should not use the words “image of” or “graphic of” but rather describe the image You can provide this description through the “alt description” function or feature in the program you are using, or in the space surrounding the image Complex figures should have rich descriptions and be usable in black and white Here is how to add alternative text in commonly used software and programs from UC: Add alt text in Microsoft Word Add alt text in Microsoft PowerPoint Add alt text in Blackboard Add alt text in Canvas 4. Microsoft Word and PowerPoint documents provided to students electronically are created using the built-in accessibility features of those programs right arrow down arrow Microsoft Word and PowerPoint provide a built-in accessibility checker and tutorials on how to use their platforms to create accessible content. Resources Use the Office 365 accessibility checker Create accessible PowerPoint presentations Create accessible Word documents Attend a classroom or online workshop or request additional training or consultation 5. Students are provided with or directed to required or recommended readings (electronic textbooks, book chapters, or articles) and supplemental materials that are accessible right arrow down arrow When you select electronic materials for class, it is important that students who use assistive technology can access those materials at the same time as the rest of the class. This allows the students to complete assignments on time and engage in class discussions. Resources If there is a digital version of your textbook or links to online journal articles, include both options for student to select which version best meets their needs. For more information on accessible reading or supplemental materials, contact Mitchell.Jones@uc.edu in the Accessibility Resources Office. 6. Third party learning platforms, tools and software are checked for accessibility and have a plan in place to address any known barriers as part of the procurement and implementation process. right arrow down arrow When purchasing electronic information tools (EIT), such as software, learning platforms, digital content, etc., follow the university’s procurement process. This includes submitting a request for accessibility review. If there are accessibility barriers identified, proactively identify an equally effective alternative solution for students who may use assistive technology. Resources For more information on third party learning platforms, contact Mike.Suit@uc.edu of the Enterprise Academic Team. For more information on third party accessibility reviews, Amanda.Calvert@uc.edu of IT@UC Innovations and Partnerships. 7. Digital media assigned or referenced in a course is appropriately and accurately captioned right arrow down arrow To ensure all students can utilize digital media within your courses, use captions and transcripts when creating any digital media, such as videos. Resources Website: Accessibility Resources Communication Access Team Website: Academic Accommodations and Faculty Responsibility Guide for Ordering Video Captioning Through the Accessibility Resources office’s Kaltura MediaSpace KB Article: List of KMS Site and Technical Contacts for Each YouTube Captioning Instructions University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-0000 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-0000 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top