Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links OUC Menu Main Nav OUC Contact Back Back Close People Our Work Overview Design Marketing News & Media Relations Photography Publications Social Media Guidelines Resources Social Media Fellows Social Fellows Application Humans of Boston College Humans of BC Nomination Videography Web Design & Development Digital Advertising Boston College Magazine For Journalists Overview Policies Names in the News BC Faculty Experts Lisa Sowle Cahill Andrea Vicini, S.J. Shu-Yi Oei Serazio, Michael Samuel Richardson Eric Dearing Richard McGowan S.J. Ray Madoff Jeremy Shakun Mark Bradshaw Mary Ellen Carter James Lubben John Makransky Thomas H. Groome Fishman, Donald Sienkiewicz, Matt Kevin R. Powers Lisa Goodman Noah P. Snyder John E. Ebel Anderson, James E. Grubb, Michael Can Erbil Ireland, Peter Murphy, Robert Aleksandar (Sasha) Tomic Ana M. Martínez Alemán James Repetti Diane Ring Natana J. Delong-Bas Michael Pratt Brad Harrington Zine Magubane C. Shawn McGuffey Sharlene Hesse-Biber Charles Derber Summer Sherburne Hawkins Jessica Black Theresa Betancourt Alicia Munnell Hosffman Ospino James W. Morris Mary Ann Hinsdale, IHM Richard Gaillardetz Sara Cordes Liane Young Ellen Winner Peter Gray Kay L. Schlozman Robert S. Ross Jonathan Laurence Marc Landy David Hopkins Dennis Hale James Cronin Seth Jacobs Cynthia L. Lyerly Arissa Oh James O'Toole Devin Pendas Oliver P. Rafferty, S.J. Heather Cox Richardson Alan Rogers Jane M. Flanagan Pamela J. Grace Alison O. Marshall Colleen Simonelli Patricia A. Tabloski Judith Vessey Catherine Yetter Read Sheila Tucker Mary Cronin John Gallaugher Gerald Kane Franziska Seraphim James Bernauer, S.J. Ruth Langer Robert J. Savage Hwang, Ingu Paulo Barrozo Sharon Beckman Robert Bloom Mark Brodin George D. Brown Michael Cassidy Kent Greenfield Renee Jones Daniel Kanstroom Cathleen Kaveny Joseph Liu Daniel Lyons Patricia McCoy David Olson Zygmunt Plater Brian Quinn Francine Sherman Catharine Wells David Wirth Alfred Chueh-Chin Yen Judith Clair John Fisher Henrik Hagtvedt Bradford Hudson Hristina Nikolova Elizabeth Kensinger Eva Garroutte Ann W. Burgess Karen Arnold David Blustein Henry Braun Susan Bruce Marilyn Cochran-Smith Julia DeVoy Maria Estela Brisk Andy Hargreaves Jacqueline Lerner Rebekah Levine Coley Belle Liang Rebecca Lowenhaupt Julie Paquette MacEvoy Katherine McNeill Laura O'Dwyer Mariela Páez Paul Poteat C. Patrick Proctor David Scanlon Dennis Shirley Mary Walsh Richard Kearney Alan L. Kafka Gail C. Kineke Darren Kisgen Jeffrey Pontiff Jonathan Reuter Ronnie Sadka Philip E. Strahan Dean Hashimoto David Twomey Miles, John "Jack" Nadia N. Abuelezam Chahrour, Ryan Jeffrey Cohen Hiba Hafiz Mary Ann Chirba Cal Halvorsen Leonard Kostovetsky Ali Kadivar Steven Koh Rachel Spooner Kirsten Davison Daniel Farbman Landrigan, Philip J. Krupenkin, Masha Juliet Schor Sankaran, Chandini Steinberg, Laura J. Betty Lai Nosal, Jaromir Stephen Shay R. Shep Melnick James Smith Francesco D’Acunto Bethune, Brian Ryan Williams Policies & Guidelines Overview Boston College Editorial Style Guidelines Graphic Identity System Boston College Websites Typography for Print Colors for Print Boston College Subbrands Safety Guidelines Signage Contact Close Directory A to Z Listing Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Social Media Fellows Home Our Work Social Media Social Media Fellows BC Social Fellows Each year, BC invites a small group of students to share the Boston College experience with a global audience through social media. The Social Fellows are a talented group of photographers, videographers, and curators who document the sights and sounds across campus, throughout the city, and around the world, from the extraordinary to the everyday. This internship opportunity is available to Boston College undergraduates from all schools. Students who can demonstrate a talent for creating outstanding digital content and an interest in learning more about social media are invited to apply through the Office of University Communications. MORE INFORMATION 2021-22 Fellows Grace Beinlich Grace is a senior studying marketing and international studies. Growing up in Minnesota, she enjoys going to the lakes in the summer and playing pond hockey with friends in the winter. Outside of the classroom, she loves writing, listening to podcasts, going for runs around the res, and finding new places to eat in Boston. @grace.grams Hannah Terrile Hannah is a senior majoring in communication and minoring in marketing. She was born and raised in Singapore, but grew up spending summers on Cape Cod and has loved her experience as a third culture kid. She loves traveling, exploring new places, going to the beach, and videography, which she is involved in through Boston College Television, and her own Youtube channel. @_hannahlynne Joe Vecchio Joe is a senior from Keyport, New Jersey. As a biochemistry major, he enjoys doing research in an on-campus lab and reading up on all the latest scientific discoveries. Outside the lab, you can find him running around campus with his iPhone taking perfectly-angled #GassonGrams. He also enjoys listening to music and drinking iced coffees from Dunkin’ Donuts. @vecchiophotography Maddie Wildes Maddie is a senior who is double majoring in business (with a marketing concentration) and communication. Growing up in the coastal community of Marshfield, Massachusetts, Maddie has a passion for exploring the outdoors and is an avid photographer of nature and wildlife. She loves to spend her free time editing photos and videos, finding new trails to explore, relaxing and kayaking at the beach, and snuggling her two golden retrievers Alvin and Waldo. @maddiewphotography Abby Reeder Abby is a junior from St. Paul, Minnesota majoring in political science. She loves reading, traveling with her family, running around Chestnut Hill, finding a good cup of coffee, and spending time at any of Minnesota's 10,000 lakes. @abbys.roads Taylor Morales Taylor is a junior from Irvine, California. Majoring in English - with a creative writing concentration - and film studies, Taylor enjoys writing poetry and making short films with friends. When she’s at home, Taylor loves hanging out at the beach, spending time with her dogs, and traveling all over in her Jeep, Jimmy. In Boston, you can find her sitting on campus benches enjoying her newly discovered passion of watching leaves change colors in the fall! @moralesmultimedia Emma Bittenbender Emma is a sophomore from Wayne, Pennsylvania. She is a communication major with a marketing minor. Emma loves traveling with her family, spending time at the beach, and exploring new places with her friends. In her free time, you can find Emma shopping, reading fashion blogs, working out, and trying new restaurants. Not to mention, drinking coffee! @grams_by_eb Katie Hughes Katie is a sophomore from Pittsburgh, majoring in international studies and economics with a marketing minor. She is a member of the BC Theatre department and the University Chorale. Katie enjoys traveling and exploring new places and has returned to the Heights after a gap year living and working in Paris. Katie enjoys documenting her experiences on Instagram, but is glad to be back in Boston with her friends, and she is taking full advantage of BC’s beautiful campus! @katie.hughes_01 Arella Kluvitse Arella is a sophomore from Wheeling, West Virginia. Majoring in computer science, Arella loves everything math and technology. She spends her free time refining her graphic design skills and rewatching her favorite movies. She prides herself in her eagerness to try new things, as well as her ability to recite the script of Pitch Perfect word-for-word. @photosbyarella Kristian Lamarre Kristian Lamarre is a sophomore from Brockton, Massachusetts, majoring in finance in the Carroll School of Management. He is an avid movie watcher, loves traveling, and enduring physically exhausting events. In his free time he enjoys cycling, as well as attending concerts and athletic events to take photos for celebrities and athletes. Kristian also provides videography and photography for the BC Athletic Department and does freelance photography when he has time. @klam.tv Patrick Mills Patrick is a sophomore from South Florida whose primary interests are specialty coffee and video production. As an economics major, he sees odd side-gigs and marketing experiments to be fun pastimes, whether that be selling coffee or producing freelance videos. He also enjoys travel and adventures of every sort, writing for his blog about keto and coffee, and going to the beach. Between traveling and hanging out with friends, he always finds a story to tell through the medium of video, and you'll rarely find him without a camera of some sort. @patrickmilllls Audrey Mitchell Audrey is a sophomore from Duxbury, Massachusetts, studying communication. If you see her on her phone, she's probably queuing up a Taylor Swift song or mobile ordering her Comm Ave Dunks iced coffee. When Audrey's not spending time with her family and friends, she also loves plotting new running routes, scouting out sales, and planning her next trip. And of course, repping her school. Go Eagles! @aud.views Yashi Phougat Yashi is a sophomore from Fishers, Indiana. Majoring in communication with a minor in finance, she runs on Dunkin and spends much of her time at Bapst Library. When she’s not at school, she is probably at Fenway Park, losing her voice from cheering on the Red Sox, or at church, losing her voice from worshipping Jesus. @yashisphotos Abby Slimmon Abigail is a sophomore majoring in communication and hoping to minor in marketing or management and leadership. Growing up in Chicago, she loves all-things Chicago sports especially the Cubs. Abby spent her summers on the East Coast and loves going to the beach, hiking, and trying new restaurants. In her free time, she can be found hanging out in the Rat with friends, studying in Bapst, or exploring downtown Boston with her sister. @abbys_grams Sarah Dansreau Sarah is a freshman who is majoring in biology. Growing up in Hingham, Massachusetts, and spending her summers in Cape Cod, she loves to go to the beach, watch the sunset, and explore new places along the coast. Outside of the classroom, she loves traveling, shopping, spending time with friends, and trying new restaurants. @dansreau.photos Annabel Halloran Annabel is a freshman from River Forest, Illinois. She intends to major in international studies and communication. Annabel loves to run, go on hikes, and be outdoors in general. She is obsessed with Taylor Swift music and listens nonstop. Annabel also enjoys filming and editing videos and is always looking to learn new techniques. @grams_by_bel Ed Kfuri Ed is a freshman studying economics and finance. Growing up in São Paulo, Brazil, he has a great passion for South American culture, which he captures through his passion for photography. Outside of the classroom, Ed can be found going on outdoor adventures or taking a nap in the O’Neill couches! @eduphoto_ Liv Landolfi Olivia Landolfi is a freshman from Franklin Lakes, New Jersey, majoring in communication. Some of Liv's hobbies include taking and editing photos, singing, playing guitar (especially Taylor Swift songs), writing, and skiing. She loves spending time with her family and friends and will always suggest visiting a big city like New York or Boston for a fun day trip! @flicsbylivv Student Photographers Abi Chingo '22 @abichingo Emily Kane '22 @emilylylekane Jax Pace '22 @jacquelineann6 Laura Seifert '24 @photosbylaura.bc Yating Wang '24 @yatingphotos.bc Back To Top Back To Top 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College