Skip to main content Search form Search Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers Contact Give About Search Menu Public Health Now News Events Publications Topics Student Voices Celebrating the Centennial Our Work to Address COVID-19 Columbia Public Health Magazine Academics Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy & Procedures Office of Education Research Featured Research Global Health Centers Programs Grants & Awards Corporate Partnerships People Our Faculty Current Students Friends and Supporters Partners Alumni Become a Student Meet Our Faculty Life & Community Degree Finder How to Apply Career Services More Information Master of Public Health Degree Programs Certificate Program Core Curriculum Search You are here Home Become a Student How to Apply The Process Winter Storm Update/Impacts to Campus and Services Last Updated 12:50pm Fri May 6 See Coronavirus Updates for information on campus protocols. Application Components FAQ International Students Minimum Work Requirements Application Components FAQ International Students Minimum Work Requirements The Application Process Start the application process early. We recommend allowing sufficient time -- before the semester in which you intend to enroll -- to gather recommendations, transcripts and other materials. Please also review the minimum work experience requirements to ensure you qualify for a specific program. Eight-Step Process Choose a Program of Study The Mailman School offers MPH, MS, MHA*, PhD and DrPH degrees. Explore which degree is right for you and learn more about available degrees. Identify a Department of Interest Browse the Department pages and use the Degree Finder to identify the area of study that's right for you. Some departments have different admission requirements for their programs. Identify Certificate(s) of Interest If you are applying to the two-year Columbia MPH program, you can identify a Certificate choice. You can also defer that decision until your first semester. While most certificates are open to students from all departments, some limit entry to students from specific departments. Check Deadlines Gather Application Components Check Financial Aid Information Apply Now Talk to Us. Certain programs and departments may conduct telephone outreach to applicants in order to provide and obtain additional information. If we get in touch, we will use the phone number you provided in your application. *Students applying for the MHA degree may also apply through HAMPCAS. More to Explore Friday 03June COVID-19: From Causes to ConsequencesMay 27 2022 Our Experts Help Explain the Monkeypox OutbreakMay 26 2022 A Q&A With Prof. Merlin ChowkwanyunMay 24 2022 Columbia University Honors School's Pandemic LeadershipMay 19 2022 Sign up for Transmission Columnbia Mailman Connect with Us Public Health Now News Events Publications Topics Student Voices Academics Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy & Procedures Office of Education Research Featured Research Global Health Centers Programs Grants & Awards Corporate Partnerships People Our Faculty Current Students Friends and Supporters Partners Alumni Become a Student Meet Our Faculty Life & Community Degree Finder How to Apply Career Services More Information Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health | 722 West 168th St. NY, NY 10032 Site Map Privacy Columbia University Irving Medical Center Copyright © Columbia University 2019 Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers