Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Commencement Office Apply to Graduate Graduates Accommodations Diplomas Guests Faculty Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Prerequisite to Apply to Graduate Your First Step in the Four-Steps to Graduation Attendance/Non-Attendance Form Should be completed by all graduating students Name Changes Change how your name is displayed on your diploma and the program Reorder Diplomas Here is how to reorder your diplomas Please Proof Your Name Help ensure your name is spelled correctly on the program Invitations and Rings If you wish to purchase invitations or rings PreviousNext Take Action Current News Commencement Attendance Form Commencement Live Contact Us Follow Us Online InstagramFacebooktwitterYoutube Home Commencement Office Saturday, August 6, 2022 10:00 AM --(All Colleges and Schools) FedExForum (Downtown Memphis, TN) Cap and Gown Distribution Friday, August 5, 2022 9:00 AM-4:00 PM University Center Ballroom (3rd Floor) (Main Campus) Bring a copy of your Step 4 confirmation. Seating Diagram FedExForum Arena and ADA Seating Location: FedExForum (191 Beale St, Memphis, TN 38103) Tickets: This event is free and open to the public. No tickets are required. Parking: Parking is available in the FedExForum Garage on a first-come/first-served basis for $10.00. Must be paid via credit card ONLY. Guests will need to have a credit card to pay for parking in the FedExForum Garage. No cash accepted. https://fedexforum.com/plan-your-visit/parking Guest Relations: https://fedexforum.com/plan-your-visit/guest-relations Security at the FedExForum Walk-through magnetometers were installed at FedExForum under the premise of being used at all Memphis Grizzlies games, as per an NBA mandate conceptualized during league security meetings. The magnetometers have become an industry standard across MLB, NHL and NFL venues and their use will now be mandatory for every FedExForum event in order to improve fan safety and guest experience, a shared goal between FedExForum, the University of Memphis and touring production companies. To ensure your Commencement ceremony is enjoyable for you and your guests, please note the following: X-Ray Units that bags must be scanned through instead of just opened up and visually checked. Secondary metal detector for failed screening or individual must pass through metal detector until they are cleared. Guests are advised to bring ONLY necessary items to the FedExForum during events, concerts and games. Separate express lanes will be available for guests in the Grand Lobby without bags to be inspected. Guests will not need to remove their hats, shoes, belts, watches or jewelry as with airport security. Instead, guests will have to place their cell phones, cameras and keys on a security table prior to walking through the metal detector. Expectant mothers, those with pacemakers and ADA guests are not subject to the magnetometers and will instead be screened through handheld devices. The FedExForum does NOT have a clear bag policy. Max bag size allowed is 14x14x6. All Bags between 14x14x6 and 4x6x1.5 must be X-Ray scanned upon entry. Bags (Clutches) 4x6x1.5 need to be opened and checked but are not required to be X-Ray scanned. Of course all bags are subject to search upon entry. Food will not be available for this event. Coffee and water are available for purchase at Snax by section 101. Outside food and beverages cannot be brought into FedExForum. Remember that wrapped gifts and helium balloons are never allowed into FedExForum. Future Commencement Ceremonies Sunday, December 11, 2022 Saturday, May 6, 2023 Backup date: Sunday, May 7, 2023 Dates, times and locations are subject to change. Loaning Out Caps and Gowns We are not able to loan out caps and gowns for photos. Please check with your photographer who should have caps available for props, etc. Our caps and gowns are only available during Cap and Gown Distribution (1-2) days prior to commencement. Past Commencement Programs Visit https://digitalcommons.memphis.edu/speccoll-ua-pub-commencements/ to access Past Commencement Program Books. No need to login Each commencement is in chronological order within each iteration of the school’s name Pick-Ups: (We will be closed May 2-May 9) Pick-Ups are only available from our office 9:00 am-3:00 pm Tuesday-Thursdays, weekly. We recommend calling prior to coming by the office to avoid missing us. Pick-Ups are only available from our office 9:00 am-3:00 pm Tuesday-Thursdays, weekly. (Pick ups are not available during holiday breaks and major event seasons). Pick-ups (diplomas, covers, etc.) must be scheduled individually. Please understand that during peak event times (two weeks before any commencement day, days prior to holiday breaks, etc.) we are unavailable in our office, so it is highly recommended to email us at commencement@memphis.edu, prior to coming by to avoid missing us. Anyone who requests pick ups must pick up during the times indicated above and have ONE week to pick up item or it will be mailed or returned to inventory. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 5/16/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.