Your browser does not support JavaScript! Your browser does not support JavaScript! Skip to main content Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Canvas | Webmail | Contact Us Request Info Apply Now eCourseware | Webmail | Contact Us Request Info Apply Now About UofM Global Learn More Rankings Accreditations Contact Us Degrees & Programs Undergraduate Graduate Certificates All Programs Complimentary Courses Admissions Apply Now Request Info Financial Aid Tuition & Fees Current Students Student Services & Support Register for Courses Graduation Home UofM Global Degree Programs UofM Global Health Sciences Degree Degree Programs Online Degrees Undergraduate Degrees All Undergraduate DegreesBusinessComputingHealth ProfessionsHumanitiesSocial Science Graduate Degrees All Graduate DegreesArtsBusinessComputingEducationEngineeringHealth ProfessionsHumanitiesLiberal StudiesSocial Science Graduate Certificates Complimentary Courses Contact Us Need Help? Call 844-302-3886 Email Us Health Sciences Major: Health Studies Concentration: Health Sciences Degree: Bachelor of Science Promoting Healthy Lifestyles. Building Healthy Communities. Students who enjoy focusing on the health and well-being of others may want to complete a concentration in Health Sciences. This program provides students with the foundation, knowledge and skills needed to develop, manage, lead and evaluate health initiatives aimed at promoting the adoption and maintenance of healthy behaviors, and also provides an opportunity for students to individualize the curriculum to meet specific career goals and requirements through program electives. The Health Sciences concentration allows you to pursue your interests among the various health professions. It is grounded in Health Promotion theory and practice and offers elective hours to allow you to individualize your program to align with your own professional goals. With outstanding teaching and an emphasis on practical application, the program will prepare you to enter the job market or to pursue a graduate education in a variety of health fields such as: Health Promotion Community Health Public Health Dentistry Dental Hygiene Occupational Therapy Medicine Physician Assistant Physical Therapy Optometry Pharmacy and more… Students will extend their knowledge and skills beyond the classroom through an internship, taking what was learned in the classroom and applying it in a professional setting. Internship settings are selected and secured by the students and may include health departments, rehabilitation centers, community centers, hospitals, schools, corporate settings and a variety of other sites. Our graduates begin their careers or continue their education in a variety of areas such as: Health Promotion Health Education Health Counseling/Coaching Community Wellness Corporate Wellness Public Health Fitness and Wellness Specialist Pre-Professional Focus Dental/Dental Hygiene Occupational/Physical Therapy Optometry Pharmacy Medicine/ Physicians Assistant Other Allied Health Sciences Contact Us Apply Now About UofM Global Learn More Ranked Online Degrees Accreditations Contact Us Degrees and Programs Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Certificates Corporate Partners Complimentary Courses Admissions Apply Now Request Info Financial Aid Tuition & Fees Contact Us Tuition Financial Aid Students Canvas Student Services & Support SmartStart Learning Support Technology Support Advising Register for Courses Experiential Learning Credit Graduation Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 5/25/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.