Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Search Type Faculty & Staff Event Featured Profile News Opportunity Resource Student Research Project Videos Search Menu Info for… [Select an Audience] [Select An Audience] Prospective Undergraduate Students Current Undergraduate Students Prospective Graduate Students Current Graduate Students Faculty & Staff Parents Alumni Employers Admissions» Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions Academics» Undergraduate Degree Programs Graduate Degree Programs Online Learning Non-Degree & Special Programs Academic Policies Departments» Applied Physics and Applied Mathematics Biomedical Engineering Chemical Engineering Civil Engineering and Engineering Mechanics Computer Science Earth and Environmental Engineering Electrical Engineering Industrial Engineering and Operations Research Mechanical Engineering Research» Faculty and Research Staff Institutes, Centers & Initiatives Department Research Research Areas Undergraduate Research Opportunities University and School Research Resources Innovation, Design & Entrepreneurship» Student Life» Undergraduate Student Life Graduate Student Life Living in New York City Commencement Student Profiles About» Dean of Columbia Engineering At A Glance Engineering for Humanity Mission & Vision Supporting the Vision History Plan A Visit Board of Visitors Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion People News Columbia Engineering Magazine Strategic Collaborations Get Involved Bulletin Make a Gift Contact Home Departments Our engineering and science departments and programs embrace broad-based instruction, new technologies, and innovation with research that advances fundamental science and transcends disciplines. Many of our distinguished faculty have dual appointments with other departments or exciting University initiatives such as the Columbia Nano Initiative and the Data Science Institute. Through collaboration within and across departments at Columbia, we are opening frontiers in expanding fields such as financial engineering, nanotechnology, and biomedical engineering. Applied Physics and Applied Mathematics Collaborative learning and multidisciplinary research are hallmarks of the Department of Applied Physics and Applied Mathematics at Columbia University. By applying mathematics and physics to solve real-world problems, we connect to engineering, natural science, technology, and medicine, and prepare our graduates for exciting careers. MORE Biomedical Engineering By working at the intersection of engineering, biology, and medicine, the Department of Biomedical Engineering at Columbia University offers students a unique opportunity to solve problems and better understand living systems and their behavior. From this knowledge comes the development of biomedical systems and devices that improve the health of humankind. MORE Chemical Engineering Using peptides to deliver drugs faster. Creating nanomaterials to filter drinking water. Developing innovative fuel cells. Join us and learn at the intersection of molecular science and engineering in the Department of Chemical Engineering. You’ll be at the forefront of improving every aspect of life through a collaborative, rigorous, and innovative approach to scholarship and research. MORE Civil Engineering and Engineering Mechanics Developing novel ways to monitor the safety of suspension bridges using sensors. Determining the effectiveness and efficiency of green roofs. Designing new building materials that have superior strength and at the same time are environmentally friendly and compatible with sustainable development. Defining the state-of-the-art in analyzing and designing structures using computers. Exploring the development of self-driving vehicles. MORE Computer Science Computer science is now integral to almost every field of study, from engineering and the natural and social sciences, to economics and business, and increasingly to the heavily text-based fields of literature and history. The trend is irreversible, driven by more powerful computers, larger data sets, the conversion of text and imagery into data, and better, more optimized algorithms. MORE Earth and Environmental Engineering Developing techniques to provide clean water around the globe. Creating ways to turn hazardous waste into profit. Effectively predicting droughts and floods for better resource management. By integrating scientific and engineering principles to minimize the impact of people and industry on the planet, the Department of Earth and Environmental Engineering leads in the protection of the environment and management of our natural resources. MORE Electrical Engineering Electricity is central to our lives and its role will continue to grow in the coming decades as green transportation and renewable energy rely more and more on smart electric energy. Electrical engineers also design communication networks, wireless systems, autonomous systems, computing systems, and signal and information processing systems. They invent advanced electronic and photonic devices, integrated circuits, or information processing systems. MORE Industrial Engineering and Operations Research Identifying warning signs of extreme events. Driving efficiency into supply chains. Addressing delays and bottlenecks in health care systems. Creating software to eliminate power disruptions. The Department of Industrial Engineering and Operations Research is focused on designing, managing, streamlining, and improving systems that involve people, products, money, materials, and information. Join us to connect your passion for discovery with our pioneering work. MORE Mechanical Engineering Developing ways to anticipate and treat pre-term labor in expectant mothers. Devising laser applications for surgery and art restoration. Designing unique equipment that provides better rehabilitation for stroke patients. Building self-replicating robots that can interact with people. The Department of Mechanical Engineering works to advance practical solutions that improve health, safety, and quality of life. Join us as we address the most important needs of society through rich and versatile discovery and scholarship. MORE Computer Engineering Program The Computer Engineering program combines key aspects of electrical engineering and computer science. Whether pursuing a BS or Master of Science degree, students learn the fundamentals of circuits, systems, and software associated with the design of programmable systems used in general purpose computing, communications, control, and signal processing. Learn More About Computer Engineering Program in Materials Science and Engineering The Program in Materials Science and Engineering is focused on understanding and developing new and better materials for the use in innovative engineering applications. Learn More About Materials Science and Engineering 500 W. 120th Street #510 New York, NY 10027 Tel (212) 854-2993 Google Maps Plan a Visit Directory Columbia Engineering Columbia University Privacy Policy Terms of Use Faculty Job Opportunities Make a Gift Contact