Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Staff Council Menu About Constitution & By-Laws Constitution of the Staff Council By-Laws of the Staff Council Committees 2021-2022 Members Membership Through the Year Events & Opportunities Service Opportunities Calendar STEPP Program STEPP Luncheon, Spring 2019 Evaluation Form History and Archives Resources Scholarship Fund Staff Recognition Representatives Nicci Price Mariah Humphries Carol McCulloch Geoffrey Griggs Rick Shoemake Amanda Fisher Crystal Diaz-Espinoza Deidra Dutschmann Lilly Ettinger Brenda Higginbotham Ronda Kruse Lori McNamara Amy Rylander Laura Scott Ashleigh Bailey Kimberly Black Michael Estepp Mike Hand Tosha Hendrickson Erin McSpadden Denise Ray Andrew Telep Nolan Bay Lexi English Kelsey Rowell Reese Gardell Rachel Garrett Sherri Honza Ida Jamshidi Hannah King Lauren Kirby Lauren Muhl Daniel Ramirez Katie Smith Luke Whiting Shelley Zych Give Staff Council Staff Council provides a forum for staff to make recommendations, present new ideas, and voice concerns. We desire to increase staff knowledge across the university, continue the development of lifelong learning, and discover more about the well-being of our community. Explore COVID Information and Updates Current and updates to Baylor's COVID policies, testing, and other procedures for Baylor Staff and Faculty. Learn More Representatives Staff comprised from each division of the University and a variety of departments across campus. Read More Resources Up-to-date information, useful links, agendas, and meeting minutes. Read More Scholarship Fund Affords students the opportunity to continue their education, pursue their passions and not carry additional financial burden. Read More Events View upcoming University Events, Staff Council events, and community events! Read More Staff Endowed Scholarship Fund Your contribution to the Staff Endowed Scholarship Fund will make a lasting impact on the students we are preparing for worldwide leadership. Learn More STEPP Luncheon Provide staff with the tools and encouragement that stimulate personal and professional growth and development. Learn More Service Opportunities Service to others is a key component to role of the Staff Council at the University. Check out our annual and ongoing service projects! Learn More Wellbeing Baylor Wellbeing is designed to support the Baylor community by promoting five interrelated areas: physical, financial, spiritual, emotional/social and professional. Learn More Membership Constitution Bylaws Baylor Holidays Baylor Jobs Staff Concerns Events See More Events Baylor University Staff Council One Bear Place #97266 Waco, TX 76798-7266 StaffCouncil@baylor.edu General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 About Constitution & By-Laws Constitution of the Staff Council By-Laws of the Staff Council Committees 2021-2022 Members Membership Through the Year Events & Opportunities Service Opportunities Calendar STEPP Program STEPP Luncheon, Spring 2019 Evaluation Form History and Archives Resources Scholarship Fund Staff Recognition Representatives Nicci Price Mariah Humphries Carol McCulloch Geoffrey Griggs Rick Shoemake Amanda Fisher Crystal Diaz-Espinoza Deidra Dutschmann Lilly Ettinger Brenda Higginbotham Ronda Kruse Lori McNamara Amy Rylander Laura Scott Ashleigh Bailey Kimberly Black Michael Estepp Mike Hand Tosha Hendrickson Erin McSpadden Denise Ray Andrew Telep Nolan Bay Lexi English Kelsey Rowell Reese Gardell Rachel Garrett Sherri Honza Ida Jamshidi Hannah King Lauren Kirby Lauren Muhl Daniel Ramirez Katie Smith Luke Whiting Shelley Zych Give