Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Alumni & Friends Alumni Parents Search BC.edu Links Menu Main Nav Distinguished Volunteer Awards Dinner Donate Back Back Close Past Recipients Donate Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Alumni & Friends Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Parents BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close The James F. Cleary '50, H'93, Masters Award The William V. McKenney Award The John P. Curley '13 Award The John J. Griffin, Sr., '35, H'72, Alumni Association Award The Philip J. Callan, Sr., '25 Young Alumni Award The James F. Stanton '42 Senior Class Gift Award The 2020 honoree is The Mancini Family Jim Cleary '50, H'93, was founder of the Fides and President's Circle annual giving societies. He was co-chair of the University's first truly ambitious capital campaign, which began in 1988 and well exceeded its goal. Jim was also the creator of our highly successful Pops on the Heights program. His ideas and energy propelled Boston College’s development program to a new level of achievement. Accordingly, this special award is presented to University Advancement volunteers who have distinguished themselves as masters by providing ideas, energy, and leadership. The 2020 honoree is Ann Riley Finck ’66, H’14, P’93, ’95, ’96, ’06, ’08 More detailed information about the honorees to follow The highest honor bestowed by the Alumni Association, this award was created in 1936 in honor of its first recipient, William V. McKenney '15. The award recognizes a Boston College graduate whose outstanding service to a chosen profession, community, or cause reflects honor on the University. The 2020 honoree is Vincent J. CampoBasso ’69, P’96, ’02 More detailed information about the honorees to follow The Curley Award honors an outstanding volunteer who has committed both time and resources to advance the efforts of Boston College and especially the Athletic Department. The award is named for BC Varsity Club Hall of Fame member John P. Curley '13, who is widely acknowledged as having brought BC athletics into the modern era. The 2020 honoree is Dan Bunch ’79, MSW’81, H’19 More detailed information about the honorees to follow Named after John J. Griffin, Sr., '35, H'72, who was one of the University's most dedicated contributors, this award recognizes the crucial role that volunteers play in Alumni Association programming, which is a cornerstone of the University's advancement efforts. The Griffin Alumni Association Award is presented to an outstanding volunteer whose meritorious service on behalf of Boston College contributed to the advancement of the academic mission of higher education in the Jesuit tradition at the grassroots level of the alumni organization. The 2020 honoree is Danielle V. Auriemma ’10, MA’13 More detailed information about the honorees to follow A benevolent donor and a remarkable volunteer who inspired countless alumni to become engaged in the life of Boston College, Philip J. Callan, Sr., '25 devoted himself not only to volunteer service, but also to the enlistment of others so that the base of Boston College volunteers could grow. In 1977, in recognition of his extraordinary commitment to Boston College, Mr. Callan was posthumously awarded the William V. McKenney Award for bestowing honor and glory on his alma mater. The 2020 honoree is Rebecca C. Black ’19 More detailed information about the honorees to follow A dedicated volunteer, James F. Stanton '42 worked with the students of Boston College in the 1960s to establish the first Senior Class Gift program, with the goal of inspiring lifelong giving to Boston College. In recognition of his efforts, Mr. Stanton earned the William V. McKenney Award as Outstanding Alumnus of the Year in 1963, and he received the Presidential Bicentennial Award "Rale Medal" in 1976. The Stanton Award is presented to a past member of the Senior Class Gift Committee in recognition of outstanding volunteer service and leadership. The award honors a graduate whose work on the committee exemplifies the many efforts of James F. Stanton '42 on behalf of Boston College. Back To Top Back To Top Boston College Alumni Association Cadigan Alumni Center 140 Commonwealth Ave. Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Connect With Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College For updates on Boston College's reopening for fall semester visit bc.edu/reopen. Ok