Skip to main content GSD Logo Harvard University Graduate School of Design Reopening Menu Search Academics Department of Architecture Department of Landscape Architecture Department of Urban Planning and Design Design Studies Design Engineering Doctoral Programs Undergraduate Architecture Studies Loeb Fellowship Executive Education Early Design Education Research Courses More ▼ Apply GSD Now Give People Faculty Staff Students Alumni About Administrative Leadership Council Community Values, Rights, and Responsibilities Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging Alumni and Friends Website Resources Most Popular: Admissions COVID-19 Financial Aid Frances Loeb Library Student Affairs Offices & Services All Resources → For: Prospective Students Current Students Faculty Staff Alumni Explore News Events Exhibitions Publications Podcasts Projects Topics Site Index Jump to: A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z A AIA Henry Adams Certificate AIA Henry Adams Medal AICP Outstanding Student Award Academic Affairs Academic Appointments and Policies Academic Calendars & Schedules Academic Conduct Policy Academic Integrity Academic Services & Advising Accellion Secure File Transfer Accessibility Services Accessibility Services at Public Programs Access to Career Services During Leave of Absence Accreditation Administrative Leadership Council Admissions Admissions & Financial Aid Admissions FAQ AfricaGSD After MDes Workshops After MDes Workshops Aga Khan Program at the GSD Alpha Rho Chi Medal Alumni Connections Alumni Council Career Panels American Society of Landscape Architects Awards Application Checklist Apply Apply for Financial Aid Apply for a Job with Computer Resources Applying for Restricted Scholarships Araldo A. Cossutta Annual Prize for Design Excellence Architecture Architecture Core Prep Areas of Concentration Art, Design, and the Public Domain Art, Design, and the Public Domain – Required Courses 2018 Art, Design, and the Public Domain – Required Courses 2019 Attendance Augmented & Virtual Reality (AR/VR) Award Details Award for Excellence in Project-Based Urban Planning Award for Excellence in Urban Design Award for Outstanding Leadership in Urban Planning and Urban Design B Benefits & Perks Biking Borrowing Print Materials Building Services Business Cards for Students C COVID-19 Information for Staff COVID-19 Testing and Tracing CREATE for Alumni CREATE for Employers CREATE for Students Canvas Capital Improvements and Projects Career Paths by Program Career Resources for Alumni Career Services: Alumni Career Services: Employers Career Services: FAQs Career Services: Faculty Career Services: Students Career Services Offerings Career Services Video Library Careers Casual Conversations With GSD Alumni Change of Address Charles Abrams Scholarship Charles Eliot Traveling Fellowship in Landscape Architecture Chauhaus Classroom Equipment Classroom Technology Clifford Wong Prize in Housing Design Commencement 2022 Commencement Information Commencement for the Classes of 2020 and 2021 Communications Community Values, Rights, and Responsibilities Computer Accounts and Passwords Computer Labs Computer Recommendations Computer Requirements Computer Resources Group Concurrent and Joint Degrees Connecting to the File Server Connect with the GSD Contact Contact Admissions Contact Financial Aid Contact the GSD Cost Recovery Policy Course Catalog Course Descriptions Course Info Sessions and Videos Critical Conservation Critical Conservation – Required Courses 2018 Critical Conservation – Required Courses 2019 Cross-Registration Policies & Procedures Current MAUD/MLAUD Degree Requirements Current MUP Degree Requirements Curriculum Custodial Services D DDes & PhD Financial Aid DDes/PhD Open House Schedule DDes Guidelines for the Dissertation DDes Guidelines for the General Exam DDes Guidelines for the Prospectus DIB Annual Report DIB Programs Daniel L. Schodek Award for Technology and Sustainability Daniel Urban Kiley Teaching Fellowship in Landscape Architecture Dean’s Office Degree Checks Degree Programs Degree Requirements Policies Degree Verifications Design Computing at the GSD Design Labs Design Now: A Quarterly Podcast from Harvard’s Graduate School of Design Design Studies Thesis Prize Desktop 3D Printing Regulations Development and Alumni Relations Digital Delivery and Electronic Resources Digital Design Prize Digital Governance Policy Dimitris Pikionis Award Directions Diversity, Inclusion, & Belonging at Career Services Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging Offerings Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging Resources Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging Doctoral Grader (Union Position) Doctoral Programs Doctor of Design Program (DDes) Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) Document Request Form Druker Traveling Fellowship E ETH Zurich Exchange Program Early Design Education Ecologies Eligibility Email Accounts Emergencies Employer Presentations Employers & Career Paths for Architecture Students Employers & Career Paths for Landscape Architecture Students Employers & Career Paths for MDE Students Employers & Career Paths for MDes and DDes Students Employers & Career Paths for Urban Planning and Design Students Endowed Fellowships & Financial Aid Funds Energy and Environment Energy and Environment – Required Courses 2017 Energy and Environment – Required Courses 2018 Energy and Environment – Required Courses 2019 Enrollment Certifications Enrollment Policies Environmental Health and Safety at the GSD Equipment for Classroom Instruction Equitable Accountability Ergonomics Event Audiovisual Support Event Participation for Alumni Event Planning for Faculty and Staff Event Planning for Students Events Events Archive Executive Education Exemptions, Waivers, and Substitutions for MUPs Exhibitions F FAQ FERPA Fabrication Laboratory Faculty Faculty: Collaborate With Career Services Faculty Affairs Office Faculty Directory Faculty Handbooks, Administrative Policies, and Guidelines for Instruction Faculty Research Federal Work-Study Information Fellowships, Funding Sources, and Internships for Students Fellowships, Prizes, & Travel Programs Fellowships, Prizes, & Travel Programs Fellowships, Prizes, & Travel Programs Fellowships, Prizes, & Travel Programs Ferdinand Colloredo-Mansfeld Prize for Superior Achievement in Real Estate Studies Final Review Schedule (Spring 2021 – M1, Full-term, M2) Finance Office Financial Aid Financial Aid Application Process for Current Students Financial Aid Application for Prospective Students Financial Aid FAQ Financial Aid Handbook Financial Aid and Satisfactory Progress Financial Matters First Meetings for Option Studios Flexwork at the GSD Frances Loeb Library Fulbright U.S. Student Program G GLACIER GSD-Courances Residency Program GSD Alumni Council Career Panels GSD Community Calendar GSD Consumer Information GSD Diversity Cabinet GSD Payroll Coordinators GSD Racial Equity and Anti-Racism Fund GSD Radio GSD Student Payroll GSD Web Style Gain Experience General Ledger Gifts & Grants Grading Grant Aid H Harvard-MIT Course Logistics Harvard GSD Job & Internship Fair 2022 Harvard Graduate School of Design Employer Recruiting Policies Harvard Graduate School of Design Fact Book Harvard ID Card Harvard International Office Harvard Shuttle and Van Service Harvard Travel Registry Health Services Heating/Cooling Schedule Help Desk Hiring Students: Information for Faculty History & Philosophy of Design – Required Courses 2018 History & Philosophy of Design – Required Courses 2019 History and Philosophy of Design and Media Home How To Plot How to Post an Event to GSD Now How to Write a Resume That Stands Out Human Resources Human Resources Forms & Policies Hybrid Classroom I IT Policies Income Processing Policy and Procedures Information for Current DDes Students Information for Current PhD Students Installing AEScript AfterEffects Plugin Installing Adobe’s Creative Cloud Software Installing ArcGis Installing AutoDesk Installing Cargo Installing Cinema 4D Installing ClimateStudio Installing DesignBuilder Installing Diva for Rhino Installing Flovent Installing GRANTA EduPack Installing Houdini Installing KeyShot Installing MasterCam Installing MathCAD Installing Miro Installing Modelo Installing Multiframe and MicroStation Installing Printers For Windows Installing Printers for Mac Installing Reality Capture Installing Render Services Installing Rhino Installing RhinoTerrain Installing RobotStudio Installing SketchUp Installing SolidWorks Installing VRay for 3DS Max Installing VRay for Rhino Installing Windows on a Mac Using Parallels International Financial Aid International Student Resources Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – Alien Staff Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – Bunker Hill Monument Projection Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – Dis-Armor Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – El Centro Cultural Projection Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – Hiroshima Projection Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – Homeless Vehicle Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – Loro Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – Personal Instrument Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – Poliscar Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – The Abraham Lincoln Monument Projection Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – The Admiral Farragut Monument Projection Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – The Central Library Projection Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – The City Hall Tower Projection Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – The Kunstmuseum Basel Projection Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – The New Mechelenians Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – The Real Estate Projection Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – Vehicle Irving Innovation Fellowship J J-Term Jacob Weidenman Prize James Templeton Kelley Prize Job Search Resources: Planning, Urban Design, Real Estate Julia Amory Appleton Traveling Fellowship in Architecture K KPF Traveling Fellowship Kevin V. Kieran Prize Key Requests L Landscape Architecture Landscape Architecture Faculty Office Hours Landscape Architecture Thesis Prize Leave of Absence Leaves/Withdrawals and Tuition Charges Library Access & Borrowing Library Liaisons Library Resources & Services Library Resources for Alumni and Visitors Library Staff Life at the GSD Limited-Enrollment Lottery LinkedIn Learning @ Harvard Live Course Presentations Living Guidebook to Virtual Teaching and Learning Living in Cambridge Loan Deferments Loeb Fellowship M MAUD/MLAUD Degree Requirements MAUD/MLAUD Student Work MArch Course Waiver and Substitution Policy and Procedures MArch Distributional Electives MArch Financial Aid MArch I AP Required Courses MArch II Required Courses MArch I Required Courses MArch Open House Schedule MArch Split Option MArch Thesis Program MDE Open House Schedule MDes Financial Aid MDes Open House Schedule MDes Research and Development Award MDes Technology MLA Degree Requirements MLA Financial Aid MLA Open House Schedule MLA Thesis Guidelines MLA Waivers and Substitutions MUP & MAUD Financial Aid MUP Degree Requirements MUP Outreach Mail Center Mail Policy Master in Architecture I Master in Architecture II Master in Design Engineering Master in Design Studies (MDes) Master in Design Studies (MDes) Pre-Fall 2021 Master in Landscape Architecture I Master in Landscape Architecture I AP Master in Landscape Architecture II Master in Real Estate Master in Urban Planning Master in Urban Planning and Juris Doctor Master in Urban Planning and Master in Public Administration Master in Urban Planning and Master in Public Health Master in Urban Planning and Master in Public Policy Meditation Room Mediums Microsoft Teams Mindfulness, Stress Reduction, & Time Management N NAAB Accreditation Information and Resources Narratives News News Archive Newsletter Nondiscrimination Policy Norman T. Newton Prize O Obtaining a MA State ID Card Office Hour Signup Tools Office Updates Office for Urbanization Office of Career Services Office of Student Affairs Online Registration (my.Harvard) Online Teaching Resources Open Access Policy Open Faculty Positions Open House Open Non-Faculty Academic Positions Opportunities to Recruit GSD Students Option Studio Lottery Spring 2022 Option Studio Presentations Organizational Charts Orientation and Registration for Incoming Students Other Courses of Interest Other J-Term Opportunities Outside Scholarships Outstanding Leadership in Real Estate Award P Page Lists Shortcodes Parking Participate in the Summer Community Service Fellowship Program Paul M. Heffernan International Travel Award Paying for Your Program Payroll Penny White Project Fund Performance Management Performance Management Permanent Records Personnel Manuals Person of Interest (POI) Peter Rice Internship Program at Renzo Piano Building Workshop Peter Rice Prize Peter Walker and Partners Fellowship for Landscape Architecture PhD Student Bios Photo Lab Photography Guidelines Planning Newsletter Plimpton-Poorvu Design Prize Podcasts Policy on Personal Conduct Pollman Fellowship in Real Estate and Urban Development Pre-orientation for New Students Printing Costs Printing Guide Printing Tips and Known Issues Prize for Academic Excellence in Urban Planning and Urban Design Program History Program Pedagogy Projects Protected: Poster Presentations for CSFP Fellows Public Programs Publications Publics Purchases & Expenses R REA Fund Recipients Rafael Moneo Rome Travel Award Real Estate and the Built Environment Real Estate and the Built Environment – Required Courses 2017 Real Estate and the Built Environment – Required Courses 2018 Real Estate and the Built Environment – Required Courses 2019 Recent DDes Graduates Recent PhD graduates Recommended Backgrounds for Option Studios Recycling, Freecycling and Composting Refunds Registrar Registration Registration Procedures Replacement Diplomas Request Update to Profile Photo Requesting a GSD Subsite Requirements 2017-18 Requirements 2018-19 Research Research Administration Research Administration Resources Research Assistant (Union Position) Research Centers & Programs Research Fellow (Union Position) Research Programs & Initiatives Research Reports & Publications Resource Center Resources for New Graduates Resources for Partners and Families Respectful and Transparent Engagement Return to Campus & Technology Richard Rogers Fellowship Risk and Resilience Risk and Resilience – Required Courses 2018 Risk and Resilience – Required Courses 2019 Robert A. M. Stern Architects (RAMSA) Room Reservations S Safety, Health, and Wellbeing Sample Job Posting #1 Sample Job Posting #2 Scanners Scholarships for International Students Scholarships for US Citizens and Eligible Non-citizens Seating Charts and Assigned Seating Security Shift Schedule Social Media Social Media Special Collections Special Interest Links for Architecture Students Spiritual Life Spring 2021 Final Exam Schedule Spring 2021 Thesis Review Schedule Spring 2022 Final Exam Schedule Spring 2022 Final Review Schedule Staff Awards & Recognition Staff Directory Staff Newsletter Staff Printing Stationery and Branding Student & Alumni Events Student Academic Affairs Committee Student Directory Student Employment Student Forum Student Forum Open ZOOM Room Student Group Directory Student Group Guide Student Policies Student Records and Transcript Policies Student Travel Information and Costs for Option Studios Students on Leave of Absence Studio Abroad Studio Culture Policy Studio Electricity Summer Peer-Learning Sessions Sustainability at the GSD T Takenaka Summer Internship Talking Practice Tax Resources Teaching Assistant & Research Assistant: Faculty Resources Teaching Assistant (Union Position) Teaching Fellow (Union Position) Technical and Administrative Positions (Non-union Positions) Technology Guide Technology – Required Courses 2018 Technology – Required Courses 2019 Telephones Term Bill The Office of Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging Title IX Tokyo Summer Workshop Topics Transcripts Transportation Travel Safety and Guidelines Traveling Fellowships Tuition Tuition and Financial Aid U UPD Faculty Office Hours UPD Thesis Guidelines Undergraduate Architecture Studies University Policies & Procedures Updating Staff Profile Photos Urban Design Faculty Profiles Urban Planning and Design Urban Planning and Design Open House Schedule Urban Planning and Design Thesis Prize Urban Planning and Public Policy Urbanism, Landscape, Ecology Urbanism, Landscape, Ecology – Required Courses 2018 Urbanism, Landscape, Ecology – Required Courses 2019 Utilizing LinkedIn V VPN Service Veronica Rudge Green Prize in Urban Design Veteran and Military Benefits Virtual & On-Campus Events W Web: Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) Web Editing: Media Web Profile Photos Wellness Resources Wheelwright Prize Who We Are Work Opportunities for Students Work Order Request Form Workshops and Personal Development 2 2020 Oct Iframe test 2021-2022 Academic Year Planning 2022 Application FAQs 2022 J-Term Courses Submit Search Resource Center Transportation Harvard Transportation Shuttles & vans exclusive to the Harvard community Public Transportation MBTA subway, bus, commuter rail, student semester pass discount; Taxis and rideshares Rentals Zipcar, car rental, moving vans Owning a Car Permits, parking, driver’s licenses, MA state IDs Trains & Buses Out of the City Amtrak, Greyhound, and more Planes Flying from Boston’s Logan Airport Traveling Abroad Important information & trip registration requirements for any student traveling abroad, especially international students Harvard Transportation Harvard operates several Shuttle & Van Services which can make it easier to get around the extended Cambridge/Allston main campus, to the Longwood campus, to Harvard housing, and more. Public Transportation The Massachusetts Bay Transportation Authority (MBTA), aka “the T,” is your answer to public transportation. The T includes the subway, bus, and commuter rail systems, though most people mean the subway when they say they’re going someplace by T. You can use one fare card for both subway and bus, but the easiest way to buy commuter rail tickets is through the commuter rail mobile app. There are two kinds of fare cards: the Charlie Card and the Charlie Ticket. Charlie Cards are RFID-enabled plastic cards which you can refill with both cash and weekly or monthly passes at a station or online. Using a Charlie Card gets you a discount compared to a Charlie Ticket, but you can only get Charlie Cards at a few select stations or through the mail. Charlie Tickets are paper tickets available from vending machines at every station, and you can fill them either with cash or a weekly pass, but they can’t be refilled. MBTA fare rates are kept up to date on their website. And check below for information on the MBTA’s semester pass discount program for students! The MBTA has several endorsed mobile apps. These apps plus others available at various app stores allow you to track buses, plan journeys, and more. The Subway Boston has the oldest underground subway system in the US – it opened in 1897! Subway Routes & Transfer Stops The five subway lines—Red, Green, Blue, Orange, and Silver—meet at six transfer stops in downtown Boston: Park Street, Government Center, Downtown Crossing, South Station, Boylston Street and State Street. The Red Line is the line that runs closest to the GSD. It transfers to the Green Line at Park Street, the Orange and Silver Line at Downtown Crossing. Its terminus stations are Alewife Station (northwest), Ashmont (south, Dorchester) and Braintree (southeast). Inbound/Outbound & Terminus References One source of confusion when first navigating the T is the inbound and outbound signs. In general, if you’re traveling toward one of the main transfer stops in downtownBoston, you’re going inbound and if you’re traveling away, you’re going outbound. On the Red Line, Downtown Crossing is “the center.” But it’s actually much easier to just use the terminus station as a reference, since those aren’t dependent on where you’re starting. If you want to go southeast on the Red Line, you’ll take a Ashmont/Braintree train (branches after JFK/U Mass); to go northwest, you’ll take an Alewife train. Stations to Know Park Street is the busiest (and oldest) station in the system. Also a good place to start walking the Freedom Trail, if you’re one day so inclined. (Red/Green Lines) Downtown Crossing is the most “inbound” station. (Red/Orange Lines) South Station is the central Boston bus, Amtrak and MBTA commuter rail depot. Plan an extra 10 minutes to walk from the MBTA station to the bus terminal—it’s far. The SL1 to/from Logan Airport stops here, too. (Red/Silver Lines, West & South Commuter Rail, Amtrak, Bus Terminal) North Station is another Amtrak station and also a station for many of the commuter lines that’ll take you on all kinds of adventures up the coast (like to the beach). (Green/Orange Lines, Northwest & North Commuter Rail) Porter Square Station also connects to the Fitchburg commuter line, which runs west through northern Massachusetts. (Red Line, West Commuter Rail) The Bus To get around within Cambridge & Somerville, the bus system is often more direct than the subway. You must pay with a fare card or have exact change to pay in cash. #1: Harvard Sq/Dudley Sq via Mass Ave The #1 bus runs along Mass Ave toward Boston. It’s the best way from the GSD to Newbury Street. Pick it up in front of the Fogg Museum at Cambridge and Quincy Streets or in Central Square. During rush hour the #1 is often slow and packed. #66: Harvard Sq/Dudley Sq via Allston-Brighton The ultimate in cross-town buses, the #66 goes to downtown Allston, Coolidge Corner, Brookline Village, up over Mission Hill and into Roxbury. #69: Harvard Sq/Lechmere The quickest way from Harvard Square or Inman Square to the Cambridgeside Galleria Mall. No Late-Night T Unfortunately, the subway and buses stop running at 12:45am, and depending on which stop you are at, the last train may be as early at 12:15am. Look for signs posted in stations. Trains begin running again at 5am. GSD MBTA Semester Pass Program GSD students can purchase semester MBTA bus, link, and commuter rail passes (all zones) at a 11% percent discount by completing the MBTA Semester Pass order form online by the appropriate deadline. The cost of the semester pass will be charged to the student’s term bill. Once available, student purchasers will receive an e-mail to pick up their passes at the Office of Student Affairs in Gund Hall. Fall passes cover the period from September through December. Spring passes cover the period from February through May. Please note: Orders for the spring semester have closed, and fall 2022 orders will open in August. The deadline to order is Friday, January 7th at 4:00 PM EST. Please consider your needs carefully before placing an order. After an order is placed, we are not able to process refunds. Students with disabilities are eligible for reduced MBTA fares. For more information, please visit the MBTA’s Transportation Access Pass page: https://www.mbta.com/fares/reduced/transportation-access-pass Semester Pass Program FAQs Q: What is the difference between a Zone1A and a Link pass? They cost the same. A: The Link pass offers unlimited travel on subway and local bus. The Zone1A pass offers the same unlimited coverage as the Link pass with the addition of Zone1A commuter rail stops. See the MBTA Commuter Rail Zone map for more information. Students must pick up their next month’s Zone1A pass towards the end of each month (ex. November’s pass will be picked up at the end of October). Link passes are picked up once each semester. Lastly, lost Link passes may be replaced, whereas lost Zone1A passes may not be replaced; students would have to wait until the next month when they would pick up their next pass. Q: Can I pay for my pass with a check? A: No, all T-pass orders will be charged to the student’s term-bill. Q: When and where can I pick my pass up? A: The Office of Student Affairs will be in touch via e-mail when the passes are ready for pick-up. Fall pass pick-up is at the end of August/beginning of September. Spring pass pick-up is at the end of January/beginning of February. Commuter rail passes must be picked up monthly, as the MBTA only manufactures monthly commuter rail passes. Q: What happens if I lose my pass? A: Only bus and Link passes may be replaced by the MBTA. If you have lost a bus or Link pass, please contact Ryanne Hammerl (rhammerl@gsd.harvard.edu) and she will deactivate your lost pass and order a replacement pass on your behalf. Q: Is there summer T-pass coverage? A: No, the MBTA sets the parameters for the Semester Pass Program. The summer months are not part of the program. Q: Can I buy a pass just for a month? A: No, the Semester Pass Program offers coverage for four consecutive months. Students are charged for the entire amount and cannot opt in or out of coverage during the semester. Q: Can the Office of Student Affairs mail me my pass? A: No, students must pick up their passes in person. Taxis Boston area cabs have a minimum base fare and then charge by distance traveled. Passengers must pay any tolls. Don’t forget to tip. Some cabs do not take credit cards, especially if the ride costs less than $10. Make sure you ask before you ride! Some reliable cab companies are: Cambridge Ambassador Brattle Cab (617) 492-1100 Yellow Cab of Cambridge (617) 547-3000 Somerville Green & Yellow Cab (617) 628-0600 The Boston area is also well-served by app-based rideshare companies such as Lyft and Uber, and many local cab companies can be booked through apps such as Curb, Arro, or their own company apps. Rentals Zipcar A Zipcar is incredibly convenient for quick trips to the grocery store or Home Depot and is also great for day trips. Plus, the ZipCar founder is a Loeb Fellow! For overnight and long-distance trips, a standard rental car is probably cheaper. An annual membership fee allows you access to the self-service car-sharing club. As a Harvard student, you get a sizeable discount on the membership fee. Zipcars are parked at various locations throughout the Boston area. You simply make a reservation online (or on the app), use your Zipcard to unlock the car at its specified location, and return it to the same location when you’re finished. Rental Discounts Some rental car companies offer student discounts. See travel.harvard.edu for information. Moving Trucks U-Haul is not necessarily the cheapest, but probably the most convenient when used in conjunction with their temporary and long-term storage units. Owning a Car There are many advantages to owning a car in Cambridge: grocery shopping, moving studio supplies around and adventurous trips to the Cape or Mass MoCA. Living without a car, however, has its own advantages, too. Challenges of car ownership Parking a car in the Cambridge area can be difficult. Look for apartments that offer off-street parking. If you don’t have to park on the street, you can keep your car registered in your home state. If you do park on the street, get a local permit and pay attention to street cleaning days and emergency snow routes: if you leave your car on the street during these all important clearing times, your car will be ticketed and towed, at considerable cost and inconvenience to you. Cars registered in Massachusetts must pass annual inspection and emissions check, offered inexpensively at local garages. Cars with Massachusetts plates and an expired state inspection sticker will be impounded. On-Campus Parking The lottery for student parking permits is competitive. Even if you do get a parking spot, it will probably be at the Business School lot across the river, a 20-minute walk from Gund. More information is available from the Harvard Parking Office. Getting a Resident Parking Permit Unless you have an off-street parking spot, you’re going to want a permit to park on the street. Unfortunately, you’re going to have to get Massachusetts insurance (the highest rates in the country) to get a local parking sticker. You generally need to show some proof of residency (e.g. bank statement, utility bill, lease, etc.). Check the most up-to-date specifics for your city: Cambridge: cambridgema.gov/traffic/RPP.cfm Somerville: parksomerville.com Boston: boston.gov/departments/parking-clerk/how-get-resident-parking-permit Towing If your car is towed, you may need to contact the police to find out where it’s been taken. Have your license plate number ready. In Cambridge you can also use or use the online Towed Vehicle Lookup. Getting a Massachusetts Driver’s License To get a new driver’s license in Massachusetts, you will need to complete both a written and a driving test at the Registry of Motor Vehicles. For the driving test, you will need to have access to a car. If you only need to transfer an out-of-state license, you just have to bring them some paperwork and pay a fee. It can be a long wait at the RMV, so before you go check and double check that you’re bringing the right documents. See this dedicated page for more information on Massachusetts ID cards. International Students: Getting a Massachusetts ID Card Massachusetts has a minimum drinking age of 21, and waiters and bar door staff will check your ID. To avoid carrying your passport around, you might want to get a Massachusetts Driver’s License or Liquor ID Card from the RMV. Insider Tips Parking Near the GSD Good luck! There are meters on Oxford, Cambridge and Kirkland. Bring quarters, though some meters can now be paid through an app. Meters have a two-hour maximum. For loading and unloading, you can often park in front of Gund on Quincy in the turnabout. Winter Driving If you’ve never driven in the snow, take it easy and definitely check out mass.gov for tips. http://www.massdot.state.ma.us/highway/departments/snowice/safewinterdrivingtips.aspx Boston Drivers Massachusetts drivers consistently rank among the worst in the country, according to the GMAC Insurance National Drivers Test. The roads here are narrow, windy and often one-way, making navigation tricky. Top that off with hard-to-find parking and snowy winters, and you’re in for a real mess. Trains & Buses Out of the City Buses Most regional bus trips leave from the South Station bus terminal From the South Station MBTA stop, follow the signs to direct you from the T Station through the main hall of the Amtrak terminal and across to the South Station Bus Terminal. The walk is a good 10 minutes, so factor this into your schedule. Most buses have wi-fi and power outlets, but they don’t always work. Greyhound and Peter Pan drop off at Port Authority, NYC’s main bust station. Bolt Bus’s street-side drop-off and pick-up point in NYC is far more convenient than Mega Bus’s. Go Bus is another great bus option for trips to NYC. It leaves from Alewife Station (the northern terminus of the Red Line and only a few stops from Harvard) in Cambridge and drops off close to Penn Station in NYC. Trains Amtrak from South Station Amtrak tickets can be expensive, but you can often find deals – look under the “Savings and Promotions” area of the Amtrak website and pay special attention to packages for museum trips or Broadway shows. Amtrak trains depart from South Station and make a second pick-up at Back Bay Station. There are two types of trains: Acela and Regional. The Acela is about half an hour faster and is more comfortable, but costs significantly more. Amtrak from North Station In addition to the commuter rail, North Station also provides rail service to the New Hampshire and Maine coastline. The Downeaster offers great deals for tickets up to Portland, ME. MBTA Commuter Rail From Providence to Rockport, the commuter rail (the Purple Line on T maps) connects outlying towns to the city. You can get to a nice beach town in less than an hour! Commuter trains leave from two stations: North Station (trains headed north to Concord, Lowell, North Shore) and South Station (trains headed south or west to Worcester, Providence, South Shore). Schedules change seasonally. Download the handy MBTA mTicket app for your smartphone and you can buy a ticket ahead of time or even once you’re on the train. Planes Boston Logan Airport There are many ways to get to Logan Airport — taxis, cars, vans, or by T: Taking the T Take the Red Line to South Station (six stops from Harvard), and transfer to the Silver Line 1 to Logan Airport. The bus will stop at all airport terminals. You should expect the trip to take about an hour, but at peak times, the Silver Line (which is an express bus, not a subway) can be crowded and chaotic. The Silver Line is free when boarding at the airport. Note: If you live closer to a Green Line station, head to Gov’t Center, transfer to Blue, and at the ‘Airport’ stop board a quick shuttle bus to the terminals. It takes about the same time (but with at least an additional transfer) as the Red/Silver route. Taking a Taxi You may find that dragging your bags all over Boston on the T is exhausting or time-consuming. For about $40, plus tip and tolls, a taxi or rideshare service will take you to Logan from the Harvard Square area. Students often split cab rides to the airport around holiday and break times. By Car Driving to Logan only takes about 20 minutes from Cambridge, when traffic is good (budget twice that if it’s rush hour). Take the Mass Pike towards Boston and follow the signs for the airport. If you are in Somerville, take Washington Street to McGrath Highway at Union Square, get onto 93 South, and follow signs to the airport. Have a friend drive you – you’ll pay much more in airport parking fees than you would spend on a taxi. Traveling Abroad International Students: Always check with HIO The Harvard International Office (HIO) recommends international students check with their office before making any travel plans. This goes for when you’re considering which traveling options studios to rank highly, too. Every country has its own visa rules and timelines for travelers of various nationalities. Students should only travel outside the US if all of their documents related to US immigration status are in order. Make sure you are aware of any potential travel impacts from special circumstances, such as a leave of absence or travel after your official date of graduation. If you have any questions or doubts, check with HIO before you leave the country. Traveling for a GSD Studio or Course Many GSD students will take an option studio or research seminar that involves international travel. Please read carefully the Travel Warnings and Consular Info provided by the US State Department for the country or countries you plan to travel to and through. Emergency Assistance Harvard University Global Support Services has a program called Harvard Travel Assist to provide 24-hour worldwide emergency medical and evacuation assistance for Harvard affiliates traveling abroad on University business. During a medical or security incident abroad, you can call Harvard Travel Assist at +1-617-998-0000 for immediate support. If you can’t call, email travelassist@harvard.edu with “Urgent” at the start of your subject line if it’s an emergency. The phone line is answered immediately; an email response may take four hours for urgent requests and 24 hours for non-urgent requests. To expedite assistance, it’s crucial that your itinerary is entered in the Harvard Travel Registry. Harvard Travel Registry All students traveling abroad are required to register with the Harvard Travel Registry for all trips funded or arranged by Harvard or for which they will receive Harvard credit. It has been created so the University can locate you quickly and provide assistance in the unlikely event of an emergency. Register your itinerary and contact info online and be sure to update it if they change during the course of your trip. The Travel Tools website also contains useful info for planning a safe trip, including links to important resources such as visa services vendors, which can provide assistance with visa and passport requirements and applications. International Students If you are an international student and traveling outside the US, it is your responsibility to ensure that you are in compliance with all the DHS regulations and that you have the proper documents for travel and re-entry into the US. Please remember to bring your passport (with a valid visa stamp), I-20, DS/2019 and all other visa documents. To avoid confusion, use your full legal name as it appears on your passport for all transactions, such as airline tickets. If you have any questions, consult the Harvard International Office (HIO). Travel Tips If you want to go off on your own while on a group trip, make sure the trip leader knows where you’re going, when you’ll be back and how to reach you. Write down all of your important info (passport, credit card numbers, emergency contacts), and store it at home or with a reliable person in case of theft. Prev Next Close Slideshow Back to top Harvard University Graduate School of Design © 2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College Privacy Accessibility Digital Accessibility Maps Contact COVID-19 GSD API Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Sign up to receive news and information about upcoming events, exhibitions, and more. Email* Δ Version 1.11.26