Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Career Center Menu About Us Career Center Staff Mission and Calling Career Day Handshake Information News and Featured Articles Events FAQs Contact Us Students Career Resources Resume Resources Career Courses Interviewing Job Search Find Your Career Success Professional Graduate School Planning Parents Supporting Your Student Parent Guide Newsletter Employers Why Hire a Baylor Student Handshake for Employers Success Data Career Center The Baylor University Career Center provides professional assistance to all Baylor students through specialized career coaching, top resources, connections with employers, graduate school planning, and much more. Explore Career Teams Business Creating pathways for future business leaders in their specialized area of calling while developing lifelong career success strategies. Read More Engineering & Computer Science Developing talented technical students into high-caliber candidates. Read More Education Building bridges between students' career visions and potential employers, resources, and opportunities. Read More Graduate Business Integrating analytical and leadership driven academic performers into a competitive marketplace. Read More Honors College Cultivating students' love for learning into innovative and virtuous careers. Read More Liberal Arts Providing students the skill to translate a liberal arts education into a world of opportunities. Read More Math, Science & Health Preparing students to excel in their career and graduate school pursuits. Read More Social Work Helping passionate students connect their calling to a meaningful career. Read More Find Your CSP Success Data Handshake Career Fairs Career Resources FAQs I Know Where I'm Going Next Whether you know where you're going next or not, schedule an appointment today with your CSP, so that we can help you in the right direction. Learn More Find Your Career Success Professional The Baylor University Career Center Team provides support and direction for all Baylor students as they follow their calling into a successful career after graduation. We strive to offer the highest quality career coaching and resources available, while continually researching best practices nationwide to position our students for success, whether it be directly into the work force or graduate school. There is a Career Success Professional (CSP or Career Coach) just for you based on your major. Each one specializes in a different area including all of the colleges, undecided majors, international students, and veterans. Find your CSP and make an appointment to get a headstart on success today! Learn More Success Data The Career Center surveys all graduating students to gain accurate and up to date information on placement and success. Learn More Teachers Fair Spring 2022 Interested in working in the field of education? Visit the Teacher Job Fair on Thursday, March 24, 2022 from 10:00 a.m. to 1:00 p.m. to meet and greet with recruiters representing schools throughout Texas. From 1:00-3:00 p.m., some recruiters will interview candidates on-campus. This fair is open to ALL MAJORS. If you are seeking employment opportunities within a school setting, this fair is for you! Come learn about teacher jobs, coaches, speech-language pathologists, counselors, social workers, and more! Learn More Events See More Events May 16 2022 Minimester session (ends 06/02/2022) Jun 3 2022 Summer Session I (ends 07/08/2022) Jul 4 2022 Independence Day - University Holiday Jul 11 2022 Summer Session II (ends 08/12/2022) Success Stories See More Success Stories Alexandra Davis Internship Brandon Maxwell Apparel Design - Class of '19 "Be willing to accept when something does not go how you want, learn from it, and utilize that to your advantage. Everything that is meant to happen will align, but you have to put yourself outside of your comfort zone in order to grow and gain opportunity." Ashley Dinges Internship Supply Chain Management Supply Chain Management - Class of '20 "When interviewing, really know what the job description is asking for and how your skill sets can fill that need." Billicarole Evans Full Time - Operations Leadership Development Siemens Mechanical Engineering - Class of '20 "I'm so glad that I attended each career fair and sought help from the Career Center. It all truly helped me land an opportunity with my dream company." Christina Corbett Internship Kohl's Apparel Merchandising - Class of '20 "Internships are extremely important. They are a necessity when seeking jobs after graduation, and are so valuable in helping you figure out what exactly you want to do or which jobs to apply for." Jeffrey Sonola Full - Time Software Engineer Dell Technologies ECS -Class of '21 "I would advise ECS students to take the PRD 2101 class earlier rather than later as I was able to have internships over multiple summers before my senior year. It is also great to have the Career Center advise you because they have such great relationships with these employers and recruiters". Featured Articles See More Articles Jan. 27, 2022 Top Companies 2021: The 50 best workplaces to grow your career in the U.S. The world of work is transforming. Not only have we worked through a once-in-a-generation global pandemic, but decades of automation, the rise of artificial intelligence and a new shift to remote work have all reshaped what our professional lives look like — and what we’re expecting from our employers. Read More Oct. 29, 2021 The master’s degrees that give the biggest salary boost—up to 87% more money In September 2020, the National Student Clearinghouse estimated that while enrollment in undergraduate programs for associate’s and bachelor’s degrees fell by 9.7% compared to 2019, enrollment in master’s programs increased 6%. Read More Sep. 4, 2021 Companies Need More Workers. Why Do They Reject Millions of Résumés? Automated-hiring systems are excluding many people from job discussions at a time when additional employees are desperately needed Read More Sep. 1, 2021 It’s not what you know, it’s who you know When most people think of college, they think of a time to do a deep dive into specific subjects, with the hope that all the knowledge they acquire will be enough for them to get a job after graduation. Read More Baylor University Career Center The Baylor Career Center has three locations. Sid Rich, West Wing (254) 710-3771 Foster, Suite 150 (254) 710-2975 Rogers, Suite 311 (254) 710-7516 careercenter@baylor.edu Make an Appointment On Campus Student Employment Recruit Baylor Students Work in Waco General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 About Us Career Center Staff Mission and Calling Career Day Handshake Information News and Featured Articles Events FAQs Contact Us Students Career Resources Resume Resources Career Courses Interviewing Job Search Find Your Career Success Professional Graduate School Planning Parents Supporting Your Student Parent Guide Newsletter Employers Why Hire a Baylor Student Handshake for Employers Success Data