Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Alleluia Conference Menu About Reasons to Come Event Schedule View Concise Schedule Session Descriptions Clinicians & Presenters Session Topics ELCM Award Recording Library Contact Us Future Conference Dates Registration Register Online One-Day Intensive Exhibitor & Sponsorship Travel Info Hotel Partnerships While in Waco Join Our Mailing List Worship Lab Youth Track & Initiative Parent FAQs Camper FAQs Covid-19 Updates THE CENTER FOR CHRISTIAN MUSIC STUDIES PRESENTS THE 19TH ANNUAL MUSIC AND WORSHIP LEADERSHIP CONFERENCE JULY 19-22, 2022 The Alleluia Conference is a one-of-a-kind enrichment event featuring superb clinicians who re-energize and inspire worship leaders, music ministers, children’s choir leaders, and keyboard ministers. Register Online Explore Topics Session Topics Children's Music Conducting Discussion Panels & PIE Talks Global Music Handbells Organ Piano Band-led Worship Reading Sessions Technology Worship Youth Choir Featured Clinicians All Clinicians Anton Armstrong Conducting Anton Armstrong is the Harry R. and Thora H. Tosdal Chair in Music, Professor of Music at St. Olaf College and Conductor of the St. Olaf Choir, a position he assumed in 1990. He came to this position following ten years in Grand Rapids, Michigan where he served on the faculty of Calvin College and conducted the Campus Choir, the Calvin College Alumni Choir and the Grand Rapids Symphony Chorus. A graduate of St. Olaf College, Anton Armstrong earned a Master of Music degree at the University of Illinois and the Doctor of Musical Arts degree from Michigan State University. He holds membership in several professional societies including the American Choral Directors Association, Choristers Guild, Chorus America, and the International Federation for Choral Music. He also serves as editor of a multicultural choral series for Earthsongs Publications and co-editor of the revised St. Olaf Choral Series for Augsburg Fortress Publishers. Randall Bradley Ministry He is the Ben H. Williams Professor of Church Music and Director of the Church Music Program and the Center for Christian Music Studies at Baylor University where he is a member of the undergraduate and graduate faculties and directs the Baylor University Men's Choir. With a passion for building bridges between Christian musicians, he continually looks for ways to create meaningful dialogue among all who are committed to serving the church through music. Constance Cherry Worship The Rev. Dr. Constance Cherry served as Professor of Worship and Pastoral Ministry in the School of Theology and Ministry where she developed the Christian Worship department at Indiana Wesleyan University from the ground up since 2004. Constance has decades of experience in full-time local church ministry as both director of music and worship, and pastor. She is also a founding faculty member of The Robert E. Webber Institute for Worship Studies where she continues to teach in the Doctor of Worship Studies program since 2000. She travels extensively to speak nationally and internationally, is a published composer, and is the author of five books. Nikki Lerner Multicultural Worship Leadership Nikki Lerner is a culture coach, speaker, artist, and author helping individuals and organizations move from monocultural to multicultural. With over 20+ years as a practitioner and leader in the area of multicultural work and life, her passion is to equip others with the inspiration and information needed to move one step closer towards healthy diversity. Nikki is the host of the Culture Coach Podcast, has authored a new book entitled Life Whispers, and is also the co-author of the book Worship Together: In Your Church As In Heaven. Nikki also leads the Multicultural Worship Leaders Network which equips leaders in faith communities with tools for multicultural work & life and as an artist has released 4 solo musical works. You can connect with Nikki, hire her for coaching, or work with her by visiting nikkilerner.com. Joseph Martin Reading Session Clinicians Joseph Martin, a native of North Carolina, earned his Bachelor of Music degree in Piano Performance at Furman University in Greenville, South Carolina. Subsequently he earned a Master of Music degree in Piano Performance at the University of Texas, Austin. He is a member of the staff of Shawnee Press, Inc. as Director of Sacred Publications, with responsibilities for overseeing the editorial and creative direction of the company and also coordinating the recording and production aspects of future sacred publishing efforts. Bradley Hunter Welch Organ Hailed as "A world-class virtuoso" (The American Organist) and "an expert at defining darks, lights, shadows and colors," (Birmingham News, Alabama), Bradley Hunter Welch is increasingly in demand as a recitalist, concerto soloist, and collaborative artist. He is the 2003 First Place winner of the Dallas International Organ Competition and was also awarded the Audience Prize for the second time, having previously won it in 2000. Reasons to Come With a wide selection of opportunities for each member of your music leadership team, Alleluia has something to offer every church musician and we encourage you to attend and experience first-hand, the rejuvenation that comes from joining together with other like-minded leaders. About The Conference Highlights Reading Sessions: 12 breakouts, including 1 with full-orchestra. Breakout Sessions: Featuring more than 80 workshops and lectures. Evening Events: Worship, Recitals, Concerts, and more. Discussion Panels: Conversations with ministry leaders. Conference Highlights Event Schedule Explore upcoming conference offerings by viewing the schedule. Event Schedule Conference Recordings Watch previously recorded sessions from the Alleluia Conference Conference Recordings Join Our Mailing List Weekly Email updates highlight upcoming conference features Join Our Mailing List Worship Lab Encourage high-school leaders to attend our leadership training camp running concurrently with Alleluia. Worship Lab Alleluia Conference One Bear Place Waco, TX 76798-7408 (254) 710-1355 Alleluia@baylor.edu FacebookRegisterTwitterTopicsInstagramClinicians Partnerships and Sponsors General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 About Reasons to Come Event Schedule View Concise Schedule Session Descriptions Clinicians & Presenters Session Topics ELCM Award Recording Library Contact Us Future Conference Dates Registration Register Online One-Day Intensive Exhibitor & Sponsorship Travel Info Hotel Partnerships While in Waco Join Our Mailing List Worship Lab Youth Track & Initiative Parent FAQs Camper FAQs Covid-19 Updates