Skip to main content Apply Canvas Map Calendar Library Directory MyUW more_vert more_vert Close Search Tools 25Live Canvas Catalyst Directory IT Help Library MyUW Office365 Panopto Scout Workday Zoom Search News & Information News & Information News Stories UWT in the News Podcast: Paw'd Defiance Subscribe MyUW Map Tools Gold Star spouse McClintock keynotes remembrance ceremony May 23, 2022 Alexandra McClintock, '22, will speak at UW Tacoma's 2022 Memorial Day Remembrance ceremony. Her husband, SFC Matthew McClintock, was killed in 2016 while serving in Afghanistan. U.S. Army Brig. Gen. Xavier Brunson, deputy commander of U.S. Army Special Forces Command, presents an American flag to Declan, son of U.S. Army Sgt. 1st Class Matthew Q. McClintock, during the graveside service for McClintock in Section 60 of Arlington National Cemetery, March 7, 2016, in Arlington, Va. McClintock was killed in action Jan. 5, 2016, in Afghanistan. (U.S. Army photo by Rachel Larue/Arlington National Cemetery/released. The appearance of U.S. Department of Defense (DoD) visual information does not imply or constitute DoD endorsement.) Alumna Alexandra McClintock, ’22, is the keynote speaker for this year’s Memorial Day Remembrance ceremony at UW Tacoma. McClintock is a Gold Star Spouse. Her husband, Sergeant First Class Matthew McClintock, was killed in 2016 while serving in Afghanistan. The couple celebrated the birth of their son just a few months before Matthew McClintock was killed. Since her husband’s death Alexandra McClintock has been active in the veteran and military community. She was the subject of a profile in The News Tribune when a national Gold Star Family advocacy organization, the Tunnel to Towers Foundation, paid off her mortgage on her Tacoma home. The remembrance ceremony is one of several events put together by UW Tacoma’s Veteran & Military Resource Center (VMRC), the Veterans Incubator for Better Entrepreneurship and the Student Veteran Organization. Members of the UW Tacoma community participated in a flag-laying along the Prairie Line Trail on Monday, May 23. Besides the flag-laying and the remembrance ceremony, there are other events at UW Tacoma, UW Bothell and UW in Seattle this week to mark Memorial Day which falls this year on Monday, May 30. The Memorial Day Mile is Wednesday May 25 at the University Y followed by a mental health workshop the next day. The veteran and military-affiliated community at UW Tacoma is large and diverse. More than 17% of the campus’s student body has a military affiliation whether that is active duty, veteran status, or close family connection. And quite a number of campus faculty and staff carry a military affiliation. Because of the strength of the campus community, and because of its proximity to Joint Base Lewis-McChord, UW Tacoma serves as UW’s official liaison to JBLM. The VMRC helps connect students who are veterans with benefits related to the G.I. Bill and acts as sponsor of the Student Veteran Organization, which has been named a finalist for Chapter of the Year (in competition against 1,500 other chapters) for three years running by Student Veterans of America. Written by Eric Wilson-Edge Veteran & Military Affairs Recent news Making a Connection UW Tacoma senior Leticia Barreto embraced campus life and opened up a world of opportunities. Completing These Certificates Changed My Life Diane Lyons, '16, reinvented herself through certificate programs with the UW Tacoma Professional Development Center. Labor Solidarity Project Hosts Seminar on 'Revolutionary Nonviolence' The event will feature a screening of a documentary on Rev. James Lawson, spiritual advisor to MLK, plus a discussion of nonviolent organizing and labor education by Dr. Kent Wong of UCLA, and local labor leaders commenting on the state of organizing in the northwest. More Recent News UW Tacoma in the News Secrets of Success: 2022 South Sound Business writers Madison Miller, Blake Peterson, John Stearns, Stephanie Quiroz, and Hailee Wickersham interview successful South Sound professionals to discover how they overcame personal challenges and obstacles to achieve success. South Sound Business - Online Edition - April 25, 2022 Economic and policy experts argue against repealing the capital gains tax Nine economic and policy experts, including UW Tacoma's Katie Baird, Anna Lovasz and Tim Scharks, call on voters to reject I-1929, which would repeal the capital gains tax established by the legislature in 2021. Washington State Wire - April 18, 2022 Inslee appoints Jon Scott to Snohomish County Superior Court Jon Scott, '96, most recently served as a senior trial attorney with the Snohomish County Public Defender Association. Washington Governor Jay Inslee News - April 15, 2022 More UW Tacoma in the News Contact News & Information email uwtnews@uw.edu phone_iphone 123-456-7890 ACADEMICS Academic advising Academic calendar Canvas Library Schools and programs Study Abroad Teaching and Learning Center CAMPUS Campus Safety Equity & Inclusion Financial Aid Housing Information Technology Student Life University Y Student Center ABOUT UW TACOMA Administration Admissions Institutional Research Jobs Parking & transportation Research UW Alerts UWNetID login UW Seattle | UW Bothell © 2022 University of Washington Tacoma 1900 Commerce Street, Tacoma, WA 98402-3100 Contact us | Terms of Use | Privacy Policy