COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Workforce Leadership, Minor MinorWorkforce Leadership All Programs College of Applied Studies Department of Sport Management Wichita State’s minor in workforce leadership equips students with foundational knowledge for diverse leadership roles in the public, private and nonprofit sectors. The minor is a valuable addition for a wide range of majors and careers. Learn how workforce leadership is the right fit for you. Request Info Start Your Application Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the program To take courses in the College of Applied Studies, you must first be admitted to Wichita State. For WSU’s admission requirements, and to apply, click the link below. Admission requirements Curriculum The 12-credit-hour minor includes one required course—Principles of Leadership—and nine additional hours based on your interests and career goals. Options include Applied Studies Practicum, Service Learning & Community Engagement, Organizational Design and Engagement I, Organizational Design and Engagement II, Interviewing Principles and Techniques, Leading for Creativity, Human-Centered Service and Design, Collaboration & Leadership or Education and Workplace Training. View the curriculum Careers Thanks to WSU’s extensive network of employer connections, students in every major have opportunities to gain real-world experience—helping them build a resume, make professional connections and land their dream jobs. Learn more about careers in this field Similar Programs Organizational Leadership and Learning (Major) 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©