Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Alumni Association Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Alumni Clubs Alumni Community Benefits CAA Arts Access Career Resources Events Get Involved News Columbia Alumni Association You are here: Home Columbia BAC, LAACU, SoCal | LAACU Conversaciones Events Past Event Columbia BAC, LAACU, SoCal | LAACU Conversaciones Share Add to Calendar: Calendar / Outlook Google Yahoo September 20, 2021 7:00 PM - 8:30 PM America/New_York Online LAACU Conversaciones: Transforming Education for Black and Latino Boys with Prof. Adriana Villavicencio PhD CC '00 TC '02 and TC Professor Chris Emdin PhD Join LAACU, BAC, and Columbia SoCal as Dr. Adriana Villavicencio ’00CC, ’02TC shares in a conversation with Dr. Chris Emdin, about her book, Am I My Brother’s Keeper: Improving the Educational Experiences and Outcomes and Black and Brown Boys. The book, published by Harvard Education Press, offers powerful insights into the opportunities and challenges of creating large-scale educational change. By chronicling a four-year initiative focused on improving education for 15,000 Black and Latino male students in New York City public high schools, the book covers what worked, what didn’t, and what we can do to transform districts and schools for young men of color. Dr. Villavicencio is an Assistant Professor in the School of Education at the University of California, Irvine. Her research is focused on K-12 educational policy and school practice that deepens or disrupts inequities for historically underserved communities of students and families. Dr. Villavicencio earned her Ph.D. in education leadership and policy from the NYU Steinhardt School of Culture, Education, and Human Development, an M.A. in English Education from Teachers College, Columbia University, and a B.A. in English from Columbia University. Dr. Emdin is a social critic, public intellectual, and award winning academic whose work in democratizing science and transforming urban education has been featured in several periodicals including the New York Times, Wall Street Journal, and Washington Post. He holds a Ph.D. in Urban Education with a concentration in Mathematics, Science and Technology, a M.S. in Natural Sciences, and Bachelors degrees in Physical Anthropology, Biology, and Chemistry. He is author of the award winning book, Urban Science Education for the Hip-hop Generation and the New York Times bestseller For White Folks Who Teach In The Hood.. and the Rest of ya’ll too. His newest book, Ratchetdemic: Reimagining Academic Success, offers a transformative approach to schools and schooling. https://columbiauniversity.zoom.us/meeting/register/tJYldOGopj8pHtNxTssp9ol9ZnNR2nImmOm9 Contact Information CAA Global and Diversity Engagement [email protected] Upcoming Events Columbia Alumni Center 622 West 113th Street, Mail Code 4525 · New York, NY 10025 Phone 212-851-7800 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close