Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Explore Brown University Search Global Navigation Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Chemistry at Brown: Undergraduate Home About Research Academics Undergraduate Research Opportunities Chemistry Placement & Introductory Courses CHEM - Web Tutorial Transfer Credit Honors & Awards ChemDUG REUs & Funding Graduate Courses Resources People News Seminars & Events Site Navigation Home About Facilities & Services NMR Facility Mass Spectrometry Facility Machine Shop Electronics Shop Stockroom Room Reservations Connect your Computer Outreach & Inclusion Diversity & Inclusion Action Committee Outreach Activities Chemistry Anonymous Climate Form Visitor & Contact Information Travel Policies for Guests Brown Chemistry Department Employment Opportunities & Internship Postings Geo-Chem MacMillan Safety Resources Research Chemical Biology Inorganic Chemistry Nano and Materials Chemistry Organic Chemistry Physical & Theoretical Chemistry Chemical Education Publications Academics Undergraduate Research Opportunities Chemistry Placement & Introductory Courses CHEM - Web Tutorial Transfer Credit Honors & Awards ChemDUG REUs & Funding Graduate Financial Support and Funding Opportunities Awards Graduate Leadership Courses Resources People Faculty Staff Department Directory News Archive Seminars & Events Endowed Lectures DIAC-Hosted Events Alumni Speaker Series Guide to Chemistry Placement & Introductory Courses The placement exam will open on July 13, 2021. Chemistry Placement Exam When can I take the Chemistry Online Placement Exam? The placement exam will open on July 13, 2021. Please note: The placement exam is offered every semester during advising, pre-registration and registration periods. How do I register for the placement exam? Please access the link through the secure student portion of self-service banner web. The results of this exam will be available immediately and will determine your course placement in Chemistry. You must score a minimum of 8 in order to enroll in CHEM0330. How can I prepare for the placement exam? Register for CHEM-Web tutorial, a free, noncredit tutorial that helps incoming students review general chemistry. CHEM-Web covers stoichiometry, atomic and molecular structure, chemical bonding, solutions, chemical reactions, and thermochemistry. CHEM-Web is a voluntary non-credit tutorial that is offered only during the summer and in the month of January. The CHEM-Web tutorial is now open and will close on August 15, 2021. updated 6/15/2021 How do I register for the CHEM-Web tutorial? The CHEM-Web tutorial is now open. Registration will close on August 15, 2021. After that date, you will not be able to join. The tutorial remains open through shopping period and then is closed. Incoming students with Brown usernames and passwords can register for CHEM-Web . Completion of CHEM-Web tutorial is optional and does not replace taking the Chemistry placement exam. The goals of CHEM-Web tutorial are to review general chemistry and help students prepare for the placement exam. Introductory Courses What introductory classes do you offer? The Chemistry Department offers two introductory level chemistry courses: CHEM0100 and CHEM0330. CHEM0100 (Introductory Chemistry) is designed for students with little or no background in Chemistry. This course meets twice a week, plus a weekly problem session. This course does not have a lab and can only be taken for S/NC (Satisfactory/No Credit). Students who successfully complete CHEM0100 should be well prepared to enroll in CHEM0330 in Semester II. CHEM0100 will be offered in Spring 2021. Prof. Charles Morton is the instructor. This course will be online only. CHEM0330 (Equilibrium, Rate and Structure) is a one-semester course with lecture, conferenc and laboratory portions. It serves as the foundation course and entry point for all of our other Chemistry courses, and is intended for students who have a solid preparation in Chemistry and have met the mandatory prerequisites. CHEM0330 will be offered in Spring and Summer 2021. The lecture will be co - instructed by Prof. Brenda Rubenstein and Prof. Ou Chen. The conferences/problem sessions will be led by Prof. Eric Victor. Prof. Li Qiong Wang is the lab instructor. All components will be online only. *All students who plan to take chemistry are required to take a short placement exam that will be offered online through Banner. To enroll in CHEM0330 students must: score an 8 or higher on the placement exam, or have successfully completed CHEM0100, or have a minimum score of 4 on the AP Chemistry exam or minimum score of 5 in IB Chemistry exam Please note, the official test scores must be on file with the Registrar’s office. Placement out of CHEM0330 is generally appropriate only for students who have completed IB-Higher Level Chemistry exams with a 6 or higher, British A-level Chemistry with a B or higher, or equivalent courses at another university. updated 1/7/21 I notice when I register for CHEM0330 there are four components of this course, do I need to register for all of these components? Yes, in order to successfully register for CHEM0330, you must register for each component in the same registration session. The four components are: Common Meeting – this component is a tool the Registrar utilizes to organize the enrollment. Despite the name, this component does not actually meet. Primary Meeting – this component is the lecture section of the course. There is one lecture section: S01 (Tuesday and Thursday, 10:30 - 11:50 am). Conference – this component is a group problem session it meets once per week. Lab – this component meets once per week and is offered up to 10 times each week. The start time is either 1:00 pm Monday – Friday or 2:00 pm Monday, Wednesday, Friday or Tuesday, Thursday 2:30pm. In order to successfully register for CHEM0330, you must register for all four components. I completed IB exams (or college level course work) in Chemistry. Can I place out of CHEM0330 and start with CHEM0350? Students with British A-level exams, scores of 6 or 7 on the IB-Higher Level Chemistry exam, or a grade of C or better in an equivalent college course at another university or college may start with CHEM0350. They are also able to transcribe transfer credit for CHEM0330. Please contact Dean Maitrayee Bhattacharyya regarding CHEM0330 credit for IB/A-Level courses. All transfer credit request are processed through ASK. You will need a course override to enroll in CHEM0350, please contact [email protected]. Concentrating in Chemistry What Chemistry concentrations are available at Brown? Learn more about our concentrations on the Undergraduate Program page. Concentration Advisors: Chemistry: Amit Basu Biochemistry: Christopher Seto, Arthur Salomon, Gerwald Jogl, Louis_Lapierre, Alexandra Deaconescu Chemical Physics: Brenda Rubenstein updated 6/10/19 I'm not sure I want to concentrate in Chemistry. Do I need to take CHEM0330 in my first year? No. While it is possible to start the Chemistry sequence in your second year and still complete all of the requirements for a degree in four years, it is best to take CHEM0330 in your first year, if you are considering Chemistry, Chemical Physics or Biochemistry as possible concentrations. Can I do research during my first year? Yes, you can start independent research with a faculty member at any stage of your time at Brown, but most students wait one or even two semesters. Numerous opportunities and funding sources are available for carrying out research over the summer. A significant number of Chemistry Department concentrators graduate with more than the required 2 semesters of independent research experience. Students are encouraged to speak directly with faculty with whom they would like to do research, discuss opportunities with concentration advisors or explore research opportunities here and complete the research interest form . Undergraduate Research Opportunities Chemistry Placement & Introductory Courses CHEM - Web Tutorial Transfer Credit Honors & Awards ChemDUG REUs & Funding Department of Chemistry Department of Chemistry Brown University Box H 324 Brook Street Thayer Street at MacMillan Lawn Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-2321 Email [email protected] Twitter Twitter Facebook Facebook Instagram Instagram Brown University Giving to Brown Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA 401-863-1000 Contact Us Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility All Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top