Skip to main content Search Search Close Search Toggle Search Buffalo Co-Lab menu block Toggle menu About Research and Policy Student Opportunities Education and Training Breadcrumb ILR Home Buffalo Co-Lab Buffalo Co-Lab advances an equitable economy and democratic community, collaboratively integrating scholarly and practical understanding to strengthen civic action. Research and Policy Student Opportunities Education and Training Latest News See more news about Buffalo Co-Lab Buffalo High Road Fellow Honored for Local Community Impact Congratulations to Buffalo High Road Fellow, Victor Rosas. May 16, 2022 Buffalo High Road Fellow Honored for Local Community Impact The Moment for a Movement: Starbucks and the Slow Drip of Starting a Union Learn the ins and outs of how to unionize a workplace and what legal methods Starbucks has used to delay the votes. In-person event, free and open to the public. Apr 4, 2022 The Moment for a Movement: Starbucks and the Slow Drip of Starting a Union New Equitable Community Change Certificate Launched The ILR Buffalo Co-Lab, and community-based think tank Partnership for the Public Good have established an online certificate through eCornell. Mar 24, 2022 New Equitable Community Change Certificate Launched Research and Policy High Road Policy An ILR Buffalo Co-Lab Initiative High Road Policy contributes actionable insights to contemporary policy and political discourses in and beyond the regions and communities of Upstate New York. Read the Blog Read the Blog Buffalo Commons The Partnership for the Public Good and Cornell University have created a public commons for collective knowledge sharing, impactful applied research, and public policy development. Buffalo Commons is both an in-person platform, fostering these relationships and an online tool, sharing the knowledge of the local area via reports, policy briefs, fact sheets, radio shows, and artistic expressions. Collaborative and democratic in design and purpose, Buffalo Commons hosts a diverse network of faculty, students, practitioners, and community partners. Learn more. Good DEEDs Data for Equitable Economic Development and Sustainability, or Good DEEDS, is an initiative of the Cornell University School of Industrial Labor Relations (ILR) Buffalo Co-Lab. When fully operational, Good DEEDS will function as a public data repository coupled with High Road Policy, a quarterly issue memorandum and continuous blog. Learn more COVID-19 Response Buffalo Commons virtual convening support, upcoming virtual workshops, blog posts, and opportunities to submit research requests and to help us document stories of community groups taking the lead in a time of crisis. Learn more Student Opportunities We offer two paid fellowship programs in Buffalo as well as courses on our Ithaca Campus. High Road Fellowships Democracy Summer Fellowships On-Campus courses Learn more Education and Training We offer programs designed to train union leaders and those aspiring to lead in organized labor relations. We also offer specialized training in Health and Safety for inspection and risk assessment, as well as information for practitioners to create safe work places. Learn more about our programs Learn more about our programs Programs for Unions and Labor Professionals These courses and certificates are designed to train union leaders and those aspiring to lead in organized labor relations. Learn more about training for unions and labor professionals Learn more about training for unions and labor professionals Workplace Health and Safety Scientific and Technical Expertise Applied to the Work Environment Learn more about programs in workplace health and safety Learn more about programs in workplace health and safety Footer News Events About ILR ILRie Alumni Magazine Contact Us Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Privacy Policy ILR Brand Coronavirus Resources Directory Centers & Institutes Catherwood Library Conference Centers College Map For faculty and staff Web Accessibility Dean's Statements LinkedIn Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube © 2022 Cornell University | ILR School