Skip to main content Navigation Academics Admissions Research Locations Student Life Alumni & Giving Athletics Apply Now Art BA – Visual Arts Management Track Program at a Glance Program Bachelor College(s) College of Arts and Humanities Department(s) Visual Arts & Design, Schl of In State Tuition Out of State Tuition $212.28 per credit hour $748.89 per credit hour Learn more about program tuition and fees. The Art BA, Visual Arts Management track enable students to explore the management side of the Visual Arts environment while providing a solid foundation in techniques and theory. A minor or approved area of emphasis is required to compliment the degree or explore a different area of interest. As part of the program, some courses study the form and proportion of the human figure nude models are used as reference. Admission Requirements None Degree Requirements Students who change degree programs and select this major must adopt the most current catalog. Students are required to complete a minor or an area of concentration to graduate. Examples of minors are listed below under "Additional Information," Students may choose another minor, not on the list, after consulting with their advisor. Students who complete a double major fulfill the minor or area ofconcentration requirement automatically. Departmental Residency Requirement consists of at least 18 semester hours of regularly scheduled 3000-4000 level courses taken from the UCF School of Visual Arts and Design. The Studio Art Portfolio is NOT required for this track. However, if a student wishes to enroll in upper level portfolio restricted Studio Art courses, they will need to successfully complete the Studio Art Portfolio. Students must earn at least a "C" (2.0) in each course required for the major. Co-op internship credits are not permitted in this major without prior written permission. Students should consult with their SVAD advisor each semester. View Full Description Undergraduate Application Deadlines Freshmen Transfers International Fall May 1 Spring November 1 Summer March 1 Fall July 1 Spring November 1 Summer March 1 Fall March 1 Spring September 1 Summer January 1 Ready to get started? Apply Today Career Opportunities UCF prepares you for life beyond the classroom. Here, you’ll experience a wide range of opportunity, like learning diverse skills from world-renowned faculty to networking with top employers across Central Florida to gaining first-hand experience in internships nearby. Achieve your degree and more as a Knight. Advertising Photographer Aerial Photographer Caricature Artist Commercial Artist Editorial Cartoonist Fashion Illustrator High School Math Teacher High School Teacher Ice Sculptor Mural Painter News Photographer Oil Painter Pattern Illustrator Photography Professor Piano Professor Scene and Lighting Design Lecturer School Photographer Sketch Artist Water Colorist Wedding Photographer Show More Career Opportunities Degree Search College of Arts and Humanities programs Bachelors Art BA - Visual Arts Management Track University of Central Florida Colleges Burnett Honors Business Community Innovation and Education Engineering and Computer Science Graduate Studies Health Professions and Sciences Medicine Nursing Optics and Photonics Sciences Undergraduate Studies Hospitality Management × The Art BA, Visual Arts Management track enable students to explore the management side of the Visual Arts environment while providing a solid foundation in techniques and theory. A minor or approved area of emphasis is required to compliment the degree or explore a different area of interest. As part of the program, some courses study the form and proportion of the human figure nude models are used as reference. Admission Requirements None Degree Requirements Students who change degree programs and select this major must adopt the most current catalog. Students are required to complete a minor or an area of concentration to graduate. Examples of minors are listed below under "Additional Information," Students may choose another minor, not on the list, after consulting with their advisor. Students who complete a double major fulfill the minor or area ofconcentration requirement automatically. Departmental Residency Requirement consists of at least 18 semester hours of regularly scheduled 3000-4000 level courses taken from the UCF School of Visual Arts and Design. The Studio Art Portfolio is NOT required for this track. However, if a student wishes to enroll in upper level portfolio restricted Studio Art courses, they will need to successfully complete the Studio Art Portfolio. Students must earn at least a "C" (2.0) in each course required for the major. Co-op internship credits are not permitted in this major without prior written permission. Students should consult with their SVAD advisor each semester. Degree Requirements Core Requirements: Basic Level 6 Total Credits Complete all of the following Complete at least 2 of the following: ART2823 - Art as Interface (3) ARH2500 - History of Non-Western Art (3) CGS2100C - Computer Fundamentals for Business (3) CGS 2100C - GEP Core Requirements: Advanced Level 21 Total Credits Complete all of the following Complete the following: ARH3471 - Art in the Last 25 Years (3) Earn at least 12 credits from the following: ART3161 - Mixed Media (3) ART3170C - Book Binding (3) ART3171C - Materials for Artist Books (3) ART3403C - Intermediate Printmaking (3) ART3504C - Intermediate Painting (3) ART3562C - Observational Painting (3) ART3709C - Intermediate Sculpture (3) ART3761C - Intermediate Ceramics (3) ART3764C - Ceramic Handbuilding I (3) ART4945C - Advanced Design Lab (3) PGY3204C - Experimental Studio Lighting in Photography (3) PGY3410C - Intermediate Photography (3) PGY3412C - Photography in the Expanded Field (3) ART3950 - Studio Art Portfolio Any other ART/GRA*/PGY (3XXX-4XXX level course) *Does not include Graphic Design track specialization courses. ART 3950 - Only required if the student intends to enroll in courses that require this as a pre-requisite Complete at least 1 of the following: ARH3820 - Visual Arts Administration Vitas (3) ARH4800 - Theory and Criticism of the Visual Arts (3) Complete at least 1 of the following: ENC3250 - Professional Writing (3) ENC4312 - Theory & Practice Persuasive Writing (3) ENC4416 - Writing in Digital Environments (3) Restricted Electives 6 Total Credits Complete at least 2 of the following: ADV3008 - Principles of Advertising (3) MAN3025 - Management of Organizations (3) MAR3023 - Marketing (3) PAD4144 - Nonprofit Organizations (3) PUR4000 - Public Relations (3) Capstone Requirements 3 Total Credits Complete the following: ART4859C - Visual Arts Management BA Capstone (3) Grand Total Credits: 36 University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida