Skip to main site navigation Skip to main content Open the search panel Open the main menu Search Go Close the search panel Information for… Incoming J.D. Current Students Faculty Staff Media Employers News Events Alumni Giving About Library Login Open the Search panel Admissions Admissions Why Columbia J.D. Admissions Graduate Admissions Academics Academics J.D. Program and Curriculum LL.M. Program and Curriculum Executive LL.M. Program and Curriculum J.S.D. Program and Curriculum Dual and Joint Degrees International Programs Public Interest and Public Service Experiential Learning Courses Registration Services Academic Calendar Executive Education Areas of Study Areas of Study Constitutional Law, Regulation, and Public Policy Corporate, Business, and Transactional Law Criminal Justice Data Analytics Environment and Energy Family, Gender, and Sexuality Intellectual Property and Technology International and Comparative Law Law of the Workplace Leadership Legal History Litigation and Dispute Resolution National Security and Privacy Social Justice and Human Rights Faculty & Scholarship Faculty & Scholarship Faculty Directory Research Centers and Programs Scholarship Archive Workshops, Lectures, and Colloquia Careers Careers Private Sector Careers Public Interest and Public Service Careers Academic Careers Judicial Clerkships Employment Statistics Employment Policies Community Life Community Life Visit Campus Dean’s Welcome Your Campus, Your City Student Life Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Strategic Initiatives Faculty and Scholarship More in this Section Explore Faculty and Scholarship: Faculty Directory Research Centers and Programs Scholarship Archive Workshops, Lectures, and Colloquia Columbia Law School faculty are renowned for their groundbreaking research, teaching, and civic engagement. The Law School’s vibrant intellectual life fosters a rich exchange of ideas, both in and out of the classroom. Student-faculty collaboration at the Law School results in dynamic ideas that advance the understanding and application of law worldwide. Faculty members continually develop new course offerings that address critical legal issues and prepare students for the complexities of lawyering in an increasingly globalized world. For more than 160 years, our faculty’s efforts have shaped policy and influenced the world’s most powerful public and private institutions. Related Links Podcasts Faculty Law School faculty are not only the leading authorities in their areas of expertise, but they are also passionate teachers committed to supporting and inspiring the next generation of legal professionals. Learn More Research and Scholarship Law School faculty publish regularly on today’s most pressing legal issues. The Law School's Scholarship Archive showcases the breadth and depth of their scholarship, from works in progress to published articles and other research and writing. The Faculty Scholarship Digest also highlights recent works. Learn More Research Centers and Programs Research centers and programs reflect our faculty’s exceptional scholarship in foundational, emerging, and interdisciplinary areas of the law. Collaborations between faculty, students, and professionals across sectors often lead to solutions to urgent problems. Learn More Arthur W. Diamond Law Library One of the premier collections of legal materials in the United States: In addition to housing more than half a million titles in 150 languages, the Law Library employs a dedicated staff of reference librarians to aid student and faculty research. Learn More More Resources Faculty in the Press Faculty Scholarship Digest Blue Sky Blog Related News and Stories Read All Stories More in The Press Faculty News Full-Time Faculty Members Join Columbia Law School These exceptional scholars, teachers, and clinicians will build on the Law School’s continued excellence in both fundamental and emerging areas of the law. Law School News News Celebrating Women’s History Month In The Press Seize, Don’t Just Freeze, Putin’s Billions Michael W. Doyle | The Washington Post In The Press Meme-Stock Frenzy Gets a Fresh Look That Questions SEC Narrative Joshua Mitts | Bloomberg Admissions Why Columbia Visit 435 West 116th Street New York, NY 10027 212-854-2640 Contact Us Social Media (Administrative Title) Twitter LinkedIn Facebook Instagram Admissions Academics Areas of Study Faculty & Scholarship Careers Community Life Information for… Incoming J.D. Current Students Faculty Staff Media Employers Login News Events Alumni Giving About Library Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Donate © Copyright 2022 The Trustees of Columbia University in the City of New York.