Skip to content Facilities Management Submit a Work Order Alerts & Outages About Us Search Campus Life Campus Life Getting to and Around Campus On-Campus Housing 50 Haven Athletic Center Energy & Sustainability Augustus C. Long Health Sciences Library Student Health on Haven Faculty Club Public Safety Smoke-Free CUIMC On-Campus Housing Apply for On-Campus Housing Prospective Residents Current Residents Our Residences Housing Resources About Us 50 Haven Athletic Center We are open from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m., Monday through Friday only. Get More Information Facilities Services Facilities Services COVID-19 Submit and Check on Work Orders A-Z of Services Rates for Chargeable Services Resources for Researchers Event Support Moving Offices or Labs Checklist Supported Buildings Capital Infrastructure Other Services at CUIMC Contact Us COVID-19 Facilities Management and Campus Services is taking additional measures around campus to support basic operations. Learn How We Are Protecting the Campus Classroom Resources Classroom Resources Space Reservations Classroom Technology and Equipment Accessibility in the Classroom Student Lockers Training Calendar Contact Us Space Reservations Room Policies and Support List of Available Rooms 25Live Event Scheduler Capital Projects Capital Projects Our Projects Haven Plaza Request a Capital Project CARE Crew For Vendors and Contractors FAQ Contact Us Our Projects We are continuously renovating, building upon, and improving CUIMC's historic campus as a center for excellence and healing. View Our Projects Fire and Life Safety Fire and Life Safety Fire Safety Regulatory Compliance Contractor Safety Accessibility Gender-Neutral Restrooms Asbestos Maintenance Emergency Management Smoke-Free CUIMC FAQ Contact Us Fire Safety Columbia University Irving Medical Center's fire safety team keeps our community safe from fire. Learn About Fire Safety You are here Home > Campus Life > Public Safety Getting to and Around Campus On-Campus Housing 50 Haven Athletic Center Energy & Sustainability Augustus C. Long Health Sciences Library Student Health on Haven Faculty Club Public Safety Smoke-Free CUIMC Public Safety Public Safety maintains a secure and open environment at Columbia University Irving Medical Center, balancing the safety of all with the rights of the individual. The department strives to accomplish its mission while adhering to its core values of pride, professionalism, and service. Safety Escorts Available Did you know that you can request a safety escort to walk with you to your car or public transit on and around the CUIMC campus? This service is available 24/7, seven days a week. Please call 212-305-8100 and allow 10-15 minutes for the escort to arrive. You must show your Columbia ID. This service is provided to all members of the CUIMC community by CUIMC Public Safety. The escort area is West 159th Street to West 168th Street, between Riverside Drive and Amsterdam Avenue, and from West 168th Street to 181st Street between Broadway and Haven Avenue. Contact at the Medical Center Non-emergency: 212-305-8100 Emergency: 212-305-7979 publicsafety@columbia.edu William Black Building 650 West 168th St., Room 109 New York, NY 10032 Visit Public Safety Visit Public Safety Columbia University Irving Medical Center Submit a Work Order Sign Up for Alerts Campus Map How Are We Doing? Contact Us CUIMC Facilities Management and Campus Services 650 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Back to top