COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW WSU News While a student at Wichita State, Samantha Rowan worked on her master's in Aging Studies with a concentration in Administration. May 02, 2022Aging Studiesfirst generationGraduate SchoolGraduate Meet a Shocker: Samantha Rowan By Abigail Klein, public relations advisor Samantha Rowan is graduate and a first-generation student. She plans to work with elderly after she graduates. Samantha is one of more than 2,400 students eligible for spring 2022 graduation. Learn more about her time at Wichita State and what is next for the grad. Hometown Wichita, Kansas Degree Master's Degree in Aging Studies with a concentration in administration What made you want to attend Wichita State? I chose to attend Wichita state because it was affordable and close to home. I did not want to go too far from my family when I decided to attend college. How are you feeling leading up to graduation? The closer I get to graduation I am getting excited but also anxious. All I have ever known is school and class work but I am excited to close the chapter of school and begin my next one. What was been your biggest challenge as a student, and how did you overcome it? There are multiple challenges that come along with being a student. You have to find the balance between school, work and having a social life. It is so important to still do things that make you happy and bring you joy because school is stressful. What has been your most helpful learning experience at Wichita State? My most helpful learning experience at Wichita State was creating the POD plan for the COVID-19 response team. Creating this plan gave me an insight of what it is like working through all the levels of a pandemic. I have been with the Student Wellness Center for a lot of the pandemic so it has been very interesting to see all the working parts of a pandemic. What are your plans after graduation? After gradation I plan on finding a position working with our elderly in way that allows me to advocate for them. I am not sure what this looks like quite yet, and that is okay. How did the COVID-19 pandemic affected your time at Wichita State? COVID has taught me a lot. Being a health care major, we were working first-hand following everything that was going on. Being able to say that I worked in healthcare during a pandemic is something that employers will look for in experience. As for class, when they all went virtual I was not too upset. What advice would you give other Wichita State students? The advice I would give to other Wichita State students is to get involved. When you start working with others on campus you begin to build your network and doors open that you might have never imagined even existed. Along with that, just network, network, network! You never know who might be attending events or who you could meet. Aging Studies The fast-growing, aging population needs professionals with knowledge and skills to lead the public health response to population aging. With the online Master of Arts in Aging Studies Program at Wichita State University, you can specialize in Senior Living Management, Senior Community Services, or Public Health, and personalize your career path in the aging professions. Learn more about Aging Studies at WSU Read more stories like this Related Stories students Meet a Shocker: Cameron McGinley bachelor of arts Meet a Shocker: Kaitlyn Hemberger Applied Learning Meet a Shocker: Madeline Shonka Applied Learning WSU's engineering grad program top 60 in the nation and highest in Kansas 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©