Skip to main content University of Nevada, Las Vegas Students Faculty/Staff Alumni Donors Community Audiences Students Faculty/Staff Alumni Donors Community Topics About Academics Admissions Athletics Diversity Research Menu U-N-L-V Jobs Jobs About Academics Admissions Athletics Diversity Research Find close Jobs menu Jobs UNLV Jobs Home Why UNLV? How to Apply Salary/Pay Benefits Work/Life at UNLV FAQs Student Employment Contact Us close find region Find Search A-Z Index Directories Quick Links Bookstore Bookstore Calendar Calendar Campus Maps Campus Maps Degrees Degrees Libraries Libraries MyUNLV MyUNLV News Center News Center RebelCard RebelCard Rebelmail Rebelmail Social Media Social Media UNLV Mail UNLV Mail WebCampus WebCampus Loading Directories Home A-Z Index Colleges, Schools, and Departments Administrative Units Research Centers and Institutes Resources and Services Employee Directory Contact UNLV Social Media Directory UNLV Mobile Apps Become a Rebel Professional Welcome to the University of Nevada, Las Vegas (UNLV), where employees don't just work — they empower Per the Nevada System of Higher Education (NSHE) Emergency COVID-19 Employee Vaccination Policy, all NSHE employees must be vaccinated against COVID-19 or have an approved medical or religious waiver request. All candidates for employment must have this information on file with Human Resources prior to their start date. Information about how the policy applies to new hires is now available on the COVID-19 Employee Vaccine Mandate webpage. External Candidates Become a Rebel! We are looking for diverse, talented, and passionate people to contribute to our mission of teaching, research, and service. Jobs are listed in four categories: academic faculty, administrative faculty (professional), classified, and other positions. Choose the type of position that you are seeking, search for jobs, view the job announcements, and apply. Apply Internal Candidates UNLV employees or employees within the Nevada System of Higher Education (NSHE), as well as anyone with current access to NSHE’s Workday system MUST use the “Find Jobs” process within Workday to find and apply for jobs at UNLV and other NSHE Institutions. Once you log into Workday, type "Find Jobs" in the search box which will navigate to the internal job posting site. Apply Why UNLV Resources About UNLV Our Campus About Las Vegas Work/Life Balance Dual-Career Support More reasons you should choose UNLV Student Employment Career Services assists students and alumni with employment and internship opportunities, resume building, and interview preparation to get them started on their path to career success. Visit Career Services H-1B Labor Condition Application (LCA) Postings Please see the LCA Postings Page provided by the Office of International Student and Scholars. Candidates have already been selected to fill the positions; the Notice of Intent to Hire is not a posting for an open position. Wellness Coronavirus Information Safety and Emergency University Statements and Compliance Web Accessibility Top Tier 2.0 Employment Visit Our Campus Campus Maps Parking Information News Center Contact UNLV University of Nevada, Las Vegas 4505 S. Maryland Pkwy. Las Vegas, NV 89154 Phone: 702-895-3011 Campus Notifications © 2022 UNLV Produced by UNLV Web & Digital Strategy UNLV.edu Privacy Statement Website Feedback Social Media at UNLV