Student Work Career Services Academic Calendar Faculty Open Positions Admissions Academics People Campus About News + Events Apply Now Student Work Career Services Academic Calendar Faculty Open Positions Admissions Apply Now Admission Requirements Portfolio Requirements Financial Information Certain Affinity Scholarship Guildhall Preparation A Day In The Life Housing Refer a Game Changer Academics Specializations Student Work People Guest Lecturers and Advisors Faculty Staff Alumni Students Campus Our Facilities GameLab Area Studios Visit About History of Success FAQ Industry Partnerships Career Services Career Fair Testimonials Contact Us Apply Now Portfolio Submission Portfolio Requirements Art Design Production Programming Financial Information SMU Financial Aid Guildhall Preparation Art Design Production Programming Specializations Art Creation Level Design Production Programming Student Work Independent Projects Team Game Projects Faculty Faculty Open Positions Staff Staff Open Positions Alumni Alumni Spotlight Alumni Success Students International Students GameLab GameLab Facilities GameLab Events Steam FAQ Admissions Admissions Apply Now Admission Requirements Portfolio Requirements Financial Information Certain Affinity Scholarship Guildhall Preparation A Day In The Life Housing Refer a Game Changer Academics Academics Specializations Student Work People People Guest Lecturers and Advisors Faculty Staff Alumni Students Campus Campus Our Facilities GameLab Area Studios Visit About About History of Success FAQ Industry Partnerships Career Services Career Fair Testimonials Contact Us News + Events Apply Now Campus Our Facilities GameLab GameLab Facilities GameLab Events Steam FAQ Area Studios Visit Apply Now Steam FAQ Help and Information: SMU Guildhall Steam Games Circuit Slinger Technical Difficulties: Q: I launch the game but nothing happens. All I see is the main menu and two guns, but I can’t move them. A: Circuit Slinger is a VR game. Ensure you have an Oculus Rift 2 or an HTC Vive installed and configured before launching the game. Q: I can't shoot the guns. What should I do? A: Check if your controllers are charged. At low charge, Vive controllers do not register trigger presses. Q: I downloaded the game and it won't run. A: If you have both an Oculus Rift and a HTC Vive plugged into your computer, unplug one of them. Otherwise, make sure you are running the latest graphics drivers and the latest drivers for Oculus/Vive hardware. Settings: Q: Are there any accessibility settings? A: If you find it difficult to press buttons, we recommend Autoshoot mode. In Autoshoot mode, the gun fires automatically when pointed at a target. To access this option, visit the main menu and turn to the right. After shooting "OPTIONS," you can enable Autoshoot mode. Q: Where is the volume? A: In the main menu, turn to the left and shoot "SETTINGS." From here, you can drag sliders for SFX, music, and master volume. FrostRunner Q: What do i do if i encounter a bug or unexpected game behavior? A: We have a very short, simple, and comprehensive troubleshooting walkthrough for any bug you may encounter while playing our game: Restart the current level. Pressing the “R” button will reload the current level and return you to the spawning point. This will fix the majority of bugs that you come across while playing the game Return to Main Menu/Level Select. Pressing the “escape” key in level will open the pause menu and allow you to exit the current level to either the Main Menu or the Level Select Menu. Leaving the game and returning to the menus will fix the majority of remaining bugs. Close the game entirely and launch it again. From the main menu pressing the “Quit” button will close the game instance and return the user to their desktop. Restarting the game should find the bug fixed. If it doesn’t, continue to the following steps. Uninstall and reinstall the game Using Window’s “Add or Remove Programs” feature, locate and remove the FrostRunner application. Reinstall the application from steam or by using the installer executable If problems persist, continue to step 5, but beware that you will lose all local saves. Delete Local Data. Uninstall application again Delete the following local folders Steam Folder SteamApps/common/FrostRunner/FrostRunner/Data/Saved Local AppData - Enable view hidden files UserProfile/AppData/Local/FrostRunner/Saved Reinstall FrostRunner Any further bugs are not solvable by a troubleshooting walkthrough.Possible Causes: Graphics drivers not up to date. Visit your graphics card provider to find and update your graphics drivers Background processes It is possible that processes running in the background are taking up too many system resources. Try closing some programs. Hardware Incompatibility Try reducing the graphics settings in the ingame options menu It is always possible that certain hardware is incompatible with the game even at the lowest settings Q: My tether cable is invisible! What do I do? A: Steps 2 and 3 of the Troubleshooting walkthrough are known solutions for this issue. Q: I can’t jump! A: This problem is easily solved by following step 2 of the Troubleshooting walkthrough above Q: My arm is stuck in some weird animation. A: This is a visual bug that doesn’t impact the gameplay calculations under the hood. Normal gameplay should eventually solve this problem. If it doesn’t, you can follow the troubleshooting tutorial until the problem is fixed Q: YOU DIED is still on my screen after I restarted. A: This is a small bug, and should go away by either pressing R or returning to the level select. Q: The game crashed! A: This happens rarely, but should restart just fine with all of your records intact! Q: I beat my best time but it doesn’t reflect it on the leaderboard! A: No worries, we can assure you that your personal best is saved, but just isn’t displayed on that screen. Refreshing the leaderboard by returning to the level select or re-entering a level should update to show your record if you’re in the top 10. Cyberdrome FAQ coming soon LaRana FAQ coming soon Apply to SMU Guildhall SMU Guildhall Game Changers Shaped Here 3100 McFarlin Blvd., Suite 306 Dallas , Texas 75275 (214) 768-4278 © SMU Legal Disclosures Site Index Working at SMU Apply to SMU Guildhall x