Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Search form Search Explore Brown University Search Global Navigation Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Cognitive, Linguistic & Psychological Sciences Home About People Diversity Statement on anti-racism Related Research DIAP Committee Research Academics Events Faculty Activities Visit Us Site Navigation Home About Internal Website People Regular Faculty Teaching Faculty Research Faculty Postdocs Emeritus Faculty Graduate Students Administrative Staff Diversity Statement on anti-racism Related Research DIAP Committee Research Focus Areas Centers & Initiatives Academics Undergraduates Behavioral Decision Sciences Cognitive Science Cognitive Neuroscience Linguistics Psychology DUGs Honors Requirements Resources Prospective Graduate Students Scholarships & Aid Graduate Students CLPS Graduate Handbook Events CLPS Colloquium Series Cognition Seminar Developmental Brown Bag Speaker Series Ling Lang Lunch Perception Action Seminar Social Cognitive Science Seminar Speaker Series: "The Linguistic Expression of Racial and Ethnic Identity" Faculty Activities Authors Journal Editors Presidents International Awards Visit Us Commitment to Diversity & Inclusion CLPS Departmental Climate Statement The faculty, staff, and students of the Department of Cognitive, Linguistic, and Psychological Sciences (CLPS) strive to construct a community in which all members of the department are safe, supported, included, and respected. Recognizing that science is a collaborative and creative process relying on the free exchange of ideas, we affirm that this goal is important to us, not only because of the kind of community we want to create, but because a healthy community improves the quality of our science. We as a community commit to: Creating and fostering a diverse department. This includes promoting diversity across dimensions of race, religion, gender, sexual orientation, nationality, ethnicity, disability, first generation status, and socioeconomic status. Taking personal responsibility for awareness of both individual and community needs, including awareness of differential power dynamics. Participating in opportunities to learn more about how to achieve and maintain an inclusive community. Building trust and cultivating open dialogue among community members. Prioritizing the mental, emotional, and physical health of all members of our community. We recognize that there may be times when our community and individuals in it may fall short of the ideals to which we aspire. Beyond making active efforts to better achieve these ideals, we commit ourselves to following clear procedures in place to hold ourselves and each other accountable to these ideals and to ensure that such procedures are fair and transparent. This is a living document. Together, we aim to attain progress, not perfection. We will continuously update this living document to reflect our changing values. Diversity Statement on anti-racism Related Research DIAP Committee Cognitive, Linguistic & Psychological Sciences Cognitive, Linguistic & Psychological Sciences Brown University Box 1821 Metcalf Research Building 190 Thayer Street Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-2727 Fax: 401-863-2255 Email [email protected] Brown University Giving to Brown Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA 401-863-1000 Contact Us Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility All Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top