Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index TEXAS TECH UNIVERSITY Menu Search TTU General Policies TTU Privacy Policy Texas Tech University System maintains its Web sites as an information resource and service for the public and this privacy policy applies to all pages of this site that are maintained by TEXAS TECH UNIVERSITY, TEXAS TECH UNIVERSITY HEALTH SCIENCES CENTER, TEXAS TECH UNIVERSITY HEALTH SCIENCES CENTER EL PASO, ANGELO STATE UNIVERSITY, or MIDWESTERN STATE UNIVERSITY (pages containing www.ttu.edu, www.texastech.edu, www.ttuhsc.edu, elpaso.ttuhsc.edu, www.angelo.edu, or www.msutexas.edu). Disclaimer Texas Tech University System maintains its web sites on an on-going basis, but it does not represent, guarantee, or warrant that all information provided is accurate, complete, current, or suitable for the viewer's purposes. Texas Tech University System specifically disclaims any and all liability for claims or damages that may result from its Web sites or information contained therein, including any Web sites maintained by third parties and linked to Texas Tech University System Web sites, for which responsibility lies with the entity providing the information. A link from Texas Tech University System Web sites in no way implies authorization or endorsement of that site by Texas Tech University System. Cookies Texas Tech University System may use cookies to track the date of last visit to a specific page or to identify a session at a particular Web site. (Note: A cookie file contains unique information a Web site can use to track things like passwords and lists of pages or Web sites visited.) Server Logs Texas Tech University System uses Log analysis tools to create summary statistics, which are used for purposes such as assessing what information is of most interest, determining technical design specifications and identifying system performance or problem areas. The following information may be collected for this analysis including, but not limited to: User Client hostname - The hostname (or IP address if DNS is disabled) of the user/client requesting access. HTTP header, "user-agent" - The user-agent information includes the type of browser, its version and the operating system it is running on. HTTP header, "referer" - The referer specifies the page from which the client accessed the current page. System date - The date and time of the user/client request. Full request - The exact request the user/client made. Status - The status code the server returned to the user/client. Content length - The content length, in bytes, of the document sent to the user/client. Method - The request method used. Universal Resource Identifier (URI) - The location of a resource on the server. Query string of the URI - Anything after the question mark in a URI. Protocol - The transport protocol and version used. Personally Identifiable Information If you send us an electronic mail message with a question or comment that contains personally identifying information, or fill out a form that e-mails us this information, we will only use the personally-identifiable information to respond to your request and analyze trends. We may redirect your message to another person who is in a better position to answer your question. Some departments ask that forms be submitted in regard to acceptance into the school or their individual program and are reviewed by admittance committees. In regard to filling out forms, you will be given a chance to "opt out" of completing the form. For site management functions, information is collected for analysis and statistical purposes. This information is not reported or used in any manner that would reveal personally identifiable information and will not be released to any outside parties unless legally required to do so in connection with law enforcement investigations or other legal proceedings, including application of the Texas Public Information Act. Security Measures Some of the information contained on the Web Servers is private information intended for specific individuals or departments. This may include accounting information, personnel or student information, medical history information, or other items of a sensitive nature. This information is protected by passwords assigned to each individual who has need to access it. Unauthorized persons are not able to access any of this private information. Other sensitive information that contains personal identifiers is protected by 128-bit encryption algorithms provided by RSA Security. Links This Web site contains links to other sites and Texas Tech University System is not responsible for privacy policies on those sites. Questions about this privacy policy may be directed to the respective Webmaster for each site: www.ttu.edu, www.texastech.edu, www.ttuhsc.edu, elpaso.ttuhsc.edu, www.angelo.edu, or www.msutexas.edu Contact TTU Contact Contact TTUContact Contact TTU News News for NewsNews for News Events EventsEvents Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock, Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversityAug 31, 2021 5:03 PM Texas Tech University Admissions Texas Tech University Admissions Back Undergraduate Texas Tech University Admissions Undergraduate Back First-time Students Transfer Students International Texas Tech - Costa Rica Other Admission Graduate Texas Tech University Admissions Graduate Back How to Apply Graduate Programs Available School of Law Texas Tech University Admissions School of Law Back Application Process Frequently Asked Questions Academics Texas Tech University Academics Back Majors & Colleges Texas Tech University Academics Majors & Colleges Back Undergraduate Majors Graduate Programs School of Law Worldwide eLearning University Libraries Colleges & Schools Texas Tech University Academics Colleges & Schools Back College of Agricultural Sciences & Natural Resources College of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Jerry S. Rawls College of Business Administration College of Education Edward E. Whitacre Jr. College of Engineering Honors College College of Human Sciences College of Media & Communication J.T. & Margaret Talkington College of Visual & Performing Arts Graduate School School of Law School of Veterinary Medicine Research Alumni Texas Tech University Alumni Back Alumni Community Texas Tech University Alumni Alumni Community Back Texas Tech Alumni Association Institutional Advancement Texas Tech Red Raider Club Campus Life Texas Tech University Campus Life Back Campus Life Texas Tech University Campus Life Campus Life Back University Student Housing Getting Around Campus Dining on Campus Recreational Sports Our Campus Visit TTU Student Life Texas Tech University Campus Life Student Life Back Center for Campus Life Student Union & Activities Fraternity & Sorority Life Spirit Squads Student Organizations Student Leadership & Involvement History & Traditions Student Rec Center Health, Safety & Wellness Texas Tech University Campus Life Health, Safety & Wellness Back Emergency Communications Center Student Counseling Center Student Health Services Center for the Study of Addiction and Recovery Health Insurance Responsible Community Living Campus Police Behavioral Intervention Team Risk Intervention & Safety Education (RISE) Student Resources Texas Tech University Campus Life Student Resources Back Current Students Student Handbook Dean of Students University Career Center Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Academic Support Red to Black - Student Financial Planning University ID Card Athletics About Texas Tech University About Back Texas Tech University Texas Tech University About Texas Tech University Back Office of the President Office of the Provost University Outreach and Engagement Texas Tech Facts Rankings Our Campus Administrative Offices University Strategic Plan TTU Resources Texas Tech University About Back Texas Tech Today Campus Map Academic Calendar Giving Work at Texas Tech Faculty & Staff State Employee Charitable Campaign (SECC) Organizational Chart TTU Experts Guide