Skip to content iastate.edu Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons Iowa State University Department of Agricultural and Biosystems Engineering Menu Toggle Search ABE Directory ABE Openings Give to ABE About About the Department Accreditation Administration Biorenewables Complex Department Overview Mission and Vision Diversity and Inclusion More Resources Alumni External Advisory Council Facility Safety Forms ABE Code of Classroom Conduct Contact Department of Agricultural and Biosystems Engineering 1340 Elings Hall 605 Bissell Road Ames, IA 50011-3270 abe@iastate.edu 515-294-1434 phone Directory Future Students Future Undergraduate Students Why Choose ABE? Engineering or Technology? Scholarships & Financial Aid Future Graduate Students Graduate Degree Programs Admissions Requirements Application Process Graduate Financial Aid More Resources Concurrent Degree Programs Learning Communities Life at Iowa State Transfer Guides Student Organizations Current Students Undergraduate Student Resources Advising and Student Services Learning Communities Scholarships Student Resources Study Abroad Tutoring Graduate Student Resources Graduate Degree Programs Degree Requirements Financial Aid Student Resources More Resources Advice from Alumni Careers Certificate in Occupational Safety Facility Safety Internships Faculty & Staff Faculty Faculty Directory College and University Resources Staff Staff Directory College and University Resources More Resources Facility Safety Forms Organizational Chart Research Research Focus Areas Advanced Machinery Engineering and Manufacturing Systems Animal Production Systems Engineering Biological and Process Engineering and Technology Occupational Safety Engineering Land and Water Resources Engineering Research Infrastructure Facilities and Laboratories Faculty by Research Focus Area Projects and Publications More Resources ABE Digital Repository Engineering Research Institute (ERI) Extension & Outreach Department Resources Need Help? Get the Facts Global Resources Global Impacts Partnerships Research Students More Resources ISU Extension and Outreach Midwest Plan Service Home Undergraduate Students Biological Systems Engineering Biological Systems Engineering The Biological Systems Engineering Profession Biological systems engineering involves the sustainable production, storage, and conversion of biobased materials into useful products. Examples range from breakfast cereals to biologically derived fuels like today’s ethanol and biodiesel. What will the second- and third-generation biofuels look like? How can we convert low-cost biomass into a liquid fuel? How do we make biomass production systems more sustainable? What are the best opportunities for improving them? Biological systems engineers at Iowa State learn to innovate, to communicate, and to work as team members to address these sorts of critical questions. Biological systems engineers have high-impact careers. Maintaining air quality, a secure food supply, and clean water is important to everyone. In today’s global marketplace, grains, produce, and livestock are transported from country to country, and food security is increasingly of concern. Biological systems engineers help safeguard our air, water, and food supply by developing sensors to detect problem compounds and by developing management plans to track materials and to minimize the chances of contamination. Biological Systems Engineering Courses and Degree Planning Courses in Biological Systems Engineering Curricula (required coursework) and four-year plans (BS degree) Option Areas of Study Bioenvironmental Engineering: Apply biology and engineering principles to improve and protect soil, water, and air quality. Enjoy a carer that emphasizes the management and improvement of environmental systems through consulting, government agencies, and industry. Biorenewable Resources Engineering: Improve the economic and environmental sustainability of biorenewable resource production systems. Enjoy a career that emphasizes the design and operation of industrial-scale bioconversion systems, including but not limited to biodiesel and ethanol plants. Food Engineering: Design and operate modern food processing systems, such as food pasteurization, sterilization, freezing, and hydration. Enjoy a career improving the safety and quality of food by applying engineering, biology, and chemistry principles. Open Option: Prepare for a professional degree program outside of engineering. Enjoy a career in academia, law, or industry that has a foundation in fundamentals, systems approaches, biology, and chemistry. For more information, please contact academic advisor Lindsay Frueh, 515-294-5189, 1330B Elings Hall, lindsay@iastate.edu News Two ABE Grad Students Receive Outstanding Degree Awards Four Seniors in ABE Design, Assemble and Install Machine in Poultry Farm for Safety and Efficiency ABE Alum Ellen Franzenburg Brings Engineering Background to Communications Career Department of Agricultural and Biosystems Engineering 1340 Elings Hall 605 Bissell Road Ames, IA 50011-3270 abe@iastate.edu 515-294-1434 phone Copyright © 1995-2022 Iowa State University of Science and Technology All rights reserved. Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility Consumer Information Loading...