Skip to main content The University of Texas at Austin Menu Header Helpful Links Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Families & Visitors Search Search Maps Directory UT Direct Give Apply Search Search About Academics Academic Experience Areas of Study Extended Campus Cockrell School of Engineering College of Education College of Fine Arts College of Liberal Arts College of Natural Sciences College of Pharmacy Dell Medical School Graduate School Jackson School of Geosciences LBJ School of Public Affairs McCombs School of Business Moody College of Communication School of Architecture School of Information School of Law School of Nursing Steve Hicks School of Social Work School of Undergraduate Studies Admissions & Aid Be a Longhorn What Starts Here Changes the World. It's more than a motto. It’s what we prove each and every day, as Texas and its Exes advance discovery and innovation on a global stage. Join us. Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions School of Law Admissions Dell Medical School Admissions Tuition & Costs Financial Aid Campus Visits Campus & Community Explore Your Passions Thousands of events, from concerts and film screenings to readings and lectures. More than 1,100 student organizations. Incredible facilities and special attractions. And it's all set in the heart of one of the world's greatest cities. Welcome home. Arts & Culture Campus Destinations Entrepreneurship & Innovation Health & Wellness Housing & Dining Life in Austin Report Misconduct Safety & Security Student Involvement Longhorn Resources Research Change the World Longhorns are passionate about making the world a better place, united by the belief that creating and sharing knowledge can save lives and transform society. Come explore our vast research enterprise — or better yet, create, innovate and discover with us. Overview Student Research Units & Centers Off-Campus Research Sites Libraries Experts Guide Athletics News Home Campus & Community : Student Involvement Student Involvement Quick Links Division of Student Affairs Office of the Dean of Students Recreational Sports Texas Student Media University Unions The college experience at The University of Texas at Austin isn't just about what takes place in the classroom, lab and library. While you earn your degree, you'll also have countless opportunities to pursue your favorite activities, discover new interests, refine your skills and build lifelong friendships. To help you find your place at UT Austin, we offer thousands of ways to supplement your studies: more than 1,100 student organizations, three different legislative student groups, 70-plus sororities and fraternities, the largest student-run newspaper in the nation, hundreds of intramural and club sports teams and leagues, outdoor adventure and climbing trips, and so much more. HornsLink HornsLink is the online hub where students can find others who share their interests. Student organizations can post events, share news and connect with members. Learn more Student Activities Students learn through experience on the Forty Acres. The Student Activities staff offers services including new leader training, space reservations, event consultations and other support for student organizations. Learn more Legislative Student Organizations Leadership and responsibility are two of the university's core values. Our student leaders take that to heart and put it into practice through Student Government, the Senate of College Councils and the Graduate Student Assembly. Learn more Sorority and Fraternity Life Over 70 different sororities and fraternities contribute to campus life at The University of Texas as Austin through a broad range of philanthropic, scholarship and leadership activities. Learn more Campus Events + Entertainment Students know what students want. That's why University Unions’ Campus Events + Entertainment, the largest event-planning organization on campus, is run entirely by students. They organize more than 100 unique events each year for our diverse student body. Learn more Recreational Sports No matter what your skill level or interest, there are tons of ways for students to stay active. Recreational Sports offers intramurals, club sports, sports leagues, adventure trips, a climbing wall, swimming, safety education and more. Intramural Sports Sport Clubs Adventure Trips Climbing Wall Fitness and Wellness Adult Swimming Classes Texas Student Media Want hands-on media and advertising industry experience? Consider getting involved with Texas Student Media, the student voice of UT Austin, through one of their five award-winning, student-produced media properties. The Daily Texan Texas Travesty The Cactus Yearbook KVRX 91.7 FM Texas Student Television Connect with Division of Student Affairs Facebook Twitter Instagram Latest Tweets UT Student Government UT_SG Meet Kerry, Malika, & Ryan—the next members of our Executive Board 🥳 Swipe to learn more about our Comms, Advocacy,… https://t.co/L7GweOF39s 1 d ago Reply2 Retweet Star UT University Unions UTUnions Catch Anna Larson, the first of our Summer Series, in the Cactus Cafe! Friday, June 3 at 7:30PM. More info at… https://t.co/UDgO5iYzR4 2 ds ago Reply2 Retweet Star UT RecSports UTRecSports If your Memorial Day plans include stopping by a RecSports facility, make sure you take note of our adjusted hours… https://t.co/P5XmE3s4UA 3 ds ago Reply2 Retweet Star UT RecSports UTRecSports Hanging around Austin this summer? We've got you covered when it comes to staying active. If you're not taking clas… https://t.co/R4KvIfu0Uj 3 ds ago Reply2 Retweet Star UT RecSports UTRecSports We're so excited to help host the Longhorn Explore program with @UTorientation! Experience the great outdoors, Aust… https://t.co/quhQ4y7hDw 4 ds ago Reply2 Retweet StarView all tweets Connect with UT Austin Subscribe to our newsletter Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn YouTube Starts With You Footer Helpful Links Access Course Syllabi and Instructor CVs Campus Carry Contact Counseling and Mental Health Diversity and Inclusion Action Plan Diversity, Equity, and Disability Resources ♿ Emergency Information Fraud, Waste, or Abuse Hazing Prevention and Response HEERF/CARES Act Compliance Jobs Online Institutional Resumes Public Forum On Campus Site Policies State of Texas Statewide Search Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Title IX Reporting (Sexual Misconduct) UT System Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy © The University of Texas at Austin 2022