Skip to main content Menu Resources Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply or Give Apply Now Make a Gift Creative Inquiry CI for Graduate Students A graduate student mentor discusses a research poster with his student. While CI projects must be organized under a faculty member, many are led by talented graduate students interested in furthering their research and expanding their mentoring experience. If you are interested in assisting or leading a CI please contact the CI office. Any potential mentors are encouraged to join the bi-monthly CI + UR News email dissemination for deadlines and targeted opportunities for CI projects, mentors, and students. To join this list, please email ciinfo@g.clemson.edu. Initiating a Project To get started, review the comprehensive list of active projects. Create a project that will involve students from your own and/or other departments. Many of the most successful projects are cross-disciplinary. Consider consulting your College Liaison or the CI project office, as they might know of particular areas that would benefit from a new project. Consider working with an outside business, industry, agency or private group to collaborate with your project team. Identify a course to be used for your CI project, and obtain permission from the department chair to teach this course. Submit your project proposal. Managing Your Project Use the CI project manager to edit, update information, budget and courses. Each semester you must submit course and section numbers. Review the Procedures for Spending CI Funds page. To be considered for funding, at minimum you must: add courses to your CI project provide a budget request and justification annually provide reports highlighting the outcomes of the student work (e.g., methodologies developed, publications, art exhibits, apps developed, etc.) Submit Course and section numbers and the start of each semester. Reporting: Semester and annual reports. Short annual reports are required. New funding will not be awarded until reports are up-to-date. Display CI projects at the annual Focus on Creative Inquiry Poster Forum. Encourage your undergraduate students to submit CI project results for presentations at professional meetings. Supplementary CI Travel Grants are available for this purpose. Add any publications or presentations, news, other media in the project manager. Submit semester and annual reports. Resources Our Opportunities page is constantly updated to bring you the latest available research, funding, and travel opportunities for undergraduates at Clemson University. See our Services page for a list of equipment available for checkout. FAQ How do I credit Creative Inquiry on my poster or presentation? CI credit statement for publications and presentations: "This work was supported in part by the Clemson University Creative Inquiry Program" CI logos for use on presentations and posters: Creative Inquiry Logos Creative Inquiry Logo - Color (Illustrator) Creative Inquiry Logo - Color (PNG) Creative Inquiry Logo - White (PNG) Wide Creative Inquiry Logo - Color (Illustrator) Wide Creative Inquiry Logo - Color (PNG) Wide Creative Inquiry Logo- White (PNG) Photography permission Creative Inquiry welcomes your contributions of photographs depicting your project's activities, especially photos that include Clemson undergraduate students. If your photos include people other than Clemson students or employees, we must have signed permission forms from each of these people. Parents permission is required for photos of children (under age 18). Print copies of the Photo Permission Form for Children and the Photo Permission Form for Adults. Keep these forms handy when you are photographing your project activities and participants. When you send photos to the Creative Inquiry office, please also send a copy of the permission forms. This will ensure that we can use your photos to publicize your work. Photos for publicity purposes should be high-resolution, at least 200 (preferably 300) pixels per inch. Intellectual property information and documents Guidelines for Course Instructors and Student Course Project Supervisors Sponsored Student Project Agreement IP Rights Summary Student Participation Agreement- For Use in Sponsored Course Projects Copyright information See copyright information at libguides.clemson.edu/copyright. Home Students Faculty Grad Students Summer CI + UR Corporate CI Clemson COVID Challenge About CI Opportunities & Events CI + UR Seminar Series Related Links Current Projects Decipher Magazine Contact Us Watt Family Innovation Center Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram