Skip to main content Skip to main navigation McMullen-Connally Family Collection Menu About Us The Faculty Center The Collection California Artists Texas Artists Northeast Artists Other Artists The McMullens Baylor and Outside Resources About Us The McMullen-Connally Family Collection consists of 227 watercolors by over sixty different artists and numerous personal artifacts. The watercolors represent a specific movement known as the California School of Watercolor that flourished in the 1930s and 1940s. The McMullen's had a personal relationship with the majority of the artists in the collection as both admirers of their work and students of their techniques. In addition to the paintings, decades of correspondence between the various artists and the McMullens was included in their gift. The McMullen Family Collection About the McMullens Dr. Faber Francis McMullen (1929-2009) attended Baylor University where he earned his BS in 1953 and went on to earn his MD in 1956. He pursued a career as a cardiologist and distinguished himself as one of the premier doctors in the field. Roxanna Connally McMullen attended Baylor from 1950 until 1952 and later received a BA in liturgical art from Sacred Heart Dominican College in 1972. Faber and Roxanna first met in 1950 in front of the Carroll Science Library Building. They were later married and moved to the Houston area. About The the McMullens Faculty Center The Faculty Center is designed after the McMullen's home in Bellaire, Texas, near downtown Houston. The McMullens donated the funds to build the Faculty Center primarily to honor the Baylor faculty that played such a crucial role in their years spent at the University. About The Faculty Center The McMullen Collection The McMullen-Connally Family Collection consists of 227 watercolors by over sixty different artists and numerous personal artifacts. The watercolors represent a specific movement known as the California School of Watercolor that flourished in the 1930s and 1940s. The McMullen's had a personal relationship with the majority of the artists in the collection as both admirers of their work and students of their techniques. In addition to the paintings, decades of correspondence between the various artists and the McMullens was included in their gift. Learn More About The Collection California Artists Texas Artists Northeast Artists Other Artists Show More General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students McMullen-Connally Family Collection McMullen-Connally Family Collection 1514 S. 5th Street Waco, TX 76798 254.710.3503 Email Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 About Us The Faculty Center The Collection California Artists Texas Artists Northeast Artists Other Artists The McMullens Baylor and Outside Resources