COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Human Resource Management, Major MajorHuman Resource Management All Programs W. Frank Barton School of Business Management The dual/accelerated Bachelor of Business Administration (BBA) to Master of Human Resource Management (MHRM) program from Wichita State will prepare you for graduate work in human resource management through a coordinated program leading to both degrees. Undergraduates in the program are allowed to enroll in courses for graduate credit while completing the requirements for a BBA in any business discipline. Learn how human resource management is the right fit for you. Request Info Start Your Application Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the program To be considered for admission to the program, the following must be satisfied: An undergraduate GPA of 3.0 overall; Completion of at least 60 credit hours of undergraduate study; Completion of four HRM and / or MGMT classes at the 300 level or above; and Admission recommendation from a member of the HRM or MGMT graduate faculty. Admission requirements Inside the Program International business group gives students competitive advantage Cynthia Matson's time at Wichita State shaped who she is today. As a business major, she was vice president of the Barton International Group, a student-run consulting firm through the Barton School of Business at WSU. Every fall, BIG takes undergraduate students from all majors and classes, ranging from finance to mechanical engineering for an opportunity to get involved in unique capacities. As a BIG member, students have the opportunity to gain a competitive advantage through real-world experience, working alongside business professionals from diverse industries in a fast, highly driven environment with other liked-minded students. Curriculum The human resource management curriculum prepares you to perform functions such as hiring and training employees, performance appraisal and compensation—and for Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) certification. You’ll also gain a solid business skill set by completing core business courses. Students admitted to the dual/accelerated program are allowed to enroll in courses for graduate credit, including 800-level courses, prior to completing undergraduate degree requirements. WSU is the only Kanas Regents university to offer a human resource management degree. View the curriculum Careers A degree in human resource management from Wichita State will give you the knowledge and skills needed for a variety of high-paying human-resource careers in settings such as: Local, national and international companies Professional, scientific and technical services Manufacturing and government Health care and social assistance Learn more about careers in this field Similar Programs Human Resource Management (Minor) Psychology Management 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©