COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Alert File your 2022-2023 FAFSA now! The Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) allows you to apply for the full range of possible financial aid programs, including work-study, grants, and loans. Learn more! Net Price Calculator Section Menu Home About Us Consumer Information Cost of Attendance Financial Aid Forms Financial Aid Policies International Students Scholarships Types of Aid Welcome to the Wichita State University Net Price Calculator! We're happy you are beginning to explore how to plan and pay for your college education. Together, our Financial Aid and Accounts Receivable offices will help you every step of the way. Using the net price calculator, you can receive an estimate of your eligibility for financial aid from Wichita State, the federal government, and the state of Kansas (if applicable). New/First-Year students: To begin using the calculator, choose the button below that best fits your student level next year. Current students: We encourage you to view your individual financial information through your myWSU account under the myFinances tab. I am an incoming Freshman or Transfer Student I am an incoming Graduate Student As you use the calculator, please remember: This is not an application for admission or financial aid. The results will only be as reliable as the data you provide. The net price calculator will only give you an estimate of your net price and aid eligibility. The financial aid office will make the final determinations about your financial aid award. You must complete the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) to be considered for federal and state financial aid. Additional Information on Costs at Wichita State For more information on costs, scholarships, and applying for financial aid at Wichita State, visit the links below. Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fees Note: The estimate provided using this net price calculator does not represent a final determination or actual offer of financial assistance. The cost of attendance and financial aid availability may change. This estimate shall not be binding on the U.S. Secretary of Education, Wichita State University or the State of Kansas. 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©