Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Sexual Harassment Policies Get Help Get Help Medical care Confidential help Academic and campus help Help for faculty and staff How faculty and staff can help students Report Report Report to police Report to SMU Report anonymously Report retaliation Protective orders Learn More Learn More SMU Title IX Sexual Harassment Policy Sexual assault and consent Definitions and examples Campus security Message from President Turner SMU Task Force Get involved Get involved Education and prevention Awareness tips Request a presentation Resources ☰ Sexual Harassment Report Report to SMU Reporting to the SMU Title IX Coordinator and pursuing an internal grievance process A student may file a complaint of sexual harassment, sexual assault, dating violence, domestic violence or stalking under the University’s Title IX Sexual Harassment Policy by submitting a Title IX Sexual Harassment Complaint Form to the SMU Title IX Coordinator in the Office of Institutional Access and Equity. The Title IX Sexual Harassment Policy is online in the University Policy Manual, smu.edu/policy, and on the Office of Institutional Access and Equity website, smu.edu/iae. To file a complaint of Title IX sexual harassment, please complete the Title IX Sexual Harassment Complaint Form. To make a third-party report of Title IX sexual harassment, please complete the Title IX Sexual Harassment Third-Party Report Form. The form can be emailed to accessequity@smu.edu; submitted in Perkins Administration Building, Room 204; or mailed to the SMU Title IX Coordinator, P.O. Box 750200, Dallas, TX 75275-0200. The Title IX internal grievance process includes an investigation of the allegations, a hearing, sanctions if a student is found responsible, and an appeal process. Pending the outcome of the grievance process and to protect the safety of the SMU community, the University may impose interim protective steps, such as no-contact orders, campus restrictions and temporary suspension. Students involved in a sexual harassment case may qualify to receive amnesty for other violations of the Student Code of Conduct, such as alcohol violations, as outlined in the Conduct Review Process. The investigation will focus primarily upon the allegations of sexual harassment. For more information, contact the SMU Title IX Coordinator in the Office of Institutional Access and Equity at 214-768-3601 or email accessequity@smu.edu or consult the Title IX Sexual Harassment Policy. Report Report to police Report to SMU Report anonymously Report retaliation Protective orders Resources In case of emergency or for criminal reporting, please call SMU Police, 214-768-3333, or pick up a blue-light phone on campus. Confidential Resources SMU Counseling Services 214-768-2277 SMU Chaplain’s Office 214-768-4502 Additional SMU resources SMU Title IX Coordinator (for internal grievance information and reporting) 214-768-3601 Office of Student Advocacy & Support 214-768-4512 Anonymous reporting 214-768-2TIP (2847) Community resources Dallas Area Rape Crisis Center (DARCC) 972-641-7273 Texas Health Presbyterian Hospital Sexual Assault Nurse Examiner (SANE) Program 214-345-6203 Learn more about resources. Apply Visit School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share