Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Office of the Vice President for Student Affairs Leadership Leadership Vice President VP's Leadership Team Diversity Officer Student Advisory Board Student Reps to BOT Committees Programs Programs Special Funding Student Boulevard Guidelines Courageous Change Leader Award Hilltop Excellence Awards Resources Resources Student Event Guidelines Student Values Statement Off Campus Party Registration Alcohol Request Form Student Employment Employment Opportunities Strategic Direction Get Help ☰ Office of the Vice President for Student Affairs SMU Student Affairs Office of the Vice President for Student Affairs The Division of Student Affairs creates and supports a robust student experience and forges strategic partnerships to best serve the entire SMU community. As educators and scholar-practitioners, we create purposeful learning and leadership opportunities for students to clarify and develop their knowledge, values, skills, and identities - challenging each to become a world changer. Vice President for Student Affairs and Leadership Team Dr. K.C. Mmeje Vice President for Student Affairs Meet Dr. Mmeje Dr. Mindy Sutton Associate Vice President & Dean of Students Meet Dr. Sutton Dr. Adam R. Cebulski Assistant Vice President for Student Engagement and Success & Chief of Staff Meet Dr. Cebulski Ashley Wendler Dean of Residence Life and Student Housing ad Interim Learn About RLSH Rev. Lisa Garvin Chaplain and Minister to the University Meet Rev. Garvin Dr. Crystal Clayton Executive Director of the Hegi Family Career Development Center Meet Dr. Clayton Nan Gunter Executive Assistance to the Vice President for Student Affairs Meet Nan Julius Mwangi Senior Finance and Business Manager for Student Affairs Meet Julius One student is selected each year to serve as the Student Member of the Board of Trustees (Student Trustee), a full voting member of the Board. Eight other students are also selected to serve as Student Members of the Board Standing Committees. Learn More The Vice President for Student Affairs Student Advisory Board provides feedback and student perspective to the Vice President for Student Affairs on critical issues impacting student life that may arise during the course of an academic year. Learn More Divisional committees are the vehicles by which the Division of Student Affairs actualizes our 2018-2023 strategic plan, Cultivating Courageous Change. There are four steering committees with ad hoc committees and task forces throughout the division and within each unit. Learn More The Diversity Officer for Student Affairs serves as a counsel and a resource to the Vice President for Student Affairs regarding issues of diversity and inclusion. They serve as the lead trainer of the CIQ@SMU curriculum for Student Affairs and student organizations. Learn More The Learning Domains All programs and services within our division promote or facilitate student learning. We have developed six learning domains spanning each area of learning: cognitive (knowledge), affective (attitudes and beliefs), and psychomotor (skills and abilities). Previous Next pause play hide show Learn More About Our Strategic Plan Cultivating Courageous Change Contact Us Office Hours: Monday – Friday, 8:30 a.m. – 5:00 p.m. Phone: 214-768-2821 Email: studentaffairs@smu.edu Physical Address: Perkins Administration Building 6425 Boaz Street, Suite 203 Dallas, TX 75205 Mailing Address: P.O. Box 750471 Dallas, TX 75275 Student Affairs Newsstand Read More Apply Visit School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share