Indoor face covering requirements reinstated through June 13. More COVID-19 information. × Skip to main content A to Z Listing Campus Map Find People News Skip to main content University of California, Riverside Search Quicklinks Visit Events Make a Gift Campus Map Jobs Library Parking and Transportation Apply UC Riverside University of California, Riverside University of California, Riverside Search About About Overview Rankings and Facts Impacts History Visitors International Leadership Find Information for... Current Students Prospective Students Faculty Staff Parents Alumni Academics Academics Overview Undergraduate Majors Graduate Programs Colleges and Schools UCR Extension Find Information For... Current Students Prospective Students Faculty Staff Parents Alumni Admissions Admissions Overview Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions International Admissions Transfer Admissions Cost Veteran Admissions Find Information For... Current Students Prospective Students Faculty Staff Parents Alumni Research Research Overview Undergraduate Research Graduate Research Centers and Facilities Library Find Information For... Current Students Prospective Students Faculty Staff Parents Alumni Campus Life Campus Life Overview Events Campus Map Arts and Culture Athletics and Recreation Health and Safety Botanic Gardens Housing Dining About Riverside Find Information For... Current Students Prospective Students Faculty Staff Parents Alumni Quicklinks Visit Events Make a Gift Campus Map Jobs Library Parking and Transportation Apply Staff Breadcrumb Staff Create Something Better with a Career at UCR Staff members at UC Riverside take pride in working for an institution that continually creates meaningful experiences for all Highlanders — and is rising in the ranks of national prominence. UCR was ranked the fastest rising university in America by U.S. News in 2019 and in the Top 30 of institutions dedicated to the public good by Washington Monthly in 2018. We want to create something better — on our campus and beyond — and our inspiring and dedicated staff helps us do just that. Without a doubt, the work we do daily to create transformative change on local, national, and global scales could not be done without them. And just as our staff helps to build better tomorrows by supporting UCR’s mission of research, teaching, and public service, we empower them and encourage their success through our unwavering support, resources, and mentorship — and outstanding benefits. That includes being on a campus situated in an ideal locale for work-life balance: In addition to all the vibrant city of Riverside has to offer, it’s also just a short drive from exquisite mountains, desert, and the beach. So what are you waiting for? Check out our career opportunities today. APPLY FOR UCR JOBS UCR STAFF ASSEMBLY EXPLORE UC SYSTEM CAREERS CAMPUS NEWS: INSIDE UCR Doing Good While Doing Well UC offers so many exceptional benefits to campus community members. Employees enjoy a comprehensive compensation package that includes competitive salaries, top-tier healthcare coverage, robust pension and investment options, and a variety of career development resources. Learn More A City of Arts and Innovation Riverside is an exciting and vibrant community. The City of Riverside has won numerous awards for excellence in city governance and public services, including recognition for digital innovation, millennial-friendly city planning, and creating green, sustainable communities. Learn more about the City of Arts & Innovation we call home. Learn more about Riverside Embracing Diversity UC Riverside’s multicultural, ethnically diverse, and socially safe environment provides our students, staff and faculty with a successful and positive educational climate. Learn more about Diversity and Culture at UCR Early Childhood Services UCR staff members are eligible to enroll their children in the UCR Child Development Center. The curriculum at the center follows guidelines set by the California Department of Education and the National Association for the Education of Young Children. All of the centers’ programs are focused on childhood enrichment, accredited by the National Academy of Early Childhood Programs. Learn more about Childcare Staff Assembly The UCR Staff Assembly promotes the interests and well-being of all staff. Overseen by an executive board, the Staff Assembly works in conjunction with the Office of the Chancellor. Together, they support the university’s focus on collaboration and innovation, from sponsoring social events and outings to connecting UCR staff to opportunities that enrich their personal and professional lives. Previous Next ADDITIONAL INFORMATION UCR Extension Staff members are encouraged to continue lifelong learning. Choose from hundreds of individual classes or pursue one of 90 certificate programs. Start Learning! Development Through HR UCR's Human Resources department helps employees achieve their goals through the Education and Development program. Regular courses are available for staff members looking to sharpen writing, editing, and other communication skills. Employees Can Enroll Online Staff Assembly Scholarships Scholarships are available to support staff members in their career development, such as certificate programs, conferences, workshops, special interest courses and degree attainment expenses. Apply Now Employee Portal Current UCR employees can access all of their employee information here. UCPath is a gateway to viewing your employee profile updating your personal information. FOM | UCPath Search University of California, Riverside 900 University Ave. Riverside, CA 92521 Tel: (951) 827-1012 UCR Library Campus Status Campus Store Career Opportunities Diversity Maps and Directions Visit UCR University Communications 1156 Hinderaker Hall tel: (951) 827-1012 email: webteam@ucr.edu Find Us Related Links Campus Return UCR Admissions UCR News Colleges and Schools Graduate Division UCR Jobs UCR Health Giving Follow Us: Privacy and Accessibility Terms and Conditions © 2022 Regents of the University of California × Let us help you with your search Enter your Search Criteria. Search Cancel