COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW WSU South Section Menu WSU South - Home About Wichita State University South WSU South - returning adults WSU South - Bookstore WSU South - calendar and deadlines WSU South Contacts and Operation Hours WSU South - Elementary Education WSU South - emergencies WSU South - past events WSU South - Library Materials Delivery WSU South - Community Education Classes WSU South - Class Schedules WSU South - tuition free class auditing WSU South - maps/directions WSU South - free student services WSU South -Shuttle to Main Campus Art Show 2019 Recent Student Assistant Grads Serving the greater Wichita area: convenient day and evening class schedules with small classes, comfortable learning environment and friendly student services! Only 10 minutes from the main campus; free shuttle service and free parking. About Us Email Us for Personalized Information WSU South Facebook The Latest WSU to remove mask requirement on campus; masks strongly recommended. Details. Please finish enrolling your summer and fall '22 classes at WSU South early to save your space. Summer and Fall '22 classes at WSU South. Celebrating and highlighting our graduating student assistants! Please visit the Schedule of Courses and check your BlackBoard to get the latest course plans and information of classes you are enrolled in. Also, here is some important information on The First Day of Classes. Please visit a WSU COVID Announcements page for a wealth of WSU/pandemic information. For questions and assistance, please contact us at 316.978.8000, or email michael.yeung@wichita.edu While we are back to pre-pandemic operations, we encourage everyone to keep practising social distancing and wearing a mask to help keep everyone safe! Thank you! Serving Greater Wichita WSU South was a WSU satellite facility inaugurated in the City of Derby in 2007. Since July 1, 2018, we are now located at the Harry Street Mall, operating in partnership with WSU Tech and WSU Shocker Studios, sharing facilities and offering classes that will cater to WSU Tech and WSU Shocker Studios students. For more information, please visit our "About" page. About WSU South Happening at WSU South Fun, non-credit Community Education Classes Discover our fun, non-credit courses offered through the Community Education Department. These popular classes will fill fast, so please enroll early. Free Shuttle Service Shuttle service connecting WSU South and Main Campus started Sept. 4, 2018 for your convenience to attend classes at WSU South. The last bus now leaves the Shocker Studios stop for main campus at 10 pm. Online Transfer Gateway Online transfer gateway gives easy answers for prospective transfer students interested in transferring from community college to WSU now have an transfer online gateway designed just for them. Free Student Services For information and assistance with anything, you can't find more friendly staff than our team members! Contact us today! Quick Links These links may be useful to anyone considering becoming a WSU South student. WSU South spring '22 class schedules Noncredit classes Full WSU catalogs WSU Acadmic Calendar Become A WSU Shocker Elementary Teacher Education Degree Completion Classes High School Guest Student online application Apply for admission Apply for degree (AFD) online Student reactivation Scholarships and financial aid Transcript request General Education classes and transfers Our sister off-campus facility: WSU Haysville More WSU News 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©