Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Skip to primary site search Google Tag Manager Population Studies and Training Center Research Themes Project Categories Cite and Send Selected Faculty Publications News Training and Education Postdoctoral Research Associates Predoctoral Trainees Undergraduates Alumni Events PSTC Colloquia Speaker Series Workshops and Professionalization Spatial Structures in the Social Sciences (S4) Working Group in Anthropology and Population (WGAP) Migration Studies Initiative Special Events People Faculty Postdoctoral Research Associates Predoctoral Trainees Staff Undergraduate Fellows Programs and Initiatives About Leadership Sidney Goldstein, PSTC Founder Affiliation Services and Facilities Employment Opportunities External Funding Research Themes Children, Families, and Health Social Foundations of Health Disparities Migration and Urbanization Population, Development, and Environment Reproductive Health and HIV/AIDS Social Inequalities Funding Progressivity, COVID-19, and Inequality of School Resources by Race and SES How Changing Neighborhood and School Contexts Shape Mental Health and Educational Attainment from Childhood to Early Adulthood Project Categories Rhode Island Domestic International Research to Policy Spatial Cite and Send Selected Faculty Publications News Training and Education Postdoctoral Research Associates NICHD Postdoctoral Fellows Predoctoral Trainees NICHD Predoctoral Fellows Past NICHD Fellows Admission and Requirements Funding Opportunities Workshops Predoctoral Training Program Application 2021-22 Undergraduates Migration Studies Certificate PSTC Undergraduate Fellows Program Alumni Events PSTC Colloquia Speaker Series Workshops and Professionalization Spatial Structures in the Social Sciences (S4) Working Group in Anthropology and Population (WGAP) Migration Studies Initiative Special Events People Faculty Postdoctoral Research Associates Predoctoral Trainees Staff Undergraduate Fellows Programs and Initiatives Spatial Structures in the Social Sciences (S4) Migration Studies Initiative About Leadership Sidney Goldstein, PSTC Founder Remembering Sidney Goldstein Affiliation Services and Facilities Employment Opportunities 2022 Postdoctoral Fellowship Manager of Communications and Outreach Postdoctoral Research Associate in Population Studies Summer 2021 Proctorship Program for predocs External Funding External Funding This page provides a curated list of opportunities relevant to population studies. General NIH Grant Matchmaker. This tool helps to find program officers and similar grants. Simply copy and paste your abstract or Specific Aims into the menu window, and it will return up to 500 funded grants with descriptions and the program official. Gates Foundation Grand Challenge opportunities here. Rolling Deadlines Fast Funding for COVID-19 Science (Fast Grants). Invites faculty applications for Fast Grants ranging from $10K-$500K for research related to COVID-19 that can be completed in the next six months. Rolling deadline. Evidence for Action (E4A): Investigator-Initiated Research to Build a Culture of Health (RWJF). This program of the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation funds research that expands the evidence base needed to build a Culture of Health, addressing population health, well-being, and equity impacts of specific policies, programs, and partnerships. Applications accepted on a rolling basis. Geography and Spatial Sciences Dissertation (NSF) accepted anytime. Humans, Disasters, and the Built Environment (NSF). Supports fundamental, multidisciplinary research on the interactions between humans and the built environment within and among communities exposed to natural, technological, and other types of hazards and disasters. Full proposals accepted anytime. Pioneering Ideas Brief Proposals (RWJF). Supports research that helps anticipate the future and consider new and unconventional perspectives and approaches to building a Culture of Health to enable everyone in America to live the healthiest life possible. Rolling submission. Pioneering Ideas: Exploring the Future to Build a Culture of Health (RWJF). Seeks proposals to influence health equity in the future in these areas of focus: Future of Evidence; Future of Social Interaction; Future of Food; Future of Work. Rolling deadline. Small Grants in Behavioral Economics (Russell Sage Foundation). Open to doctoral students at the dissertation stage and to recent PhD recipients. Supports research that uses behavioral insights from psychology, sociology, political science, and other social sciences to examine and improve social and living conditions in the United States. Appropriate projects will demonstrate explicit use of psychological concepts in research design and preparation of results. Applications accepted on a rolling basis. W.K. Kellogg Foundation. Administers funds for the promotion of welfare, comfort, health, education, feeding, clothing, sheltering, and safeguarding of children and youth, directly or indirectly. Priorities are thriving children; working families; and equitable communities. Applications accepted on a rolling basis. Research Supplements to Promote Diversity in Health-Related Research (Admin Supp - Clinical Trial Not Allowed) (National Institutes of Health). This call seeks to enhance the diversity of the research workforce by recruiting and supporting students, postdoctoral fellows, and eligible investigators from diverse backgrounds. Due dates vary; interested faculty associates should contact Grants and Contracts Specialist Corey Silvia to discuss. Upcoming Deadlines 2021 Notice of Intent to Publish a Funding Opportunity Announcement for Understanding and Addressing the Impact of Structural Racism and Discrimination (SRD) on Minority Health and Health Disparities (R01 - Clinical Trial Optional). Will solicit applications on (1) observational research to understand the role of structural racism and discrimination (SRD) in causing and sustaining health disparities, and (2) intervention research that addresses SRD in order to improve minority health or reduce health disparities. Anticipated publication of FOA: April 2021. Estimated Due Date: Friday, August 20. Notice of Special Interest (NOSI): COVID-19 Related School Disruptions Impact on Mental Health, Cognitive, Social, and Emotional Development of Children (Parent R01 Clinical Trial Not Allowed) (NICHD). The purpose of this notice is to highlight interest in research to understand the mental health impact of the Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic on school-aged children, specifically ages 3 - 12. Particularly, we are interested in the potential impact of primary instruction settings disruptions (e.g., pre-school, elementary school) on the mental health, cognitive, social, and emotional development of children. Research that considers how these disruptions have affected vulnerable groups (including those with intellectual, physical, or learning disabilities and populations with economic or health disparities) is encouraged. Deadline Tuesday, October 5. Mental Health Research Awards for Investigators Early in their Career in Low and Middle-Income Countries (R01 Clinical Trial Optional). This RFA seeks to assist early-career scientists in launching an innovative basic, translational, clinical, or services research program that holds the potential to transform the understanding, prevention, diagnosis, or treatment of mental illnesses in low resource international settings. Deadline October 14, 2021. Notice of Special Interest: Small Grants for Secondary Analyses of Existing Data Sets and Stored Biospecimens (NICHD). This notice encourages applications that propose to conduct secondary analyses using publicly available NICHD-funded data sets or stored biospecimens. Includes demographic and epidemiological research. Expires May 8, 2023. Past Opportunities 2021 NIH Director’s Early Independence Awards (NIH). This award supports exceptional junior investigators who wish to pursue independent research soon after completion of their terminal doctoral degree or post-graduate clinical training, thereby forgoing the traditional post-doctoral training period and accelerating their entry into an independent research career. Prospective PDs/PIs should contact appropriate institutional leaders to seek an appointment in an independent research position; institutions may actively recruit eligible junior scientists to apply for support through this program. Applications are welcome in all research areas broadly relevant to the mission of NIH, including behavioral, and social sciences. Research may be basic, translational, or clinical. Please note that this is a limited submission opportunity and interested applicants must contact [email protected] and review more information here. Deadline for LOI: Tuesday, August 3 Deadline for full proposal: Friday, September 3 Notice of Special Interest (NOSI): Administrative Supplements to NIMHD Awards for Research on HIV/AIDS in Populations that Experience Health Disparities (Admin Supp Clinical Trial Optional) (NIMHD). The purpose of this NOSI is to call for targeted supplement applications to active NIMHD grants and cooperative agreements to support research on HIV/AIDS in NIH-designated populations that experience health disparities. It emphasizes the continued importance of conducting research on HIV/AIDS that will further the federal Ending the HIV Epidemic (EHE) effort, including research on how the COVID-19 pandemic and structural racism and discrimination affect HIV risk, prevention, and treatment among populations that experience health disparities. List of programmatic areas and relevant FOAs at link. Deadline: Thursday, July 15. Notice of Special Interest: Ancillary Reproductive Health Projects to Existing Large and/or Longitudinal Studies (NIH). The goal of this notice is to support the addition of reproductive health components to ongoing large and/or longitudinal studies that have not previously collected data or specimens relevant to reproductive health on a large-scale basis. The parent grant does not have to be NICHD. Interested PIs may contact Program Officer Candace Tingen directly. Deadline: Tuesday, July 1, 5:00pm ET. The Minerva Research Initiative (DoD). This DoD-sponsored, university-based social science research initiative supports social science research aimed at improving basic understanding of security, broadly defined. There are 9 focal topics for 2021, including “Social Implications of Environmental Change,” which calls for proposals addressing, for example, how environmental transitions influence migration decisions, impact population growth and gender dynamics, and the implications of unevenly distributed environmental change. The goal is to improve DoD’s basic understanding of the social, cultural, behavioral, and political forces that shape regions of the world of strategic importance to the U.S. Typical awards range from $150K-$1M per year for 3 years. Deadline for white papers: Wednesday, June 23. Full proposals due: Wednesday, September 29. Notice of Special Interest (NOSI) to Encourage Administrative Supplement Applications to Investigate COVID-19 Vaccination and Menstruation (Admin Supp – Clinical Trial Optional) (NICHD). The purpose of this NOSI is to call for targeted supplement applications to examine the impact of SARS-CoV-2 vaccines on menstruation. While anecdotal first person reports of menstrual changes in response to SARS-CoV-2 vaccines exist, these associations and their long-term consequences, have not been investigated in a rigorous or systematic manner. Clinical trials for the Pfizer, Moderna, and Johnson & Johnson SARS-CoV-2 vaccine seem to have collected last menstrual period (LMP) data (to exclude current pregnancies), but have not collected menstrual cycle outcomes post-vaccine. Deadline: Thursday, June 17. Systems for Action: Systems and Services Research to Build a Culture of Health (RWJF). Advancing racial and health equity requires effective collaboration across medical, social, and public health systems. This new call seeks proposals to measure the impact of such collaborations that allow organizations to better share in the costs, benefits, power and influence that govern health initiatives. Optional applicant webinar Wed., March 17. Deadline: Wednesday, June 9, 3:00pm EST. Notice of Special Interest (NOSI): Using Systems Science Methodologies to Protect and Improve Child and Reproductive Population Health (R01 Clinical Trial Not Allowed) (NIH). Solicits applications from multi-disciplinary scientific teams proposing research using systems science approaches to address persistent public health challenges, including, for example, models of the complex relationships among demographic, social, and environmental factors and their effects on child and maternal health. Deadline: Saturday, June 5. Understanding the Rules of Life: Emergent Networks (NSF). This new solicitation from NSF’s Social, Behavioral, and Economic Sciences (SBE) Directorate is a collaborative initiative. It is an opportunity for researchers in the SBEs to partner with colleagues in biology, engineering and other disciplines to develop a predictive understanding of how key properties of living systems emerge from the interactions of genomes, phenotypes and other factors, and how emerging networks of natural, social and human-engineered systems influence their environment. Requires multiple PIs from different disciplines. Deadline: Monday, May 10, 5:00pm EST. Research Grants on Improving the Use of Research Evidence (WT Grant Foundation). Supports high-quality field-initiated studies on how research evidence can be used to improve decision-making, policies and practices affecting the lives of young people ages 5 to 25 in the United States. Deadline for LOI: Wednesday, May 5, 3:00pm EST. Research Grants on Reducing Inequality (WT Grant Foundation). Supports research to build, test, and increase understanding of programs, policies, or practices to reduce inequality in outcomes of US youth. Deadline for LOI: Wednesday, May 5, 3:00pm EST. Core Programs and Special Initiatives (Russell Sage Foundation). RSF is accepting letters of inquiry for the following core programs and special initiatives: Behavioral Economics, Decision Making and Human Behavior in Context, Future of Work; and Social, Political and Economic Inequality. Additionally, they will accept LOIs relevant to any of their core programs that address the social, economic, political, and psychological causes and consequences of the pandemic, as well as research focused on systemic racial inequality and/or recent mass protests in the US. Please reach out to Susan Short or Corey Silvia if you are interested in applying. Deadline: Tuesday, May 4. Competitive Revisions and Administrative Supplements for the Impact of COVID-19 on Minority Health and Health Disparities (NIMHD). Soliciting research that focuses on one or more NIH-designated health disparity populations in relation to the COVID-19 outbreak, including disparities in healthcare utilization, access to care, relevant social and environmental exposures, and culturally appropriate prevention methods. Deadline May 1, 2021. Firearm Injury and Mortality Prevention Research (R21/R33 Clinical Trial Optional) (NIH). Invites applications for research to improve understanding of the determinants of firearm injury, the identification of those at risk of firearm injury (including both victims and perpetrators), the development and piloting of innovative interventions to prevent firearm injury and mortality, and the examination of approaches to improve the implementation of existing, evidence-based interventions to prevent firearm injury and mortality. Deadline: Friday, April 30. Educational Opportunity Monitoring Project (Russell Sage Foundation). This new call within RSF’s Improving Education and Reducing Inequality in the United States funding priority seeks research projects that aim to identify the effects of policies, practices, and conditions on achievement and achievement inequality using data on academic achievement from the Stanford Education Data Archive (SEDA) constructed by Sean Reardon and colleagues at Stanford's Educational Opportunity Project (EOP). Deadline: Thursday, April 29. Fellowships and Seed Grants for Junior Researchers (International Labour Organization/ International Organization for Migration). Invites applications for fellowships and seed funding for research on child labour, forced labour, and human trafficking. The project will provide funding to support researchers from a variety of disciplines to fill knowledge gaps and achieve policy impact. Information sessions on March 25 and 26. Deadline: Friday, April 16. COVID-19 Competitive Revisions and Administrative Supplements (NICHD). Encourages urgent competitive revisions and administrative supplements to existing studies that address key social and behavioral questions related to COVID-19. Deadline April 1, 2021. Research Scholars Program (National Research Center on Hispanic Children and Families). Supports research on poverty reduction, marriage and fatherhood, and/or early care and education in relation to Hispanic children and families. Open to advanced graduate students, postdocs, and early-career faculty. Two Scholar positions available. Provides $10,000 for twelve months of research. Deadline: March 31, 5:00pm. Future of Work at the Human-Technology Frontier: Core Research (NSF). This expanded call invites proposals from social, behavioral, and economic scientists for multidisciplinary research investigating the evolving technological, human and societal aspects of work. Must focus on advancing fundamental understanding of future work and work outcomes for workers and society. Deadline March 23, 2021. LGBTQ & Racial Justice Small Grants Program (Williams Institute, UCLA).This program aims to encourage new research on LGBTQ populations, with a focus on emerging issues at the intersections of race, sexual orientation, and gender identity, particularly work that will have a direct impact on law and policy. Open to graduate students and faculty. Deadline: Friday, March 19. Research on biopsychosocial factors of social connectedness and isolation on health, wellbeing, illness, and recovery (R01 Basic Experimental Studies with Humans Required) (National Institutes of Health). Solicits research projects that seek to explain the underlying mechanisms, processes, and trajectories of social relationships and how these factors affect outcomes in health, illness, recovery, and overall well-being. Deadline March 17th, 2021. Research on biopsychosocial factors of social connectedness and isolation on health, wellbeing, illness, and recovery (R01 Clinical Trials Not Allowed ) (National Institutes of Health). Solicits research projects that seek to model the underlying mechanisms, processes, and trajectories of social relationships and how these factors affect outcomes in health, illness, recovery, and overall well-being. Deadline March 17th, 2021. Mid-Career Enhancement Awards to Integrate Basic Behavioral, Biomedical, and/or Social Scientific Processes (K-18 National Institutes of Health). Invites applications for research that more thoroughly investigates interrelationships among behavioral, biological, endocrine, epigenetic, immune, inflammatory, neurological, psychological, and/or social processes. Deadline March 17, 2021. International Research Scientist Development Award (IRSDA) (K01) Independent Clinical Trial Not Allowed (NIH). Invites applications from postdoctoral scientists and junior faculty seeking protected, intensive, and mentored career development and research activities in a low- or middle-income country (LMIC), as defined by the World Bank. Deadline March 9, 2021. Notice of Special Interest: Administrative Supplement for Research and Capacity Building Efforts Related to Bioethical Issues (Admin Supp Clinical Trial Optional) (National Institutes of Health). Seeks to fund research on ethical considerations related to biomedical research and projects that support capacity building in bioethics. Applications should propose 1) research on topics that can support the development of an evidence base that may inform future policy directions, and/or 2) certain efforts to develop or augment bioethics research capacity. Deadline March 6, 2021. Addressing Health Disparities among Immigrant Populations through Effective Interventions (R01 Clinical Trial Optional) (National Institutes of Health). Calls for multidisciplinary research focusing on the design and implementation of effective interventions that address immigrant-specific factors to reduce health disparities, particularly among migrant workers, recent and first generation immigrants. Deadline March 5, 2021. Digital Healthcare Interventions to Address the Secondary Health Effects Related to Social, Behavioral, and Economic Impact of COVID-19 (R01 Clinical Trial Optional). The purpose of this FOA is to focus on the role and impact of digital health interventions to address access, reach, delivery, effectiveness, scalability and sustainability, particularly in health disparity and vulnerable populations. Deadline March 2, 2021. Equity-Focused Policy Research: Building Cross-Cutting Evidence on Supports for Families with Young Children (RWJF). Seeks to fund research that illuminates strategies for enhancing equitable access to key resources for healthy child development. Optional webinar Jan. 12, 3-4pm. Deadline February 16, 2021, 3pm EST. Science of Science: Discovery, Communication, and Impact (NSF). This new NSF effort aims to increase the public value of scientific activity, and invites research proposals focused on revealing new knowledge and insights into how underrepresented groups across the U.S. can more fully participate in innovation and entrepreneurship. Multiple mechanisms; see link for more details. Deadline February 10, 2021. Human Networks and Data Science – Core Research (National Science Foundation). Solicits research proposals that address the nature, causes, and/or consequences of human behavior (broadly defined) that occurs within contexts defined by the networks that determine the human experience, from the biological networks in the human body to the sociocultural, economic and geospatial networks that comprise human societies. Deadline February 4, 2021. Mid-Career Advancement (National Science Foundation). Opportunity for Associate Professor rank (or equivalent) to advance their research program through mutually beneficial partnerships with one or more collaborators at another institution. Applicants are encouraged to submit proposals that identify new problems previously inaccessible without new methodology or expertise from other fields. Deadline February 1, 2021. Pilot Grants for Research on Alzheimer’s Disease and Related Dementias (Hopkins Economics of Alzheimer’s Disease and Services Center). Seeks proposals for research related to the care of persons with Alzheimer’s Disease and Related Dementias (ADRD), and the economic consequences of ADRD for patients and their families. Proposals from postdocs and junior faculty encouraged. Deadline February 1, 2021. Dissertation Fellowship Program (Center for Retirement Research at Boston College). Provides support for dissertation work on retirement and disability policy. Deadline January 31, 2021. Steven H. Sandell Grant Program (Center for Retirement Research at Boston College). Awards small grants to junior scholars studying retirement and disability policy. Deadline January 31, 2021. Stephen I. Katz Early Stage Investigator Research Project Grant (R01 Clinical Trial Not Allowed) (National Institutes of Health). Allows Early Stage Investigators to research in a new direction for which preliminary data do not exist. The opportunity is open to a broad range of scientific research. Deadline January 26, 2021. NLM Grants for Scholarly Works in Biomedicine and Health (National Institutes of Health). LOIs for the preparation of book-length manuscripts and other works of academic and/or public health policy value to U.S. health professionals, public health officials, biomedical researchers and historians of the health sciences. This may take the form of a critical review, summary, historical study, or other format. Deadline January 26, 2021. Administrative Supplements for Research on Sex/Gender Influences (Admin Supp Clinical Trial Optional). This FOA supports research highlighting the impact of sex and gender influences in human health and illness. Deadline: January 25, 2021. Research on the Health of Women of Understudied, Underrepresented and Underreported (U3) Populations (Admin Supp Clinical Trial Optional). This FOA supports administrative research highlighting health disparities among women in the US who are underrepresented, understudied, and underreported (U3) in biomedical research. Deadline January 21, 2021. Grand Challenges - ICODA COVID-19 Data Science Pilot (Grand Challenges - International COVID-19 Data Alliance). This pilot aims to fund studies that will facilitate research collaboration among researchers to address major COVID-19 research questions and reduce the harm of the current pandemic and foster global multidisciplinary collaborations. Deadline January 19, 2021. Ph.D. Scholarship (BEYOND BORDERS). Call for PhD scholarship applications concerning borders, state transformation, democracy, social welfare, and security. Both empirical research based on extensive fieldwork and projects centered on theoretical reflection are eligible for support. Deadline January 15, 2021. Call for Pilot Proposals (Texas Resource Center for Minority Aging Research at University of Texas). LOIs for research on health (broadly defined) of older adults. The Resource Center describes itself as having a special focus on the Hispanic population in the United States as well as in Mexico, and a focus on mentoring researchers from underrepresented populations. Deadline January 15, 2021. Request for Pilot Research Proposals (National Institute on Aging Interdisciplinary Network on Rural Population Health and Aging). Invites proposals for pilot research related to U.S. rural population health and aging trends and disparities. Possible topics include the relationship between economic livelihood strategies, economic well-being, and health among middle- and older-age adults in rural America, or the cause and effect of exposures to environmental change and/or climate hazards on rural middle-age and older populations. Deadline January 8, 2021. 2020 Supplements for Community Interventions to Reduce the Impact of COVID-19 on Vulnerable Populations (National Institutes of Health). A notice of special interest for research that tests community interventions focused on the prevention (or slowing) of COVID-19 transmission, evaluates local and state policies and programs intended to mitigate COVID-19 exposure, and reduce the negative impact on the health of populations who experience health disparities and other vulnerable groups. Deadline December 30. Competitive and Administrative Supplements for Community Interventions to Reduce the Impact of COVID-19 on Health Disparity and Other Vulnerable Populations (NIH). Invites research that tests community interventions focused on the prevention (or slowing) of COVID-19 transmission, or evaluates policies and programs intended to mitigate the multifaceted effects of COVID-19 on the health of health disparity populations and other vulnerable groups. Deadline December 30. Health Data for Action Data Access Award (RWJF). Awards data access at no cost from one of eight anticipated data providers. Seeks brief proposals for innovative research using these data to answer questions about a range of demographic topics including social determinants of health and disparities, housing instability, geographic variation in health, and COVID-19 patient characteristics and outcomes. Deadline December 17, 3:00pm. Using Archived Data and Specimen Collections to Advance Maternal and Pediatric HIV/AIDS Research (NIH). Invites applications for projects using archived HIV/AIDS data and specimens to answer important questions about the epidemiology, pathogenesis, treatment, clinical manifestations, and HIV-associated co-infections in maternal, pediatric and adolescent populations. Deadline December 10. NRSA Individual Postdoctoral Fellowships (National Institutes of Health). Provides individualized, mentored research training from faculty sponsors to conduct research in scientific health-related fields relevant to the missions of the participating NIH Institutes and Centers. Deadline December 8. Individual Predoctoral Fellowship to Promote Diversity in Health-Related Research (National Institutes of Health). Aims to increase the diversity of the health-related research workforce, particularly in biomedical, behavioral, or clinical research. Provides individualized, mentored research training from faculty sponsors while conducting research projects in scientific health-related fields relevant to the missions of the participating NIH Institutes and Centers. Deadline December 8. Health Services Research on Minority Health and Health Disparities (R01 - Clinical Trial Optional) (NIH). Invites proposals that examine and address how larger systemic factors cause, sustain, or minimize health disparities in communities, regions, and the Nation, including the role of state and local policies, and social determinants. Primary or secondary data. Next deadline November 27. Policies for Action: Public Policy Research to Advance Racial Equity and Racial Justice (Robert Wood Johnson Foundation) A call for LOIs that build the evidence base about how national, state, and local policies can improve racial equity in health and well-being in the United States. An optional applicant webinar will be held on Wednesday, October 21 at 2:30 PM. Registration required. Deadline November 24. Policies for Action: Public Policy Research to Advance Racial Equity and Racial Justice (Robert Wood Johnson Foundation). LOIs for research that studies how national, state, and local policies can improve racial equity in health and well-being in the U.S. The goal of this program is to help support a Culture of Health in the U.S. by transforming policies to expand access and opportunities. Registration for an optional applicant webinar on Wednesday, October 21, can be found here. Deadline November 24. Minority Dissertation Fellowship Program in Education Research (American Educational Research Association). This fellowship is targeted for members of racial and ethnic groups historically underrepresented in higher education, aiming to support doctoral dissertation research, advance education research for minority graduate students, and enhance these students’ competitiveness for academic appointments at research universities. Deadline November 16. Pilot Studies and Feasibility Projects (Animal Models for the Social Dimensions of Health and Aging Research Network). This newly supported NIA Center focuses on animal model research and comparative studies for understanding the social determinants of health and aging. These awards will support the generation of preliminary data for K- and R-type NIH applications and other projects. Deadline November 15. 2020 Pilot and Feasibility Projects – Request for Applications (Animal Models for the Social Dimensions of Health and Aging Research Network). Supports the generation of key preliminary data for K- or R-type NIH grant applications, publications, and other scientific products. Proposed projects should be focused on animal models or comparative studies relevant for understanding the social determinants of health and aging. Awardees will be also invited to participate in other Research Network meetings and activities. Deadline November 15. Core Programs Application Deadlines (Russell Sage Foundation). RSF is accepting letters of inquiry under the following core programs and special initiatives: Future of Work; Immigration and Immigrant Integration; Race, Ethnicity and Immigration; Social, Political and Economic Inequality. Deadline November 11. Systemic Racial Inequality And The Recent Mass Protests in the U.S. (Russell Sage Foundation). Invites proposals that investigate racial disparities in policing and criminal justice and their social, political, economic, and psychological causes and consequences. Proposals may also explore the effects of the current social protest movement, the nature of public attitudes and public policies regarding policing, criminal justice, and social welfare, and the effects of those attitudes in the political environment. Letter of Intent. Deadline November 11. Social, Political, Economic, and Psychological Consequences of the COVID-19 Pandemic (Russell Sage Foundation). Invites proposals for social science research that investigates the immediate and long-term effects of COVID-19 in the United States, with a particular focus on the effects of the crisis on vulnerable populations and potential impacts on how the U.S. government will respond to future crises. Letter of Intent. Deadline November 11. Grand Challenges for Human Flourishing (Templeton World Charity Foundation). A request for broad ideas for interdisciplinary scientific research towards discoveries that can promote physical, mental, social, and spiritual well-being. Deadline November 11. Call for Quick Response Proposals: COVID-19 (Natural Hazards Center). This NSF-supported center has a call for applications for quick response research on COVID-19 in one of four main areas: population groups, organizations, and social institutions; societal issues, impacts, and recovery; compound hazards and cascading disasters; or research networks, methods, and ethics. Awards will be in the $2,000-$5,000 range. Deadline November 11. RWJF Health Policy Fellows (Robert Wood Johnson Foundation). Opportunity for mid-career professionals in the social, behavioral, and health sciences interested in health care policy at the federal level. Applicants must be U.S. citizens or permanent residents. Deadline November 9. Evidence for Action: Approaches to Advance Gender Equity from Around the Globe (RWJF). Aims to translate and adapt knowledge from around the world to the United States on approaches that can improve health or the determinants of health by improving gender equity. Projects must include collaboration between U.S. and non-US-based organizations. Deadline August 26. NIH Director's New Innovator Award (DP2 Clinical Trial Optional). Supports early stage investigators of exceptional creativity who propose highly innovative research projects, including topics in the behavioral and social sciences, and who have not previously received an R01 or equivalent award. Part of the High-Risk, High-Reward program. Deadline August 21. Human-Environment and Geographical Sciences Program (HEGS) (NSF). Supports basic scientific research about the nature, causes, and/or consequences of the spatial distribution of human activity and/or environmental processes across a range of scales. Deadline August 18. New Funding Priorities for LOIs (Russell Sage Foundation). In response to the crises of 2020, for its next funding cycle the foundation will only accept letters of inquiry relevant to one of its core programs that address at least one of the following issues: 1) Research on the COVID-19 pandemic and the resulting recession or 2) Research focused on systemic racial inequality and/or recent mass protests. As a reminder, its core programs are Behavioral Economics; Race, Ethnicity, and Immigration; Future of Work; and Social, Political and Economic Inequality. Details at link. Deadline August 5. Faculty Early Career Development Program (CAREER) (NSF). Supports early-career faculty (tenure-track Assistant Professors) who have the potential to serve as academic role models in research and education and to lead advances in the mission of their department or organization. Deadline July 27. Health Services Research on Minority Health and Health Disparities (R01- Clinical Trial Optional) (NIMHD). Invites applications for innovative health services research that can directly and demonstrably contribute improving minority health and/or reducing health disparities. Deadline June 5. Research Grants (Russell Sage Foundation). The Foundation is currently accepting letters of inquiry for research in its core programs of Behavioral Economics; Race, Ethnicity, and Immigration; and Social, Political and Economic Inequality, as well as for its special initiative on Immigration and Immigrant Integration. View all funding deadlines and application guidelines. Deadline for LOIs May 21. Firearm Injury and Mortality Prevention Research (NIH R61 Clinical Trial Optional). Encourages research into the determinants of firearm injury, identification of those at risk of injury, and interventions to prevent firearm injury and mortality. Deadline May 15. Newton Award for Transformative Ideas During the COVID-19 Pandemic (U.S. Department of Defense). Seeks proposals by single investigators or teams of two investigators for “transformative ideas” to resolve challenges, advance frontiers, and set new paradigms in areas of immense potential benefit to DoD and the nation at large. Inspired by current events but not for research on the virus. Deadline May 15. Research to Improve Native American Health (R21 Clinical Trials Optional). Encourages exploratory developmental research to improve Native American (NA) health, including secondary analysis of existing data (such as databases that the Tribal Epidemiology Centers have collected); merging various sources of data to answer critical research questions; pilot and feasibility studies; and/or assessment and validation of measures that are being developed and/or adapted for use in NA communities. Deadline May 14. Small Grants for Secondary Analyses of Existing Data Sets and Stored Biospecimens (R03) (NICHD). Encourages applications that propose to conduct secondary analyses of publicly available NICHD-funded data sets or stored biospecimens. The goal of this program is to facilitate innovative yet cost-effective research utilizing data and biospecimens collected with NICHD resources. Deadline May 8. Research Grants on Reducing Inequality (WT Grant Foundation). Supports research to build, test, and increase understanding of approaches to reducing inequality in outcomes of US youth. LOI deadline 3:00pm EST May 6, 2020. Research Grants on Improving the Use of Research Evidence (WT Grant Foundation). Supports high-quality field-initiated studies that are relevant to policies and practices affecting the lives of young people ages 5 to 25 in the United States. LOI deadline 3:00pm EST May 6, 2020. Addressing Racial Disparities in Maternal Mortality and Morbidity (R01 Clinical Trial Optional) (NIH). Invites proposals examining mechanisms underlying racial and ethnic disparities in maternal mortality and morbidity. LOI due April 29. Improving Access to and Use of Safe and Appropriate Cesarean Section (Gates Foundation). Invites proposals that identify and demonstrate feasibility of interventions to address challenges related to safe, timely, and appropriate cesarean section in low and middle income countries. Deadline 11:30am PDT April 22. Innovations for Improving the Impact of Health Campaigns (Gates Foundation). Seeks proposals for innovations in approaches, practices, or tools that dramatically improve the planning/microplanning that will lead to improved effectiveness of health campaigns in low and middle income countries. Deadline 11:30am PDT April 22. Research on biopsychosocial factors of social connectedness and isolation on health, wellbeing, illness, and recovery (NIH R01 Basic Experimental Research with Humans Required). Solicits research projects that seek to model the underlying mechanisms, processes, and trajectories of social relationships and how these factors affect outcomes in health, illness, recovery, and overall wellbeing. Deadline March 17. Methods and Measurement in Research with Sexual and Gender Minority (SGM) Populations (NIH R21 Clinical Trials not allowed). Supports research projects to advance the measurement of constructs relevant to health research with sexual and gender minority (SGM) populations. Deadline March 13. Health Policy Research Scholars (Robert Wood Johnson Foundation). Open to second- and third-year doctoral students who want to use research to shape policy and advance health equity. Deadline March 11. Request for Proposals on Paid Family and Medical Leave (Washington Center for Equitable Growth). Seeks proposals to advance evidence on how paid medical and caregiving leave affects engines of economic growth such as labor force participation, the development of human capital, consumption, and macroeconomic stability across demographic groups. Deadline March 1. Lyle Spencer Research Awards to Transform Education (Spencer Foundation). Supports intellectually ambitious research projects that aspire to transform education. LOI deadline Feb 27. Healthy Longevity Global Grand Challenge (National Academy of Medicine/American Federation for Aging Research). Will award up to 24 $50,000 Catalyst Awards between 2020 and 2022 for proposals that present potentially transformative ideas to improve the physical, mental, or social well-being of people as they age, in a measurable and equitable way. Ideas may focus on any stage of life, as long as they ultimately promote health as people age. Two-page application. Deadline February 24. Improving Patient Adherence to Treatment and Prevention Regimens to Promote Health (NIH R21 clinical trial optional). Applications may address healthcare regimen initiation, implementation, and/or persistence by patients. Deadline February 16. Notice of Special Interest (NOSI): Geospatial Approaches in Cancer Control and Population Sciences (NIH R01 & R21). Interested in multilevel research that promotes geospatial approaches to advance cancer control and prevention research. First due date: February 5. Targeted Grants Competition: Improving Education and Reducing Inequality in the United States (RSF & WT Grant Foundation). Seeks research projects on “Improving Education and Reducing Inequality” analyzing data from Stanford Education Data Archive. Deadline February 4. Rhode Island Census 2020 Outreach Grants (Rhode Island Foundation). Supports one-time or periodic activities to raise awareness about the 2020 census. Grants must focus on a specific demographic community or geographic area in Rhode Island at risk of undercounting. Deadline January 31. Sandell Dissertation Fellowship and Grants Program (Center for Retirement Research at Boston College). Opportunities for PhD students and junior or non-tenured scholars pursuing work on retirement or disability policy. Deadline for both opportunities January 31. Pilot Research Proposals - Interdisciplinary Network on Rural Population Health and Aging (INRPHA). (Funded by NIA). Invites proposals for pilot research that addresses key thematic priority areas related to U.S. rural population health and aging trends and disparities. Deadline January 31. Methodology, Measurement, and Statistics (MMS) Program (NSF). Seeks proposals that are methodologically innovative, grounded in theory, and have potential utility for multiple fields within the social, behavioral, and economic sciences. Deadline January 30. SBE Doctoral Dissertation Research Improvement Grants: Economics Program (NSF). Due January 18. Archiving and Documenting Child Health and Human Development Data Sets (R03 Clinical Trial Not Allowed). Will support the archiving and documentation of existing data sets within NICHD's scientific mission in order to enable secondary analysis of these data by the scientific community. Deadline January 16 (LOI due Dec 16). Cultural Anthropology Doctoral Dissertation Research Improvement Awards (NSF). Due January 15. Sociology Program (NSF). Due January 15. Grand Challenges Africa: Maternal Neonatal and Child Health (Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation). Seeks innovative ideas that can have the greatest impact on African maternal and neonatal health with the potential for future sustainability and scaling. Deadline January 14.The Network on Life Course Health Dynamics and Disparities (NLCHDD) in 21st Century America Pilot Proposals. Invites interested researchers to submit pilot proposals with potential to better understand how health and mortality outcomes across the adult life course are shaped by state contexts. Network funded by NIA. Deadline January 10. Research Grants on Reducing Inequality (WT Grant Foundation). Supports research to build, test, and increase understanding of approaches to reducing inequality in outcomes of US youth. LOI due January 9. Research Grants on Improving the Use of Research Evidence (WT Grant Foundation). Supports high-quality field-initiated studies that are relevant to policies and practices affecting the lives of young people ages 5 to 25 in the United States. LOI due January 9. NIA Behavioral and Social Research LEaders in Alzheimer’s Disease and Its Related Dementias (NIA BSR LEADR) (DP1 - Clinical Trial Not Allowed). Supports individual scientists behavioral and social science perspectives and approaches for innovative research addressing the challenges raised by Alzheimer's disease and related dementias. LOI due January 3. Innovations to Foster Healthy Longevity in Low-Income Settings (R03 Clinical Trial Not Allowed) (NIH). Invites applications for research and development to improve functioning and quality of life for the elderly in both LMICs and high-income countries. May address needs of elderly by supporting family, caregivers, and service providers. LOI due January 3. 2019 High-Priority Behavioral and Social Research Networks (NIH R24). Provides infrastructure support for advancing development of specific high-priority areas of behavioral and social research of relevance to aging. LOIs due January 1; proposals due February 1. Promoting NICHD Areas of Research for HIV/AIDS in Maternal and Child Health (NIH R01). Supports HIV/AIDS research by addressing scientific areas of primary interest to NICHD, Maternal and Pediatric Infectious Disease Branch (MPIDB) and the Office of AIDS Research (OAR). Applications due January 7. Engaging Men in HIV Testing, Prevention, and Care (NIH R01 or NIH R21 Clinical Trial Optional). Supports research to develop and test strategies to increase the engagement of men in HIV prevention and care within global settings and among U.S. domestic populations who have evidenced lower rates of engagement and retention in HIV prevention and care. Next round of applications due January 7. Health and Climate Solutions (Robert Wood Johnson Foundation). Seeks to develop and amplify the evidence around a set of approaches that improve community health and well-being and advance health equity, while also addressing climate change adaptation or mitigation. Info webinar on January 7; proposals due February 8. Research Grants on Reducing Inequality (William T. Grant Foundation). Supports high-quality field-initiated studies that are relevant to policies and practices that affect the lives of young people ages 5 to 25 in the U.S. Letters of Inquiry due January 9. NSF deadlines: Cultural Anthropology Dissertation, due January 15. Political Science, due January 15. Sociology, due January 15. Economics, due January 18. Method/Measurement and Stats, due January 31. Sociology Dissertation, due February 28. Geography/Spatial Dissertation, accepted anytime. Multi-Country Research Fellowship (Council of American Overseas Research Centers). Supports advanced regional or trans-regional research in the social sciences and more for U.S. doctoral candidates and postdoctoral scholars (including faculty). Scholars must carry out research in two or more countries outside the U.S., at least one of which hosts a participating American overseas research center. Preference given to candidates examining comparative and/or cross-regional research. Must be a U.S. citizen. Proposals due January 24. General Social Survey Questions. The nationally representative GSS survey of non-institutionalized adults in the U.S., conducted primarily via face-to-face interviews, seeks to include some items or short topical modules designed by users in its 2020 survey. Submissions due January 30. Dissertation Fellowship Program (Center for Retirement Research, Boston College). Provides funding opportunities to pursue cutting-edge research on retirement or disability issues, including disability incidence in the population, labor force participation, and more. Applications due January 31. Steven H. Sandell Grant Program (Center for Retirement Research, Boston College). Provides opportunities for junior or non-tenured scholars from all academic disciplines to pursue cutting-edge projects on retirement or disability issues, including disability incidence in the population, labor force participation, and more. Applications due January 31. Health Promotion Among Racial and Ethnic Minority Males (NIH R01). Supports research to enhance understanding of the numerous factors (e.g., sociodemographic, community, societal, personal) influencing the health promoting behaviors of racial and ethnic minority males. Encourages applications focusing on the development and testing of culturally and linguistically appropriate health-promoting interventions designed to reduce health disparities among racially and ethnically diverse males age 18 and older. Applications for the next round due February 5. Obesity Policy Evaluation Research (NIH R01). Encourages applications that propose to evaluate policies or large scale programs that are expected to influence obesity related behaviors (e.g., dietary intake, physical activity, or sedentary behavior) and/or weight outcomes have the potential to prevent or reduce rates of obesity. Applications due February 5. Characterization of the Adolescent Reproductive Transition (NIH R01 also available as R03 or R21). Supports outstanding research in the area of puberty and the trajectory of sexual development. R01 applications due February 5. Research Project Grant (NIH R01). Next round of applications due February 5. Fertility Status as a Marker for Overall Health (NIH R01 and R21). Supports research that explores the premise that fertility status can be a marker for overall health in cases where the epidemiological data is not already solid, and to explore the mechanistic links between fertility status and a later, known adverse health outcome. R01 applications due February 5; R21 applications due February 16. IAPHS Nominations. The Interdisciplinary Association for Population Health Science is holding an election to choose a new president-elect, three board members, a secretary, and a student representative. Nominations are due February 15. NICHD Exploratory/Developmental Research Grant (NIH R21). Supports exploratory and developmental research projects within the NICHD mission by providing support for early and conceptual stages of projects related to research and data collection on demography, population health, and behavioral and social science research on reproductive health. Applications due February 16. Aging Research Dissertation Awards to Increase Diversity (NIH R36). Provides dissertation awards in all areas of research within NIA’s strategic priorities to increase diversity of the scientific research workforce engaged in research on aging and aging-related health conditions. Applications due February 16. Small Research Grant Program (NIH R03). Supports small research projects that can be carried out in a short period of time with limited resources; supports different types of projects including pilot and feasibility studies; secondary analysis of existing data; small, self-contained research projects; development of research methodology; and development of new research technology. Applications due February 16. Early-Career Research Fellowship (Gulf Research Program). Supports emerging scientific leaders interested in improving offshore energy system safety and the well-being of coastal communities and ecosystems. Applications due February 20. Time-sharing Experiments for the Social Sciences (NSF). Open to graduate students and recent PhDs (2016 or later) to propose survey experiments to be fielded using a nationally representative internet platform. Proposals due March 1. Leveraging Health Information Technology to Address Minority Health and Health Disparities (NIH R01). Supports research that examines how health information technology adoption impacts minority health and health disparity populations in access to care, quality of care, patient engagement, and health outcomes. Applications due March 4. J-PAL Graduate Student Fellowships (Scroll down website for info.) Offers financial support for one semester for current PhD students. Preference given to economics students, but students from other disciplines with strong quantitative and programming skills (STATA, R, etc.) are welcome to apply. Applications due March 5. Science Policy Fellowship (Gulf Research Program). Supports scientists (graduate students and others) in putting their skills to practice for the benefit of Gulf Coast communities and ecosystems. First-hand experience at the interface of science and policy during a year on the staff of federal, state, local, or non-governmental environmental, natural resource, oil and gas, and public health agencies in the Gulf of Mexico region. Must be a U.S. citizen, national, or permanent resident. Applications due March 6. PLOS Medicine Special Issue: Maternal and Child Health and Nutrition. Seeking high quality primary research articles that address the health of the mother and child as well as aspects of nutrition in social and nutritional transitions, maternal and infant nutrition, continuum of care, and developmental origin of health and disease perspective. Manuscripts due March 8. Mellon Sawyer Dissertation Fellowship and Postdoctoral Mellon Sawyer Fellowship in the Politics of Kinship, Tufts University. One-year fellowships to take leading roles in organizing, administering, and participating in a Mellon Sawyer Seminar entitled “Defamiliarizing the Family: Genealogy and Kinship as Critical Method,” which engages humanities and social science knowledge in relation to studies of family and kinship and their mobilization as tools for critical inquiry. Applications due March 10. Overseas Young Chinese Forum-Chow Fellowship for Field Research in China. For graduate students to conduct fieldwork for their thesis project. Priority given to research projects focusing on contemporary economic, social, cultural, or political issues in China. Applications due March 15. Small Grants in Computational Social Science (Russell Sage). Supports innovative social science research that utilizes new data and methods to advance understanding of research issues in social inequality, behavioral economics, the future of work, and race, ethnicity, and immigration. Primarily interested in research that explores and improves understanding of social, psychological, political, and economic outcomes. The next application deadline is March 15. Workshop: Demographic Research with Web and Social Media Data, June 11, Munich. Aims to foster dialogue and knowledge exchange between demographers and computationally oriented scientists by focusing on the applications and implications of web and social media data for demographic research. Abstracts due March 22. HSRProj Research Competition for Students. Open to graduate students in public health, economics, and related fields whose work uses the HSRProj database to address gaps in existing research. Submissions due March 29. CFAR Developmental Grants. The Center for AIDS Research provides support for Initial AIDS Research Projects; Pilot Projects; and Collaborative Projects with the aim of providing the grantee opportunity to obtain sufficient original data to achieve NIH research funding in his/her area of investigation. Think Tank Sessions on February 1 and 8. Applications due April 1. Sloan Research Fellowships. Supports early-career economics scholars of distinguished performance and unique potential. Open to tenure-track faculty who received a PhD in economics since September 2013. Applications due in September 2019 (date TBA). OVPR requests Intent to Apply forms by April 2. Women’s HIV Epidemiology Cohort Studies (NIH R01). Supports new and innovative epidemiology research in reproductive-age women living with HIV by establishing new cohort(s) of least 2,000 participants to stimulate research on a wide range of HIV research hypotheses pertinent to reproductive-age women. Applications due April 4. Ruth L. Kirschstein National Research Service Award (NRSA) Individual Senior Fellowship (NIH Parent F33). Supports experienced scientists who wish to make major changes in the direction of their research careers or who wish to broaden their scientific background by acquiring new research capabilities as independent investigators. Applications due April 8. Ruth L. Kirschstein National Research Service Award (NRSA) Individual Postdoctoral Fellowship (NIH F32). Supports research training of highly promising postdoctoral candidates who have the potential to become productive, independent investigators in scientific health-related research fields relevant to the missions of the participating NIH Institutes and Centers. Next round of applications due April 8. Ruth L. Kirschstein National Research Service Award (NRSA) Individual Predoctoral Fellowship (NIH F31). Enables promising predoctoral students to obtain individualized, mentored research training from faculty sponsors while conducting dissertation research in scientific health-related fields relevant to the missions of the participating NIH Institutes and Centers. Next round of applications due April 8. Addressing the Role of Violence on HIV Care and Viral Suppression (NIH R01, R21, or R34). Supports research that will advance understanding of the role of exposure to violence on engagement and retention in HIV care, HIV medication adherence, and viral suppression, and research to develop and test novel interventions to improve HIV care continuum outcomes for individuals who have experienced violence. Applications due April 10. Scholars Program (William T. Grant Foundation). Supports career development for early-career researchers by funding five-year research and mentoring plans that significantly expand researchers’ expertise in new disciplines, methods, and content areas. Requires Brown nomination (more information). Recommendation letter, proposal summary, and biosketch are due to OVPR by 9 am, April 26. Empower African Women through Data Skill (Millennium Challenge Corporation). MCC seeks to reduce poverty through economic growth. It funds activities in the public sector where the government role is clear and preeminent but draws on non-governmental partners to stimulate investment and innovative development practices. Concept papers due April 26. Data Science Approaches to Improve Maternal and Child Health in Africa (Grand Challenges Africa). Promotes new quantitative approaches to synthesizing and analyzing data obtained from African public health surveys, longitudinal observational studies, clinical trials, and other relevant data sources to produce novel insights for improving maternal and child health. Proposals due April 26. STAR Fellowships and Internships (Public Health Institute and USAID). Provides skills training, experience, and mentorship in global health through partnerships with host organizations in the United States and abroad (currently in the Washington, DC metro area and in Jakarta, Indonesia). Fellowships last two years, and internships last 3-12 months. All positions are paid and full-time. See the STAR recruitment portal for details on individual opportunities. Upcoming deadlines on April 26 and April 30. Family Planning Research Grants (U.S. Department of Health and Human Services). Supports research that will increase the ability of individuals and couples in the U.S. to achieve their family planning goals. Projects must address at least two of the following topics: publicly funded clinics, client satisfaction with family planning services, changes in service delivery, and the family planning services workforce. Applications due to OSP by April 29. Innovation-to-Scale: Call for Proposals for Accelerated, High-impact, and Sustainable Scale-up of Innovations for Saving Mothers and Newborns at Birth (World Bank, Global Financing Facility). Supports research that demonstrates and documents accelerated and sustainable delivery of innovations to help GFF-supported countries achieve maternal and newborn mortality targets. Proposals due April 30. Environmental Economics (Millennium Challenge Corporation). MCC seeks to reduce poverty through economic growth. It funds activities in the public sector where the government role is clear and preeminent but draws on non-governmental partners to stimulate investment and innovative development practices. Concept papers due May 3. Behavioral and Social Research to Address Health Disparities in the U.S. (NIH/NIA Administrative Supplement). Can be used to add or expand health disparities components for existing NIA-funded projects related to aging and health. Due May 6. AIDS-related submissions (NIH), due May 7. Promoting NICHD Areas of Research for HIV/AIDS in Maternal and Child Health (NIH R01). Supports research that seeks a cure for HIV/AIDS and combats the compounding effects of co-infections and co-morbidities in HIV-infected individuals, with an emphasis on research pertaining to immune pathogenesis, mechanisms, development, and protection in infants. Applications due May 7. Child Care Policy Research Partnership (DHHS). Funds four years of research on childcare subsidy policies in the U.S. Research must be conducted in close collaboration with Child Care Development Fund (CCDF) lead agencies. LOIs are due May 13. Organizing Migration and Integration in Contemporary Societies, November 6-9, University of Gothenburg, Sweden. Aims to rethink how migration shapes and produces inclusion and exclusion around the world. Sub-themes include education, living conditions, transnationalism, health, and more. Abstracts due May 15. Women's Entrepreneurship (Millennium Challenge Corporation). MCC seeks to reduce poverty through economic growth. It funds activities in the public sector where the government role is clear and preeminent but draws on non-governmental partners to stimulate investment and innovative development practices. Concept papers due May 15. Collaborative for Data Science in Africa (Millennium Challenge Corporation). MCC seeks to reduce poverty through economic growth. It funds activities in the public sector where the government role is clear and preeminent but draws on non-governmental partners to stimulate investment and innovative development practices. Concept papers due May 15. Geospatial and Earth-Observation Analyses for Africa (Millennium Challenge Corporation). MCC seeks to reduce poverty through economic growth. It funds activities in the public sector where the government role is clear and preeminent but draws on non-governmental partners to stimulate investment and innovative development practices. Concept papers due May 15. Strengthening Evidence and Economic Modeling (Millennium Challenge Corporation). MCC seeks to reduce poverty through economic growth. It funds activities in the public sector where the government role is clear and preeminent but draws on non-governmental partners to stimulate investment and innovative development practices. Concept papers due May 17. Hispanic Center Research Scholars Program (National Research Center on Hispanic Children and Families). Supports research on poverty reduction, marriage and fatherhood, and/or early care and education in relation to Hispanic children and families. Open to advanced graduate students, postdocs, and early-career faculty. Provides $7,500 for twelve months of research. Applications due by 5 pm on May 20. Equity-Focused Policy Research (Robert Wood Johnson Foundation). Funds action-oriented research that advances health equity, builds the knowledge base, and informs policymaking on income supports for low-income families with young children. Brief proposals due May 21. Research Grants (Russell Sage Foundation). RSF's next round of grant funding includes the programs and special initiatives below. LOIs are due by 2 pm on May 23. Social, Political, and Economic Inequality Behavioral Economics Race, Ethnicity, and Immigration Decision Making and Human Behavior in Context Immigration and Immigrant Integration Social, Economic, and Political Effects of the Affordable Care Act Coastlines and People (NSF CoPe). Supports research on coastal environmental variability and natural hazards' impact on populated coastal regions. Funding is available for Early-Concept Grants for Exploratory Research (EAGER), Research Coordination Networks (RCN), or conference planning. LOIs are due May 31. CRVS Fellows Program (IUSSP). Two-year, non-resident fellowship for early and mid-career demographers and statisticians. Provides mentorship and funding towards the development of a scholarly paper on civil registration and vital statistics and/or legal ID. Applications are due May 31. Behavioral Interventions Scholars (Administration for Children and Families). Grant supporting research and mentoring for PhD students using behavioral economics or behavioral science to understand issues facing poor and vulnerable families in the United States. LOIs are due June 3. Increasing Uptake of Evidence-Based Screening in Diverse Adult Populations (NIH R01). Supports research that seeks to understand strategies to reduce disparities in the uptake of evidence-based screening across the adult lifespan. Next round of applications due June 5. Understanding Factors in Infancy and Early Childhood That Influence Obesity Development (NIH R01). Studies should propose research in children from birth to 24 months, although any proposed follow-up assessments, if applicable, may continue past this period. Next round of applications due June 5. Research Project Grant (NIH R01), due June 5. Partnering with Systems to Disrupt Dehumanization (Robert Wood Johnson Foundation and Forward Promise). Supports partnerships with youth-serving systems to address health and trauma in ways that are grounded in the lived experiences and cultural values, norms, and traditions of boys and young men of color. Applications are due June 6. Environmental Influences on Aging: Effects of Extreme Weather and Disaster Events on Aging Processes (NIH R01). Funds research on the relationship between extreme weather/disaster events and behavioral, biological, and/or socioecological processes related to aging populations. LOIs are due June 7. Young Scholars Program (Foundation for Child Development). Supports early career scholars conducting policy and practice-relevant implementation research on the early care and education workforce. Applicants should have received their PhD after 2006 and before June 30, 2018. LOIs are due June 10. Family Strengthening Scholars (Administration for Children and Families). Grant supporting research and mentoring for dissertations on healthy marriage/responsible fatherhood, particularly with respect to underserved/understudied populations. LOIs are due June 10. Mentored Research Scientist Development Award (NIH K01), due June 12. Understanding and Supporting Anchor Businesses to Build a Culture of Health (Robert Wood Johnson Foundation). Supports research on why and how more companies might serve as anchor institutions in local communities and how companies might be motivated to act in ways that promote health and well-being. Full proposals are due by 3 pm on June 12. Addressing the Challenges of the Opioid Epidemic in Minority Health and Health Disparities Research in the U.S. (NIH R01 and R21). Supports investigative and collaborative research focused on determining the mechanisms for the variation in the prevalence of Opioid Use Disorder, and understanding and reducing disparities in opioid care in minority health and health disparity populations in the U.S. Next round of applications due June 14. Title X Family Planning (Office of Population Affairs). Funds research on strategies to increase access to Title X family planning services. Proposals should address either delivery models and the access of hard to reach populations or strategies of meeting the family planning needs of women and men who misuse opioids or other substances. Applications are due June 14. Small Research Grant Program (NIH R03), due June 16. Exploratory/Developmental Research Grant Program (NIH R21), due June 16. Characterization of the Adolescent Reproductive Transition (NIH R01 and R21 and R03). Supports research in the area of puberty and the trajectory of sexual development using new technologies and approaches to fill knowledge gaps. Next round of R01 applications due June 5; R21 and R03 applications due June 16. Pregnancy in Women with Disabilities (NIH R01 and R03). Supports small research project grants investigating the incidence, course, and outcomes of pregnancy among women with disabilities. Next round of applications for the R01 due June 5; R03 applications due June 16. Research on the Health of Transgender and Gender Nonconforming Populations (NIH R01 and R21). Supports research on the health of transgender and gender nonconforming people of all ages, including those who are questioning their gender identity and those who are making or who have made a transition from one gender to the other. Next round of R01 applications due June 5; R21 applications due June 16. Accelerating the Pace of Child Health Research Using Existing Data from the Adolescent Brain Cognitive Development Study (NIH R21). Supports analysis of this public use dataset to increase knowledge of adolescent health and development. Next round of applications due June 16. Zika Virus (ZIKV) Complications (NIH R21). Supports research on the Zika virus (ZIKV) and its complications, including microcephaly and transfusion-transmission risks. Applications due June 16. Political Science Dissertation (NSF), due June 17. Director's Early Independence Awards (NIH). Supports investigators who wish to pursue independent research after completion of their PhD, thereby forgoing the traditional post-doctoral training period and accelerating their entry into an independent research career. Applications are due to OVPR by June 17. Scholars Program (William T. Grant Foundation). Supports career development for promising early-career researchers by funding five-year research and mentoring plans that significantly expand researchers’ expertise in new disciplines, methods, and content areas. Applications due July 2. Medicaid and Health Equity Research (Robert Wood Johnson Foundation). Funds research that examines how state Medicaid programs are using managed care payment and contracting strategies to address enrollees’ social needs. LOIs due July 2. Faculty Early Career Development (CAREER) Program (NSF). Supports assistant professors in all NSF-funded disciplines to serve as academic role models in research and education and to lead advances in the mission of their department or organization. Social, Behavioral, and Economic Science applications are due July 19. Documenting Human Migrations (National Geographic.) Funds research that documents the causes and effects of present-day human migration, records the lives of present-day migrants, or tests resources, curricula, or public outreach materials focused on increasing the understanding of the migrant experience. Proposals due July 10. Career Pathways Secondary Data Analysis Grants (Administration for Children and Families.) Funds support secondary analysis of data collected through the Pathways for Advancing Careers and Education (PACE), and the Health Profession Opportunity Grants (HPOG) program. LOIs due July 17. Faculty Early Career Development (CAREER) Program (NSF). Supports assistant professors in all NSF-funded disciplines to serve as academic role models in research and education and to lead advances in the mission of their department or organization. Social, Behavioral, and Economic Science applications are due July 19. Access to Early Care and Education (Robert Wood Johnson Foundation). Supports action-oriented research that advances health equity, builds the knowledge base, and informs policymaking to increase access to early care and education for low-income families. Applications due July 25. Healthy Eating, Nutrition, and Food Security (Robert Wood Johnson Foundation). Supports research in the areas of nutritional disparities, nutrition, and food security. Awarded through the Healthy Eating Research program focused on providing the evidence needed to address key social determinants of health and inequalities. Applications due July 31. Research Grants (William T. Grant Foundation). Funding for programs, policies, and practices that reduce inequality in youth outcomes; and strategies to improve the use of research evidence in ways that benefit youth. LOIs due August 1. Science, Technology, and Society (NSF). Supports research that uses historical, philosophical, and social scientific methods to investigate the intellectual, material, and social facets of the scientific, technological, engineering, and mathematical (STEM) disciplines. Proposals due August 3. Smart and Connected Communities (NSF). Supports social science research on the integration of intelligent technologies with the built and natural environments in order to improve social, economic, and environmental well-being. LOIs due August 6. Individual Predoctoral Fellowship to Promote Diversity in Health-Related Research (NIH-F31). Supports research training of predoctoral students from diverse backgrounds. Fellows will obtain individualized, mentored research training from faculty sponsors of their choosing in health-related fields. Applications due August 8. Health Care's Role in Meeting Patients' Needs (Robert Wood Johnson Foundation). Funds research with a focus on equitable care across physical, emotional, and social needs; or guidance for implementing care delivery that is responsive to patients' goals, needs, and life circumstances. Must be a U.S. citizen. Proposals due August 15. Gro Harlem Brundtland Visiting Scholarship (Centre for Fertility and Health, Oslo, Norway). Hosts young researchers (holding PhD) to engage in collaborative research addressing health implications of changes in family constellations and to participate in and enrich the research community at the Centre and the Norwegian Institute of Public Health for approximately three months. Applications due August 15. Cultural Anthropology Dissertation (NSF), due August 15. Political Science (NSF), due August 15. Sociology (NSF), due August 15. Economics (NSF), due August 19. Future of Work / Behavioral Economics / Decision Making and Human Behavior/ Computational Social Science / Immigration and Immigrant Integration (Russell Sage Foundation). The Foundation provides support primarily for analyzing data and writing up results but also considers providing support for new data collection. LOIs due August 21. Methodology, Measurement, and Statistics (NSF), due August 29. Abe Fellowship (Social Science Research Council, and Japan Foundation Center for Global Partnership). For PhD scholars that support international research in the social sciences focused on four themes: (1) threats to personal, societal, and international security, (2) growth and sustainable development, (3) social, scientific, and cultural trends and transformations, (4) governance, empowerment, and participation. Citizenship in the US or Japan required. Applications due September 1. Science of Organizations (NSF). Funds research for improving the design and emergence, development and deployment, and management and ultimate effectiveness of organizations of all kinds. Due September 3. NIH Director's Early Independence Award. Funding opportunities for outstanding early career scientists ready for independence. Part of the High-Risk, High-Reward Research program, the award supports outstanding junior scientists with the intellect, scientific creativity, drive, and maturity to flourish independently, launch independent research careers, and bypass the traditional postdoctoral training period. Single PI only. Applications due September 13. U.S. Scholar Program (Fulbright). Funds up to twelve months of research and/or teaching outside of the United States through a catalog of 470 specific opportunities. Open to faculty, administrators, and staff who are U.S. citizens. Applications due September 16. Dynamics of Integrated Socio-Environmental Systems, CNH2 (NSF). Supports research that advances the basic scientific understanding of interactions between environmental and human components of socio-environmental systems. LOIs due September 17. Restricted-Access Research Data Centers (NSF). Invites proposals for the establishment of new Research Data Centers (RDCs). RDCs are secure Census Bureau facilities within which external researchers are given access to confidential micro data in accordance with specific statutory requirements. NSF will provide start-up costs for new RDC facilities. Potential investigators first must contact Census regarding the feasibility of sponsoring an RDC prior to submitting a proposal to NSF. Due September 30. Policies for Action (P4A): Advancing Health Equity in Policy and Law Research. (Robert Wood Johnson Foundation). Supports early-career researchers from underrepresented and historically disadvantaged backgrounds to examine existing policies or policy changes that can influence population health, well-being, and equity. LOI due October 2. Systems for Action (S4A): Systems and Services Research to Build a Culture of Health. This program of the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation funds research that expands the evidence base needed to build a Culture of Health. Studies conducted through the S4A program test innovative mechanisms for aligning delivery and financing systems for medical, social, and public health services, with a focus on the effects of these mechanisms on health and health equity. LOI due October 4. Fulbright-Fogarty Awards in Public Health. Supports research in public health in resource-limited settings. Opportunities are available in Ethiopia, Ghana, Malawi, Uganda, and Guatemala. Applicants must be US citizens. Applications due October 8. Postdoctoral Research Fellowships (NSF). Encourages independence early in the career through supporting research and training goals. Must be a U.S. citizen. Proposals due on October 9. Reducing Stigma to Improve HIV/AIDS Care in LMIC (NIH R21). Funds intervention research on (1) reduction strategies that link to an increase in care-seeking behavior and/or decrease in transmission; or (2) reduce HIV/AIDS-associated stigma and its impact on the prevention and treatment of HIV/AIDS and on the quality of life of People Living with HIV/AIDS (PLWH). Investigators from an academic or research institution in the U.S. and an LMIC are strongly encouraged. LOI due October 12. Sociology Doctoral Dissertation Research Improvement Awards (NSF). Due October 15. Pioneering Ideas Brief Proposal (Robert Wood Johnson Foundation). Supports the exploration of ideas and trends that will influence the trajectory and future of health beyond incremental change. Due October 15. Ten-day intensive course on "Fundamentals of Digital and Computational Demography" from December 2-13 (The Max Planck Institute for Demographic Research (MPIDR)). The course will held at the MPIDR in Rostock, Germany. Application due October 15. Dissertation Awards (NIH R36) due October 16. Aging Research Dissertation Awards to Increase Diversity. Provides dissertation awards in all areas of research within NIA’s strategic priorities to increase diversity of the scientific research workforce engaged in research on aging and aging-related health conditions. Mental Health Research Dissertation Grant to Enhance Workforce Diversity. Provides dissertation awards in all research areas within the strategic priorities of the NIMH to individuals from diverse backgrounds underrepresented in biomedical, behavioral, clinical and social sciences research. Drug Abuse Dissertation Research. Provides dissertation awards on topics related to the study of basic and clinical neuroscience, development, epidemiology, prevention, treatment, services, or women and sex/gender differences as they relate to drug abuse. Mobile Health: Technology and Outcomes in Low and Middle Income Countries. (NIH R21/R33 Clinical Trial Optional). This announcement is aimed at encouraging exploratory/developmental research applications that propose to study the development, validation, feasibility, and effectiveness of innovative mobile health (mHealth) interventions or tools specifically suited for low- and middle-income countries (LMICs) that utilize new or emerging technology, platforms, systems, or analytics. The overall goal of the program is to catalyze innovation through multidisciplinary research that addresses global health problems, develop an evidence base for the use of mHealth technology to improve clinical and public health outcomes, and strengthen mHealth research capacity in LMICs. Applicants are required to propose partnerships between at least one U.S. institution and one LMIC institution. LOI due October 19. Aging Research for Predoctoral Students (NIH F99/K00). Invites graduate students from a range of research areas to pursue aging-focused post-doctoral positions. The award provides up to six years of support, allowing doctoral students to complete their dissertation research projects before transitioning into the aging-focused post-doctoral training. Applications due October 22. RWJF Health Policy Scholars (Robert Wood Johnson Foundation). Opportunity for mid-career professionals in the social, behavioral, and health sciences interested in health care policy at the federal level. Applicants must be U.S. citizens or permanent residents. Letters of reference due November 4, applications due November 6. Voices for Economic Opportunity (Gates Foundation Grand Challenges) seeks to elevate new and diverse voices that can help broaden the conversation about the issues underlying economic mobility in the United States and generate deeper awareness and actionable understanding. Application is open to U.S.-based investigators. Due Wednesday, November 13. Innovations for Improving the Impact of Health Campaigns (Gates Foundation Grand Challenges Explorations) seeks innovative solutions that accelerate the improvement of coverage, reach, efficiency, and effectiveness of campaign-based delivery of health interventions. Due Wednesday, November 13. U.S. Children with Perinatal HIV who were born internationally (NIH R01 Clinical Trial Optional). Supports research to improve understanding of the natural history, epidemiology, diagnosis and management of HIV and co-morbid conditions among children with perinatal HIV living in the US who were born in other countries. Research to inform U.S. practice guidelines for the care of these children. Applications due November 14. Open Society Foundations: Soros Justice Fellowships. These fellowships fund individuals to undertake projects that advance reform, spur debate, and catalyze change on a range of issues facing the U.S. criminal justice system. Deadline November 20. Rhode Island Census 2020 Outreach Grants (Rhode Island Foundation). Supports one-time or periodic activities to raise awareness about the 2020 census. Grants must focus on a specific demographic community or geographic area in Rhode Island at risk of undercounting. Deadline November 25. The Intersection of Sex and Gender Influences on Health and Disease (NIH, R01 Clinical Trial Optional). Invites R01 applications on the influence and intersection of sex and gender in health and disease including (1) research applications that examine sex and gender factors and their intersection in understanding health and disease; and (2) research that addresses one of the five objectives from Strategic Goal 1 of the new 2019-2023 Trans-NIH Strategic Plan for Women's Health Research "Advancing Science for the Health of Women. Due November 25; LOI due 30 days prior to submission. Research Grants (Russell Sage Foundation). RSF's next round of funding includes the programs and initiatives below. LOIs are due by 2pm on November 26. Social, Political, and Economic Inequality Future of Work Behavioral Economics Decision Making and Human Behavior in Context Data Sharing for Demographic Research Infrastructure Program. (NIH R24 Clinical Trial Not Allowed). The aim of this Funding Opportunity Announcement is to increase the impact of NICHD-funded research within the scientific mission of the NICHD Population Dynamics Branch (PDB) by providing research infrastructure to: promote data sharing; support the development of procedures and technologies for data sharing; disseminate best practices in data sharing; provide a resource that catalogs NICHD-funded data available for secondary analysis; and promote the secondary analysis of data collected through NICHD grants to research teams outside the original grantees. Due November 29; LOI due 30 days prior to submission. Dissertation Grants (Horowitz Foundation for Social Policy). Supports emerging scholars; promotes scholarship with a social policy application; and encourages projects that address contemporary issues in the social sciences. Must be a PhD candidate working on dissertation. No citizenship or residency requirements. Applications due December 1. Economic Mobility and Access to Opportunity (Russell Sage Foundation/Gates Foundation Pipeline Grants). Invites proposals for projects that aim to diagnose and address structural barriers to economic mobility in the US. Open to early and mid-career tenure-track scholars. Deadline December 3. Smart and Connected Health (SCH): Connecting Data, People, and Systems (NSF-NIH). Aims to develop multidisciplinary science that encourages existing and new research communities to focus on breakthrough ideas in areas of value to health, such as networking, pervasive computing, advanced analytics, sensor integration, privacy and security, and modeling of socio-behavioral and cognitive processes. Applications due December 11. Global Noncommunicable Diseases and Injury Across the Lifespan (NIH R21). Supports research on non-communicable diseases (NCDs) or injury in low and middle-income countries (LMICs). Research addressing multiple NCDs and their risk factors and research addressing NCDs as comorbidities for/with infectious diseases including HIV/AIDS is encouraged. Contact PI/PD must be from LMIC institution. Applications due December 13. Ford Foundation Predoctoral Fellowships. Awarded to PhD students in anthropology, economics, sociology, and more with at least three years remaining in program who have demonstrated superior academic achievement and are committed to a career in teaching and research at the college or university level, etc. Seeking candidates who have sustained personal engagement with communities that are underrepresented in the academy and an ability to bring this asset to learning, teaching, and scholarship at the college and university level. Must be a U.S. citizen, national, or permanent resident. Applications due December 17. 2018 US 2050. An initiative of the Peter G. Peterson Foundation and the Ford Foundation to examine and analyze the multiple demographic, socioeconomic, and fiscal trends that will shape the nation in the decades ahead. Proposals due January 22. Pilot Project Awards, Center for Health Trends and Forecasts (CHTF). Supports projects related to health and aging, particularly those that leverage Global Burden of Disease (GBD) data, bring an international focus to understanding health outcomes and health disparities, or examine trends at the subnational country level. Applications due January 31. Global Health Scholarship, Brown University. Graduate students work on global health issues at foreign/international low and middle-income country (LMIC) sites for a minimum of 8 weeks. Applications for Summer 2018 travel are due February 1. Early-Career Research Fellowship, Gulf Research Program. Supports emerging scientific leaders interested in improving offshore energy system safety and the well-being of coastal communities and ecosystems. Applications due February 21. Mechanisms of Disparities for HIV- Related Co-morbidities in Health Disparity Populations (NIH R01). Support research to determine the underlying mechanisms of how HIV related co-morbidities may influence the complexity of HIV/AIDS disease progression, quality of life and overall health outcomes among HIV positive individuals from health disparity populations. LOIs due 30 days prior to submission deadline of February 21. Request for Proposal on Networks for School Improvement, Gates Foundation. Working to increase the number of Black, Latino, and low-income students who earn a high school diploma, enroll in a postsecondary institution, and are on track in their first year to earn a credential with labor-market value. Applications due February 21. NSF Doctoral Dissertation Research Improvement Awards (Sociology). supports basic research on all forms of human social organization and processes of individual and institutional change. The Program encourages theoretically focused empirical investigations aimed at improving the explanation of fundamental social processes. Proposals due February 28. Improving Education and Reducing Inequality in the U.S., Russell Sage Foundation. Seeking research projects that deepen understanding of educational opportunity and success in the U.S. by using data on academic achievement from the Stanford Education Data Archive. Open to doctoral students, postdocs, or faculty who received their Ph.D. on or after August 31, 2010. Applications due March 1. International Research Scientist Development Award (NIH K01). Support and protected time to advanced postdoctoral U.S. research scientists and recently-appointed U.S. junior faculty for an intensive, mentored research career development experience in a low- or middle-income country (LMIC), as defined by the World Bank, leading to a career focused on global health. Applications due March 7. Science Policy Fellowship, Gulf Research Program. Supports scientists putting their skills to practice for the benefit of Gulf Coast communities and ecosystems. First-hand experience at the interface of science and policy during a year on the staff of federal, state, local, or non-governmental environmental, natural resource, oil and gas, and public health agencies in the Gulf of Mexico region. Must be a U.S. citizen. Applications due March 14. US 2050. An initiative of the Peter G. Peterson Foundation and the Ford Foundation to examine and analyze the multiple demographic, socioeconomic, and fiscal trends that will shape the nation in the decades ahead. New proposal deadline is March 26. Research Grants for Preventing Violence and Violence Related Injury (CDC R01). To help expand and advance understanding about what works to prevent violence by rigorously evaluating primary prevention strategies, programs, and policies to address specific gaps in the prevention of teen dating violence, intimate partner violence, sexual violence, and youth violence. Applications due March 26. NBER Pre-Doctoral Fellowships in Disability Policy Research. Encourages research that will deepen our understanding of the health and economic implications of disability and disability policy. Open to students in economics for one- or two-year fellowships. Relevant areas of expertise include Latinx HIV research, digital health and technology based interventions, and sexual and reproductive health. Applications due March 30. Developmental Grant Program, Providence/Boston Center for AIDS Research (CFAR). Proposals addressing HIV and substance use or HIV and TB will be prioritized. Applications due April 2. Ruth L. Kirschstein National Research Service Award (NRSA) Individual Senior Fellowship (NIH Parent F33). Supports experienced scientists who wish to make major changes in the direction of their research careers or who wish to broaden their scientific background by acquiring new research capabilities as independent investigators. Applications due April 8. Health Services Research on Minority Health and Health Disparities (NIH R01, Clinical Trial Optional). For research that can directly and demonstrably contribute to the improvement of minority health and/or the reduction of health disparities. Applications due April 11. Research and Evaluation on Violence Against Women: Sexual Violence, Intimate Partner Violence, Stalking, and Teen Dating Violence, National Institute of Justice. seeking applications for research and evaluation on violence against women. Applications due April 12. NIH Time-Sensitive Research on Health Risk and Resilience after Hurricanes Irma and Maria in PR and the US Virgin Islands (R21 Clinical Trial Not Allowed). This initiative will use a shortened submission timeline with expedited peer review, council concurrence, and award issuance. The entire cycle is expected to be within 3-4 months. Early applications encouraged. LOIs due March 16; applications due April 16. American Ethnological Society Graduate Student Research Grant. For students who have completed at least one year of graduate study in anthropology or allied fields. Projects that involve ethnographic field research and/or documentary research are eligible for consideration. Applications due April 27. Margaret Anstee Fellowship, Margaret Anstee Centre for Global Studies, Cambridge, UK. Research fellowship for female graduates from the developing world or UK whose doctoral degrees are complete or near completion in subjects related to economic and social development and/or international relations, particularly emerging trends in international development. Applications due April 27. Affordable, Accessible, and Appealing: The Next Generation of Nutrition, Gates Foundation, Global Grand Challenges. Seeks to advance innovative technologies to enhance the availability and accessibility of affordable, nutritious foods for low-income consumers; target population is young women, mothers, and children from 6-23 months of age. Applications due May 2. Activating Global Citizenship: Building the Next Generation of Global Citizens for the Global Goals, Gates Foundation, Misk Grand Challenges. Seeking innovators to devise and demonstrate ways to positively engage young people (under the age of 30) in Global Citizenship at scale and in depth. Applications due May 2. William T. Grant Foundation Research Grants. Supports research that is relevant to policies and practices that affect the lives of young people ages 5 to 25 in the U.S., particularly programs, policies, and practices that reduce inequality in youth outcomes, and strategies to improve the use of research evidence in ways that benefit youth. Letters of Inquiry due May 2. Upcoming NIH deadlines: AIDS-related submissions, due May 7. R01 Projects, due June 5. K01 Projects, due June 12. R03 Projects, due June 16. R21 Projects, due June 16. Smart and Connected Health (SCH): Connecting Data, People, and Systems (NSF). Aims to develop next-generation multidisciplinary science that encourages existing and new research communities to focus on breakthrough ideas in a variety of areas of value to health, such as networking, pervasive computing, advanced analytics, sensor integration, privacy and security, modeling of socio-behavioral and cognitive processes and system and process modeling. Applications due May 22. Race, Ethnicity, and Immigration / Behavioral Economics / Immigration and Immigrant Integration / Computational Social Science, Russell Sage Foundation. The Foundation provides support primarily for analyzing data and writing up results but also considers providing support for new data collection. LOIs due May 24. AEA Graduate Education Diversity Internship (GEDI). Provides paid internship and training opportunities during the academic year. The GEDI program works to engage and support students from groups traditionally under-represented in the field of evaluation. Applications due May 24. Integrating Biology and Social Science Knowledge (BioSS), Russell Sage Foundation. Supports innovative social science research on social and economic outcomes that improves our understanding of the interactive mechanisms by which environmental influences affect biological mechanisms, and vice versa. LOIs due May 24 and invited proposals due August 15. Evidence for Action: Making Health a Shared Value (Robert Wood Johnson Foundation). Purpose is to improve understanding of mindsets and expectations, sense of community, and civic engagement; and outcomes related to health, well-being and equity, particularly with respect to disadvantaged children and families. LOIs due June 1. Education and Health: New Frontiers (NIH R01). Supports research that will further elucidate the pathways involved in the relationship between education and health outcomes. Also available as an R21. Applications due June 5. Methodology and Measurement in the Behavioral and Social Sciences (NIH R01). Aimed at improving and developing methodology in the behavioral and social sciences through innovations in research design, measurement, data collection, and data analysis techniques. Also available as an R21. Applications due June 5. Fertility Status as a Marker for Overall Health (NIH R01). Supports research that explores the premise that fertility status can be a marker for overall health. Applications that look at the effects of a disease or disorder on fertility are outside the scope of this program. Applications due June 5. Understanding Factors in Infancy and Early Childhood That Influence Obesity Development (NIH R01). Studies should propose research in children from birth to 24 months, although any proposed follow-up assessments, if applicable, may continue past this period. Applications due June 5. Addressing Health Disparities through Effective Interventions among Immigrant Populations (NIH R01). Supports innovative research to develop and implement effective interventions to address health disparities among U.S. immigrant populations. Applications due June 5. NIH Addressing the Etiology of Health Disparities and Health Advantages Among Immigrant Populations (NIH R01 and R21). Supports innovative research to understand uniquely associated factors (biological, behavioral, sociocultural, and environmental) that contribute to health disparities or health advantages among U.S. immigrant populations. R01 applications due June 5; R21 applications due June 16. Archiving and Documenting Child Health and Human Development Data Sets (NIH R03). Support for archiving and documenting existing data sets in order to enable secondary analysis by the scientific community. Applications due June 16. Summer Research Fellowship for Graduate Students of Color, GLSEN, NYC. Supports researchers of color, particularly in areas of applied research aimed at improving the lives of LGBTQ people. Work with the Research Department in its effort to provide insight into LGBTQ issues in K-12 education. Policies for Action: Policy and Law Research to Build a Culture of Health (Robert Wood Johnson Foundation). Seeking proposals that will investigate public and private policies from a range of political ideologies and perspectives; related to health care; public health; education and training; housing and community development; civil rights; transportation and planning; labor and employment; taxes and spending. Applications due June 7. Alzheimer's Disease and its related Dementias (NIA Administrative supplements for NIH grants that are not focused on Alzheimer's disease). Proposal needs to be within the scope of the research or training that is already supported but funding allows for development of a focus on AD/ADRD. Proposals due June 8. U.S. Tobacco Control Policies to Reduce Health Disparities (NIH R01 and NIH R21). Supports observational or intervention research focused on reducing health disparities in tobacco use in the U.S. Applicants are encouraged to read this. LOIs due 30 days before proposals are due on June 13. Addressing the Challenges of the Opioid Epidemic in Minority Health and Health Disparities Research in the U.S. (NIH R01 with Clinical Trial Optional). Supports investigative and collaborative research focused on determining the mechanisms for the variation in the prevalence of Opioid Use Disorder, and understanding and reducing disparities in opioid care in minority health and health disparity populations in the U.S. Applications due June 14. Archiving and Documenting Child Health and Human Development Data Sets (NIH R03). Support for archiving and documenting existing data sets in order to enable secondary analysis by the scientific community. Applications due June 16. Research and Research Training Grant Programs (Institute of Education Science). Supports Education Research Grants; Statistical and Research Methodology in Education Competition; Partnerships and Collaborations Focused on Problems of Practice or Policy; Education Research and Development Centers; Research Networks Focused on Critical Problems of Policy and Practice in Special Education; and more. Contact [email protected] if interested in applying. LOIs due June 21. Visiting Scholars Program, Russell Sage Foundation. Supports scholars in the social, economic and behavioral sciences pursuing research and writing while in residence in New York. Current programs include Race, Ethnicity, and Immigration and Social Inequality. Applications for AY 2019-2020 due June 28. Scholars Awards, William T. Grant Foundation. Supports career development for promising early-career researchers with funding for five-year research and mentoring plans to expand expertise in new disciplines, methods, and content areas. Funds for research that increases understanding of programs, policies, and practices that reduce inequality in youth outcomes; and strategies to improve the use of research evidence to benefit youth. Applications due July 5. The Health of Sexual and Gender Minority (SGM) Populations (NIH R01). Supports research that will increase scientific understanding of the health status of diverse population groups and improve the effectiveness of health interventions and services for individuals within those groups, particularly SGM populations. Applications due July 5. Mechanisms and Consequences of Sleep Disparities in the U.S. (NIH R01 and NIH R21). Funding to understand the underlying mechanisms of sleep deficiencies among health disparity populations and how sleep deficiencies may lead to disparities in health outcomes. LOIs due 30 days before proposals are due on July 11. Scholars Awards, William T. Grant Foundation. Supports career development for promising early-career researchers with funding for five-year research and mentoring plans to expand expertise in new disciplines, methods, and content areas. Funds for research that increases understanding of programs, policies, and practices that reduce inequality in youth outcomes; and strategies to improve the use of research evidence to benefit youth. Applications due July 5. Research Grants, William T. Grant Foundation. Funding for programs, policies, and practices that reduce inequality in youth outcomes; and strategies to improve the use of research evidence in ways that benefit youth. Applications due August 1. Emerging Poverty Scholars Fellowship (Institute for Research on Poverty, UW–Madison). Supports junior scholars from underrepresented racial and ethnic populations. Untenured applicants must currently hold a tenure-track university appointment and show evidence of research experience in areas relevant to poverty, low-income populations, or related social policy. Proposals due August 1. Mobile Health: Technology and Outcomes in Low and Middle Income Countries (NIH R21 with Clinical Trial Optional). Encourages exploratory/developmental research to develop or adapt innovative mobile health technology specifically suited for LMICs and determine the health-related outcomes associated with the technology. Interested in innovative, well-designed multidisciplinary projects. LOIs due August 1; applications due August 31. Science, Technology, and Society (NSF). Supports research that uses historical, philosophical, and social scientific methods to investigate the intellectual, material, and social facets of the scientific, technological, engineering, and mathematical (STEM) disciplines. Proposals due August 3. Cultural Anthropology Program Senior Research Awards (NSF). Supports fundamental, systematic anthropological research and training to increase understanding of the causes, consequences, and complexities of human social and cultural variability. Proposals due August 15. Gro Harlem Brundtland Visiting Scholarship, Centre for Fertility and Health, Oslo, Norway. Hosts young researchers (holding PhD) to engage in collaborative research addressing health implications of changes in family constellations and to participate in and enrich the research community at the Centre and at the Norwegian Institute of Public Health for approximately three months. Applications due August 15. Upcoming NSF deadlines: Cultural Anthropology, due August 15. Cultural Anthropology Dissertations, due August 15. Political Science, due August 15. Sociology, due August 15. Economics, due August 20. Method/Measurement and Stats, due August 30. Sociology Dissertation, due October 15. Geography/Spatial Dissertation, no deadline. Social Inequality / Future of Work / Behavioral Economics / Non-standard Employment / Integrating Biology and Social Science Knowledge / The Social, Economic, and Political Effects of the Affordable Care Act (Russell Sage Foundation). The Foundation provides support primarily for analyzing data and writing up results but also considers providing support for new data collection. LOIs due August 20. NIH Director's Early Independence Award. Funding opportunities for outstanding early career scientists ready for independence. Part of the High-Risk, High-Reward Research program, the award supports outstanding junior scientists with the intellect, scientific creativity, drive, and maturity to flourish independently launch independent research careers and bypass the traditional postdoctoral training period. Single PI only. LOIs due August 27 and applications due September 27. Harnessing Big Data to Halt HIV (NIH R01, Clinical Trial Optional). Promotes research that transforms understanding of HIV transmission, the HIV care continuum, and HIV comorbidities using Big Data Science (BDS). Applications due September 7. Mariam K. Chamberlain Award. Supports a first-generation doctoral student, including immigrant students, as they work on a dissertation under the close supervision of a senior dissertation advisor over one academic year. Dissertation must address the advancement of gender equity, inclusion, and the alleviation of poverty worldwide. Applications due September 10. Graduate Student Fellowship, Notre Dame Institute for Advanced Study. Fosters and supports integrative scholarship addressing ultimate questions at the intersection of the arts, engineering, humanities, law, and formal, natural, and social sciences, especially those that transcend disciplinary boundaries. Residential fellowship for full academic year. Open to graduate students in all disciplines from any institution. No citizenship requirements. Applications due September 17. Crisis Informatics (Facebook). Supports new and innovative research in the area of crisis informatics to make social media tools more useful to people responding to or impacted by a disaster. Applications due September 20. CFAR Developmental Grants. The Center for AIDS Research provides support for Initial AIDS Research Projects; Pilot Projects; and Collaborative Projects. Applications due October 1. Lyle Spencer Research Awards. Supports intellectually ambitious research oriented to improving the practice of education, including studies of instructional practice, educational infrastructure, and research infrastructure. LOIs due October 2. HER Special Solicitation on Beverage Consumption in Early Childhood, Robert Wood Johnson Foundation. Supports research that informs the development of policy and environmental strategies that decrease consumption of sugar-sweetened beverages and/or increase access to and consumption of safe water among 0-5-year-olds in the U.S. with strong potential to promote the health and well-being of children at a population-level. Concept papers due October 3. Understanding Factors in Infancy and Early Childhood That Influence Obesity Development (NIH R01). Studies should propose research in children from birth to 24 months, although any proposed follow-up assessments, if applicable, may continue past this period. Applications due October 5. Education and Health: New Frontiers (NIH R01 with Clinical Trial Optional; also available as an R21 and R03). Supports research that will further elucidate the pathways involved in the relationship between education and health outcomes and in doing so to identify the specific aspects and qualities of education that are responsible for this relationship and what the mediating factors are that affect the nature of the causal relationship. R01 applications due October 5; R21 applications due October 16; R03 applications due November 16. Research on the Health of Transgender and Gender Nonconforming Populations(NIH R01 with clinical trial optional). Calls for research on the health of youth and adults who are questioning their gender identity and those individuals who are making or who have made a transition from being identified as one gender to the other. Applications due October 5. Prevention Research in Mid-Life Adults (NIH R01, also available as an R21, both with clinical trial optional). Seeks to stimulate research on mid-life adults (ages 50-64) that can inform efforts to optimize health and well-being and prevent illness and disability in later years. Applications for R01 due October 5; R21 due October 16. The INCLUDE Project (NIH). Supports research that investigates conditions that affect individuals with Down syndrome and the general population, such as Alzheimer’s disease/dementia, autism, cataracts, celiac disease, congenital heart disease, and diabetes. Investigators should submit applications as responses to the parent active administrative supplement PA. Due dates vary. Postdoctoral Research Fellowships (NSF). Encourages independence early in the career through supporting research and training goals. Must be a U.S. citizen. Proposals for this year are due on October 9. Freigeist Fellowships, Volkswagen Foundation. Supports junior researchers who wish to carry out research at the boundaries between established fields of research for up to five or more years. Open those who completed PhD in past four years. All disciplines, nationalities eligible. Applications due October 11. RAPID funding related to Hurricane Florence (NSF). Supports projects whose results enable families, communities, businesses, institutions, and governments to better prepare for, respond to, and recover from future catastrophic events. Applications (less than five pages) due October 15. Dissertation Awards (NIH R36). More info here. NIH R36 applications due October 16. Aging Research Dissertation Awards to Increase Diversity. Provides dissertation awards in all areas of research within NIA’s strategic priorities to increase diversity of the scientific research workforce engaged in research on aging and aging-related health conditions. Mental Health Research Dissertation Grant to Enhance Workforce Diversity.Provides dissertation awards in all research areas within the strategic priorities of the NIMH to individuals from diverse backgrounds underrepresented in biomedical, behavioral, clinical and social sciences research. Drug Abuse Dissertation Research. Provides dissertation awards on topics related to the study of basic and clinical neuroscience, development, epidemiology, prevention, treatment, services, or women and sex/gender differences as they relate to drug abuse. Pregnancy in Women with Disabilities (NIH R03). Encourages small research project grants investigating the incidence, course, and outcomes of pregnancy among women with disabilities. Applications due October 16. Research on the Health of Transgender and Gender Nonconforming Populations (NIH R21). Supports research on the health of youth and adults who are questioning their gender identity and those who are making or who have made a transition from being identified as one gender to the other. Applications due October 16. Zika Virus (ZIKV) Complications (NIH R21). Supports research on the Zika virus (ZIKV) and its complications, including microcephaly and transfusion-transmission risks. Applications due October 16. Fertility Status as a Marker for Overall Health (NIH R01 and R21). Supports research that explores the premise that fertility status can be a marker for overall health. R01 applications due October 5; R21 applications due October 16. Improving Patient Adherence to Treatment and Prevention Regimens to Promote Health (NIH R21 with clinical trial optional). Applications may address healthcare regimen initiation, implementation, and/or persistence by patients. Applications due October 16 Max Weber Postdoctoral Fellowship, European University Institute, Florence. Open to applicants who completed PhD in historical and social sciences in past 5 years, from anywhere in the world. Applications due October 18. Resource-Related Research Projects in the Epidemiology and Prevention of Pediatric Injury (NIH R24). Supports research on areas most likely to cause death or disability, including motor vehicle crashes, firearms, poisonings, drowning, self-injurious behavior, fires, burns, and suffocation. Applications due October 23. Mellon/ACLS Dissertation Completion Fellowships. Support a year of research and writing to help advanced graduate students in the last year of PhD dissertation writing. Applications due October 24. Electronic Nicotine Delivery Systems (ENDS) (NIH R01 - Clinical Trial Optional). Supports studies on ENDS that examine population-based, clinical, and applied prevention of disease, including etiology of use, epidemiology of use, potential risks, benefits, and impacts on other tobacco use behavior among different populations. Applications due October 24. Archiving and Documenting Child Health and Human Development Data Sets (NIH R03). Supports archiving and documenting existing data sets in order to enable secondary analysis of these data by the scientific community. Priority is to archive data sets within the scientific mission of the NICHD; highest priority is to archive data collected with NICHD support. Applications due October 25. PhD Dissertation Fellowships, Center for Engaged Scholarship. Accepting applications from PhD students in the social sciences who have already completed all departmental and institutional requirements for the PhD degree. No citizenship requirements. The next application round begins in October. Advanced Research Collaborative Fellowship, CUNY Graduate Center. Tenured and tenure-track scholars conducting research in the areas of Inequality, Immigration, Global Cities, and more receive support for one or two semesters during the 2019-2020 AY as Distinguished Fellows. Applications due October 31. Dissertation Fieldwork Grants (Wenner-Gren Foundation). Supports research that demonstrates a clear link to anthropological theory and debates, and promises to make a solid contribution to advancing these ideas. Applications due November 1. American Association of University Women Fellowship (AAUW). Provides fellowships for women to complete dissertations, conduct postdoctoral research full time, or prepare research for publication for eight consecutive weeks. Must be U.S. citizen or permanent resident. Applications due November 1. Smithsonian Institution Fellowship Program. An in-residence fellowship program for predoctoral and postdoctoral students and senior investigators. Open to U.S. and non-U.S. citizens. Applications due November 1. Competition to Conduct Analysis of HUD’s Randomized Evaluation Data (HUD). Competition for access to data from two important randomized social experiments, the Moving to Opportunity for Fair Housing demonstration and the Family Options Study. Winner will have all costs covered for the first year of the project, exclusive of the cost to access a Federal Research Data Center. Proposals due November 2. Health Policy Fellows (Robert Wood Johnson Foundation). Seeks outstanding mid-career health professionals, behavioral/social scientists, and others with an interest in health and health policy. Requires a 12-month residency in Washington, D.C. Applications due November 7. Grand Challenges Explorations (Gates Foundation). Supports innovations to solve key health and development problems. Topics include Innovation for WASH in Urban Settings; Increasing Demand for Vaccination Services; and more. Applications due November 14. Social Inequality (Russell Sage Foundation). Supports research on the social, economic, political, and labor market consequences of rising economic inequalities in the U.S., particularly that which will broaden current understanding of the causes and consequences of rising economic inequality. LOIs due November 30. Future of Work \ Race, Ethnicity, and Immigration \ Behavioral Economics \ Non-standard Employment \ Immigration and Immigrant Integration \ Computation Social Science (Russell Sage Foundation). The Foundation provides support primarily for analyzing data and writing up results but also considers providing support for new data collection. LOIs due November 30 with invited proposals due March 4. Dissertation Grants (Horowitz Foundation for Social Policy). Supports emerging scholars; promotes scholarship with a social policy application; and encourages projects that address contemporary issues in the social sciences. Must be a PhD candidate working on dissertation. No citizenship or residency requirements. Applications due December 1. Research on the Future of an Informed Society (Knight Foundation). Supports the creation/expansion of research centers in the U.S. to study the changing nature of an informed citizenry and address pressing questions about the health of an informed society and citizenry in the context of our digital age. Faculty interested in joining a discussion about a Brown application, please email [email protected]. Applications due December 1. Ford Foundation Predoctoral Fellowships. Awarded to PhD students in anthropology, economics, sociology, and more with at least three years remaining in program who have demonstrated superior academic achievement and are committed to a career in teaching and research at the college or university level, etc. Must be a U.S. citizen, national, or permanent resident. Applications due December 4. Smart and Connected Health (SCH): Connecting Data, People, and Systems (NSF-NIH). Aims to develop multidisciplinary science that encourages existing and new research communities to focus on breakthrough ideas in areas of value to health, such as networking, pervasive computing, advanced analytics, sensor integration, privacy and security, modeling of socio-behavioral and cognitive processes and system and process modeling. Applications due December 11. Health Data for Action: Leveraging Health Data for Actionable Insights (Robert Wood Johnson Foundation). Supports innovative research that uses data from one of four data providers (the Health Care Cost Institute, OptumLabs, CareJourney, or athenahealth) to enable relevant, innovative, and actionable research to answer important, policy-relevant questions. Successful applicants will receive access to these data. Proposals due December 14. Back to top Explore Brown University Search Brown Show/Hide Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Population Studies and Training Center Population Studies and Training Center Brown University Box 1836 68 Waterman St. Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-2668 Email [email protected] Giving to Brown Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U Google+ LinkedIn SnapChat