COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW WSU News - All Stories For WSU News and WSU Today content older than July 2018, Search the WSU News Archive. WSU News Archive Return to WSU News Home Filter by: All students Applied Learning Faculty/Staff Fairmount College of Liberal Arts and Sciences pandemic community Alumni College of Engineering COVID-19 Research Graduate Profiles Community Engagement Innovation Campus Life Diversity/Inclusion Scholarships Talent Pipeline Innovation Campus College of Applied Studies College of Health Professions SearchDirectory Filter Search Beyond the Classroom: Anllir Ramirez-Tenorio May 31, 2022 — Anllir Ramirez-Tenorio is squeezing in a summer internship with Tesla in between his spring and fall internship with Delta TechOps. Anllir said the resources available at Wichita State have prepared him to succeed in his real-world career opportunities. Wichita State team will help Kansas communities deal with natural disasters May 26, 2022 — An interdisciplinary team from Wichita State University will participate in a $24 million state initiative to help rural and urban communities prepare for and recover from natural disasters. Beyond the Classroom: Keegan Staats May 25, 2022 — Keegan Staats is working at the National Institute for Aviation Research (NIAR) as an operations assistant. This applied-learning opportunity is helping prepare him prepare for a career in finance. Beyond the Classroom: Alia Michaelis May 23, 2022 — Alia Michaelis is working in several Wichita-area hospital emergency rooms to record patient-physician interactions. This applied-learning opportunity is helping prepare her for a career in medicine. Student-created parking app concept wins 2022 Koch Innovation Challenge May 18, 2022 — Three Wichita State University students were named the champions of the 2022 Koch Innovation Challenge with their idea to ease parking frustrations via an app called Everwhen. Meet a Shocker: Cameron McGinley May 16, 2022 - Cameron McGinley’s work with machine learning with Dr. Sergio Salinas grew into one of the most rewarding parts of his education at Wichita State. McGinley will attend the University of California, San Diego for a Master of Science in computer science. Cameron is one of more than 2,400 students eligible for spring 2022 graduation. Learn more about his time at Wichita State and what is next for the grad. Wichita State entrepreneurs win Women for Women award May 9, 2022 — Five Wichita State University women were honored with the Women for Women Innovation Award for spring 2022. The Women for Women's Innovation Fund is awarded to Wichita State University students to support innovative ideas that show promise of commercialization. Meet a Shocker: Chadrack Kamba Tshimanga May 3, 2022 — The strength of Wichita State University's engineering program brought Chadrack Kamba Tshimanga to Kansas from the Democratic Republic of the Congo. Meet a Shocker: Madeline Shonka Madeline Shonka is an entrepreneur who started a health tech startup for people with chronic illnesses while a student at Wichita State. Madeline is one of more than 2,400 students eligible for spring/summer 2022 graduation. Learn more about her time at WSU and what is next for the grad. 777 Freighter conversion program completes first flight tests April 26, 2022 — WERX at Wichita State University’s National Institute for Aviation Research has completed the first pre-modification baseline test flight for the Kansas Modification Center’s 777-300ERCF passenger-to-freighter conversion program. Wichita State's MagicHand team takes project to NSF Innovation program April 15, 2022 - MagicHand, an anthropomorphic robotic hand designed by a Wichita State University engineering team, is participating in the National Science Foundation Innovation Corps program. The MagicHand is designed to achieve various dexterous object manipulations including object sorting, arranging and packaging. WSU design to modify planes for wheelchair access gets international recognition April 7, 2022 — A team from Wichita State University’s National Institute for Aviation Research has received international recognition for a design that would allow WC19 certified manual and power wheelchairs to be used as a seat on board commercial airlines. New esports director brings his vision of gaming to Wichita State March 30, 2022 - The vision for varsity esports at Wichita State encompasses much more than people gaming on Cybertron Computers and wearing a Logitech Headset. While gaming success is important, the program is also seen as way to provide extra-curricular activity and applied learning for students in disciplines across campus. Travis Yang, hired in December as WSU’s Esports director, wants to build a program that follows that direction. WSU's engineering grad program top 60 in the nation and highest in Kansas March 29, 2022 — In the latest U.S. News and World Report rankings of universities offering a Ph.D. in engineering, the College of Engineering at Wichita State University once again was ranked in the top 100 engineering graduate programs in the country and the only institution in Kansas to make it in the top 100. WSU College of Engineering awards $313,500 in Wallace Scholarships March 25, 2022 — Wichita State University’s College of Engineering has named the latest group of high school seniors to join the Wallace Scholar program. Ten Wallace Scholarship recipients will receive $28,500 each to attend Wichita State for four years. In addition, two students receiving other major university scholarships will be designated as Wallace Scholars. 1 2 3 4 5 ... Next Last 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©