Skip to main content Skip to main navigation School of Engineering and Computer Science Menu Students & Academics Student Services Career Center Student Leadership Learning Resource Center Scholarships List of ECS Scholarships Student Organizations Incoming Students Summer Accelerate Program Summer of Discovery Freshmen Fall Incoming Freshmen Equipment Requirements and Computer Recommendations Transfer Course Recommendations Entrance and Progression Standards ECS Scholars Program Academic Advising Meet with an ECS Advisor Advising Walk-in Hours Course Drops Academic Actions Certification for Graduation ECS Summer Courses Advising Resources Pre-Engineering Requirements ECS Course Repeat Policy Final Exam Policy Teal Residential College ECS ID Management ECS Scholars Program Degree Programs Flow Charts Capstone Meet Our Alumni ECS Digital Brochure ECS Student Organization Fair Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Research Bioinformatics Computer Science Electrical and Computer Engineering Mechanical Engineering Engineering Materials Science About Education Materials Science Faculty Get Involved Give Dean's Funding Initiatives Quick Impact Giving Planned Giving Matching Gifts Corporate Collaborations Engineering Corporate Affiliate Program Computer Science Corporate Affiliate Program Cybersecurity Corporate Affiliate Program Alumni ASEE Gulf Southwest Conference 2021 About the ASEE GSW Conference Abstract and Paper Submission Conference Agenda and Program Conference Host Conference Registration Conference Organization About Mission Statement Dean's Welcome Office of the Dean Staff Directory ABET Board of Advocates Board Members Synergy Magazine Synergy Magazine - Archives News Events Admission & Aid Departments Informatics About Us Degree Programs Bachelor of Science in Informatics: Bioinformatics Bachelor of Science in Informatics: Data Science major Research Computer Science About Us ABET Chair's Welcome Degree Programs Bachelor of Science in Computer Science Bachelor of Science in Computer Science: Software Engineering Concentration Bachelor of Science in Computer Science: Cybersecurity Concentration Bachelor of Arts Bachelor of Science with Computer Science Fellows Major Online Master of Science Master of Science Doctor of Philosophy Research Bioinformatics Competitive Learning Cybersecurity & Networking Data Science Human-Computer Interaction Machine Learning Software Engineering VLSI Design Giving Electrical & Computer Engineering About Us ABET Welcome from the Chair eBears Seminars Cadence University Program Programs Bachelor of Science B.S. & M.S. Joint Program B.S. & Master of Engineering Joint Program B.S. & M.S. Joint Program Master of Science Doctor of Philosophy Research Biomedical Computing Engineering and Cyber-Physical Systems Material and Devices Sustainable Energy and Power Systems Wireless & Microwave Circuits & Systems Alumni Giving Open Faculty Positions Mechanical Engineering About Us ABET Welcome from the Chair Programs Bachelor of Science B.S. & M.S. Joint Program B.S. & M.S. Joint Program B.S. & M.E. Joint Program M.S. Ph.D. Research Advance Materials and Additive Manufacturing Biomechanics and Biomedical Engineering Energy Systems Engineering Geriatric Engineering Humanitarian Engineering and Engineering Ethics Sustainable Engineering Thermo-Fluids Engineering Open Faculty Positions Engineering About Us ABET Programs Bachelor of Science B.S. & M.S. Joint Program B.S. & M.E. Joint Program M.B.A. & M.E. Joint Program Master of Science Master of Engineering Research 25th Anniversary School of Engineering and Computer Science Timeline Stories Rick Tullis Kimmie Sandusky Mario Lopez Heather Benoit Jay D. Battershell Denton Wood Videos Marques Jones Heather Benoit Spotlight Timeline Merchandise About Us Baylor>Engineering & Computer Science>About About Us The School of Engineering and Computer Science (ECS) of Baylor University offers nationally ranked undergraduate and graduate programs with rigorous courses of study in general engineering, electrical and computer engineering, mechanical engineering, bioinformatics and computer science. With state of the art research facilities , renowned faculty, and an innovative approach to undergraduate life and leadership development, the Baylor engineering and computer science program offers all of the advantages of a large-scale research institution with the personal attention students need to succeed. Our wide range of undergraduate and graduate degree options provide everything you need to propel an innovative and transformative career in engineering or computer science. With a low student-to-faculty ratio and opportunities for hands-on projects and research, Baylor ECS graduates are among the most sought after young professionals in their fields. Our alumni pursue a wide variety of professional careers ranging from medical practitioners to software engineers at companies like Lockheed Martin, Exxon, BNSF, GM, Google, Raytheon, Pariveda Solutions, Walmart, and many more. Located in the heart of Texas, the Baylor School of Engineering and Computer Science is uniquely positioned along the 1-35 corridor with direct access to Austin, Dallas, Houston, and San Antonio. Wherever your interests lie, take some time to explore all that Baylor ECS has to offer you as an undergraduate student and beyond. Mission The mission of Baylor’s School of Engineering and Computer Science is to provide a superior education through instruction, scholarship and service that prepares graduates for professional practice and responsible leadership with a Christian world view. This mission of the School of Engineering and Computer Science results in the following goals: To graduate students with a broad-based technical education in engineering and in computer science, an education that fosters an appreciation for the role of the sciences and humanities in society and a commitment to Christian values. To stimulate students to think clearly, be creative, and communicate effectively. To promote professional ethics and a sense of civic responsibility, empowering graduates to be leaders in their churches, their communities, and society as a whole. To foster and maintain programs of professional activity on the part of the faculty that contributes to the disciplines and builds strong alliances with industry, the corporate community, and government. About Mission Statement Dean's Welcome Office of the Dean Staff Directory ABET Board of Advocates Board Members Synergy Magazine Synergy Magazine - Archives News Events School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Engineering & Computer Science One Bear Place #97356 Waco, TX 76798-7356 Computer Science One Bear Place #97141 Waco, TX 76798-7141 (254) 710-3890 ECS_Student_Services@baylor.edu Apply Give Questions for Undergraduate Programs Questions for Graduate Programs General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 Students & Academics Student Services Career Center Student Leadership Learning Resource Center Scholarships Student Organizations Incoming Students Academic Advising Teal Residential College ECS ID Management ECS Scholars Program Degree Programs Flow Charts Capstone Meet Our Alumni ECS Digital Brochure ECS Student Organization Fair Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Research Bioinformatics Computer Science Electrical and Computer Engineering Mechanical Engineering Engineering Materials Science Get Involved Give Dean's Funding Initiatives Quick Impact Giving Planned Giving Matching Gifts Corporate Collaborations Engineering Corporate Affiliate Program Computer Science Corporate Affiliate Program Cybersecurity Corporate Affiliate Program Alumni ASEE Gulf Southwest Conference 2021 About the ASEE GSW Conference Abstract and Paper Submission Conference Agenda and Program Conference Host Conference Registration Conference Organization About Mission Statement Dean's Welcome Office of the Dean Staff Directory ABET Board of Advocates Board Members Synergy Magazine Synergy Magazine - Archives News Events Admission & Aid Departments Informatics About Us Degree Programs Research Computer Science About Us Degree Programs Research Giving Electrical & Computer Engineering About Us Programs Research Alumni Giving Open Faculty Positions Mechanical Engineering About Us Programs Research Open Faculty Positions Engineering About Us Programs Research 25th Anniversary School of Engineering and Computer Science Timeline Stories Rick Tullis Kimmie Sandusky Mario Lopez Heather Benoit Jay D. Battershell Denton Wood Videos Marques Jones Heather Benoit Spotlight Timeline Merchandise