Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Law Faculty and Staff Baylor Law Menu Baylor Law About News Mission Statement and Core Values Baylor Law Learning Outcomes Practice Ready Law Professors, Life Coaches The Quarter System Quick Facts Public Service Legal Clinics Special Events Notice of Non-Discrimination Building Hours Contact Us History 100 Years of Practice Court Baylor Law Virtual Tours Academics Academic Calendar Academic Services Advocacy Transactional Degree Programs Executive LL.M. in Litigation Management Baylor Law Learning Outcomes Experiential Learning Legal Writing Study Abroad at St Andrews Baylor Law Review Admissions Explore Apply Finance Visit Admitted Students Quick Facts Executive LL.M. in Litigation Management Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Alumni & Giving Alumni Resources Get Involved Give Back Baylor Law School Alumni Information Update Submit Alumni Note Career Development Employers Current Students Employment Statistics Contact the CDO Baylor Law School Current Students Academic Services Calendars Career Development Leadership Development Health & Wellness Policies and Feedback Professional Development Public Service Legal Clinics Student Life Technology Title IX ABA Required Disclosures Law School Home Events News Emergency and Closure Information Faculty & Staff Faculty and Staff Directory Faculty Scholarship Faculty and Staff News Faculty and Staff Resources Law School Home Library Library Collection Electronic Resources Library Services Policies and Information Library Online Catalog Technology Law School Baylor>Law School>Faculty & Staff>Faculty Scholarship Faculty Scholarship This listing of faculty scholarship reflects recent work of the full-time faculty at the law school. This listing will be updated every quarter. For complete listing of scholarship, please view each faculty member's Curriculum Vitae, which can be found on their profile page. Matthew Cordon Professor of Law Publications Contributing author and editor, Gale Encyclopedia of American Law, Fourth Ed. Author, Legal Analysis, Research, and Communications (Tophatmonocle Corp.). Professional Activities Chair, Baylor Faculty Senate, 2020-21. Thomas M. Featherston, Jr. Professor and The Mills Cox Professor of Law Publications West's Texas Practice Guide-Probate 2021/2022 Edition, Three Volumes (Co-Authored). Presentations "Martial Property Issues in Estate Planning & Administration," State Bar of Texas, Advanced Estate Planning & Probate Course, San Antonio, June 2022. "Marital Property Issues in Estate Planning & Administration," Tarrant County Probate Bar Association, Ft. Worth, June 2022. "Marital Property Issues in Estate Planning & Administration," Corpus Christi Estate Planning Council, May 2022. "Marital Property Issues in Estate Planning," State Bar of Texas Advanced Estate Planning Drafting Course, Dallas, October 2021. "An Introduction to Transfer Taxation," American Bar Association Real Property, Trust and Estate Law Section’s Skills Training for Estate Planners, July 2021. "Texas Marital Property Law: An Estate Planning and Administration Perspective," State Bar of Texas Advanced Estate Planning and Probate Course, June 2021. "Marital Property Characterization After a Change of Domicile or Situs," Baylor Law School, General Practice Institute, May 2021. "Marital Property Characterization After a Change of Domicile or Situs," San Antonio Estate Planning Council, May 2021. "Marital Property Characterization After a Change of Domicile or Situs," Tarrant County Probate Bar Association, May 2021. Professional Activities Senior Editor, Probate & Property, published six times a year by the Real Property, Trust and Estate Law Section of American Bar Association. Member, Publications Committee of the ABA's Real Property, Trust and Estate Law Section. Member, Legislative Review Committee, Real Estate, Probate and Trust Law Section, State Bar of Texas. Former ABA Advisor to the Uniform Law Commission's Drafting Committee to Revise the Uniform Disposition of Community Property Rights at Death Act. Elizabeth M. Fraley Professor of Law and Co-Director of the Executive LL.M. in Litigation Management Publications "Texas Commercial Causes of Action: Claims, Defenses and Remedies," Rev. 3, Fastcase Inc., Washington D.C., March 2021, co-authored with James E. Wren. Fundamentals of Lawyer Leadership, co-authored with Leah W. Teague and Stephen Rispoli, 2021. "Where the Rubber Hits the Road: How Do Law Schools Demonstrate a Commitment to Training Leaders?" co-authored with Leah W. Teague, 14 TENN. J. L. & POL. 369-434, 2020. Presentations "Zooming into Better Rulings: Digital Evidence," Center for Judicial Education: Spring Regional Judicial Conference, March 28 and April 8, 2022. "Managing Litigation with Effectiveness and Efficiency," International Association of Defense Counsel, Chicago, IL, April 7, 2022. “The Biggest Loser: Lessons I’ve Learned from Losing at Trial,” Dallas Bar Association (Litigation Skills Section), Dallas, TX, May 2, 2022. “Effective Litigation Management,” Abner V. McCall Inn of Court, Waco, TX, April 5, 2022. Professional Activities American Board of Trial Advocates, Past President, (Waco Chapter), National Board Representative; Member, Editorial Committee; Member, Judicial Independence Committee; Member. Diversity of Membership Committee. American Bar Association Master of the Bench, Abner V. McCall American Inn of Court. Honors Member, Board of Directors, Waco Symphony. Vestry member, St. Alban’s Episcopal Church, Waco, TX Chair, Finishing the Work Capital Campaign, St. Alban’s Episcopal Church, Waco, TX Bridget Fuselier Professor of Law Presentations "To Be or Not to Be?" Disposition of Reproductive Material at Death, Heart of TX Estate Planning Council, November 2021. Professional Activities Baylor Teaching Fellow Executive Director, Baylor Veterans Clinic Editor (Easements & Covenants), REPTL Reporter Contributing Editor (Real Estate), General Practice Digest Laura Hernández Professor of Law Professional Activities Named as a Latina Commissioner by Pedro J. Torres-Diaz, the President of the Hispanic National Bar Association ("HNBA"). She will be working on diversity pipeline issues in the legal profession. During Professor Hernandez's time as the coach for the Baylor Law moot court team, the HNBA has presented several Baylor Law students with over $30,000 in cash awards for their outstanding advocacy. Chris Jaeger Assistant Professor of Law Publications "The Empirical Reasonable Person", 72 ALA. L. REV. 887 (May 2021). Presentations Chair and Presenter, Psychology & Law Symposium, Annual Meeting of the Southern Society of Philosophy and Psychology, Mobile, Alabama, April 2022. Rachel Kincaid Assistant Professor of Law Presentations “Reasonableness and Deliberate Indifference in the Time of Misinformation: Carceral Responses to COVID-19,” University of St. Thomas Law Journal Prisoner Rights and Prison Conditions Symposium, April 2022, https://youtu.be/E4bmuN2fgV4?t=5260 Luke Meier Professor of Law Publications "The Reviewability of Denied Twombly Motions," 84 U. OF CINCINNATI L. REV.(forthcoming). Elizabeth Miller Professor of Law and M. Stephen and Alyce A. Beard Chair in Business and Transactional Law Publications TEXAS METHODS OF PRACTICE, TEXAS PRACTICE SERIES (Vol. 13), West, 2021-2022 (co-author). BUSINESS ORGANIZATIONS, TEXAS PRACTICE SERIES (Vols. 19, 20 & 20A), West (3rd ed. 2011; 2021-2022 Annual Supplement) (co-author). “Fiduciary Duties, Indemnification, and Exculpation in Texas Business Organizations,” 20th Annual Choice, Governance & Acquisition of Entities Course, State Bar of Texas, May 20, 2022. “Miscellaneous Recent (Non-Delaware) Partnership and LLC Cases,” Annual LLC Case Law Update, American Bar Association Business Law Section Spring Meeting 2022, April 1, 2022. “Miscellaneous (Non-Delaware) Partnership and LLC Cases,” 2021 LLC Institute, Committee on LLCs, Partnerships and Unincorporated Entities, American Bar Association, November 17, 2021. “The Walking Dead: Forfeitures and Involuntary Terminations of Filing Entities,” Texas Commission on Environmental Quality CLE, October 25, 2021. “The Limits of Limited Liability: Veil Piercing and Other Bases of Personal Liability of Owners, Governing Persons, and Agents of Texas Business Entities,” Texas Commission on Environmental Quality CLE, October 25, 2021. “Case Law Update: A Survey of Recent Texas Partnership and LLC Cases,” 30th Annual LLCs, LPs and Partnerships, University of Texas School of Law, July 7, 2021. “The Limits of Limited Liability: Veil Piercing and Other Bases of Personal Liability of Owners, Governing Persons, and Agents of Texas Business Entities,” 19th Annual Choice, Governance & Acquisition of Entities Course, State Bar of Texas, May 21, 2021. Presentations “Fiduciary Duties, Indemnification, and Exculpation,” 20th Annual Choice, Governance & Acquisition of Entities Course, State Bar of Texas, May 20, 2022. “LLC Case Law Update,” American Bar Association Business Law Section Spring Meeting 2022, April 1, 2022. “Current Developments in Texas Business Organizations Law,” Austin Bar Association–Business, Corporate and Tax Section, January 26, 2022. “LLCs and Partnerships: Recent Trends,” Business Law Summit, WealthCounsel, December 9, 2021. “Case Law Update (Non-Delaware),” 2021 LLC Institute, Committee on LLCs, Partnerships and Unincorporated Entities, American Bar Association, November 17, 2021. “Business Entities,” Texas Commission on Environmental Quality CLE, October 25, 2021. “Case Law Update,” 30th Annual LLCs, LPs and Partnerships, University of Texas School of Law, July 7, 2021. “Piercing the Corporate (or Other Entity) Veil,” 19th Annual Choice, Governance & Acquisition of Entities Course, State Bar of Texas, May 21, 2021. Professional Activities Joint Editorial Board for Uniform Unincorporated Organizations Acts, Uniform Law Commission and American Bar Association. Chair, Editorial Board of Publications of the LLCs, Partnerships and Unincorporated Entities Committee of the Business Law Section of the American Bar Association. Founding Fellow and Board of Directors, American College of LLC and Partnership Attorneys. Member, Business Organizations Code Committee of the Business Law Section of the State Bar of Texas. Elected Member, American Law Institute. Connie Powell Nichols Professor of Law Publications "Sex, Lies and Internet Shaming: New Media Considerations for Defamation and Privacy Moody-Ramirez," Nichols & Lewis (under consideration with NEW MEDIA AND SOCIETY JOURNAL). Stephen Rispoli Assistant Dean of Student Affairs and Strategic Initiatives / Director of Innovation and Scholarship, Executive LL.M. in Litigation Management Publications "The Study of Leadership Theories: Great Leaders Are Made, Not Born" ABA Law Practice Magazine (Nov./Dec. 2021). “Avoiding Ethical Pitfalls in Third-Party Litigation Financing: How Lawyers Can Maintain Independence and Avoid Conflicts of Interest”, co-author with James E. Wren and Hannah Hoke, The Advocate, State Bar of Texas Litigation Section, October 2021. Fundamentals of Lawyer Leadership, Wolters Kluwer (2021) co-authored with Leah W. Teague and Elizabeth M. Fraley. Presentations “Developing Law Students and Faculty Who Can Lead Diversity, Inclusion, and Equity Efforts”, AALS 2022 Annual Meeting, January 5, 2022. “Supporting the Pro Bono and Legal Services Community With Data and Predictive Research”, 2021 Annual Conference of the National Legal Aid and Defender Association, November 9, 2021. “Can We Really Do That? The Ethics of Judicial Involvement in Pro Bono”, Texas Bar CLE series, October 27, 2021. Professional Activities McLennan County Young Lawyers, Past President—2020; President—2019 American Bar Association, Young Lawyers Division, Legal Innovation Team Member American Association of Law Schools, Pro Bono and Public Service Opportunities Section: Newsletter Editor—2020; President—2019 American Association of Law Schools, Leadership Section: Newsletter Editor—2019-Present State Bar of Texas Pro Bono Workgroup Honors 2020 Lone Star Legal Aid Remote Legal Services – Community Partner Award – given “[i]n appreciation of extraordinary efforts to ensure access to the legal system for low-income residents of McLennan County, Texas by providing legal assistance and promoting the administration of equal justice to all.” 2019 State Bar of Texas Pro Bono Coordinator Award. Walt Shelton Adjunct Professor of Law Publications "Take Daily Living One Thing at a Time and End the Burden of Multitasking," Austin American Statesman, May 14, 2022, at 8E. Authentic Living in All Seasons: Focused, Fearless, and Balanced (CrossLink Publishing 2022) – Publication/Trade Release Date: June 7, 2022. "Seek out Mentors and People to Mentor to Make our World More Filled with Light," Austin American Statesman, October 16, 2021, at 9D. “Finding Commitment, Not Just Intention, in Our Faith,” Austin American Statesman, September 18, 2021, at 5D. “Centuries-old Lessons: Make Good Choices, Avoid Tribal Fighting,” Austin American Statesman, August 21, 2021, at 9C. "Pursue Social Justice," Austin American Statesman, July 24, 2021, at 9C. “Focus on the Good Works that can Unite us Instead of Politics that Divide Us,” Austin American Statesman, June 12, 2021, at 9C. “Tribalism was the Actual ‘Fall’ of Mankind: It is High Time for us to Get Up,” ProgressiveChristianity.org, June 10, 2021, https://progressivechristianity.org/resources/tribalism-was-the-actual-fall-of-mankind-it-is-high-time-for-us-to-get-up/ “Jesus is Synonymous with Social Justice: It is High Time for a Full-Scale Cultural Transformation,” TheMindfulWord.org, May 28, 2021, https://www.themindfulword.org/author/walt-shelton/ Presentations "Wellness for Law Students: Commitment to Staying Focused and Balanced," Baylor Law Student Wellness Organization Professional Development Program, May 10, 2022. “Following the Narrow Path: Prioritizing Self-Reflection and Pursuing Justice,” Sapp Lecture Series and Retreat (5 sessions), The Church at Highland Park, Austin, Texas, January 21 – 23, 2022. "Daily and Periodic Practices to Enhance Your Life Quality: Staying Focused and Keeping Balanced," Baylor Law Student Wellness Organization Professional Development Program, January 12, 2022. “The Book of Walt: The Intersectionality of Law and Religion,” Podcast, SHIFTING THE LAW with Johnny Merritt, johnny merritt.com, October 6, 2021. https://johnnymerritt.com/shifting-the-law-walt-shelton/ Interview, Boulder (CO) Bookstore, YouTube page, regarding "The Daily Practice of Life: Practical Reflections Toward Meaningful Living" (CrossLink Publishing 2020), September 3, 2021, https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2iV5Fx19YxE Professional Activities Liaison of the Environmental and Natural Resources Law Section of the State Bar of Texas with the Section of the Environment, Energy and Resources of the American Bar Association. Contributing Editor, General Practice Digest, State Bar of Texas, Environmental Law and Water Law. Co-Chair of the Law School Committee of the Environmental and Natural Resources Law Section of the State Bar of Texas. Honors Nautilus Book Awards, Silver Award Winner (announced April 2021), Religion/Spirituality of Western Thought, The Daily Practice of Life (CrossLink 2020) The Daily Practice of Life (CrossLink 2020), Listed as a Progressive Christianity Resource Book, https://progressivechristianity.org/resources/the-daily-practice-of-life-practical-reflections-toward-meaningful-living/ Selected through peer review process for inclusion in the 2022 annual edition of The Best Lawyers in America in the practice areas of Environmental Law and Water Law. Professor Shelton has been recognized in Best Lawyers for 24 consecutive years. Recognized as one of America's Most Honored Lawyers and a Top Texas Attorney for 2021 for the second consecutive year (2020 was the inaugural year) via the American Registry. Stephanie Tang Associate Professor of Law Publications Cryptocurrency, NFTs, and the “Metaverse”: Addressing the Expanding World of Virtual Assets in Divorce Proceedings, 127 PENN STATE L. REV. (2022, forthcoming). Family Law Toolkit, Illinois State Bar Association Family Law Section Council, 2022.2019-2021 Survey of Illinois Law: Family Law, S. ILL. UNIV. L. J. (Summer 2022, forthcoming). Calculating “Income” for Domestic Support Obligations in the Wake of the COVID-19 Pandemic (co-authored with Kimberly S. Krieg, PhD, CPA), 74(4) OKLA. L. REV. (Summer 2022, forthcoming). I Do Solemnly Sponsor (with Russell D. Knight), 109(9) Ill. Bar J. (Sept. 2021), available at https://www.isba.org/ibj/2021/09/idosolemnlysponsor. Leah Witcher Jackson Teague Professor of Law Publications "Growing Number of Leadership Programs and Courses Supports Professional Identity Formation" (forthcoming in the Santa Clara Law Review, 2021 Leadership Symposium Issue). "The Study of Leadership Theories: Great Leaders Are Made, Not Born" ABA Law Practice Magazine, co authored with Stephen Rispoli (Nov./Dec. 2021). "Making Progress in Legal Education: Leadership Development Training in Law Schools," 73 Baylor Law Rev. 1, May 2021. Fundamentals of Lawyer Leadership, co-authored with Elizabeth M. Fraley and Stephen Rispoli, 2021. Professional Activities Chair-Elect, AALS Section on Leadership. Chair, Strategic Initiative Committee, American Council on Education’s Women’s Network Executive Council. Secretary and Treasurer, Baylor Law Alumni Association. Executive Committee, Board of Directors, Texas Federal Tax Institution. Bradley J. B. Toben Dean and M.C. & Mattie Caston Chair of Law Professional Activities Panelist, "The Crisis in Legal Education Today: Structural Impediments to Change," highlighting the challenges facing legal education at the Fifth Circuit Conference and at the Eastern District of Texas Bench Bar Conference. Panelist, "How to Be the Best Lawyer: Religion, Morality, and Justice," the presentation on the relationship of the legal profession and faith and moral perspectives at the State Bar of Texas Annual Meeting. Panelist, “Implications of T.C. Heartland in Setting Venue in Intellectual Property Litigation.” The Texas Trial Lawyers Association sponsored an Austin reception in Dean Toben's honor at which he received a TTLA recognition for "exemplary service and commitment as a guiding light in legal scholarship and the pursuit of justice. Honors Elected Member, American Law Institute. Board Member of Juliette Fowler Homes, Inc. Fowler, affiliated with the Disciples of Christ. Chaired and Member for more than 25 years of the American Bar Association (ABA) and the Association of American Law Schools (AALS), membership on-site re-inspection functions and accreditation. Master of the Bench of the Abner V. McCall American Inn of Court. Member, Board of Directors of the Waco Chamber of Commerce. Patricia Wilson Associate Dean Honors Governing Board Member, Cooperative Baptist Fellowship and Chair of Legal Committee. Vice-President, Waco-McLennan County Bar Association. Board Member, Dispute Resolution Center (McLennan County). Chair, ABA Law Student Division, Client Counseling Subcommittee. Contributor, General Practice Digest (Family Law). James Wren Leon Jaworski Chair of Practice & Procedure and Co-Director of the Executive LL.M. in Litigation Management Publications “Avoiding Ethical Pitfalls in Third-Party Litigation Financing: How Lawyers Can Maintain Independence and Avoid Conflicts of Interest”, co-author with James E. Wren and Hannah Hoke, The Advocate, State Bar of Texas Litigation Section, October 2021. Faculty & Staff Faculty and Staff Directory Law Faculty Adjunct Faculty Staff Emeritus Faculty Map Alphabetical Listing Departments and Programs Faculty Scholarship Faculty and Staff News Faculty and Staff Resources Emergency Preparedness Onboarding Portal Law School Home About Academics Admissions Alumni & Giving Career Development Current Students Faculty & Staff Library Show More General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Sheila & Walter Umphrey Law Center 1114 South University Parks Drive One Bear Place #97288 Waco, Texas 76798 tel (254) 710-1911 fax (254) 710-2316 Building Hours Monday - Friday 8:00am - 5:00pm Saturday - Sunday Closed Holidays Closed Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 Faculty and Staff Directory Law Faculty Adjunct Faculty Staff Emeritus Faculty Map Alphabetical Listing Departments and Programs Faculty Scholarship Faculty and Staff News Faculty and Staff Resources Emergency Preparedness Onboarding Portal Law School Home About Academics Admissions Alumni & Giving Career Development Current Students Faculty & Staff Library