Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Health Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Our Services Appointments Health Topics Events Forms and Guidelines Our Organization News See All Services What's Open Now Patient Resources Quarantine and Isolation Support Coping Tools Immunization Compliance Top Services Birth Control Education Individual Counseling Primary Care Register with Disability Services Sexual Assault: Get Support STI Testing Support Groups Travel Medicine Urgent Medical Concerns Workshops and Trainings Cost of Service Overview Make an Appointment Same Day Service Emergency and After-hours Support Alcohol Body Image Concerns Marijuana Disabilities Other Drugs HIV Insurance Men's Health Mental Health and Well-Being Anxiety Depression Stress Nutrition Physical Activity Relationships Overview Academic Relationships Friendships Roommates Sexual and Reproductive Health Sleep Transgender and Gender Expansive Health Violence Prevention Prevention Consent What Is Sexual Assault? Supporting a Survivor What Is Relationship Abuse? Stalking What Is Sexual Harassment? Bystander Intervention-Step UP! Women's Health See All Events Sexual Assault Awareness Month Columbia Health Flu Season Information Virtual Naloxone Training About Columbia Health Who We Are Who We Serve Confidentiality, Patient Rights, & Patient Responsibilities Operating Philosophy Video Library Your Feedback Staff Directory Health Units Alice! Health Promotion Counseling and Psychological Services Disability Services Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) Insurance Office Medical Services Sexual Violence Response Columbia Health You are here: Home Minding Your Trauma Events Past Event Minding Your Trauma Share Add to Calendar: Calendar / Outlook Google Yahoo October 21, 2021 5:00 PM - 6:30 PM America/New_York Online Minding Your Trauma will provide participants with an understanding of trauma, trauma responses, and methods for healing and resilience. Acknowledging and attending to personal, communal, or generational trauma can begin a healing and resilience process for those who have experienced, are experiencing, or have witnessed traumatic events. Survivors, co-survivors, and witnesses will gain skills to identify, name, and release trauma. Community members who have not experienced violence directly will be offered key insights to shape how they interact with others who have experienced trauma. Participants will leave this virtual session knowing that they can contribute to a community of care where trauma is an experience to be acknowledged and mindful of, but that it does not define the person affected. This session will be virtual and requires advance registration as participants will need to pick up materials from the SVR table on the Lerner Ramps. Pick up location and time can be found below. This event is open to all members of the Columbia community and participants do not have to have experienced violence directly to register. ***Please note that this session counts for Sexual Respect Initiative (SRI) credit*** Materials pick up: 11:00 AM – 2:00 PM the M-W prior to the event or email [email protected] to schedule a different pick-up time. Register in advance for this webinar: https://columbiahealth.zoom.us/webinar/register/WN_7nt9l2hUSsamPZsO9qXUEw If you require disability accommodations to attend an event sponsored by Columbia Health, or by the University, contact Disability Services at 212-854-2388 in advance of the event. Contact Information Sexual Violence Response 212-854-3500 [email protected] Upcoming Events Columbia Health Administration Wallach Hall, Suite 125, Mail Code 4202, 1116 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-2284 Contact Us [email protected] Internal Use Only Login to Access Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close