Skip to Content Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Indiana University Bloomington Indiana University Bloomington IU Bloomington Menu About History Rankings & Campus Statistics Mission & Strategic Planning Leadership & Administration Safety & Emergency Information Visit Campus Transportation & Parking A-Z List Jobs at IU How to Hire IU Students Admissions How to Apply Cost & Finances Visit IU & Bloomington Academics The Academic Experience Degrees & Majors Business Health & Wellness Science, Engineering & Technology Public Service Arts & Culture Schools Academic Opportunities Study Abroad Online Classes & Programs Schedule of Classes & Academic Calendar Academic Advising & Support Libraries Research Hoosier Life Traditions & Spirit Student Organizations Recreational Sports Athletics Health, Wellness & Safety Housing & Dining Visiting Bloomington Attractions & Things to Do Diversity on Campus Career Prep Find Your Passion Get Experience Develop Your Career Use Your Network Alumni & Giving News & Events Indiana University Bloomington Home About Admissions Academics Research Hoosier Life Career Prep Alumni & Giving News & Events Home Academics Schools Schools We have the school for you IU Bloomington has 16 degree-granting colleges and schools, plus the Hutton Honors College. Many of them are among the nation’s and world’s best, and we’re constantly reimagining them to address new challenges in the world and to prepare students like you for the careers of the future. College of Arts and Sciences Earn a degree that is powerful and timeless. With more than 80 majors, the College educates well-rounded, innovative graduates to better the world, while preparing them for rewarding careers. IU Eskenazi School of Art, Architecture, and Design Build a creative career you’ll love. Part of the College of Arts and Sciences, this school brings together art, merchandising, architecture, and design to shape the future of creativity. IU Kelley School of Business Kelley prepares you to turn life’s critical moments into career-accelerating opportunities. Go from moment to momentum with a degree from a top-20 business school. School of Education Help people reach their full potential. Apply the knowledge and skills you develop here to make an impact as an educator and a leader in a variety of careers, in the United States and abroad. IU Hamilton Lugar School of Global and International Studies Prepare to be a global citizen and thrive in any workplace. You’ll learn from faculty whose unparalleled expertise extends to nearly every region of the world. IU Hutton Honors College Reach your full potential. Take seminars with other top students and world-class faculty, live in an honors community, earn scholarships, and get grants for research, international travel, and other activities. IU Luddy School of Informatics, Computing, and Engineering Learn how to solve complex problems and drive innovation at one of the largest and broadest schools for information, computing, engineering, and technology. IU Maurer School of Law The Maurer School of Law is Indiana’s top-ranked public law school and has been an innovative force in legal education since its founding in 1842. The Media School Whether you’re interested in journalism, film, advertising, or game design, The Media School’s hands-on courses and expert faculty will prepare you for tomorrow’s digital media careers. School of Medicine Achieve a deeper understanding of human health and disease as an undergraduate, graduate, or medical student through cutting-edge biomedical education and research. IU Jacobs School of Music Become a part of the legacy. Win a Grammy. Sing at the Metropolitan Opera. Play with the Berlin Philharmonic. Conduct at Carnegie Hall. IU Jacobs School of Music graduates do all this and more. School of Nursing Prepare to be a professional nurse who can work in a variety of clinical settings and who understands society’s public health needs. You’ll also develop a solid foundation for graduate study. School of Optometry Grow into a visionary leader who imagines what optometry can be and shapes what it will become. Every day the School of Optometry’s academic programs, research, and clinics advance the field and change patients’ lives. IU O’Neill School of Public and Environmental Affairs Study the management of people, policy, and issues that affect the world. Examine big ideas while gaining concrete skills that prepare you for a career leading for the greater good. School of Public Health-Bloomington Explore bachelor’s and graduate degree options that train you for a rewarding career of promoting, protecting, and enhancing the health of individuals, families, communities, and populations, locally and globally. School of Social Work Learn how to promote social and economic justice, build stronger communities, and work with individuals as they improve their lives—all in an open, caring, and hands-on educational environment. University Graduate School Choose among nearly 200 graduate programs—including certificates, master’s degrees, and Ph.D. programs—that will prepare you for a career inside or outside academia. McKinney Fountain, located outside one of the buildings of the Jacobs School of Music, represents a conductor and an orchestra. The Academic Experience Degrees & Majors Schools Academic Opportunities Study Abroad Online Classes & Programs Schedule of Classes & Academic Calendar Academic Advising & Support Libraries Indiana University Bloomington social media channels Twitter Facebook Instagram YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn Contact, Address and Additional Links Services Canvas One.IU AskIU Find Directory A-Z List Courses Campus Map Required Disclosures Library IU Bloomington Libraries IUCAT OneSearch@IU Resources Knowledge Base IT Services Faculty & Staff Resources Diversity Non-Discrimination Notice Protect IU Email About Email at IU Outlook Web Access INDIANA UNIVERSITY BLOOMINGTON 107 S. Indiana Avenue Bloomington, IN 47405-7000 Phone: 812-855-4848 Accessibility | Privacy Notice | Copyright © 2022 The Trustees of Indiana University