Skip to content Columbia University Irving Medical Center Find People Events Faculty and Staff Resources Give Now Search About Us About Us Facts and Figures Explore CUIMC Events Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion at CUIMC Community Development and Alumni Explore CUIMC Leadership and Administration A-Z Listing Affiliated Hospitals Campus Map and Directions Campus Resources Contact CUIMC Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion At CUIMC, we are committed to continuous improvement in providing culturally inclusive medical education and clinical care. Learn About Our Commitment Education Education Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Mailman School of Public Health School of Nursing College of Dental Medicine VP&S Columbia Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons is dedicated to developing the next generation of leaders in medicine Learn About Our Academic Programs Research Research The Louisa Gross Horwitz Prize Columbia Technology Ventures Research Administration Columbia Clinical Innovation Lab Patient Care Patient Care ColumbiaDoctors Children's Health Columbia Primary Care Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Digital Health Services at Columbia Find a Doctor Search for a provider by specialty, expertise, location and insurance. Schedule an appointment online. Find a Doctor News News For the Media Share Your News CUIMC Update CUIMC Celebrates Columbia Medicine Read the latest news stories about CUIMC faculty, research, and events Explore Our News COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Information for Patients COVID-19 Campus Safety for Employees and Students COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students COVID-19 Information and Resources for Clinical Staff COVID-19 Vaccine Information Learn about COVID-19 vaccine availability and requirements for employees and students at CUIMC Get the Latest Information CUIMC Celebrates 2018-2019, Issue 2 October 23, 2018 Share this page Share on Facebook Tweet Share on Linkedin Share by email CUIMC CELEBRATES acknowledges faculty, staff, and students at Columbia University Irving Medical Center who receive major research grants, who earn prestigious honors, who are elected to honorary societies, or who take leadership positions in professional organizations. Celebrates also gratefully acknowledges the gifts made by donors and friends of the medical center and highlights faculty who have appeared in the news recently. If you have an award or honor that you would like to have listed in Celebrates, please fill out this online form. Please note: All federal grants are automatically included based on institutional data provided by Sponsored Projects Administration. For more information, send an e-mail to the Celebrates editor. Looking for an older issue? The CUIMC Celebrates archive can be accessed at https://www.cuimc.columbia.edu/news/topics/campus-news/cuimc-celebrates/. RESEARCH GRANTS $250,000 and above VAGELOS COLLEGE OF PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS Jason Adelman, MD, and R. Graham Barr, MD, DrPH, Medicine, will receive $1,139,429 over five years from the Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality for “Columbia University Patient Safety and Health Services Research Training.” Roy Alcalay, MD, Neurology, will receive $300,000 over three years from the Parkinson’s Disease Foundation for “Lipidomic Analysis in Genetic and Idiopathic Parkinson’s Disease.” Rando L. Allikmets, PhD, Ophthalmology, will receive $2,365,108 over four years from the National Eye Institute for “Precision Medicine for ABCA4 Disease: Modifier Alleles.” Evelyn Attia, MD, and B. Timothy Walsh, MD, Psychiatry, will receive $1,004,200 over five years from the National Institute of Mental Health for “Research Training in Biobehavioral Disturbances of Eating Disorders” in a competitive renewal. Francesco Cambuli, PhD, Medicine, will receive $320,000 over two years from the Department of the Army for “Identification of Master Transcriptional Regulators of Neuroendocrine Differentiation in Prostate Cancer.” Christine Chio, PhD, Institute for Cancer Genetics, will receive $500,000 over three years from the Pancreatic Cancer Action Network for “Targeting Redox Status and mRNA Translation in Pancreatic Cancer.” Angela Christiano, PhD, Dermatology, will receive $250,000 over one year from the California Institute for Regenerative Medicine for “Genetically Corrected, Induced Pluripotent Cell-Derived Epithelial Sheets for Definitive Treatment of Dystrophic Epidermolysis Bullosa.” Alberto Ciccia, PhD, Genetics & Development, will receive $600,000 over three years from the Pershing Square Sohn Cancer Research Alliance for “Regulation of Genome Stability and Innate Immunity in Breast Cancer.” Henry Colecraft, PhD, and Steven O. Marx, MD, Physiology & Cellular Biophysics, will receive $2,859,600 over four years from the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute for “L-Type Channel Trafficking and Modulation in Heart” in a competitive renewal. Cristiane Duarte, PhD, Catherine Monk, PhD, and Jonathan Posner, MD, Psychiatry, will receive $15,264,500 over five years from the Office of the NIH Director for “Breaking the Cycle of Intergenerational Disadvantage: Neurodevelopment Among Puerto Rican Children.” Jonathan Dworkin, PhD, Microbiology & Immunology, will receive $440,000 over two years from the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases for “Physiological Responses to Cell Wall-Active Antibiotics in a Gram-Positive Bacterium.” Dieter Egli, PhD, Naomi Berrie Diabetes Center, will receive $324,551 over two years from the New York State Department of Health for “Derivation and Functional Characterization of (Haploid) Androgenetic Human Pluripotent Stem Cells.” Charles Emala, MD, Anesthesiology, will receive $1,442,190 over five years from the National Institute of General Medical Sciences for “Anesthesiology Research Training” in a competitive renewal. Donna L. Farber, PhD, Surgery, will receive $12,820,900 over five years from the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases for “Tissue Compartmentalization of Human Lymphocytes” in a competitive renewal and $300,000 over one year from the Leona M. and Harry B. Helmsley Charitable Trust for “Human Atlas of Neonatal Development and Early-Life Immunity.” Giovanni Ferrari, PhD, Surgery, will receive $388,231 over five years from the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute for “Cardiac MR Imaging of Hemorrhagic Reperfusion Injury After Myocardial Infarction.” Wayne Frankel, PhD, Institute for Genomic Medicine, will receive $2,548,488 over three years from the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke for “Genetic Determinants of Epilepsy in Murine Systems.” Terry Goldberg, PhD, Psychiatry, will receive $7,599,912 over five years from the National Institute on Aging for “Novel Cognitive and Functional Measure for Alzheimer’s Disease Prevention Trials.” Eric Greene, PhD, Biochemistry & Molecular Biophysics, will receive $900,000 over four years from the National Science Foundation for “Why Do Eukaryotes Have Two Rad51/RecA Family Recombinases?” Scott Hammer, MD, and Franklin D. Lowy, MD, Medicine, will receive $851,529 over five years from the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases for “Columbia Integrated Training Program in Infectious Diseases Research” in a competitive renewal. Dale Hesdorffer, PhD, Sergievsky Center, will receive $251,496 over three years from the Epilepsy Study Consortium for “Multicenter One-Year Observational Study of Patients Who Are Initiating Brivaracetam.” Joanne Hsieh, PhD, Medicine, will receive $753,088 over five years from the National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases for “Hepatoprotective Mechanisms of TTC39B Deficiency.” Tae-Wan Kim, PhD, Pathology & Cell Biology, will receive $452,278 over two years from the National Center for Advancing Translational Sciences for “Effects of ApoE-Enhancing Compounds on Alzheimer’s Disease Phenotypes In Vivo.” Krzysztof Kiryluk, MD, Medicine, will receive $5,014,475 over five years from the National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases for “Genomics of Glomerular Disease.” Taiyi Kuo, PhD, Medicine, will receive $616,108 over four years from the National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases for “Epigenetic Regulation by FoxO1 in Pancreatic Beta Cells.” Matthew Lewis, MD, Medicine, will receive $906,904 over five years from the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute for “The Association of Damaging Genetic Variation With Ventricular Function in Hypoplastic Left Heart Syndrome.” Karen Marder, MD, and Claudia Chiriboga-Klein, MD, Sergievsky Center, will receive $1,562,131 over five years from the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke for “Clinical Research Sites for the Network of Excellence in Neuroscience Clinical Trials (NeuroNEXT sites) (U24).” Richard P. Mayeux, MD, Michio Hirano, MD, Jennifer J. Manly, PhD, and James Noble, MD, Neurology, will receive $625,105 over five years from the National Institute on Aging for “Brief Research in Aging and Interdisciplinary Neurosciences (BRAIN).” Maya Mikami, MD, PhD, Anesthesiology, will receive $838,620 over five years from the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute for “Gelsolin Modulation of Airway Hyperresponsiveness and Inflammation.” Umrao Monani, PhD, Pathology & Cell Biology, will receive $300,000 over two years from Cure SMA for “Restoring Function at the NMJ: A Novel Means to Treat SMA.” Owen O’Connor, MD, PhD, Medicine, will receive $806,800 over three years from the Leukemia and Lymphoma Society for “LLS Research-TAP-Global T-cell Consortium.” Max O’Donnell, MD, Medicine, will receive $413,835 over two years from the Fogarty International Center for “Impact of a Multimodal Intervention to Reduce Dual Stigma and Improve Treatment Outcomes in HIV/Drug-Resistant TB Co-infected Patients in KwaZulu-Natal, South Africa.” Kenneth Olive, PhD, and Andrea Califano, PhD, Medicine, will receive $2,382,239 over three years from the Lustgarten Foundation for Pancreatic Cancer Research for “Clinical Translation of Regulatory Network-Based Precision Medicine for Pancreatic Cancer.” Ruth Ottman, PhD, Sergievsky Center, will receive $3,156,279 over five years from the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke for “Psychosocial Impact of Genetics in Epilepsy.” Laura Pasqualucci, MD, Institute for Cancer Genetics, will receive $1,923,750 over five years from the National Cancer Institute for “Role of KMT2D Gene Inactivation in B-cell Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma” in a competitive renewal and $600,000 over three years from the Leukemia and Lymphoma Society for “Targeting Epigenetic Addictions in KMT2D Mutated B-cell Lymphomas.” Matteo Porotto, PhD, Pediatrics, will receive $1,771,875 over five years from the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke for “Development of Therapeutic Fusion Inhibitor Peptides for Measles Encephalitis.” Vincent Racaniello, PhD, Microbiology & Immunology, will receive $440,000 over two years from the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases for “Mechanism of Zika Virus-Induced Corticogenesis Defects.” Stephen Rayport, MD, PhD, Psychiatry, will receive $2,852,135 over five years from the National Institute of Mental Health for “Targeting Cotransmission for Circuit-Specific Pharmacotherapy.” Ray Razlighi, PhD, Taub Institute, will receive $3,828,965 over five years from the National Institute on Aging for “Functional Connectivity Network in Default Mode Regions Provides the Underlying Infrastructure for Task-Based Functional Co-de/activation Networks.” Muredach Reilly, MBBCh, Medicine, will receive $3,086,050 over four years from the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute for “Elucidation of Tissue-Specific Transcriptomic Profiles in Cardiometabolic Disease” in a competitive renewal. Ran Reshef, MD, Medicine, will receive $640,000 over two years from the Army Medical Research and Materiel Command for “Identification of Effector and Suppressive T-cell Clones in Graft-vs-Host Disease.” Gissette Reyes-Soffer, MD, Medicine, will receive $2,106,721 over four years from the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute for “Unraveling the Complexity of Lipoprotein(a) Metabolism: Human Kinetic Studies.” Victor Rodriguez, MD-PhD candidate, VP&S Office for Research, will receive $294,954 over five years from the National Library of Medicine for “Probabilistic Modeling of Observational Clinical Data for High-Throughput Inference of Disease Phenotypes.” Yvonne Saenger, MD, Medicine, will receive $750,000 over three years from the Food & Drug Administration for “Ph1 Study of T-VEC Given Endoscopically for Advanced Pancreatic Cancer.” Robert Schwabe, MD, Medicine, will receive $3,119,231 over five years from the National Cancer Institute for “Role of Cancer-Associated Fibroblasts in Cholangiocarcinoma.” Michael Shen, PhD, Medicine, will receive $300,000 over two years from the Bladder Cancer Advocacy Network for “Modeling Bladder Cancer Metastasis Using Human Patient-Derived Tumor Organoids.” Peter Sims, PhD, Systems Biology, will receive $446,230 over two years from the National Human Genome Research Institute for “Fully Integrated Single-Cell Imaging and RNA-Seq Library Preparation.” Magdalena Sobieszczyk, MD, Medicine, will receive $504,977 over one year from the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation for “HVTN Correlates Phase 1 Funding (PF) (HVTN 108 and HVTN 120).” Alexander Sobolevsky, PhD, Biochemistry & Molecular Biophysics, will receive $1,870,440 over five years from the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke for “Single-Particle Cryo-EM Characterization of AMPA Receptor Functional States.” Milan Stojanovic, PhD, and Markus Mapara, MD, PhD, Medicine, will receive $2,640,948 over four years from the National Institute of Biomedical Imaging and Bioengineering for “Graft Engineering of Allogeneic Hematopoietic Stem Cell Products With Molecular Cascades.” Jennifer Sumner, PhD, Medicine, will receive $3,805,230 over five years from the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute for “Identifying Early Intervention Targets for Reducing Cardiovascular Risk in Posttraumatic Stress.” Megan Sykes, MD, Medicine, will receive $460,000 over two years from the National Center for Advancing Translational Sciences for “TCR and BCR Deep Sequencing to Distinguish Autoimmune Recurrence From Allograft Rejection.” Ira Tabas, MD, PhD, Medicine, will receive $476,007 over two years from Sanofi for “siRNA Targeting Hepatocyte TAZ as a Novel Treatment for Non-Alcoholic Steatohepatitis.” Kiran Thakur, MD, Neurology, will receive $929,798 over five years from the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke for “Clinical Impact of Early Pathogen Identification in Acute Neurological Infections.” Stephen Tsang, MD, PhD, Ophthalmology, will receive $819,275 over five years from the National Eye Institute for “Translational Gene Therapy for CNGB1 Retinitis Pigmentosa.” Marcella Walker, MD, Medicine, will receive $2,960,110 over five years from the National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases for “Skeletal Microstructure – Racial Differences and Genetic Contributors.” Arthur Williams, MD, Psychiatry, will receive $420,098 over two years from the National Institute on Drug Abuse for “Medical Marijuana Program Participation and Changes in Controlled Substance Use.” Jennifer Woo Baidal, MD, Pediatrics, will receive $495,000 over three years from the Doris Duke Charitable Foundation for “Developing Novel Clinical Approaches to Reduce Childhood Obesity Risk Factors During the First 1,000 Days.” Kazuhiko Yamada, MD, PhD, Surgery, will receive $700,898 over two years from the National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases for “siRNA Protection of Islet Grafts in Baboons” and $623,910 over two years from the National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases for “siRNA Protection of Composite Islet-Kidney Transplant in Baboons.” Ai Yamamoto, PhD, Neurology, will receive $2,448,267 over five years from the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke for “Selective Autophagy in Parkinson’s Disease.” MAILMAN SCHOOL OF PUBLIC HEALTH Merlin Chowkwanyun, PhD, and David Rosner, PhD, Sociomedical Sciences, will receive $457,649 over three years from the National Science Foundation for “Standard Grant: ToxicDocs Research Infrastructure Project.” Mark Hatzenbuehler, PhD, Sociomedical Sciences, will receive $350,000 over five years from the William T. Grant Foundation for “Evaluating Structural Strategies for Reducing Homophobic Bullying.” Yael Hirsch-Moverman, PhD, ICAP, will receive $362,320 over two years from the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases for “Provide Options For Treatment Of Exposed Children Against Tuberculosis (PROTECT) Study.” Iuliana Ionita-Laza, PhD, Biostatistics, will receive $1,826,341 over four years from the National Institute of Mental Health for “Novel Statistical Methods for DNA Sequencing Data, and Applications to Autism” in a competitive renewal. Katherine Keyes, PhD, Epidemiology, will receive $1,938,350 over five years from the National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism for “Age, Period, and Cohort Effects on Gender Differences in Alcohol Use and Alcohol Use Disorders in 47 National, Longitudinally-Followed Cohorts.” Pia Mauro, PhD, Epidemiology, will receive $878,145 over five years from the National Institute on Drug Abuse for “Multi-level Associations Between Medical Marijuana Laws and Substance Use Disorder Treatment.” R. Todd Ogden, PhD, Biostatistics, will receive $770,905 over four years from the National Institute of Mental Health for “Biotyping Placebo and Treatment-Specific Responses for Precision Medicine” in a competitive renewal. Rachel Shelton, ScD, Sociomedical Sciences, will receive $784,559 over four years from the American Cancer Society for “Sustainability of Lay Health Advisor Programs to Address Cancer Disparities.” Gina Wingood, ScD, and Robert Remien, PhD, Sociomedical Sciences, will receive $779,710 over five years from the National Institute of Mental Health for “HIV Center for Clinical and Behavioral Studies.” AWARDS & HONORS COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY IRVING MEDICAL CENTER 2018 Irving Institute Mentors of the Year Ali Gharavi, MD, Medicine Lori Mosca, MD, PhD, Medicine 2017 Kenneth A. Forde Diversity Alliance Awards Steven Lee-Kong, MD, faculty award Rosa Mendoza, MD, resident award Amma Ntoso VP&S’20, student award Ramon Rodriguez VP&S’20, student award Columbia Biomedical Technology Accelerator CUIMC members on four projects were awarded 2018 funding from the Columbia Biomedical Technology Accelerator. Christie Custodio-Lumsden, PhD, and Burton Edelstein, DDS, Population Oral Health, “MySmileBuddy: Electronic Counseling Tool to Stop Tooth Decay and Reduce Dental Treatment.” Richard D. Carvajal, MD, Medicine, “A Drug Delivery Injector for Highly Viscous Drug Formulations.” Michael Pitman, MD, Otolaryngology–Head & Neck Surgery, “HAVA: Therapeutic OTC Inhalant Device to Alleviate Inflammation and Pain of the Upper Aerodigestive Tract.” Andreas Hielscher, PhD, Radiology, and Dawn Hershman, MD, Medicine, “Dynamic Optical Tomographic Breast Imaging System (DOTBIS) for Predicting Cancer Therapy Outcome.” VAGELOS COLLEGE OF PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS Louis V. Gerstner Jr. Scholars Program The Louis V. Gerstner Jr. Scholars Program supports physicians who are on tenure track and conduct research that has the promise of ultimately bringing new treatments to patients. Four scholars were named this year, and one current scholar received a merit award for exhibiting great research potential. Gerstner Scholars Nicolino Dorrello, MD, PhD, Pediatrics, “Targeted De-epithelialization as a Novel Therapeutic Strategy for Lung Repair.” Justin Golub, MD, Otolaryngology–Head & Neck Surgery, “Elucidating the Mechanism Linking Hearing Loss With Cognitive Impairment Using Comprehensive Audiometry and Multimodal Brain Imaging.” Eliza Miller, MD, Neurology, “Postpartum Neurovascular Unit Dysfunction in Women With Severe Preeclampsia.” Gene Thomas Yocum, MD, Anesthesiology, “GABAA Receptor-Mediated Modulation of Inflammation: A Promising Therapeutic Target.” Gerstner Merit Award Joy-Sarah Vink, MD, Obstetrics & Gynecology Marjorie and Lewis Katz Scholars Two faculty members were honored for their contributions to cardiovascular research: Natalie A. Bello, MD, Medicine Siqin Ye, MD, Medicine Other Honors Andrea Califano, PhD, Systems Biology, was elected to the National Academy of Medicine, one of the highest honors awarded in the fields of health and medicine in the United States. Marisa Cevasco, MD, Surgery, Nicole Lamanna, MD, Medicine, and Rebecca Martinez, MD, Anesthesiology, received Physician of the Year awards from NewYork-Presbyterian. Rita Charon, MD, PhD, Medical Humanities & Ethics, was selected by the National Endowment for the Humanities to deliver the 2018 Jefferson Lecture in the Humanities. The lecture is the highest honor the federal government bestows for distinguished intellectual achievement in the humanities. Wendy Chung, MD, PhD, will receive the 2018 Academy Medal for Distinguished Contributions in Biomedical Science from the New York Academy of Medicine for her global leadership in the diagnosis and treatment of rare diseases through her work that identified more than 41 new genes for human diseases. Mitchell Elkind, MD, Neurology, will receive the Stroke Council Award from the American Heart Association for promoting awareness of cerebrovascular disease and its importance in the cardiovascular community. Charles Emala, MD, Anesthesiology, received the 2018 Mentoring Excellence in Research Award from the Foundation for Anesthesia and Research. Sharon Gutman, PhD, Rehabilitation & Regenerative Medicine, was named editor-in-chief of the British Journal of Occupational Therapy. George Hripcsak, MD, Biomedical Informatics, will receive the 2018 William W. Stead Award for Thought Leadership in Informatics from the American Medical Informatics Association for “substantially changing thinking or direction in at least one area regarding how informatics can improve health or health care organizations.” Kevin Kalinsky, MD, Medicine, was named the One Race One Mission Physician of Impact by Komen Greater NYC for his dedication to making advancements in therapeutic options for breast cancer patients. Andrew S. Kanter, MD, Biomedical Informatics, was selected to serve on the Board on Global Health of the National Academies of Science, Engineering, and Medicine. Wahida Karmally, DrPH, Irving Institute, will receive a 2018 Medallion Award from the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics for service and leadership in the academy and the nutrition and dietetics profession. Jessica Kohn, PhD candidate, received a 2018 Gilliam Fellowship for Advanced Study from the Howard Hughes Medical Institute. Jared S. Kushner, MD, Medicine, received the 2018-19 Glorney-Raisbeck Fellowship Award in Cardiovascular Diseases from the New York Academy of Medicine for “Elucidating Mechanisms of Calcium Channel Regulation in the Heart.” H.T. Lee, MD, PhD, Anesthesiology, and Vivette D'Agati, MD, Pathology & Cell Biology, received the 2018 Distinguished Alumni Award from the NewYork-Presbyterian/Columbia Society of the Alumni. Roberto Lewis-Fernández, MD, Psychiatry, received the 2018 senior scholar Health Services Research Award from the American Psychiatric Association. Chao Lu, PhD, Genetics & Development, received the 2018 Gertrude B. Elion Cancer Research Award from the American Association for Cancer Research. Jordan Orange, MD, PhD, Pediatrics, was elected to the National Academy of Medicine, one of the highest honors awarded in the fields of health and medicine in the United States. Herbert Pardes, MD, Psychiatry, received the 2018 Berson Senior Psychiatrist Award from the American Psychiatric Association. Richard A. Polin, MD, Pediatrics, will be the honoree at the 2018 ’Tinis for Preemies benefit event by the Graham Foundation for his dedication to improving outcomes for premature infants and their families. Megha Prasad, MD, Medicine, was selected to receive the SCAI-Women in Innovations CHIP Fellowship from the Society for Cardiovascular Angiography and Interventions to support her training on complex and high-risk interventional procedures and percutaneous acute mechanical circulatory support. Lauren Redler, MD, Orthopedic Surgery, received the Lance Peters, MD, Memorial Biomechanics Award from the Hospital for Special Surgery Alumni Association for her paper “Anisometry of Medial Patellofemoral Ligament Reconstruction in the Setting of Increased Tibial Tubercle-Trochlear Groove Distance and Patella Alta.” Joseph Schwartz, MD, Pathology & Cell Biology, received the 2019 Hemphill-Jordan Leadership Award from the American Association of Blood Banks. Elizabeth Shane, MD, Medicine, received the 2018 Paula Stern Achievement Award from the American Society of Bone and Mineral Research for significant achievements in the bone field and for promoting the professional development and advancement of women in the field. Marie-Pierre St-Onge, PhD, Medicine, was appointed by the American Heart Association to serve on an expert panel of Healthy Eating Research, a program of the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, to develop a consensus statement for healthy beverage consumption recommendations in early childhood. Anne L. Taylor, MD, Medicine, received the 2018 Distinguished Leadership Award from the Association of Black Cardiologists. Agnes Whitaker, MD, Psychiatry, received the 2018 Frank J. Menolascino Award for Psychiatric Services for Persons with Intellectual Development Disorders/Developmental Disabilities from the American Psychiatric Association. MAILMAN SCHOOL OF PUBLIC HEALTH Linda P. Fried, MD, MPH, dean, was named a “notable woman in health care” by Crain’s New York Business. The program, inaugurated this year, honors executives, researchers, and clinicians who have had a profound impact through work in their careers and in their communities. Wafaa M. El-Sadr, MD, will receive the 2018 Stephen Smith Award for Distinguished Contributions in Public Health from the New York Academy of Medicine for her leadership in addressing HIV and other global health threats and in strengthening health systems worldwide in partnership with governmental and non-governmental organizations. Sharon K. Greene, PhD, Epidemiology, received the Presidential Priorities Award from the Council of State and Territorial Epidemiologists for the abstract “Detecting Drop-Offs in Electronic Laboratory Reporting for Communicable Diseases in New York City” in recognition of her work to advance the use of informatics to improve health outcomes. COLLEGE OF DENTAL MEDICINE The College of Dental Medicine received a 2018 Higher Education Excellence in Diversity Award from INSIGHT Into Diversity in recognition of the school’s work creating a diverse, inclusive environment. David Momtaheni, DMD, Oral & Maxillofacial Surgery, received a Corporate Award from the New Rochelle Police Foundation. SCHOOL OF NURSING Dawon Baik, PhD, Scholarship & Research, received the Eugenie and Joseph Doyle Award from the Visiting Nurse Service of New York. Lorraine Frazier, PhD, was appointed dean of the Columbia University School of Nursing. Lisa Iannacci-Manasia, Academics, was appointed a visiting professor at the University of Turin, Department of the Sciences of Public Health and Pediatrics, for the 2018-19 academic year after a vetting process that involved a number of global nursing leaders. Kasey Jackman, PhD, Scholarship & Research, received a 25th WPATH Biennial Symposium scholarship from the World Professional Association for Transgender Health. Elise Mantell, PhD candidate, and Shazia Mitha, PhD candidate, were selected to be Robert Wood Johnson Foundation Future of Nursing Scholars. Nancy Reame, PhD, Scholarship & Research, was honored as one of eight nursing leaders in menopause research and practice as part of the 25th anniversary special issue of Menopause, the journal of the North American Menopause Society (NAMS), in the editorial “The Role of Nursing With the Journal Menopause and NAMS over the last 25 years: Contributions and Collaboration.” Cindy Veldhuis, PhD, Scholarship & Research, was invited to join the editorial boards of the Journal of GLBT Family Studies and PLOS ONE. PHILANTHROPIC GIFTS VAGELOS COLLEGE OF PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS A family foundation made a $12,000,000 commitment to the Department of Neurology to advance research in neurodegenerative diseases. A foundation made a $5,000,000 commitment to support neuroscience research and education. An organization made a $1,200,000 commitment to advance research and clinical care in non-verbal learning disabilities in the Division of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry. A donor made a $1,000,000 commitment to the Department of Ophthalmology’s Stem Cell Retina Transplantation Project, to advance research aimed at slowing the degenerative process and preserving vision. A donor made a $300,000 commitment to the Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center to support research in integrative medicine and clinical services for patients undergoing chemotherapy and radiation therapy. A family foundation made a $250,000 contribution to the Department of Ophthalmology to bolster research toward finding new therapeutic and diagnostic methods for preventing and delaying age-related macular degeneration. A donor made a $250,000 commitment to provide scholarship support to the Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons. A corporation made a pledge of $175,000 to support research at the Institute of Human Nutrition. A donor made a $150,000 contribution to support communications initiatives at the Department of Urology. A donor made a $100,000 commitment to support the Global Health Security and the Child Program at the Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons. A foundation made a $100,000 gift to the Department of Ophthalmology to advance high frequency ultrasound technology for early diagnosis and treatment of eye disorders. A donor made a gift of $100,000 to the Division of Cardiology to advance cardiac research and clinical work. A donor made a $100,000 contribution to the Department of Urology to advance research toward developing new therapeutic strategies for urologic disorders. A donor made a gift of $100,000 to the Division of Cardiology to advance cardiac research and care. A donor made a $100,000 gift to provide fellowship support to the Division of Cardiology. MAILMAN SCHOOL OF PUBLIC HEALTH An individual donor made a bequest intention of $5,000,000 to support student scholarships. A donor made a gift of $200,264 to support Health Policy Management Research. CUIMC IN THE NEWS Community Health Worker Intervention May Benefit Adolescents With Sickle Cell Disease  Healio | Oct. 10, 2018 Results of the trial—led by Arlene Smaldone, PhD, professor and assistant dean of scholarship and research at Columbia University School of Nursing, along with Nancy S. Green, MD, pediatric hematologist and associate director of Irving Institute for Clinical and Translational Research at Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center—laid the groundwork for a larger four-site randomized controlled trial that will further assess the intervention. Research Links Long-Banned Insecticide DDT to Autism U.S. News & World Report | Aug. 16, 2018 “They break down slowly over time. Even though they’re not produced any more in the Western world, almost everyone is exposed to some of them,” said study author Dr. Alan Brown. He’s a professor of epidemiology at Columbia University Irving Medical Center in New York City. She Thought It was Just Pregnancy Puffiness. The Truth Was Much Worse. The Washington Post | Aug. 2, 2018 That’s something [Mary] D’Alton wants to make available to more women through the new Mothers Center at NewYork-Presbyterian/Columbia University Irving Medical Center. It’s a place for high-risk patients to receive comprehensive care, following the model of the hospital’s already-successful fetal health center. Although there are several fetal centers across the country, D’Alton notes, there’s never been something similar for mothers. The idea is to have “everyone on the same page,” explains D’Alton, so that a woman knows that her doctors are communicating not just with her, but also one another, to create specialized treatment plans. New Dental Tech Can Tell When You're Scared Popular Mechanics | July 28, 2018 “The biology of a person is actually best understood under stress,” Christian Stohler, Dean of the College of Dental Medicine at Columbia, told The Outline. “If someone is more vulnerable to stressful situations, they might be subject to a host of diseases aggravated by stress. If you understand a person’s resilience to stress, you may be able to understand what it means for the progression of disease.” Visit the CUIMC Newsroom to see more top-tier media headlines or subscribe to the CUIMC Weekly Media Report to receive a broader compilation of media appearances via email each week. Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian About Us Careers News Education Patient Care Research Resources at CUIMC Columbia University Irving Medical Center 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Back to top