Skip to content Columbia University Irving Medical Center Find People Events Faculty and Staff Resources Give Now Search About Us About Us Facts and Figures Explore CUIMC Events Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion at CUIMC Community Development and Alumni Explore CUIMC Leadership and Administration A-Z Listing Affiliated Hospitals Campus Map and Directions Campus Resources Contact CUIMC Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion At CUIMC, we are committed to continuous improvement in providing culturally inclusive medical education and clinical care. Learn About Our Commitment Education Education Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Mailman School of Public Health School of Nursing College of Dental Medicine VP&S Columbia Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons is dedicated to developing the next generation of leaders in medicine Learn About Our Academic Programs Research Research The Louisa Gross Horwitz Prize Columbia Technology Ventures Research Administration Columbia Clinical Innovation Lab Patient Care Patient Care ColumbiaDoctors Children's Health Columbia Primary Care Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Digital Health Services at Columbia Find a Doctor Search for a provider by specialty, expertise, location and insurance. Schedule an appointment online. Find a Doctor News News For the Media Share Your News CUIMC Update CUIMC Celebrates Columbia Medicine Read the latest news stories about CUIMC faculty, research, and events Explore Our News COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Information for Patients COVID-19 Campus Safety for Employees and Students COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students COVID-19 Information and Resources for Clinical Staff COVID-19 Vaccine Information Learn about COVID-19 vaccine availability and requirements for employees and students at CUIMC Get the Latest Information You are here Home > COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC > COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students > Update on the Start of the Spring Semester COVID-19 Information for Patients COVID-19 Campus Safety for Employees and Students COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students COVID-19 Information and Resources for Clinical Staff Update on the Start of the Spring Semester Dear fellow members of the Columbia community, Looking to the new year, and guided by our public health experts who are closely monitoring COVID-19 developments and the Omicron variant, the President’s COVID-19 Task Force has issued a series of policies and recommendations for all affiliates for January 2022. For faculty, staff, and students involved in instructional activity, the first two weeks of classes for the spring 2022 semester will be conducted remotely. While much of the undergraduate and graduate community commences classes on January 18, a number of graduate and professional programs begin earlier in January. The two-week remote learning period will correspond with the scheduled start of instruction for each specific program and school. This two-week remote learning period is designed to minimize disruptions for students who may be unable to travel or who must isolate because of COVID-19. It will also allow a period for gateway testing of all students prior to the start of in-person classes. This change does not affect access to campus: All students are invited back to campus before and during the two-week remote learning period, but must follow the testing requirements noted below as well as other campus COVID-19 safety measures. At CUIMC, clinical clerkships will continue as scheduled and in person. For faculty, researchers, staff, and students involved in research, administration and all other non-instructional work, the President’s COVID-19 Task Force recommends that they conduct work remotely, if feasible, during the first two weeks of January. Individual units may determine who will be required to be in person versus remote. In general, beyond these two weeks, the approach to in-person/hybrid work is expected to remain the same in the spring term as it has been in the fall term. You can read more online about remote work in the spring term. COVID-19 testing for students: Before returning to campus: We strongly recommend that all students get a PCR test 48 hours prior to arriving on campus. While this test is not currently required, it may become so depending on public health conditions. Either way, we urge students to schedule a PCR test appointment well in advance, ensuring that your return to campus is not delayed or disrupted. Those who test positive outside of Columbia are required to isolate for ten days before returning to campus. Note that at this time, we do not require the results of negative tests from this external testing to be uploaded or submitted—but please report positive test results through COVIDtesttrace@columbia.edu. Once on campus: All residential undergraduate students (in Columbia College, School of Engineering and Applied Science, and General Studies) are required to test through the Columbia testing program on the first business day after your return to campus and again between days 5 and 7. All other students are required to get a Columbia gateway test within 72 hours of their return to campus. COVID-19 testing policy for faculty and staff: Gateway testing is also required for all non-student affiliates who did not receive a Columbia gateway test in 2021. Given possible holiday travel and socializing, we strongly recommend a PCR test, preferably prior to your return to campus, or when you return through the Columbia testing facilities at Lerner Hall or the Black Building. Continuation of supplementary/voluntary and surveillance testing Voluntary and surveillance testing will continue to be offered to all faculty, staff, and students. We will continue to adjust the size of the random sample selected for surveillance testing based on the COVID-19 context and will continue the wastewater surveillance of undergraduate student residential buildings. Vaccine booster dose mandate We remind you that all faculty, staff, and students must receive their vaccine booster dose (if eligible) by January 31, 2022. Students should upload evidence of their booster dose as they did with prior doses. For faculty and staff, information about documenting booster doses will be shared shortly. Our prior message sent on December 14 provides details regarding the availability of booster doses and testing venues for our affiliates. New Visitor Policy All visitors, including those who enter any campus facility for any period of time, must be vaccinated and show proof of vaccination as part of visitor attestation. New Gathering Policy In-person, indoor gatherings of any kind during the first two weeks of January are prohibited. We are extraordinarily grateful for the care and commitment each of you has shown to keeping our campus safe and healthy. We will continue to monitor the rapidly evolving situation and provide ongoing updates to our community. Sincerely, Mary C. Boyce Provost Professor of Mechanical Engineering Donna Lynne Senior Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, CUIMC University COVID Director Gerry Rosberg Senior Executive Vice President Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian About Us Careers News Education Patient Care Research Resources at CUIMC Columbia University Irving Medical Center 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Back to top