Skip navigation Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Brown Grad School About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Graduate School Admitted Students Guide: Health & Dental Insurance Graduate School Skip to Navigation Admitted Students Guide: Health & Dental Insurance admitted students home Insurance Office Box 1848 (401) 863-1703 [email protected] All Brown students are required to show proof of health insurance while they are enrolled at the University. All registered students, are automatically enrolled in the University’s Student Health Insurance Plan (SHIP). The plan has an annual premium of $4,204 for the 2021-2022 academic year for continuing students or those who matriculate in the fall of 2021. The deadline for waiving SHIP for the 2021-2022 academic year is July 30, 2021. Academic-year coverage is effective from August 15, 2021, to August 14, 2022. The plan’s spring-semester premium (for students who matriculate in the spring semester of 2021) is $2,602; the deadline for waiving for the 2022 Spring semester is January 10, 2022. Spring-semester coverage is effective from January 1, 2022, to August 14, 2022. Students who are currently enrolled in a plan with comparable coverage (see coverage comparison sheet at brown.edu/insurance) may waive the Student Health Insurance Plan, by completing the online waiver form. Many doctoral and MFA students who are financially supported by the University will automatically be granted a health insurance subsidy and do not need to submit an application for one unless the subsidy does not appear on their University bill. All other doctoral and MFA students can apply for the subsidy through the Graduate School using the application. However, students supported by outside fellowships or grants to conduct research and attend classes will be given the highest priority. Normally students who are not receiving support from Brown or from outside fellowships or grants will not receive the health insurance subsidy. Subsidy applications will be reviewed on an individual basis. Dental Insurance Doctoral students receive paid Student Dental Insurance. This coverage is made possible through discretionary funds allocated by President Paxson and the Office of the Provost. Doctoral students have the option of paying to extend that coverage to their dependents. Master’s students and their dependents have the option of purchasing Student Dental Insurance. All students enrolled in the Student Health Insurance program have the option of using the Dental Savings Program, which provides pre-negotiated discounts on services provided by participating area dentists. See the Insurance Office website for additional information, including the policy on Voluntary Student Dental Insurance. Dependents Students’ dependents may be enrolled in SHIP at an additional cost. Eligible dependents include a legal spouse or domestic partner, children up to the age of 26, or a newborn infant born while the student is covered by SHIP. A spouse or partner is generally expected to be living with the covered student in order to be eligible for coverage. Students who receive health and dental coverage through their financial support packages from the University are eligible to receive a 75% subsidy on the annual premium cost of enrolling a dependent. Health Insurance Waiver/Buyout We urge graduate students who are covered by another comparable health insurance plan to waive the University plan. Choosing the waiver enables the Graduate School to use its resources to cover those without access to another plan. If students waive the University plan and are eligible for the subsidy, they will receive a buyout of $400 ($200 for spring-semester coverage) from the Graduate School. This buyout will be distributed through the student account system. If students have a credit balance on their student account at the time the buyout is disbursed, they will be able to request a refund from the Bursar’s Office. If they do not have a credit balance at this time, the $400/$200 will be applied to their student account. Students can find out if they were automatically enrolled in the University plan by checking their student account statement for a “Health Insurance Fee.” If after reviewing the tuition bill, a student finds they not enrolled in the Student Health Insurance Plan, they are still eligible to participate. Please contact the Insurance Office for waiver instructions. Students who choose coverage through both the University’s health insurance plan and an alternate plan should be aware that the University plan includes a “Coordination of Benefits” provision. A student may want to contact his or her other insurance company to inquire about a similar provision in that plan. “Double Coverage” may affect the timely processing of claims between the two plans. Home About the Graduate School Healthy Brown FAQs for Graduate Students Academics & Research Living & Resources Financing & Support Admitted Students & Orientation Application Information For Graduate Students For Faculty and Staff Brown University Brown University Graduate School Box 1867 Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-2600 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Resources Graduate School Handbook Academic Code CareerLAB Brown University Writing Center Sarah Doyle Center for Women and Gender Sheridan Center for Teaching & Learning Top Destinations Admission Inquiry Form Commencement Five-Year Ph.D. Support Open Graduate Education External Funding Application Process International Applicants