Skip to content Xavier University Apply to Xavier Request Info Visit Campus Giving to Xavier Open search dialog Open Navigation Menu Undergraduate Admission Admission Process Undergraduate Application Tuition and Aid Visit Campus Make Your Commitment Contact Us Close Undergraduate Admission sub menu Graduate Admission Apply to Xavier Graduate Financial Aid Events and Information Sessions Contact Us Close Graduate Admission sub menu Academics Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Student Outcomes Academic Support Education Abroad Honors Programs Xavier University Colleges Close Academics sub menu Campus Life Residence Halls Campus Dining Options Clubs and Organizations Diversity Faith and Service Recreational Sports Cincinnati Health and Wellness First-Year Experience Close Campus Life sub menu Athletics goxavier.com Close Athletics sub menu About Xavier Xavier University Rankings Mission, Vision, and Values What is Jesuit Education? Close About Xavier sub menu Apply to Xavier Request Info Visit Campus Giving to Xavier Current Students Alumni Relations Employees Parents and Families Employment Opportunities Maps and Directions Search Xavier University: Search Faith and Service Residence Halls Campus Dining Options Clubs and Organizations Diversity Faith and Service Health and Wellness Menu Residence Halls Campus Dining Options Clubs and Organizations Diversity Faith and Service Health and Wellness A Transformative Community Xavier University is a Jesuit, Catholic University rooted in the belief that learning and spirituality go hand in hand. Our mission is to educate each student intellectually, morally and spiritually. Our vision is a world changed for the better. Take a look at some of the offices and programs that offer students opportunities to worship and serve in our community and beyond. Catholic Mass at Bellarmine Chapel Located in the heart of campus, Bellarmine Chapel is the religious hub of Xavier. Catholic Mass is celebrated daily in either the main sanctuary or side chapel. In addition to worship services, the church offers mission work, religious education and small group opportunities for study. Bellarmine Chapel Website Non-Catholic Faith Traditions and Services More than 15 different religions are practiced among Xavier students, including most Christian denominations as well as those from Buddhist, Jewish, Muslim, Hindu and Shinto faiths. Explore how non-Catholic Xavier students practice faith on campus. Non-Catholic Faith Traditions and Services Service Opportunities for Students Xavier students log an average of 80,000+ hours of community service per year, helping more than 160 local, national and international organizations. The Dorothy Day Center for Faith and Justice (CFJ) provides students opportunities to serve, pursue justice and deepen their spiritual lives. Center for Faith and Justice Alternative Breaks Service-Learning Trips Alternative Breaks are trips where college students participate in service opportunities during their fall or spring breaks. Each destination in this student-organized program highlights a particular social justice issue that students spend time exploring and learning about long before the trip itself. Information about Alternative Breaks at Xavier Scholarships for Service-Driven Students A select group of students choose Xavier precisely because of its focus on service and are awarded scholarships to make service a central focus of their Xavier education. Students who want to continue volunteering in college love that Xavier offers a scholarship to students who commit to 10 hours of service a week, called the Community-Engaged Fellowship. Community-Engaged Fellowship Scholarship Details You May Also Like Want to know more? Explore these recommended sites and see everything Xavier has to offer students during their first year and beyond. Our Mission and Vision Xavier's Mission Alternative Breaks Program Details Community-Engaged Fellowship Scholarship Information Center for Faith and Justice Explore CFJ Programs Apply to Xavier Request Info Visit Campus Xavier University 3800 Victory Parkway Cincinnati, OH 45207 513-745-3000 Privacy Policy Accessibility Policy Non-Discrimination Policy Editor Access Xavier University on facebook Xavier University on twitter Xavier University on linkedin Xavier University on youtube Xavier University on instagram