Skip to main content Menu Resources Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply or Give Apply Now Make a Gift Student Financial Services 1098-T 2021 1098-T forms will be available no later than January 31, 2022. Your 2020, and prior years, 1098-T are available for download through the student billing page in iROAR. You will need Adobe Reader version 8.X or higher. If your form does not download or there are no values on your form, you may need to revise your browser settings. Please see Adobe Help for more information. Helpful Hint: If you'd rather not change your browser setting, try saving the form image to your desktop and close your browser. Then, open the file saved on your desktop by right-clicking the icon and choosing open with Adobe Reader. The image does not contain your entire social security number. How Clemson reports: The IRS requires schools to report the total amount of payments received for qualified tuition and related expenses received between January 1 and December 31 of the reporting year. What are the qualified tuition and related expenses? Qualified tuition and related expenses are tuition and fees a student is billed for enrollment or attendance at an eligible educational institution. Examples of "qualified" expenses include: Academic Fee Matriculation Fee Activity Fee Technology Fee Software License Fee Lab Fees Program Course/Major Fee Library Fee Career Center Fee Examples of "non-qualified" expenses include: Health Fee Housing Fee Optional Fees (meal plan, Tiger Stripe, parking permit, etc.) Transit Fee Campus Recreation Fee Insurance Uncollected departmental charges (i.e., parking citations, Redfern charges) Study abroad program fees Resources for parents/students: Please refer to IRS Publication 970 for information on the federal tax benefits that may be available. For more information about Form 1098-T, visit https://www.irs.gov/pub/irs-prior/f1098t--2021.pdf. IRS FAQs are available about the CARES refunds to guide you regarding the American Opportunity Credit and Lifetime Learning Credit. Additionally, there is an SC state tuition tax credit that may be available. Information can be found at http://www.clemson.edu/financial-aid/types/other-programs.html. You should consult with your tax adviser about all educational benefits and credits. Note: If you did not provide an SSN/TIN, Clemson University would be unable to report it on your 1098-T form. Please note that the IRS can impose a penalty on any individual required (but failed) to supply an SSN/TIN to Clemson. Instructions on filing your 1098-T Clemson University is unable to provide you with individual tax advice, but should you have questions, you should seek the counsel of an informed tax preparer or adviser. The Student Financial Services office may be reached at 864-656-5592 or by email at studentbillquestions@clemson.edu for assistance with explaining the fields on the 1098-T form. Home Tuition and Fees Paying Your Bill Authorized User/Parent Adjustments 1098-T Non-Enrolled Collections FAQ Contact Us Orientation Resources Related Links Office of the Executive Vice President for Finance and Operations Academic Success Center Financial Aid Housing and Dining Parking Services Tiger 1 Card Registrar's Office Academic Calendar Graduate School Office of Global Engagement Study Abroad Student Insurance Information Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram