By continuing to use this site, you agree to the use of cookies in accordance with our privacy policy. Dismiss Stay Safe The official source of public health information for Syracuse University. Skip to Content Open menu About Admissions Academics Life Athletics More Search the University Open search Popular searches Close menu Home About Toggle dropdown Leadership Vision & Mission Consumer Information Facts & Figures Plan Your Visit Campus Map History News Partnerships Work at Syracuse Social Media Bookstore Brand Help & Contacts Admissions Toggle dropdown Undergraduate Graduate Online Part-Time Cost & Aid Request Information Visit & Tour Apply Academics Toggle dropdown Schools & Colleges Undergraduate Majors & Minors Graduate Degrees Online Programs Syracuse University Global Study Abroad Opportunities & Support Calendars Departments Research Centers & Institutes Libraries, Collections & Galleries Academic Administration Life Toggle dropdown Accessibility & Diversity Campus Highlights Events Calendar Services & Support Meals & Dining Housing Groups & Activities Recreation & Facilities For Students For Veterans & Military For Faculty & Staff For Parents & Families A-Z Index Sitemap Login Athletics Men’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Football Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Track and Field Women’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Field Hockey Ice Hockey Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Softball Tennis Track and Field Volleyball Athletics Dept. Toggle dropdown Facilities Staff Directory Academic Honors Community Service Spirit Program Varsity Club Sports Medicine Championships Fan Zone Toggle dropdown Dome Schedule Seating Information Orange All Access Otto’s Kids Club Game Photos Promotions Orange Club Schedules News Alumni About Toggle dropdown Notable Alumni Alumni Association Awards News Events and Clubs Toggle dropdown Orange Central Northeast Midwest South West World/Affinity Regions Toggle dropdown Atlanta Boston Chicago Los Angeles Middle East New York San Francisco Washington, DC Services Toggle dropdown Career Network Generation Orange Directory Profile Class Notes Giving Contact Contact Visit Apply Coronavirus Updates Forever Orange Home About University Ombuds In this Section About Us Our Services Our Mission FAQs Office of the University Ombuds Provides faculty, staff and graduate students with an informal, confidential, neutral and independent resource to address concerns or questions openly without fear of retaliation or judgment. The office operates outside of formal channels to provide full assurance of confidentiality and an additional layer of conflict resolution resources to more fully promote a respectful and ethical campus community in line with the University’s values and policies. Message from Ombuds Neal Powless It is an honor for me to serve as the University Ombuds, and I recognize the value of my position as we strive to become a more diverse and inclusive campus. The role of the Office of the University Ombuds is essential in creating a supportive environment, where everyone feels heard. As the University ombuds, my office functions differently than other University offices. I provide an informal, safe space for faculty, staff and graduate students to discuss any issues confidentially. This might be dealing with a conflict you’re having with a colleague, supervisor, student, or faculty member; concerns with University policies or procedures; navigating an ethical matter; or any number of situations in which you may not know where to turn for guidance. There are all sorts of conflicts that arise that can impact not only your work but your personal relationships and home life. Every situation is unique, and every individual experiences conflict in their own way. Let’s have a conversation. I can help provide you with a range of options—formal or informal—that you may choose to pursue or not. As a neutral campus resource, I cannot fix problems internally, investigate complaints, or set or change University policy, but I will listen to your concerns, share with you resources and offer assistance such as facilitated conversations or conflict management. The most important thing is empowering you to make an informed decision about your situation and take steps toward resolution. Working through conflict is an opportunity for each of us to learn and grow, which is a wonderful gift. The conversations we have are confidential. Your trust is essential to the work of the Office of the University Ombuds, and you can feel secure knowing that the concerns you share with me will not result in retaliation from your supervisor or peers. I invite you to explore the website to better understand how the ombuds office might be able to assist you, and please do not hesitate to contact us. Your story has value! It is a great privilege to serve the faculty, staff and graduate students at Syracuse University. I am committed to working together toward a better understanding of each other, which in turn will create a more respectful, empathetic campus community. Sincerely,Neal Powless Review the University Ombuds Terms of Use. Undergraduate students are encouraged to use existing formal and informal resources. See in particular accessibility and diversity and health and safety resource Contact Us 111 Waverly Ave., Suite 001 315.443.1087 Email the Ombuds If you email, please include only your meeting request; do not include any confidential information in your email. Details about your particular concern will be discussed during your confidential appointment. Office of the University Ombuds Annual Report 2020-2021 Annual Report [PDF, 222.3 KB] 2019-2020 Annual Report [PDF, 159.9 KB] Pages in this Section About Us Neal Powless G’08 serves the campus community as a neutral, independent, informal and confidential resource for faculty, staff and graduate students who are seeking assistance to answer questions and resolve concerns. Our Mission The Office of the University Ombuds operates on four principles: Confidentiality, Independence, Neutrality and Informality. Our Services The Office of the University Ombuds provides a venue for complaints, conflicts or concerns that visitors do not wish to address through other official University channels. University Ombuds FAQs Registration for Ombuds Monthly Workshops Popular Toggle dropdown Academic Calendar Campus Map Careers Libraries Majors and Minors Visit and Tour A-Z Toggle dropdown Academic Departments Schools and Colleges Sitemap Search Contact Toggle dropdown Admissions Financial Aid Emergency Contacts Human Resources Make a Gift Login Toggle dropdown MySlice Blackboard SUMail Syracuse University 900 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, NY 13244 Phone: +1.315.443.1870 Follow S.U. on Instagram Like S.U. on Facebook Follow S.U. on Twitter Follow S.U. on LinkedIn Follow S.U. on Tiktok Subscribe to S.U. on YouTube © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy