Skip to main content Google Tag Manager The Office of the Provost Show/Hide About People Communications Committees & Reports Policies & Procedures Initiatives & Resources Related Areas Free Speech and Civil Disobedience February 6, 2017 4pm IBES, Carmichael Auditorium 85 Waterman Street Biography Martha C. Nussbaum received her BA from NYU and her MA and PhD from Harvard. She has taught at Harvard University, Brown University, and Oxford University. From 1986 to 1993, while teaching at Brown, Nussbaum was a research advisor at the World Institute for Development Economics Research, Helsinki, a part of the United Nations University. She has chaired the American Philosophical Association’s Committee on International Cooperation, the Committee on the Status of Women, and the Committee for Public Philosophy. From 1999 to 2000, she was one of the three Presidents of the Association, delivering the Presidential Address in the Central Division. She has received honorary degrees from fifty-six colleges and universities in the U.S., Canada, Latin America, Asia, Africa, and Europe, including Lawrence University, Williams College, the University of Athens (Greece), the University of St. Andrews (Scotland), the University of Edinburgh (Scotland), Katholieke Universiteit Leuven (Belgium), the University of Toronto, the Ecole Normale Supérieure (Paris), the University of Haifa (Israel), Emory University, the University of Bielefeld (Germany), Ohio State University, Georgetown University, the University of the Free State (South Africa), the university of Jyväskylä (Finland), and the Universidad Iberoamericana (Mexico). She is an Academician in the Academy of Finland, a Fellow of the British Academy, and a member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences and the American Philosophical Society. Among her awards are the Grawemeyer Award in Education (2002), the Centennial Medal of the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences at Harvard University (2010), the Prince of Asturias Prize in the Social Sciences (2012), the American Philosophical Association's Philip Quinn Prize (2015), and the Kyoto Prize in Arts and Philosophy (2016). Cosponsored with Department of Philosophy Explore Brown University Search Brown Show/Hide Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Office of the Provost Office of the Provost Brown University Box 1862 Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-2706 Email [email protected] Giving to Brown Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat