Skip to Content Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Indiana University Bloomington Indiana University Bloomington IU Bloomington Menu About History Rankings & Campus Statistics Mission & Strategic Planning Leadership & Administration Safety & Emergency Information Visit Campus Transportation & Parking A-Z List Jobs at IU How to Hire IU Students Admissions How to Apply Cost & Finances Visit IU & Bloomington Academics The Academic Experience Degrees & Majors Business Health & Wellness Science, Engineering & Technology Public Service Arts & Culture Schools Academic Opportunities Study Abroad Online Classes & Programs Schedule of Classes & Academic Calendar Academic Advising & Support Libraries Research Hoosier Life Traditions & Spirit Student Organizations Recreational Sports Athletics Health, Wellness & Safety Housing & Dining Visiting Bloomington Attractions & Things to Do Diversity on Campus Career Prep Find Your Passion Get Experience Develop Your Career Use Your Network Alumni & Giving News & Events Indiana University Bloomington Home About Admissions Academics Research Hoosier Life Career Prep Alumni & Giving News & Events Home Hoosier Life Health, Wellness & Safety Health, Wellness & Safety Get the help you need to feel your best “Never daunted, we cannot falter...” So says the IU fight song. But we all know that when you’re not feeling well—mentally, physically, or emotionally—it’s hard not to falter. We work hard to make sure you have all the resources you need to cope with life’s stumbling blocks—big and small. And when the going gets tough, you can count on your peers to have your back. Equal health care for everyone Transgender students often find getting health care that meets their needs challenging. To make it a little easier, the IU Student Health Center has created an online form students can use to update their health records to reflect their preferred name and their pronouns.Update your health record Where to go to get better The Student Health Center If you’re an IU student (or the dependent of an IU student), the IU Student Health Center can serve as your primary medical resource. It offers a full-service medical clinic, laboratory and radiological services, a pharmacy, and even physical therapy. You can make an appointment online or by phone. See what the Student Health Center offers Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS) Each year, thousands of IU students find themselves facing mental health challenges that they don’t know how to fix. Whether you’re feeling depressed, are struggling with substance abuse, or are just struggling to cope with college life, CAPS can help. It offers counseling options and workshops to assist with virtually any mental health issue. Learn more about CAPS Crimson CORPS Sometimes you just need to talk to someone who understands. Someone who knows what you’re going through—and faces the same challenges. That’s where the Crimson CORPS comes in. Every Crimson CORPS member is a student just like you. But they have undergone extensive training to recognize the signs of mental distress and learn how to help. Find a Crimson CORPS member to talk to IU students have the #couragetocare At IU, we believe that creating a healthy campus culture and keeping Hoosiers safe is everyone’s job. Culture of Care helps us get the message out. The Culture of Care is a campuswide, student-led initiative to create a caring campus where everyone works together to make IU a better place. Culture of Care works to raise awareness and create behavioral change in four key areas: Sexual well-being Drug and alcohol awareness Mental health Respect You can help spread the word.Join Culture of Care Stopping sexual violence is on us Sexual violence is a problem on every college campus across the United States. At IU, we’re working together to stop it from happening here. It’s up to each of us to step in when we see something—and to respect everyone’s right to say no. Description of the video: [MUSIC] [Words appear: Sohee Kwon, co-chair for Culture of Care] Sohee speaks: It’s on us to say something when our friends are being stupid. [Words appear: Fred Glass, IU director of athletics] Fred speaks: At Indiana University it’s on us to be more than a bystander. [Words appear: Teri Moren, IU head coach, women’s basketball] Teri speaks: It’s on us to step up and say something. [Words appear: Andrew Braden, IU Student Association president] Andrew speaks: To take reports of sexual assault seriously. [Words appear: Laurie Burns McRobbie, IU first lady] Laurie speaks: It’s on us to recognize that if someone doesn’t or can’t consent to sex, it’s rape. [Words appear: Lauren Robel, IU provost and executive vice president] Lauren speaks: It’s on us to honor the dignity and humanity of every person. [Words appear: James Wimbush, vice president for diversity, equity, and multicultural affairs] James speaks: To be part of the solution, not part of the problem. [Words appear: Korbin Clark, Kelley School student] Korbin speaks: It’s on us to get friends home safely if they need help. [Words appear: Shatoyia Moss, IU alumna] Shatoyia speaks: It’s on us to never blame the victim. Fred speaks: It’s on us to never blame the victim. [Words appear: Michael McRobbie, IU president] Michael speaks: As Hoosiers, it’s on us to do everything we can to stop an assault from happening. Korbin speaks: It’s on us—all of us—to stop sexual assault. Shatoyia speaks: I took the pledge and you can too at itsonus.org. [MUSIC] [Words appear: IT’S ON US. stopsexualviolence.iu.edu] Find out how you can be part of the solution Visit the Stop Sexual Violence website Find safety and emergency resources Traditions & Spirit Student Organizations Recreational Sports Athletics Health, Wellness & Safety Housing & Dining Visiting Bloomington Attractions & Things to Do Diversity on Campus Indiana University Bloomington social media channels Twitter Facebook Instagram YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn Contact, Address and Additional Links Services Canvas One.IU AskIU Find Directory A-Z List Courses Campus Map Required Disclosures Library IU Bloomington Libraries IUCAT OneSearch@IU Resources Knowledge Base IT Services Faculty & Staff Resources Diversity Non-Discrimination Notice Protect IU Email About Email at IU Outlook Web Access INDIANA UNIVERSITY BLOOMINGTON 107 S. Indiana Avenue Bloomington, IN 47405-7000 Phone: 812-855-4848 Accessibility | Privacy Notice | Copyright © 2022 The Trustees of Indiana University