COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Institutional Equity and Compliance Section Menu OIEC Home Contact OIEC Pregnancy Policies and Discrimination WSU Discrimination Policies OIEC Training Title IX Empowerment Summit Affirmative Action CARE Team Submit a Report CSA Training Packet Title IX Policy Review Title IX Policy Statement Resources and Additional Reporting Options Rights of the Parties in Sexual Harassment Cases If You Have Experienced Sexual Assault 2021 Title IX Review and Survey Archived Policies Frequently Asked Questions: Sexual Assault Prevention Training for Students OIEC Annual Reports Contact OIEC Submit a Report Title IX at WSU Institutional Equity and Compliance Mission Wichita State University strives to provide an educational, employment and contracting environment that reflects its mission and promotes a deep understanding and appreciation among the diverse members of the University community. It is essential that all members of the community feel included and engaged, and that the contributions of all individuals are respected. All members of the Wichita State University community have a responsibility to uphold these values. The Office of Institutional Equity and Compliance is committed to preventing and eliminating discrimination or harassment based on race color, national origin, pregnancy, sex age, disability, creed, religion, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, veteran status, political affiliation or political philosophy. Annual Reports WSU Discrimination Policies Resources and Reporting Options Rights of the Parties in Sexual Harassment Cases Information and Resources Sexual Assault Awareness Month Resource Panel Tuesday Talks with Student Health Services Title IX Town Hall 2020 Title IX Policy Revision The U.S. Department of Education has released comprehensive Title IX regulations governing how institutions must respond to allegations of sexual harassment. The University’s Office of Institutional Equity and Compliance (OIEC), in conjunction with other leaders on campus, have approved a new WSU Policy 3.06: Sexual Harassment, Discrimination and Retaliation in response to these new regulations. View the new policy Download the 8-13-20 Version (docx) Download the 11-13-20 Version (docx) Archived Policies 2021 Title IX Review Documents WSU Title IX Review, April 2021 (pdf) Summary of Title IX Survey Results (pdf) Civil Rights Laws Title IX Title IX is a federal civil rights law that prohibits discrimination based on sex in federal funded education programs and activities. This includes, and is not limited to admissions, financial aid, academic advising, housing, athletics, recreational services, college residential life programs, health services, counseling and psychological services, Office of the Registrar, classroom assignments, grading and discipline. » Information for employees or visitors reporting incidents of sexual misconduct » Information for students reporting incidents of sexual misconduct Title VII Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended, prohibits discrimination in hiring, promotion, discharge, pay, fringe benefits, job training, classification, referral, and other aspects of employment, on the basis of race, color, religion, sex or national origin. Other Civil Rights Law Executive Order 11246, as amended, prohibits job discrimination on the basis of race, color, religion, sex or national origin, and requires affirmative action to ensure equality of opportunity in all aspects of employment. Section 503 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended, prohibits job discrimination because of handicap and requires affirmative action to employ and advance in employment qualified individuals with handicaps who, with reasonable accommodation, can perform the essential functions of a job. 38 U.S.C. 4212 of the Vietnam Era Veterans Readjustment Assistance Act of 1974, as amended, prohibits job discrimination and requires affirmative action to employ and advance in employment qualified Vietnam era veterans and qualified special disabled veterans. Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended, prohibits discrimination in hiring, promotion, discharge, pay, fringe benefits, job training, classification, referral, and other aspects of employment, on the basis of race, color, religion, sex or national origin. The Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, as amended, protects qualified applicants and employees with disabilities from discrimination in hiring, promotion, discharge, pay, job training, fringe benefits, classification, referral, and other aspects of employment on the basis of disability. For more information, please visit the Americans with Disabilities Act website. The Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967, as amended, protects applicants and employees 40 years of age or older from discrimination on the basis of age in hiring, promotion, discharge, compensation, terms, conditions or privileges of employment. The Equal Pay Act of 1963, as amended, prohibits sex discrimination in payment of wages to women and men performing substantially equal work in the same establishment. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972, as amended, prohibits employment discrimination on the basis of sex in educational programs or activities which receive Federal assistance. Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended, prohibits employment discrimination on the basis of handicap in any program or activity which receives Federal financial assistance. The Kansas Act Against Discrimination. Protects individuals against discrimination by reason of race, religion, color, sex, disability, national origin or ancestry Featured Links Office for Civil Rights (OCR) Official Website U.S. Department of Education Title IX Page Lactation Rooms, Changing Stations, Accessible Restrooms 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©