COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW General Education Program Section Menu General Education Home General Education Courses General Education Process Assessment of General Education General Education Committee Committee Minutes Well-rounded learning Wichita State strives to offer the most complete college experience possible to produce well-rounded, successful Shocker graduates. Through general education courses, students explore subjects outside of their major, expanding their knowledge, perspective and skills and making a positive impact on their career and life. Browse general education courses General Education Course Requirements The 36-hour General Education Program at WSU consists of Foundation, Divisional, and Additional Courses. Foundation Courses Complete these four courses within the first 48 hours of enrollment with a grade of C- or better. Foundation courses cover the fundamental skills you’ll need throughout your college career and should be taken at the very beginning of a student’s studies. ENGL 100 or 101 ENGL 102 COMM 111 MATH 111, MATH 112 or 131* *MATH 111 or any math course that requires MATH 111 or MATH 112 as a prerequisite. MATH 131 does not fulfill the prerequisite for any further math course. MATH 131 does not meet degree requirements in all colleges. Divisional Courses Complete an approved general education course from one subject area in each of the following four divisions (at least 12 credit hours): Fine Arts Subject Area Art History Dance Musicology / Composition Studio Arts Theatre Humanities Subject Area Communication* English* History Modern and Classical Languages Linguistics Philosophy Religion Women's Studies Social / Behavioral Sciences Subject Area Anthropology Criminal Justice Economics Entrepreneurship Ethnic Studies Geography Political Science Psychology Sociology Social Work Mathematics and Natural Sciences Subject Area Anthropology Biological Sciences Chemistry Computer Science Geology Mathematics / Statistics* Physics Public Health *Excluding foundation courses Additional Courses Complete four additional general education courses from at least two of the four divisions (at least 12 credit hours). One course must be a first-year seminar (if required). At least 9 credit hours of the 36-credit-hour general education coursework must be numbered 300 or above. One course in the major can count toward general education. The multilayered nature of general education opens doors for a student to discover what they are truly passionate about, helping them to discover who they are and what their unique role is in changing the world. The unplanned, unintended, accidental bumping into unrelated concepts that comes from unrelated disciplines is what works this special kind of magic.Dr. Andrew Hippisley Dean of Fairmount College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Additional General Education Requirements and Exceptions by College Applied Studies Applied Studies requires PSY 111. Teacher education students must take STAT 370 (Secondary Math majors must take MATH 242 instead of STAT 370). MATH 111 is a prerequisite for STAT 370. Business Business requires MATH 144 or MATH 242 and ECON 201 and ECON 202. MATH 111 or MATH 112 meets the prerequisite for MATH 144. Philosophy requirements: PHIL 105 and PHIL 306. Engineering Engineering requires PHIL 385 for engineering students or PHIL 354 for students in computer engineering, computer science and applied computing. Fine Arts Fine Arts students majoring in art education, music education and special education music are required to take PSY 111 and STAT 370 (or a higher level MATH course). Fine Arts Exceptions The Bachelor of Applied Arts (BAA) in media arts requires 30 credit hours of general education courses. In addition to the foundation courses, students in the BAA in media arts take one course each from humanities, social / behavioral science, and mathematics / natural sciences with an additional three courses selected from at least two divisions. Of the 30 general education credit hours, at least 6 credit hours must be numbered 300 or above. Fine arts courses do not fulfill general education requirements for the BAA in media arts. Health Professions Health Professions requirements are listed by major. General education requirements vary. Honors College Honors College requires the following: Honors students fulfill general education requirements set by their major college. Honors students have dual advising: They should meet first with their major college advisor and then as needed with an Honors advisor to choose Honors courses that meet general education requirements. Students working toward the Emory Lindquist Honors Scholar distinction or the Honors Baccalaureate degree are required to fulfill any 3 of their general education credits with an HNRS seminar. Honors Baccalaureate students meet with an honors advisor to select additional courses to fulfill the 36-credit-hour general education program Liberal Arts and Sciences Liberal Arts and Sciences requires the following: English or foreign language literature (humanities) HIST 131, HIST 132 (humanities) or POLS 121 (social science) Three natural science courses: At least one biology course and one physical sciences course; one must have a laboratory experience (does not include mathematics, personal computing, statistics or computer science) Foreign language in all BA degrees and the BS degree in criminal justice Undecided students meet with an academic advisor in the Liberal Arts and Sciences Advising Center. Students who have not declared a major may want to take a variety of courses to help clarify interests, identify possible majors and remain academically flexible. Transfer Students with Associate Degrees Community College Transfers A student transferring to WSU having earned an AA or AS degree from a Kansas public community college will be considered to have satisfied WSU’s general education curriculum provided that they successfully complete at WSU (with a grade of C- or better) two general education courses numbered 300 or above. The two courses must be in two separate subject areas. Students must also complete the foundation skills courses of ENGL 101 and ENGL 102, COMM 111, and MATH 111 or equivalent RN-to-BSN and Dental Hygiene Degree Completion Students A student enrolled in WSU’s RN-to-BSN degree completion program having earned an associate degree in nursing will be considered to have satisfied WSU’s general education curriculum provided that they successfully complete (with a grade of C- or better) two general education courses numbered 300 or above taken at WSU. A student enrolled in WSU’s dental hygiene degree completion program having earned an associate degree in dental hygiene will be considered to have satisfied WSU’s general education curriculum provided that they successfully complete (with a grade of C- or better) two general education courses numbered 300 or above taken at WSU. General Education Transfer Courses Information Frequently Asked Questions What is the mission of general education? The mission of general education is to provide a well-rounded education that enables you to live the fullest most meaningful life possible, regardless of your particular career preparation. What is the overall goal? The goal of general education is to enable you to live a rich, meaningful life by developing: an informed appreciation of the arts, humanities, and natural and social sciences; an ability to intelligently follow and participate in current events; and a sensitive and tutored appreciation of diverse cultures and ways of living. What are the expected outcomes? Embedded throughout general education and furthered in the major are the skills that enable graduates to contribute productively to society and the ongoing culture. Therefore, upon graduation the faculty expects you to: Have acquired knowledge in the arts, humanities, and natural and social sciences Think critically and independently Write and speak effectively Employ analytical reasoning and problem solving techniques Wichita State University currently uses the Collegiate Learning Assessment (CLA) to assess the outcomes gained through the students' educational experience. Each fall and spring semester, a representative sample of entering and graduating students participate. The assessment is used, in conjunction with Program Review, to verify the University's impact on the outcomes as well as contribute to continuous improvement of the University's programs. Why should I meet with an advisor? The best way to stay on track toward graduation is to meet with an advisor each semester before registering for classes. Advisors will help in selecting and sequencing classes that meet particular degree requirements. To schedule a meeting, contact your college advising office. Applied Studies (316) 978-3300 Business (316) 978-3203 Engineering (316) 978-3400 Fine Arts (316) 978-6634 Health Professions (316) 978-3304 Honors College (316) 978-3375 Liberal Arts and Sciences (316) 978-3700 First-Year Advising (316) 978-3909 Revised and Approved by the Faculty Senate on 11-11-19, 5-12-14, 4-22-13, 3-26-12 Academic Advising Centers First-Year Advising Applied Studies Dorothy and Bill Cohen Honors College Engineering Fine Arts Health Professions Fairmount College of Liberal Arts & Sciences W. Frank Barton School of Business Additional Information Office of Student Success Assessment of Student Learning 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©