Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Chemistry PhD You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Chemistry PhD Apply Request More Info Chemistry PhD Admissions Careers & Opportunities Curriculum Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Chemistry PhD Develop the expertise to lead chemistry research and spearhead new discoveries with the Chemistry PhD in the College of Science and Technology at Temple University. This doctorate degree program provides you with the skills to perform independent and collaborative research, contributing solutions to complex chemical problems. You can pursue careers in industries that specialize in biochemistry, catalysis, chemical engineering, material and analytical chemistry, forensic chemistry, synthetic organic and inorganic chemistry, and more. For doctoral candidates who aspire to pursue careers in academia, the curriculum offers the opportunity to earn credits toward a Teaching in Higher Education Certificate. The degree program’s research-oriented coursework depends on your area of specialization. You may choose from one of the following specializations. Analytical Chemistry covers chemical kinetics, imaging instrumentation such as the electron probe microanalyzer and scanning electron microscope, and the principles and applications of physical and spectroscopic methods in quantitative analysis. Biochemistry offers students an interdisciplinary course of study focused on cellular and molecular biosciences, investigation into biological chemical processes in living systems, and protein and nucleic acid structure and function. Inorganic Chemistry explores topics such as synthetic inorganic chemistry, catalysis, bioinorganic chemistry and inorganic materials chemistry. Organic Chemistry focuses on chemical synthesis, organic reaction mechanisms, as well as synthetic methods of development (e.g., silicon and hypervalent iodine reagents), organometallic chemistry and radical chemistry. Physical Chemistry provides students with an interdisciplinary course of study that investigates the dynamics of chemical reactions, quantum mechanics, statistical thermodynamics and molecular spectroscopy. Chemistry faculty research projects encompass chemistry subfields such as catalysis, chemical biology, computational chemistry and theory, environmental chemistry, materials and polymers, medicinal chemistry, nanoscience and nanomaterials, natural products synthesis, photonics, plasmonics, and surface and interface science. Current faculty research includes chemical advances in biologically relevant metals, the development of novel synthetic methodology, the structure and dynamics of proteins and peptidomimetics, and ultrafast dynamics. Learn more about faculty research in chemistry. Students are encouraged to pursue oppportunities in Temple’s cutting-edge centers and research institutions, including the Center for Biophysics and Computational Biology, the Center for Advanced Photonics Research, the Center for Computational Design of Functional Layered Materials and the Institute for Computational Molecular Science. Learn more about Chemistry research centers and facilities. Program Requirements Doctoral candidates must fulfill four requirements for successful completion of a Chemistry PhD. These requirements include the literature seminar, a 30-minute seminar presentation on a doctoral student’s current research or literature topic of the student’s choosing; the cumulative examinations, which are written by department faculty and are offered six times a year (students must pass five examinations within the first two years of their time in the program to be considered for candidacy); the original research proposal, which demonstrates a student’s ability to formulate and defend an original research hypothesis related to the student’s area of research, including a description of the research that will be pursued for the final dissertation; and the doctoral dissertation, an original study that makes a significant contribution to the field of chemistry, which will be defended before a dissertation committee. All dissertation research is conducted under the guidance of a Doctoral Advisory Committee and culminates in a final dissertation defense. All students must successfully pass the dissertation defense to complete the program. Doctoral candidates have seven years to complete the program. Classes & Curriculum The Chemistry PhD curriculum is a blend of research and coursework. Classes are tailored to your specific area of specialization and might include Advanced Polymer Structure and Properties, Bioinorganic Chemistry, Drug Analysis, Nanomaterials Chemistry and Physics, Organic Syntheses, Physical Methods in Organic Chemistry, and Quantum Chemistry. Learn more about the curriculum for the Chemistry PhD. Related Graduate Degrees Bioinformatics PSM Bioinnovation PSM Forensic Chemistry PSM Scientific Writing PSM Related Graduate Certificates Scientific Writing Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Doctor of Philosophy offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $1,205.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,567.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Financial Support Students admitted full time to the Chemistry PhD program typically receive full financial support in the form of teaching or research assistantships, including a full tuition waiver. The first-year student stipend is $28,000 per academic year for 2020–2021, and the student health insurance is paid. Find out more about the financial support available to you as a Chemistry PhD student. Our Advisors Faculty advisors can help you navigate your program and research opportunities. Daniel Strongin, professor in the Department of Chemistry, is the faculty advisor for the Chemistry PhD. Phone: 215-204-7155 Email: daniel.strongin@temple.edu Program Contact For questions regarding the Chemistry PhD program, please contact chemgrad@temple.edu. Student Clubs & Organizations If you can find the time to participate while meeting the demands of your degree program, student clubs offer valuable opportunities to meet fellow graduate students, researchers and professionals from science- and technology-related industries. Temple Organizations Chemistry after Dark is a monthly evening discussion group featuring research presentations by graduate students. Students learn to break down their ideas in clear, understandable ways for a wide and varied audience. Temple University Chemical Society is a student organization devoted to service, outreach and chemistry. Members meet with faculty in the "lunch and lab" program, volunteer at outreach events with local schools, and organize fundraisers to support scientific research. Temple University Forensics Association helps students form an interest in forensic science through field trips and professional networking opportunities. Local Organizations Philadelphia Organic Chemists’ Club Philadelphia Inorganic Colloquium Science History Institute Philadelphia Science Festival Philadelphia Local American Chemical Society chapter Extracurricular Activities Join one of the department's intramural teams to get to know colleagues outside of the lab and enjoy the outdoors. Many labs have intramural teams that compete against each other in annual tournaments such as the department summer volleyball league. Learn more about student clubs and organizations in the Department of Chemistry. Study Away If the demands of your degree program allow it, consider spending a summer or semester overseas building international connections with researchers from other countries. Temple’s study abroad program offers College of Science and Technology students opportunities to spend a summer or semester studying in China, Germany, Italy, South Korea or Taiwan. Learn more about your study abroad options. Accreditation As a division within Temple University, the College of Science and Technology is accredited by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education. ST-CHEM-PHD Additional Program Information Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Chemistry PhD Admissions Careers & Opportunities Curriculum Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info