You may be trying to access this site from a secured browser on the server. Please enable scripts and reload this page. Turn on more accessible mode Turn off more accessible mode Skip Ribbon Commands Skip to main content Turn off Animations Turn on Animations Academic Resources Academic Calendar Academic Success BlueStar Campus Connect DePaul Central Desire2Learn (D2L) Email (Students/Faculty/Staff) University Catalog Library Campus Resources Campus Security Bookstore Campus Maps Events University Resources Directory Athletics Employment Sites A-Z Information For Alumni & Friends Current Students Faculty & Staff DePaul UniversityDivision of Mission & MinistryDivision of Mission & MinistryMission & Ministry DePaul Shortcuts DePaul University Division of Mission and Ministry About Programming & Services Community Service Religious & Spiritual Life Education Scholarships, Grants & Awards About Programming & Services Community Service Religious & Spiritual Life Education Scholarships, Grants & Awards DePaul Shortcuts Academic Resources Academic Calendar Academic Success BlueStar Campus Connect DePaul Central Desire2Learn (D2L) Email (Students/Faculty/Staff) University Catalog Library Campus Resources Campus Security Bookstore Campus Maps Events University Resources Directory Athletics Employment Sites A-Z Information For Alumni & Friends Current Students Faculty & Staff Apply Online Request Info Visit Campus About University Mission Statement Contact Us Seeds of the Mission Division Mission Programming & Services Vincentian Heritage Tours Ombudsperson Faculty & Staff Programming Meet Me at the Mission Community Service DePaul Community Service Association Alternative Break Service Immersions Community Peacemakers Seton Soup Kitchen Service in the Loop Vincentian Service Day Vincentian Service and Formation Religious & Spiritual Life Catholic Campus Ministry Religious & Spiritual Diversity Sacred Campus Spaces Pastoral Care Bereavement Notices Prayer Requests Education Vincentian Studies Institute Publications All Things Vincentian Vincentian Studies Courses Lectures Online Catholic Resources Scholarships, Grants & Awards Vincentian Endowment Fund Vincentian Studies Institute Grant Awards & Recognition CTU Academic Alliance Mission and Ministry Scholarships Vincentian Assistance Fund Main Content . /mission-ministry/PublishingImages/DePaul Lincoln Park Campus.jpg Division of Mission & Ministry Lincoln Park Campus imageHeaderLinkText imageHeaderLinkURL RandomOfficeImageHeader550 RandomOfficesAndResourcesImageHeader DePaul University's Mission As an innovative Catholic, Vincentian university anchored in the global city of Chicago, DePaul supports the integral human development of its students. The university does so through its commitment to outstanding teaching, academic excellence, real world experience, community engagement, and systemic change. DePaul prepares graduates to be successful in their chosen fields and agents of transformation throughout their lives. Guided by an ethic of Vincentian personalism and professionalism, DePaul compassionately upholds the dignity of all members of its diverse, multi-faith, and inclusive community. Through education and research, the university addresses the great questions of our day, promoting peaceful, just, and equitable solutions to social and environmental challenges. Since its founding in 1898, DePaul University has remained dedicated to making education accessible to all, with special attention to including underserved and underrepresented communities. Read our Distinguishing Characteristics, Core Values, and Commitments... Upcoming Events The Division of Mission and Ministry coordinates hundreds of events on campus and virtually throughout the course of the year. Click below to see the upcoming events calendar. View Upcoming Events I want to... Volunteer locally, nationally or internationally Learn about DePaul’s mission Learn about religious and spiritual life at DePaul Learn about our Scholarships, Grants, and Awards Visit Vincentian France Learn about Vincent de Paul Request a bereavement notice Find a Vincentian Quote Talk to... Learn about our Mission and Ministry response to COVID-19 Connect with us! Would you like to hear about specific events from the Division of Mission and Ministry? Sign up for updates! Sign Up Now Mission & Ministry 1 E. Jackson Blvd. Chicago, IL 60604 (312) 362-8000 2001-2018 DePaul University | Disclaimer | Contact Us | Emergency Plan | Consumer Information | IBHE Complaints | Privacy StatementEditor Login