<form runat="server"></form>
<WebPartPages:SPWebPartManager runat="server"/>
 Skip to Main Content HBS Home About Academic Programs Alumni Faculty & Research Baker Library Giving Harvard Business Review Initiatives News Recruit Map / Directions Alumni Login Volunteer Clubs Reunions Bulletin Class Notes Help Give Now Stories Alumni Directory Lifelong Learning Careers Programs & Events Giving …→ Harvard Business School→ Alumni→ Giving→ Giving Why Give Why Your Gift Matters Why Your Gift Matters What You Can Support HBS Fund HBS Fund Diversity & Equity Diversity & Equity Educational Innovation Educational Innovation Faculty & Research Faculty & Research Global Activities Global Activities HBS-Harvard Collaborations HBS-Harvard Collaborations Student Financial Aid Student Financial Aid What You Can Support HBS Fund HBS Fund Diversity & Equity Diversity & Equity Educational Innovation Educational Innovation Faculty & Research Faculty & Research Global Activities Global Activities HBS-Harvard Collaborations HBS-Harvard Collaborations Student Financial Aid Student Financial Aid Recognizing Our Donors Annual Contributors Report Annual Contributors Report Donor Societies Donor Societies Recognizing Our Donors Annual Contributors Report Annual Contributors Report Donor Societies Donor Societies A Tradition of Philanthropy A Tradition of Philanthropy Why Your Gift Matters Why Your Gift Matters What You Can Support HBS Fund HBS Fund Diversity & Equity Diversity & Equity Educational Innovation Educational Innovation Faculty & Research Faculty & Research Global Activities Global Activities HBS-Harvard Collaborations HBS-Harvard Collaborations Student Financial Aid Student Financial Aid What You Can Support HBS Fund HBS Fund Diversity & Equity Diversity & Equity Educational Innovation Educational Innovation Faculty & Research Faculty & Research Global Activities Global Activities HBS-Harvard Collaborations HBS-Harvard Collaborations Student Financial Aid Student Financial Aid Recognizing Our Donors Annual Contributors Report Annual Contributors Report Donor Societies Donor Societies Recognizing Our Donors Annual Contributors Report Annual Contributors Report Donor Societies Donor Societies A Tradition of Philanthropy A Tradition of Philanthropy How to Give Ways to Give Today Ways to Give Today By Credit Card By Credit Card By Check By Check By Wire Transfer By Wire Transfer With Stock With Stock Donor-Advised Fund Donor-Advised Fund From Your IRA From Your IRA International Giving International Giving Planned Giving Planned Giving FAQ FAQ Ways to Give Today Ways to Give Today By Credit Card By Credit Card By Check By Check By Wire Transfer By Wire Transfer With Stock With Stock Donor-Advised Fund Donor-Advised Fund From Your IRA From Your IRA International Giving International Giving Planned Giving Planned Giving FAQ FAQ Giving Why Give Why Your Gift Matters Why Your Gift Matters What You Can Support HBS Fund HBS Fund Diversity & Equity Diversity & Equity Educational Innovation Educational Innovation Faculty & Research Faculty & Research Global Activities Global Activities HBS-Harvard Collaborations HBS-Harvard Collaborations Student Financial Aid Student Financial Aid What You Can Support HBS Fund HBS Fund Diversity & Equity Diversity & Equity Educational Innovation Educational Innovation Faculty & Research Faculty & Research Global Activities Global Activities HBS-Harvard Collaborations HBS-Harvard Collaborations Student Financial Aid Student Financial Aid Recognizing Our Donors Annual Contributors Report Annual Contributors Report Donor Societies Donor Societies Recognizing Our Donors Annual Contributors Report Annual Contributors Report Donor Societies Donor Societies A Tradition of Philanthropy A Tradition of Philanthropy Why Your Gift Matters Why Your Gift Matters What You Can Support HBS Fund HBS Fund Diversity & Equity Diversity & Equity Educational Innovation Educational Innovation Faculty & Research Faculty & Research Global Activities Global Activities HBS-Harvard Collaborations HBS-Harvard Collaborations Student Financial Aid Student Financial Aid What You Can Support HBS Fund HBS Fund Diversity & Equity Diversity & Equity Educational Innovation Educational Innovation Faculty & Research Faculty & Research Global Activities Global Activities HBS-Harvard Collaborations HBS-Harvard Collaborations Student Financial Aid Student Financial Aid Recognizing Our Donors Annual Contributors Report Annual Contributors Report Donor Societies Donor Societies Recognizing Our Donors Annual Contributors Report Annual Contributors Report Donor Societies Donor Societies A Tradition of Philanthropy A Tradition of Philanthropy How to Give Ways to Give Today Ways to Give Today By Credit Card By Credit Card By Check By Check By Wire Transfer By Wire Transfer With Stock With Stock Donor-Advised Fund Donor-Advised Fund From Your IRA From Your IRA International Giving International Giving Planned Giving Planned Giving FAQ FAQ Ways to Give Today Ways to Give Today By Credit Card By Credit Card By Check By Check By Wire Transfer By Wire Transfer With Stock With Stock Donor-Advised Fund Donor-Advised Fund From Your IRA From Your IRA International Giving International Giving Planned Giving Planned Giving FAQ FAQ Why Give? Because the world needs leadership now more than ever Your Gift Matters $250$500$1,000$5,000Other Give Login to view your giving history View Your Giving History See your recent gifts/pledges as well as any outstanding pledge balances. Log In Now Questions? Email or call 617.495.6207 Meaningful Impact Your support advances the HBS mission of educating leaders who make a difference in the world. 800+ Need-based MBA fellowships funded annually →Find out what you can support 54 % HBS alumni who have founded companies and/or nonprofit organizations →Learn more about alumni impact in the world (pdf) 25 % Portion of HBS’s operating revenue from donor support →Learn about the School’s economic model HBS Fund Help support student financial aid, faculty research, and other HBS priorities. Learn More Tomorrow, Transformed A vision of HBS in the 21st century Learn how HBS faculty members and alumni are taking on some of the leading societal and business issues of our day. A vision of HBS in the 21st century Learn how HBS faculty members and alumni are taking on some of the leading societal and business issues of our day. →Read stories Ways to Give There are many ways to show your support—and have a far-reaching impact. By Credit Card By Check By Wire Transfer With Stock Donor-Advised Fund International Giving From Your IRA HBS accepts MasterCard, Visa, American Express, and Discover Online Give Online Give online via Harvard's secure donation form By Phone Alumni & Development Services 617.495.1750 HBS accepts MasterCard, Visa, American Express, and Discover Online LOG IN TO GIVE Recommended for all alumni and required for international credit card gifts Give Without Login For US-based donors only—no personal information will be pre-filled By Phone Alumni & Development Services 617.495.1750 Make your check payable to Harvard Business School. Mail check to: Harvard Business School P.O. Box 412275 Boston, MA 02241-2275 If using FedEx, UPS, DHL, or any other service that cannot deliver to a P.O. box, mail check to: Bank of America Lockbox Services HBS-ADS 412275 MA5-527-02-07 2 Morrissey Boulevard Dorchester, MA 02125 You can wire funds directly to HBS from your bank using the information provided below. To ensure proper crediting, please include your name and intended gift purpose. Receiving Bank: Bank of America, 100 Federal Street, Boston, MA 02110 Beneficiary Legal Account: President & Fellows of Harvard College, ADS Account Account #: 9429263621 ACH Routing #: 011000138 Wire Routing #: 026009593 Swift Code (International donors): BOFAUS3N Memo/Reference: Donor name, degree/year, and intended gift purpose (fund name) To make a gift of stock, please contact: Alumni and Development Services - Trust Administration 866.845.6596 donorsecuritygifts@harvard.edu When giving long-term appreciated stock to HBS, donors may take a charitable income tax deduction for its mean fair market value on the date of the gift and avoid capital gains tax. To ensure proper crediting of your gift, please use our online form to notify us of your stock transfer. There are two ways to make a gift through your donor-advised fund: 1. Make an outright gift by suggesting a grant to Harvard Business School (legal name: “President and Fellows of Harvard College”). 2. Designate Harvard Business School to receive all or a portion of the fund value upon the termination of the fund. You can select the option that best suits your philanthropic and financial goals to support Harvard Business School. Contact your fund administrator to request a distribution or beneficiary form or download the appropriate form(s) from your administrator's website. If you include Harvard Business School in your plans, please let us know and use our legal name and federal tax ID: Legal Name: President and Fellows of Harvard College Address: Harvard Business School, P.O. Box 412275, Boston, MA 02241-2275 Federal Tax ID Number: 04–2103580 Learn about establishing a donor-advised fund at Harvard. Gifts to HBS from alumni and friends living outside the United States may be directed to one of our affiliated charitable entities in order to qualify for a tax deduction or a tax credit. France Germany India United Kingdom If you are at least 70½ years old, you can use your individual retirement account (IRA) to make a gift to HBS—up to $100,000 per year. Your gift, which must be transferred directly from your IRA to HBS, can be excluded from your federal taxable income. Once you turn 72 years old, your gift also counts toward the IRS’s required minimum distribution. To initiate a transfer, contact your IRA administrator. To ensure proper crediting at HBS, you will also need to notify Harvard University. Downloadable sample letters are provided below for your convenience. For more information, please contact Harvard University Planned Giving at pgo@harvard.edu or 800.446.1277. Sample Request from Donor to IRA Administrator This letter contains transfer instructions from you to your IRA administrator. Sample Letter from Donor Informing Harvard of IRA Distribution This letter informs Harvard University that you wish to direct your gift to HBS and ensures appropriate class credit for alumni. By Credit Card HBS accepts MasterCard, Visa, American Express, and Discover Online Give Online Give online via Harvard's secure donation form By Phone Alumni & Development Services 617.495.1750 HBS accepts MasterCard, Visa, American Express, and Discover Online LOG IN TO GIVE Recommended for all alumni and required for international credit card gifts Give Without Login For US-based donors only—no personal information will be pre-filled By Phone Alumni & Development Services 617.495.1750 By Check Make your check payable to Harvard Business School. Mail check to: Harvard Business School P.O. Box 412275 Boston, MA 02241-2275 If using FedEx, UPS, DHL, or any other service that cannot deliver to a P.O. box, mail check to: Bank of America Lockbox Services HBS-ADS 412275 MA5-527-02-07 2 Morrissey Boulevard Dorchester, MA 02125 By Wire Transfer You can wire funds directly to HBS from your bank using the information provided below. To ensure proper crediting, please include your name and intended gift purpose. Receiving Bank: Bank of America, 100 Federal Street, Boston, MA 02110 Beneficiary Legal Account: President & Fellows of Harvard College, ADS Account Account #: 9429263621 ACH Routing #: 011000138 Wire Routing #: 026009593 Swift Code (International donors): BOFAUS3N Memo/Reference: Donor name, degree/year, and intended gift purpose (fund name) With Stock To make a gift of stock, please contact: Alumni and Development Services - Trust Administration 866.845.6596 donorsecuritygifts@harvard.edu When giving long-term appreciated stock to HBS, donors may take a charitable income tax deduction for its mean fair market value on the date of the gift and avoid capital gains tax. To ensure proper crediting of your gift, please use our online form to notify us of your stock transfer. Donor-Advised Fund There are two ways to make a gift through your donor-advised fund: 1. Make an outright gift by suggesting a grant to Harvard Business School (legal name: “President and Fellows of Harvard College”). 2. Designate Harvard Business School to receive all or a portion of the fund value upon the termination of the fund. You can select the option that best suits your philanthropic and financial goals to support Harvard Business School. Contact your fund administrator to request a distribution or beneficiary form or download the appropriate form(s) from your administrator's website. If you include Harvard Business School in your plans, please let us know and use our legal name and federal tax ID: Legal Name: President and Fellows of Harvard College Address: Harvard Business School, P.O. Box 412275, Boston, MA 02241-2275 Federal Tax ID Number: 04–2103580 Learn about establishing a donor-advised fund at Harvard. International Giving Gifts to HBS from alumni and friends living outside the United States may be directed to one of our affiliated charitable entities in order to qualify for a tax deduction or a tax credit. France Germany India United Kingdom From Your IRA If you are at least 70½ years old, you can use your individual retirement account (IRA) to make a gift to HBS—up to $100,000 per year. Your gift, which must be transferred directly from your IRA to HBS, can be excluded from your federal taxable income. Once you turn 72 years old, your gift also counts toward the IRS’s required minimum distribution. To initiate a transfer, contact your IRA administrator. To ensure proper crediting at HBS, you will also need to notify Harvard University. Downloadable sample letters are provided below for your convenience. For more information, please contact Harvard University Planned Giving at pgo@harvard.edu or 800.446.1277. Sample Request from Donor to IRA Administrator This letter contains transfer instructions from you to your IRA administrator. Sample Letter from Donor Informing Harvard of IRA Distribution This letter informs Harvard University that you wish to direct your gift to HBS and ensures appropriate class credit for alumni. NEED HELP? For help with any gift-related matters, please contact HBS Gift Management at 617.495.6207 during regular business hours, 9 a.m.–5 p.m. Eastern time, Monday–Friday or via email. Maximize Your Gift Employer Matching To find out if your company matches employee gifts, use our online search tool. Upon receipt, all matching gifts count toward a donor’s total giving. Recurring Giving Support HBS automatically—on a monthly or annual basis—via credit card. This will ensure that you are counted as a donor every year and help HBS to plan more effectively. Planned Giving By using different assets and planned giving strategies, you can support HBS and fulfill your financial goals. Learn More FAQ What is the School’s Federal Tax Identification Number? HBS gifts are managed under the umbrella of Harvard University’s Federal Tax Identification Number, which is 04–2103580. Harvard University’s legal name is President and Fellows of Harvard College. When will I receive a tax receipt for my gift? You can expect to receive an official receipt via mail 10–15 business days after HBS receives your gift. How can I get a duplicate tax receipt for my gift? To request a duplicate receipt, contact Harvard Alumni and Development Services at 617.495.1750 or ads@harvard.edu. Will my gift to HBS be credited to my class automatically? Yes. Will my spouse and I both receive credit for a gift to HBS? Joint crediting does not happen automatically. Alumni couples must indicate—on the online giving form or gift reply slip—if they would like their gift to be credited jointly. In that case, the amount will be split 50/50 for tax purposes but each person will receive class credit and recognition for the full amount of the gift. Contact HBS Gift Management at 617.495.6207 or gifts@hbs.edu if you have additional questions about crediting. How do I make a pledge? To pledge a gift that you will fulfill at a later date, please call HBS Development at 617.495.6881 (toll free: 877.448.3864). Will I be recognized for pledge payments? All donors are recognized in HBS’s annual Contributors Report for the full amount of any gifts and pledges made during the fiscal year (July 1–June 30), and for pledge payments as they are received. When do I need to fulfill my pledge? Guidelines for payments differ for reunion and non-reunion (annual giving) pledges. Reunion Pledges: For the 5th, 10th, 15th, 20th, 50th, and beyond: Pledges must be made by June 30 following the reunion and should be fulfilled by the following December 31. For the 25th, 30th, 35th, 40th, and 45th: Pledges must be made by December 31 following the reunion and should be fulfilled by the following June 30. Non-Reunion (Annual Giving) Pledges: Pledges must be paid by the end of the fiscal year, June 30, to be counted in that year’s giving totals and listed in the HBS's annual Contributors Report. For questions about an existing pledge or payment schedule adjustments, please contact HBS Gift Management at gifts@hbs.edu or 617.495.6207. How can I make a gift in honor or in memory of someone? Use this form and check the box labeled “This gift is in honor or memorial of someone,” or mail a check to Harvard Business School, P.O. Box 412275, Boston, MA 02241-2275. HBS will attempt to contact the person being honored/memorialized—or someone close to them—to inform them of your gift (without reference to the specific gift amount), so please provide relevant contact information and any other pertinent details. What is HBS’s fiscal year? The School’s fiscal year runs from July 1 through June 30. More Frequently Asked Questions ǁ External Relations Harvard Business School Teele Hall Soldiers Field Boston, MA 02163 Phone: 1.617.495.6890 Email: alumni+hbs.edu →Map & Directions →More Contact Information Make a Gift Site Map Jobs Harvard University Trademarks Policies Digital Accessibility Terms of Use Copyright © President & Fellows of Harvard College