Skip to main content Skip to site menu Skip to Brown menu Skip to site search Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Enter search keyword About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Earth, Environmental and Planetary Sciences Undergraduate Studies Undergraduate Educational Program Opportunities Earth, Environmental and Planetary Sciences Undergraduate Educational Program Opportunities Field Trips A field class during the fall field tripAnnual Fall Field Trip: Rain or shine, during the beginning of each academic year, the Department sponsors a weekend camping trip for Undergraduate and Graduate Students alike to view a variety of local, geologically significant, sites. Prof. Warren Prell's GEOL 1110's class doing field researchDepartmental/Class Field Trip: Several EEPS courses require field research and thus take advantage of day trips and weekend camping trips in order to foster learning in the proper setting. Going for a swim during the Spring Break UG Field Trip to Puerto Rico.Spring Break Undergraduate Field Trip: Undergraduates work to help raise money towards this annual event. Special expeditions have gone to the Florida Keys, the Grand Canyon-Meteor Crater, Hawaii and Puerto Rico. Special Seminars The Colloquium Series is generally presented every Thursday afternoon at 4pm in MacMillan 115 during the academic year. Leading scientists from a variety of research institutions make up the pool of special guest speakers. These sessions are open to the public. Students listen to a Planetary Geoscience Lunch Bunch presentation.Lunch Bunch Series: Informal talks provide faculty and students the opportunity to present and discuss their current research over lunch. Each research area sponsors their own sessions which are held on a weekly basis. Photo: Students listen to a Planetary Geoscience Lunch Bunch presentation. Thomas A. Mutch Lecture Series: The Thomas "Tim" Mutch Memorial Fund was established in '81 by family and friends, to honor Tim's memory as a scholar, GeoSci teacher, explorer, author, and administrator. Students participate in one of the many Professional Development Seminars.Professional Development Seminars: Several times a year, faculty panels are created to present such topics as diverse as "Preparing for Life after Brown" (resume writing, interviewing), and "The Funding of Science" (how grants work). GeoDUG (Department Undergraduate Group) The GeoDUG (Department Undergrad Group) and the GeoClub activities bring undergraduates, graduates, and alumni together to discuss geology, explore career opportunities, practice oral presentations, fund-raise for field trips and have fun. Academic Year Research/Employment Professor and student employee.Employment in a faculty member's lab (funded through grants) or independent research projects (often funded through UTRAs) during the academic year and/or summer might involve field work, laboratory experiments, computer simulations & data analysis. Students can also serve as Writing Fellows. Summer Research/Employment Undergrad and graduate students participate in a summer internship program at the USGS in Melno Park, CA.In addition to the employment opportunities listed above, there are also summer REU programs at other universities, SCA field work, science writing and other internships, and opportunities to work for environmental consulting firms. Public Education/Outreach Fourth graders at Fox Point Elementary School participate in a science module mentoring session.Teaching and speaking opportunities exist within the framework of undergraduate teaching assistantships (TA), as well as through the presentation of research talks at national meetings; The NSF GK-12 Fellowship Grant and the RI/NASA Space Grant program also have many opportunities for community outreach activites. Social Events Dave Murray and Profs. Reid Cooper, Greg Hirth, Baylor Fox-Kemper and Warren Prell share a laugh at the Fall picnic 2013Social events include spring and fall departmental picnics, holiday parties, and smaller gatherings (often at the homes of faculty members), DUG/GeoClub "movie" nights, an informal (but none-the-less competitive) softball and volleyball league, ultimate frisbee pick-up games, and ad-hoc lunch meetings on the GeoChem green. Other Opportunities See your advisor for more information. Service as a Tutor Writing Fellows Meiklejohn Advisor Undergraduate Teaching Assistant Summer Geology Field Courses Semesters Abroad People Undergraduate Studies What is Geology? Concentrations GeoDUG Advisors Research Collaborative Research Independent Research Projects and Honors Educational Opportunities The Sarah LaMendola Award Borrow Geo DVDs Graduate Studies Courses Research Lectures and Colloquia Alumni Diversity and Inclusion Outreach Print this Page Share this Page Stay Connected with DEEPS at Brown University Department of Earth, Environmental and Planetary Sciences Brown University Box 1846 324 Brook Street Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401-863-3339 [email protected] Calendar Jun 23 9:00am Dissertation Defense: Sarah McGrath Sep 7 All Day Classes of the first semester begin. View full calendar > Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory Department Resources Computing Guide