Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index Teaching Academy Menu Search TTU TLPDC Home Teaching Academy Teaching Academy The mission of the Teaching Academy at Texas Tech University is to advocate for teaching excellence, promote service related to the university's teaching mission, advise and mentor colleagues and others, and share knowledge about teaching strategies and their implementation as appropriate. Texas Tech University also has a history of providing a strong environment for student learning and excellent teaching. We need to continue to promote excellence in instruction as a vital part of the university mission and to ensure that excellence in teaching isn't compromised by an increased focus on research and professional commitments. At Texas Tech there has been an increased conversation about our aspirations to be recognized as a ‘Tier One' university. Members of the faculty are highly motivated to excel in their scholarship and creative activity. Institutional support and encouragement for these activities take many forms. The very existence of the Teaching Academy is a sign to the university community and beyond that good teaching matters. But the Academy also contributes in very practical ways to the support and development of a strong teaching culture. A variety of activities and services offered through the Academy help faculty bridge their desire to be a good teacher with knowledge about fresh pedagogical techniques, theories of student learning and the scholarship of teaching that contributes to their professional growth development as educators. The role of the Teaching Academy in providing and selecting teaching awards and recognition substantiates institutional and peer appreciation of teaching excellence. We want Texas Tech to be known for not only research excellence, but also superior teaching. The Teaching Academy plays a central role in promoting the scholarship of teaching, student learning, and in general, an academic culture that enhances Texas Tech stature as a great university. Sincerely, Dr. Lawrence Schovanec President Texas Tech University <!-- intentionally non-empty iframe; for xsl --> Teaching Academy News & Upcoming Events Teaching Academy Annual Report 2020-2021 The Teaching Academy membership application is now open! If you have any questions about the Teaching Academy, please contact Dr. Courtney Meyers, Chair of the Executive Council. Contact TTU Contact Contact TTUContact Contact TTU News News for NewsNews for News Events EventsEvents Teaching Academy Address University Library Building, Room 136, Mail Stop 2044, Lubbock, TX 79409-2004 Phone 806.742.0133 Email tlpdc@ttu.edu Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock, Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversityFeb 15, 2022 9:37 AM Teaching Academy About Teaching Academy About Back Governance Teaching Academy About Governance Back Executive Council Minutes ByLaws Committee Voting Protocol Initiatives Teaching Academy Initiatives Back #ttuteachntell Commitment to Teaching Series Hidden Gems Recognition Peer Teaching Observation Resources from the Teaching Academy in response to COVID-19 Teaching Evaluation Members Teaching Academy Members Back Current Members Teaching Academy Members Current Members Back New Members Current Membership List New Membership Process Teaching Academy Members New Membership Process Back New Member Criteria Membership Application Guide Nomination Guidelines Application Information Session Teaching Awards Teaching Academy Teaching Awards Back Departmental Excellence in Teaching Award Diamond Award Chancellor's Council Distinguished Teaching Award Lawrence Schovanec Teaching Development Scholarships John M. Burns Conference Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index