Skip to main content Menu Resources Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply or Give Apply Now Make a Gift Research Compliance Human Subjects Research Training All Clemson University faculty, staff and students conducting Human Subjects Research are required to have appropriate training in the protection of human subjects in research (including continuing education every two years). The Basic Course: The requirement for training in Human Subjects Protection will be met by successfully completing the appropriate Collaborative Institutional Training Initiative (CITI) basic course at www.citiprogram.org. Clemson does not have Single Sign On (SSO) access with CITI. Click the "Register" button located on CITI's home page to create an account and select "Clemson University" as the affiliated institution when creating your profile. There is no fee for the courses if you are affiliated with a Clemson University project. Most researchers have to complete the social and behavioral science research course entitled “Group 1 Investigators Conducting Social and Behavioral Science Research (SBR) at Clemson University.” If you are involved with a biomedical research study, then complete the Group 2 Biomedical Research course. The basic SBR course may take 1-2 hours to complete. The Biomedical course has more modules and may take longer to complete. You do not have to complete the course in one sitting. You will need to keep a record of your login information to return to the course site. Steps to add a course: Step 1: After setting up the account, the Main Menu page should display. Step 2: Click "Add a Course" under the heading My Learner Tools for Clemson University. Step 3: Select "Human Subjects Research (IRB)" for the course area and click next. Step 4: Select "Researcher" as the role and click next. Step 5: Select the appropriate course (SBR or Biomedical) and click next. Step 6: The Main Menu page will reappear, click the course title to access the modules. A copy of the study team’s CITI completion certificate is required for IRB approval. The Refresher Course: CITI training must be renewed every two years. The CITI program will send an e-mail reminder at least 60 days before your training expires. The Responsible Conduct of Research Course: The Responsible Conduct of Research (RCR) course is not required by Clemson but may be required by other entities. Team members not affiliated with Clemson: Team members not covered by another institution’s IRB are required to complete Clemson’s training. They may access the training by creating an account with CITI at www.citiprogram.org and have to select “Clemson University” as their affiliated institution when creating their profile. You do not need a Clemson e-mail account to create a CITI account. Team members affiliated with another institution: Researchers covered by another institution’s IRB have to complete their institutions’ required training. They may access the training by creating an account with CITI at www.citiprogram.org and have to select “Clemson University” as their affiliated institution when creating their profile. You do not need a Clemson e-mail account to create a CITI account. Home Welcome InfoEd Institutional Review Board COVID-19 Training Resources Forms FAQ Contact Us Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee Institutional Biosafety Committee Responsible Conduct of Research Research Misconduct Office of the Vice President for Research Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram