Skip to main content Menu Resources Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply or Give Apply Now Make a Gift Student Mail Services Student Mail Services For current and updated policies and procedures related to mail services, student mail services, managed document services and printing services, please visit the COVID-19 Business Guidance page. Announcements PACKAGES: Please be sure to stop by Student Mail Services and tap your phone at the kiosk to see if you have any packages still here. All packages that are not collected by the May 6th will be returned to the sender unless you will be taking summer classes. LETTER MAIL: The kiosk will not tell you if you have letter mail in your mailbox. You will need to check for any mail in your mailbox and turn in your mailbox key if assigned one. All mail not collected by May 6th will be returned to the sender unless you will be taking summer classes. PO BOX KEY: If no longer living on campus after this semester, please return your PO box key by May 6th. If you are unable to return the key in person, you may mail your key back to Student Mail Services to your Clemson address with your name, box number and ATTN: KEY RETURN on the envelope. Be sure to use a padded envelope since the key can be ripped out of a normal envelope in the mailing machines at the US Post Office. Failure to return your key will result in a non-return fee. Here are a few important reminders: New Student Package Lockers- along with the package lockers located at McAlister Hall and Douthit Hills Hub, new lockers have been installed at Manning Hall and behind Building B at Douthit Hills. These new outdoor lockers allow students to retrieve packages 24/7. To learn more about Student Package Lockers, please visit our Lockers page and review the Lockers FAQ To receive your package in a timely manner, please be sure to use the proper address format/criteria. Not doing so will result in a delay in delivery of your mail item or the return of the item to the sender. Please use the following format: Your Name 2275 University Station PO Box Number Clemson, SC 29632 **Please use the SMxxxxx format for the PO Box Number. For example, if your assigned number is 1234, you would use SM1234. During the beginning of the semester, expect longer wait lines when dropping off or retrieving packages due to the high volume of incoming mail. Please plan your deliveries accordingly. As a tip, the best time to stop by our Mail Center for pickup would be between the hours of 9-11 am and 2-4 pm. Emails containing your mailing address have been emailed to you. Please use this address for any shipments to you on campus and pay close attention to how the address is listed. Leaving any part of the address off will either delay delivery of the package or may result in a Return to Sender. For returning students, your address may change due to the housing expansions and transitions on campus. In other words, you may not have the same address as last year. If you have any questions, please do not hesitate to contact us. Go Tigers! About Student Mail Services Student Mail Services functions as a mail and delivery pickup location for anyone with a valid mailbox. We also offer shipping and additional services for all students, faculty, and staff. Please note that we are not an official Federal Post Office and do not provide services such as money orders or passport photos. Mailboxes are for personal use only. A student or government issued ID is required when picking up packages and over-sized mail items. Service Provided Outbound (Shipping) USPS: First-class, International, Priority Mail, Priority Mail Express, Media Mail, Tracking Services including Certified Mail and Signature Confirmation. UPS: Next Day Air, 2nd Day Air, 3-Day Select, Ground, International FedEx: Priority and Standard Overnight, 2Day, Express Saver, Ground, International Inbound (Receiving) USPS, UPS, FedEx, and DHL package and mail pickup (A Student ID card or government issued ID is required when picking up packages and over-sized mail items). See Mail and Package Pickup Procedures for more information. Shipping supplies (envelopes, bubble wrap, mailing tubes, padded envelopes, boxes, packing tape, CD mailers) Postage Stamps Fax services Photocopies Self-service document shredder Lost PO Box key replacement (fee applies) Mailbox Rentals Visit Student Mail Services FAQ for answers to your shipping, services or mailbox questions. Our Location Edgar A. Brown University Union Union Drive Clemson, SC 29632 Student Mail Services on Twitter Student Mail Services on Instagram Track Your Package Questions or comments about the Student Mail Services: studpo@clemson.edu or call 864-656-2351. Document Shredding A free document shredder is available 24/7 for all students, faculty, and staff. It is located in the Student Mail Services lobby. This service is offered to help prevent identify theft and is part of the campus Solid Green initiative. Managed Document Services Printing Services Mail Services Student Mail Services Track Your Package Mail and Package Pickup Rental Payments Student Mail Services FAQ Contact Us Related Links Campus Services Campus Life Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram