Skip to content Winter 2022 Fall 2021 Spring 2021 Winter 2021 Issue Archive Issue Archive Hide Issue Archive Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health Search for: Harvard Public Health Magazine of the Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health FEATURE A reef gets a reboot in Madagascar Scientists hope restoring coral reefs will boost a local economy, improve nutrition, and even relieve anxiety. Winter 2022 Support our journalism Help us advance the mission of public health through stories that inform, inspire, and invigorate the field. We're establishing a new approach to public health coverage and opinion, with authoritative insights and stories rooted both in science and practical experience. Please consider a donation today. Make a gift IN THIS ISSUE Climate, Changed Stories of resilience, creativity, and fortitude Fighting back against climate change, block by block From rural Zambia to urban Colorado, community leaders are deploying technology to reduce emerging health risks. A Zen priest–scientist takes on climate anxiety The research scientist Kritee started using Buddhist rituals to cope with her climate grief. Now she’s helping others do the same. Letter from Nairobi: My friend’s butterfly garden seemed absurd. Now it relieves my climate stress. As development and increasingly damaging rains ratchet up stress levels in Kenya’s largest city, a writer finds herself looking forward to a surprising place. A fellowship to help clinicians fight burnout – and climate change The Climate Health Organizing Fellowship is training a dozen teams on activating their communities to improve patient well-being. Extreme heat threatens health in India and elsewhere As temperatures rise so do heat-related illnesses. Cities and states are trying to find ways to cool off this emerging crisis. London catches a breath of fresh air When Sadiq Khan became mayor, decreasing air pollution was a top priority. Here’s how new policies have reduced health risks. DEPARTMENTS Message from Dean Williams: Public Health Needs Public Trust As public health leaders, we must broadcast clear and compelling ideas that will help build a resilient and sustainable post-pandemic future. Notable news from the world of public health Updates on vaccines for malaria and HPV, tampons as a human right, how other countries see American health care, and more. Investing in public health as a public service A Q&A with Karen Dahl on the new Public Health Americorps. Racial bias is an endemic crisis. Here’s how to solve it. America’s medical schools and hospitals need to do a better job of protecting Black patients from discrimination. Commentary Winter 2022 An editorial cartoon by Natasha Loder Harvard Chan News Winter 2022 Workplace health, crisis response, collaborations in China and Africa, and other news from the school. Is helping cells self-destruct the key to treating COVID-19? Radiation biologist Kristopher Sarosiek zeroes in on why the severity of COVID-19 varies so widely. Faculty news Awards, honors, and other recognitions for a wide range of faculty In memoriam Henry Wechsler, whose groundbreaking research highlighted college binge drinking and other high-risk behaviors, died November 2 at age 89. Maximizing outcomes through better decision making The Center for Health Decision Science inspired Alan Colowick’s career, and now he’s returning the favor. Shamard Charles gets the word out The physician and health journalist on the power of telling stories in the classroom, online, and in his podcast “Heart over Hype.” 2021 Harvard Chan School Alumni Award winners The recipients of this year’s Awards of Merit, Leadership Award, Innovator Award, and Emerging Professional Award. Alumni News Career updates from past classes, starting with a note from the class of 1990. News from the School Congratulations graduates! Probing disease disparities Saving a daughter, starting a career Tackling disparities and stigma around obesity, mental health Information For: Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Friends & Supporters About Key Facts Renaming the School Office of the Dean Location and Facilities Administrative Offices Contact Us Faculty and Research Faculty and Researcher Directory Academic Departments, Divisions and Centers International Research Postdoctoral Research Fellows Office of Faculty Affairs Faculty Searches Office of Diversity and Inclusion Admissions & Aid Why Harvard Chan Degree Programs Non-Degree Programs Financial Aid Student Experience Career Advancement Apply Academics Academic Departments Divisions Research Centers Flagship Initiatives International Research Research Administration and Support Degree Programs Fellowships and Residencies Summer Programs Continuing Professional Education Interdisciplinary Concentrations Academic Calendar Harvard Chan Viewbook Executive/Continuing Ed Program Offerings Custom Programs Request Information News and Resources About ECPE Contact News Featured News Press Releases Student Stories In the News Newsletters HPH Magazine Why Public Health? Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health 677 Huntington Avenue Boston, MA 02115 +1 (617) 495‑1000 Twitter Facebook YouTube LinkedIn Instagram iTunes Harvard Chan Home Contact Us Harvard University Home Make a Gift Privacy Policy Report Copyright Violation Accessibility Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College