Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Apply Visit Give Information For Current Students Alumni Recruiters Search BC.edu Links Menu Main Nav Back Back Close About Overview Dean's Message Why the Carroll School? Diversity & Inclusion Diversity News Accreditation Board of Advisors Faculty Openings Visit Contact Related Links About Boston College Maps & Directions BC News Undergraduate Overview Academics Advising Peer Advisors Staff Advisors Concentrations Minors The Kevin Eidt Memorial Scholarship Career Accelerator Summer Management Catalyst Program Portico Careers Social Media CSOM Undergraduate Career Resources Placement Data Career Accelerator Study Abroad Community & Student Life FAQ CSOM Undergrad FAQs: COVID-19 Mar 13: Letter From Undergraduate Dean's Office Mar 20: Registration and Advising Updates Contact Graduate Overview Admission Visits and Events Tuition and Aid O’Brien Fellowship Graduate Admission FAQ International Applicants Information for U.S. Military MBA Programs Full-Time MBA Part-Time MBA Data Analytics Sequence Electives Applied Learning BC MBA Ambassadors M.S. Programs M.S. in Finance M.S. in Accounting Ph.D. Programs Ph.D. in Accounting Ph.D. in Finance Ph.D. in Organization Studies Community & Student Life Living in Boston Career Development Faculty Overview Faculty Directory Part-Time Faculty Faculty Expertise Departments Overview Concentrations Academics Accounting Undergraduate Concentrations Seminar Series Careers Message From the Chairperson Business Analytics Concentration & Academics Careers Seminar Series Message From the Chairperson Business Law & Society Finance Academics and Study Abroad F22 Registration Info Faculty Ph.D. Program Seminar Series Job Market Candidates Message From the Chairperson Information Systems Concentration & Academics Message From the Chairperson Seminar Series Management & Organization Concentration & Academics Seminar Series Careers Message From the Chairperson Marketing Concentration & Academics Careers Awards and Appointments Faculty Message From the Chairperson Fall 2022 Registration Centers Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Carroll School Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Current Students Alumni Recruiters BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Home Graduate M.S. Programs M.S. in Finance M.S. Programs M.S. in Finance M.S. in Accounting M.S. in Finance Stay on Top of the Field With globalization, emerging technologies, new regulations, and other factors, the world’s financial landscape is always shifting. Our MSF students succeed in this constantly evolving environment by mastering the enduring principles that underlie financial markets. Our MSF program helps students deepen their knowledge of finance, broaden their career opportunities, and make names for themselves in their fields. Finance professionals, recent undergraduates, and others who are considering new careers can choose from part-time or full-time options. In addition, the MSF program offers a STEM-designated quantitative finance track. This 10-course track is highly quantitative and emphasizes financial analytical skills that students can bring to workplaces in corporate finance, asset management, and investment banking. Virtual MSF Coffee Chats Tuesdays at 10:30am ET Chat with admissions staff and learn more about the BC MSF. Register Now Why BC? Resuming in June Is BC right for you? Learn more about what makes Boston College stand out. Register Now APPLY Inquire Visits and Events Application Deadlines & Requirements MSF Curriculum MSF Class Profile #19 Financial Times Faculty Research Ranking* * Average ranking over the past five years 188,000+ Boston College Alumni 43,000+ Carroll School Alumni Tuition and Aid An MSF from the Carroll School is an excellent investment in your future. We offer merit-based scholarships and financial assistance to qualified applicants. Loan and work study programs are also available. Tuition and Aid Program Curriculum Full-Time Full-Time: Quantitative Finance Track Part-Time All students have 12 months to complete the program. Full-time students typically take four classes in each of the fall and spring semesters, and finish their degrees by taking two classes during the summer. Seven Core Courses FALL Investments (MFIN8801) Corporate Finance (MFIN8807) Management of Financial Institutions (MFIN8820) Financial Econometrics (MFIN8852) SPRING/SUMMER Quantitative Portfolio Management (MFIN8803) Derivatives & Risk Management (MFIN8860) Advanced Corporate Finance (MFIN8881) Three Elective Courses These electives must be at the MFIN66XX or MFIN88XX level MFIN77XX level courses are for Full-time MBA students only Electives may have more than one pre-requisite. Please check Agora under "Course Information and Schedules" for specifics. Other elective choices require department permission from Professor Michael Barry (barrymj@bc.edu) Course waivers: Read our Course Waiver Policy. Course information: Look up course information and schedules. Community Service The Carroll School has a proud tradition of service to our community. In keeping with that tradition and with our Jesuit heritage, all M.S. in Finance students are required to complete 10 hours of community service in order to graduate. Read our service guidlines. The quantitative finance track is a STEM-designated track*, and allows you to complete the MSF in one full year of study (12 months). Full-time students can typically take four classes in each of the fall and spring semesters, and finish their degrees by taking two classes during the summer. Eight Core Courses FALL Investments (MFIN8801) Corporate Finance (MFIN8807) Management of Financial Institutions (MFIN8820) Financial Econometrics (MFIN8852) SPRING/SUMMER Four of the following five courses must be taken Data Analytics (MFIN8870) Quantitative Portfolio Management (MFIN8803) Finance Seminar: Simulation & Optimization in Finance (MFIN6640) Derivatives & Risk Management (MFIN8860) Fixed Income Analysis (MFIN8880) Two Elective Courses These electives must be at the MFIN66XX or MFIN88XX level MFIN77XX level courses are for full-time MBA students only Electives may have more than one pre-requisite. Please check Agora under "Course Information and Schedules" for specifics. Other elective choices require department permission from Professor Michael Barry (barrymj@bc.edu) Course waivers: Read our Course Waiver Policy. Course information: Look up course information and schedules. *STEM Designation The STEM (science, technology, engineering, math) OPT Extension is a 24-month period of temporary training available to F-1 international students who have completed a degree program in an approved STEM field. Boston College’s Master of Science in Finance (MSF) Quantitative Finance Track is a STEM (science, technology, engineering and math) designated program. This classification allows international MSF graduates on an F-1 visa to potentially qualify for an additional 24 months of training in their field of study (called Optional Practical Training or OPT) beyond the standard 12 months. Eligible F-1 nonimmigrant students with a STEM degree from a Student & Exchange Visitor Program (SEVP) certified U.S. school who participate in an initial period of regular post-completion OPT (typically 12 months) may be eligible to apply for a STEM OPT extension. To qualify for a 24-month STEM OPT extension, an F-1 student must: Have completed a degree in an eligible STEM field from an SEVP certified U.S. school. Maintained lawful F-1 status during the standard 12 month period of OPT. Have employment through an employer enrolled in USCIS’s E-Verify employment eligibility verification program. Work with the employer to complete a formal training (I-983) and learning objectives. Be employed at least 20 hours per week in a position directly related to the STEM degree. For detailed information about STEM OPT, visit SEVP’s Study in the States’ STEM OPT Help Hub. Community Service The Carroll School has a proud tradition of service to our community. In keeping with that tradition and with our Jesuit heritage, all M.S. in Finance students are required to complete 10 hours of community service in order to graduate. Read our service guidlines. The part-time option offers a flexible schedule, enabling you to earn your degree while continuing to advance your career. Part-time students take two classes per semester on average. At this pace, the total duration of the program will be approximately 20 months. Seven Core Courses Investments (MFIN8801) Corporate Finance (MFIN8807) Management of Financial Institutions (MFIN8820) Financial Econometrics (MFIN8852) Derivatives & Risk Management (MFIN8860) CHOOSE ONE OF THE FOLLOWING Quantitative Portfolio Management (MFIN8803) Fixed Income Analysis (MFIN8880) CHOOSE ONE OF THE FOLLOWING Advanced Corporate Finance (MFIN8881) Corporate Valuation and Restructuring (MFIN8821) Three Elective Courses These electives must be at the MFIN66XX or MFIN88XX level MFIN77XX level courses are for Full-time MBA students only Electives may have more than one pre-requisite. Please check Agora under "Course Information and Schedules" for specifics. Other elective choices require department permission from Professor Michael Barry (barrymj@bc.edu) Course waivers: Read our Course Waiver Policy. Course information: Look up course information and schedules. Community Service The Carroll School has a proud tradition of service to our community. In keeping with that tradition and with our Jesuit heritage, all Carroll School graduate students must fulfill a requirement to serve others through meaningful work as volunteers. Learn more about community service guidelines. MSF Class Profiles Full-Time: Class Entering Fall 2021 Updated September 15, 2021 Academic and Professional Profile Average Undergraduate GPA 3.43 Average GMAT Score 658 GMAT Score 80th Percentile Range 540–740 Average GRE Score 318 GRE Score 80th Percentile Range 305-330 Average Full-Time Work Experience <1 year Work Experience 80 Percentile Range 0–2 years Diversity Women 36% AHANA* 27% International 63% Average Age 23 Age Range 21–32 *African-American, Hispanic, Asian and Native American. Undergraduate Majors Accounting 7% Business 17% Economics 22% Engineering 2% Finance 30% Humanities/Social Sciences 10% Math/Physical Sciences 6% Double Major 6% International Enrollments Brazil China Colombia Guatemala India Indonesia Italy Peru Russia Taiwan Ukraine Part-Time: Class Entering Fall 2021 Academic and Professional Profile Average Undergraduate GPA 3.5 Average Full-Time Work Experience 2.5 years Diversity Women 11% AHANA* 44% Average Age 25 Age Range 22-30 *African-American, Hispanic, Asian and Native American. “Boston College is unique because of its professors, who are all widely successful in their own right and essentially donate their time to students because they want to see us succeed.” Peter Peirce (MSF ’20) AVP, Treasury Graduate Rotational Analyst, Citizens Bank “The BC MSF offers a perfect blend of quantitative and qualitative classes, industry exposure, and programming—all of which aligned perfectly with my goals.” Rosie Xue Rui (MSF ’20) Quantitative Financial Analyst, Zenith Stone Asset Management “Not only am I being academically challenged inside of the classroom, but I am also strengthening my networking and communication skills, while making lifelong connections.” Madison Borrelli (MSF ’21) Ph.D. in Finance Candidate, University of Central Florida “I chose to pursue my MSF at Boston College due to the reputation of the Carroll School name, BC’s proximity to America’s major financial hubs, and the program’s world-class educational experience.” Cole Conderman (MSF ’22) Current Full-Time MSF Student Faculty View More View Less Quicklinks: Carroll School Graduate Programs CGSOM Academic Calendars & Resources Career Development University Student Services Back To Top Back To Top Carroll School of Management Fulton Hall Boston College 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467-3809 About the Carroll School Undergraduate Graduate Faculty & Research Departments Centers Contact Accreditation Apply Visit Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College