Skip to main content Jump to main navigation Search content University of Pennsylvania | Penn University Life Search query Search Toggle Site Navigation Toggle Site Search VPUL Home Activities Fraternity and Sorority Life Naval ROTC Office of Student Affairs Platt Student Performing Arts House VPUL Events Calendar Cultural Centers Greenfield Intercultural Center La Casa Latina LGBTC Center Makuu The Black Cultural Center Pan-Asian American Community House Penn Women Center Student Supports Career Services First Generation Low Income Program Penn Violence Prevention Student Affairs Leadership Team Student Intervention Services Weingarten Learning Resource Center Student Disabilities Services Office of Learning Resources Tutoring Center About Leadership Team Give to University Life Strategic Priorities VPUL Facilities at Perelman Quadrangle VPUL Technology Services Announcements Campus Resources Programs Services About Mission Contact Us History Our Team Student Organizations MAKUU Home Makuu: The Black Cultural Center is a nexus of academic, professional and personal growth for University of Pennsylvania students interested in Black culture and the African Diaspora. Through advising, leadership development, network facilitation, and cultural programming, we expand student access to the University’s resources, enhancing our campus and global communities. Founded in 2000 to center the experience, concerns, and possibilities of students of the African Diaspora, Makuu: The Black Cultural Center is affectionately regarded as “home”. Housed within the Division of the Vice Provost of University Life and located in the ARCH building in the heart of campus, Makuu provides a comfortable and convenient space for students to gather. Makuu’s staff work daily to provide academic, cultural, and social support to students and groups, connecting them to additional resources and opportunities. Follow our social media accounts to get updates on our programming! Makuu Events Calendar Makuu serves as a cultural hub for campus and community activities, providing students, faculty and staff, alumni, and community partners with numerous meaningful opportunities to learn from one another. Makuu conducts a number of events each year including our Kwanzaa Dinner (December), Senior Awards Celebration (May), faculty and alumni talks, academic skills workshops, film screenings, student mixers, and more. Makuu also partners with other offices and centers across campus to co-sponsor a wide range of additional events. Finally, Makuu supports the various Umoja-affiliated student groups with their meetings and events. Explore Events Announcements Programs Services About Us Our Blog Penn’s Kwanzaa celebrates ‘regrounding our purpose’ December 13, 2021 Normally, you get gifts at the end of Kwanzaa,” said Brian Peterson, director of Makuu: The Black Cultural Center. But as with most things, this year Alumni share their favorite campus spots—and how they found a niche at Penn. November 4, 2021 “There’s so much that happens here: Sister, Sister and Black Men United [both discussion groups], Makuu’s open house, Penn Spectrum events. Having Makuu be in the middle of campus is representative of the work we do; how important it is.” The 2020 Summer Reading List June 18, 2020 Though time spent reading by the beach may be limited this summer, lounging outdoors with the smell of a book and the feeling of the The Connector: Brian Peterson January 22, 2020 The ground floor of the ARCH building is buzzing. Through one of the glass entranceways, students work with laptops out, while others discuss the relative Makuu Newsletter If you would like to get involved with Makuu, please subscribe to our mailing list! We send out newsletters every week with events from Makuu, as well as the greater community, and links to exciting career and networking opportunities. Subscribe to Makuu's Newsletter Strive to Thrive Oftentimes the word “survive” is tossed around on college campuses, hoping students make it through tough exams and the transition to living on their own. At Makuu we help students develop the capacity to be exceptional in multiple areas. We collectively set high expectations, and we foster a supportive environment to meet them. This space on our website will describe some of the stories and ways that we strive to thrive. We begin with a few of our recent graduates sharing their Penn and Makuu experiences. Alumni Connections If you are a graduate of the University of Pennsylvania and are interested in (re)engaging with Penn’s Black community, and/or taking advantage of Makuu’s alumni network and alumni outreach efforts (mixers, professional development opportunities, speakers, conferences, and more), please check in with us. Makuu Alumni Outreach Questionnaire Make a Gift Please consider making your presence felt by supporting Makuu financially. Each contribution furthers Makuu’s student services and overall impact. All donations are tax deductible Donate Facebook Instagram Twitter Primary Footer Athletics Diversity Health & Wellness Libraries Online Learning Penn Global Resources University Life Calendar Student Jobs Help Contact Us Maps Parking University of Pennsylvania Address Philadelphia, PA 19104 Telephone: (215) 898-6081 Legal Copyright Disclaimer Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Skip to content Open toolbar Accessibility Tools Increase Text Decrease Text Grayscale High Contrast Negative Contrast Light Background Links Underline Readable Font Reset