Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Events Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Schedule a Visit SMU Tour Follow Us Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us Twitter Follow Us YouTube Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Home Academics Academics Departments Undergraduate Majors Undergraduate Minors and Programs Graduate Studies Why Study Here? Why Study Here? The Dedman Edge Heard on The Hilltop Research and Fellowships Research and Fellowships Undergraduate Students Graduate Students National Student Fellowships Institutes and Centers Faculty Dean's Research Council Resources Resources Current Students Faculty and Staff Prospective Students Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate About About Dean's Welcome Administrative Directory Executive Board Department Chairs Department Faculty Directory Dedman Diversity Publications Facilities Connect Connect Make a Gift Contact Us Prospective Student Visit Alumni Connection and Events ☰ The Bold and Curious Begin Here Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences connects students with forward thinkers and global problem solvers through interdisciplinary education and partnerships that begin here, at the heart of the SMU campus, and extend globally. Why Study Here? "Something SMU, and specifically Tower Scholars, does really well is giving their students opportunities for real-world application." Austin Hickle ’22 Why Study Here? "I found opportunities to conduct and present my own research, have a work-study job, fully fund my study-abroad experience and volunteer with the local community." Siddhakshi Solanki ’20 Why Study Here? "Once you’re at SMU, you’ll be encouraged to dip your toe into anything that you find yourself drawn to; hence why I am leaving this institution with three different degrees." Abena Marfo ’22 Why Study Here? "I selected SMU because of the opportunity to become part of its physics research community as an undergraduate." Jared Burleson ’21 Why Study Here? "The human rights program helped me tie what I was learning in class to the outside world." Kaitlyn Contreras ’20 Why Study Here? "The support of professors has had a profound impact on me." Evan Snyder ’19 Previous Next pause play hide show Are you a prospective student? We want to meet you! Watch this video Read FAQ's Schedule a virtual 1:1 appointment Learn More Visit Learn More Apply Mustang Strong Departments Undergraduate Graduate Research Find Your Passion Academic Versatility Our globally renowned faculty, abundant course options, and boundless research opportunities prepare students to reach for their dreams, defy challenges, and build a better tomorrow. Find the right academic combination for your future. Read more » Competitive Edge Dedman College students build the academic foundation and skills that give them the competitive edge in fields such as medicine, business, technology, marketing and beyond. Read more » Hands-on Research Take charge of your future with hands on research opportunities from day one. Faculty and students work side by side to in subjects ranging from space exploration to cancer research and high performance computation. Read more » 16 Academic Departments 90+ Undergraduate Majors and Minors 30+ Post Graduate Opportunities News More news Upcoming Events See all upcoming events Apply Visit Academics Undergraduate Degrees Graduate Degrees Minors and Programs Research Centers and Institutes Connect Administrative Directory Department Directory Alumni Make a Gift Dedman College of Humanities & Sciences P.O. Box 750235 | Dallas, Texas | 75275-0233 214-768-2440 © Southern Methodist University Legal Disclosures facebook twitter youtube