Skip to content Clemson University Clemson University Search Menu Close Sorry, your browser does not support inline SVG. Sorry, your browser does not support inline SVG. Apply Giving News Resources for Students Faculty & Staff Parents Alumni Clemson University Academics Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Academics Home Employment Opportunities Apply for Admission Colleges College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business College of Education College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences College of Science Graduate School Academic Resources Academic Calendar Registrar Division of Undergraduate Studies Center for Career and Professional Development Academic Success Center GRAD 360° Libraries Outside the Classroom PEER/WISE Call Me MISTER® Creative Inquiry and Undergraduate Research Cooperative Education University Professional Internship and Co-op Program (UPIC) Study Abroad Admissions Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Admissions Home Schedule a Tour Apply for Admission Applying to Clemson First-Year Undergraduate Transfer Undergraduate International Undergraduate Graduate Students Academic Opportunities Majors Graduate Programs Online Graduate Programs Scholar Programs Paths to Graduate School Honors College Experiential Learning Financial Aid Tuition and Fee Calculator Undergraduate Financial Aid Graduate Fellowships and Awards Residency Requirements Campus Life Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Campus Life Home Club Sports Brooks Center for the Performing Arts Join Your Clemson Family Finding Your Community Living-Learning Communities Student Veterans Multicultural Programs FIRST Army ROTC Air Force ROTC Services On Campus Housing & Dining Campus Recreation Parking and Transportation Student Health Services TigerOne Card Services Clemson Athletics Get Involved Clubs and Organizations Fraternity and Sorority Life Orientation Ambassadors Tiger Media Graduate Student Government Undergraduate Student Government Research Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Research Home Clemson University Research Foundation (CURF) Division of Research Research Opportunities Student Research at Clemson Creative Inquiry Research Facilities Postdoctoral Affairs Serving South Carolina Through Research School of Health Research Public Service and Agriculture Clemson Experimental Forest Clemson Extension Clemson Research and Education Centers Public Service and Agriculture Research Farm Services Innovation and Economic Development Corporate Partnerships and Strategic Initiatives Clemson University International Center for Automotive Research (CU-ICAR) Clemson University Restoration Institute (CURI) Clemson University Biomedical Engineering Innovation Campus (CUBEInC) Center for Human Genetics Innovation Campus and Technology Park About Clemson Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back About Clemson Home Clemson News Clemson Athletics For Tigers Applying to Clemson Working at Clemson Traditions Military Heritage Things To Do in Clemson Visit Clemson Campus Resources Employment Opportunities Home and Garden Information Center Brand Guidelines CCIT Academic Calendar Training ClemsonForward Campus Leadership Board of Trustees President Academic Affairs and Provost Inclusion and Equity Student Affairs Faculty Senate Staff Senate Search Resources for Current Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni College of Education Academics Forward Arrow Academics Undergraduate Forward Arrow Undergraduate Agricultural Education Early Childhood Education, B.A. Elementary Education, B.A. Human Capital Education & Development, B.S. Middle Level Education, B.S. Mathematics Teaching, B.S. Modern Languages Education, B.A. Special Education, B.A. Secondary Education, B.A. Science Teaching, B.S./B.A. Athletic Leadership Minor Back Arrow Back Expressway to Tiger Town Bachelors To Masters Masters and Specialist Programs Forward Arrow Masters and Specialist Programs Athletic Leadership (Online) Counselor Education Educational Leadership Human Resource Development Literacy (Online) Middle Level Education, MAT Secondary Education, MAT Special Education (Online) Student Affairs Teaching and Learning (Online) Back Arrow Back Doctoral Programs Forward Arrow Doctoral Programs Education Systems Improvement Science Educational Leadership Learning Sciences Literacy, Language and Culture Special Education Teaching and Learning Back Arrow Back Certificates | Endorsements | Licensure Back Arrow Back Research Forward Arrow Research Start Your Proposal Resources REAL Lunches Grant Fellows Program Back Arrow Back Programs Forward Arrow Programs Educational Programs Forward Arrow Educational Programs Call Me MISTER® ClemsonLIFE Expressway To Tiger Town Human Capital Education and Development CU Teacher Learning Progression STEM - STEAM Teaching Fellows Upstate Writing Project Back Arrow Back Labs Forward Arrow Labs Arts and Creativity Lab Contexts of Learning & Development Lab CLEaR Lab Digital Media Learning Lab IDEA Lab Back Arrow Back Centers and Institutes Forward Arrow Centers and Institutes Digital Media and Learning Center Education Media Center Reading Recovery Training Center SC-CEIMS SC-CREDE Back Arrow Back Back Arrow Back Students Forward Arrow Students Student Advising Forward Arrow Student Advising Bridge & Transfer Students Change of Major FAQs Prospective Students Back Arrow Back Field Experience Forward Arrow Field Experience Cooperating Teachers and Site Mentors Teacher Education Field Experience Teacher Residency University Supervisors Back Arrow Back Student Opportunities Forward Arrow Student Opportunities Student Advisory Boards Student Organizations Study Abroad Teaching Fellows Departmental Honors Back Arrow Back Student Resources Back Arrow Back About Forward Arrow About From the Dean Administration Departments Forward Arrow Departments Education and Human Development Educational and Organizational Leadership Development Teaching and Learning Back Arrow Back Directory Forward Arrow Directory Administration and Support Centers and Programs Education and Human Development Educational and Organizational Leadership Development Teaching and Learning Back Arrow Back Alumni and Friends Forward Arrow Alumni and Friends Advancement Board About the Moore Family 2021 Masters & Doctoral Graduates Back Arrow Back Inclusive Excellence Innovation and Outreach Annual Reporting Forward Arrow Annual Reporting CAEP Reporting Back Arrow Back Employee Services Back Arrow Back Apply Giving News Sikes Hall Icon Main Menu Forward Arrow Icon Back Arrow Icon Back Clemson University Academics Academics Home Employment Opportunities Apply for Admission Colleges College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business College of Education College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences College of Science Graduate School Academic Resources Academic Calendar Registrar Division of Undergraduate Studies Center for Career and Professional Development Academic Success Center GRAD 360° Libraries Outside the Classroom PEER/WISE Call Me MISTER® Creative Inquiry and Undergraduate Research Cooperative Education University Professional Internship and Co-op Program (UPIC) Study Abroad Admissions Admissions Home Schedule a Tour Apply for Admission Applying to Clemson First-Year Undergraduate Transfer Undergraduate International Undergraduate Graduate Students Academic Opportunities Majors Graduate Programs Online Graduate Programs Scholar Programs Paths to Graduate School Honors College Experiential Learning Financial Aid Tuition and Fee Calculator Undergraduate Financial Aid Graduate Fellowships and Awards Residency Requirements Campus Life Campus Life Home Club Sports Brooks Center for the Performing Arts Join Your Clemson Family Finding Your Community Living-Learning Communities Student Veterans Multicultural Programs FIRST Army ROTC Air Force ROTC Services On Campus Housing & Dining Campus Recreation Parking and Transportation Student Health Services TigerOne Card Services Clemson Athletics Get Involved Clubs and Organizations Fraternity and Sorority Life Orientation Ambassadors Tiger Media Graduate Student Government Undergraduate Student Government Research Research Home Clemson University Research Foundation (CURF) Division of Research Research Opportunities Student Research at Clemson Creative Inquiry Research Facilities Postdoctoral Affairs Serving South Carolina Through Research School of Health Research Public Service and Agriculture Clemson Experimental Forest Clemson Extension Clemson Research and Education Centers Public Service and Agriculture Research Farm Services Innovation and Economic Development Corporate Partnerships and Strategic Initiatives Clemson University International Center for Automotive Research (CU-ICAR) Clemson University Restoration Institute (CURI) Clemson University Biomedical Engineering Innovation Campus (CUBEInC) Center for Human Genetics Innovation Campus and Technology Park About Clemson About Clemson Home Clemson News Clemson Athletics For Tigers Applying to Clemson Working at Clemson Traditions Military Heritage Things To Do in Clemson Visit Clemson Campus Resources Employment Opportunities Home and Garden Information Center Brand Guidelines CCIT Academic Calendar Training ClemsonForward Campus Leadership Board of Trustees President Academic Affairs and Provost Inclusion and Equity Student Affairs Faculty Senate Staff Senate Search close College of Education Academics show submenu for Academics Undergraduate show submenu for Undergraduate Agricultural Education Early Childhood Education, B.A. Elementary Education, B.A. Human Capital Education & Development, B.S. Middle Level Education, B.S. Mathematics Teaching, B.S. Modern Languages Education, B.A. Special Education, B.A. Secondary Education, B.A. Science Teaching, B.S./B.A. Athletic Leadership Minor Expressway to Tiger Town Bachelors To Masters Masters and Specialist Programs show submenu for Masters and Specialist Programs Athletic Leadership (Online) Counselor Education Educational Leadership Human Resource Development Literacy (Online) Middle Level Education, MAT Secondary Education, MAT Special Education (Online) Student Affairs Teaching and Learning (Online) Doctoral Programs show submenu for Doctoral Programs Education Systems Improvement Science Educational Leadership Learning Sciences Literacy, Language and Culture Special Education Teaching and Learning Certificates | Endorsements | Licensure Research show submenu for Research Start Your Proposal Resources REAL Lunches Grant Fellows Program Programs show submenu for Programs Educational Programs show submenu for Educational Programs Call Me MISTER® ClemsonLIFE Expressway To Tiger Town Human Capital Education and Development CU Teacher Learning Progression STEM - STEAM Teaching Fellows Upstate Writing Project Labs show submenu for Labs Arts and Creativity Lab Contexts of Learning & Development Lab CLEaR Lab Digital Media Learning Lab IDEA Lab Centers and Institutes show submenu for Centers and Institutes Digital Media and Learning Center Education Media Center Reading Recovery Training Center SC-CEIMS SC-CREDE Students show submenu for Students Student Advising show submenu for Student Advising Bridge & Transfer Students Change of Major FAQs Prospective Students Field Experience show submenu for Field Experience Cooperating Teachers and Site Mentors Teacher Education Field Experience Teacher Residency University Supervisors Student Opportunities show submenu for Student Opportunities Student Advisory Boards Student Organizations Study Abroad Teaching Fellows Departmental Honors Student Resources About show submenu for About From the Dean show submenu for From the Dean Dean's Leadership Institute Administration Departments show submenu for Departments Education and Human Development Educational and Organizational Leadership Development Teaching and Learning Directory show submenu for Directory Administration and Support Centers and Programs Education and Human Development Educational and Organizational Leadership Development Teaching and Learning Alumni and Friends show submenu for Alumni and Friends Advancement Board About the Moore Family 2021 Masters & Doctoral Graduates Inclusive Excellence Innovation and Outreach Annual Reporting show submenu for Annual Reporting CAEP Reporting Employee Services Clemson Home College of Education Academics Masters and Specialist Programs Current: Counselor Education Counselor Education, M.Ed. / Ed.S The faculty of the Counselor Education Program is dedicated to educating counselors as scholar practitioners who can effectively serve diverse populations. We prepare counselors who also seek opportunities to engage in outreach and advocacy through collaborative partnerships. The program provides opportunities for students to apply theory, research, knowledge, and skills through experiential learning, with an emphasis on wellness, prevention, and intervention. GRE Not Required For Admission Student Handbook Field Manual: CMHC Field Manual: SC Apply Now Faculty Directory Academic Calendar Prestigious Recognition The College of Education counselor education master's program is the recipient of the 2021 Outstanding Master's Counselor Education Program Award, given by the Southern Association for Counselor Education and Supervision. This award recognizes a master's program that guides, supports and promotes counselors-in-training to be the next great generation of counselors. Overview The counselor education program offers a 60-credit hour CACREP-accredited master of education degree with specializations in clinical mental health counseling or school counseling. The program also offers a 30-credit hour educational specialist degree in counselor education. Please see tabs below for details about each program. Students may complete the program on a part-time or full-time basis. The full-time program can be completed in two years, including summers. All students must complete the program in six years. Courses are taught in the afternoons/evenings, Monday through Thursday. Approximately one-third of the courses are taught at Clemson University and the other two-thirds at the University Center in Greenville over the course of the program. All students will need to travel back and forth to both locations, and carpooling is encouraged. Most students tend to live in Clemson or Greenville. The program does not offer online classes. Program Goals Counselor Education Program Objectives Students will develop and demonstrate a professional counseling identity. Students will exhibit self-reflection and self-awareness and demonstrate professional growth. Students will exhibit critical thinking skills. Students will apply culturally sensitive counseling, career, and human development theories to individual and group counseling practice. Students will identify and use counseling interventions and techniques that are grounded in research. Students will identify processes of intentional and unintentional oppression and discrimination and avenues for advocacy. Students will acquire the knowledge and skills needed to identify and use culturally relevant assessment strategies. Students will identify opportunities and processes for collaborating and consulting. Students will acquire knowledge and skills in their counseling specialty area. Information about recently admitted and graduated students (e.g., admissions data, job placement) are available via these links: Clinical Mental Health Counseling Student Outcomes and School Counseling Student Outcomes. Please also see the Counselor Education Program Annual Report. Admission Requirements Admission to the Program The Counselor Education master’s and specialist programs admits students for summer entrance only. Only complete applications are considered for admission. Students admitted will start classes during the second summer session (see academic calendar). Application Deadline January 15, to enroll in the summer semester individuals who pass the initial screening will be invited to a group interview sometime early-mid February Final decisions will be made after interviews are completed, typically near the beginning of March. Application Requirements To be considered for the Program, applicants must: Have completed a bachelor’s degree from a regionally accredited college or university with a minimum GPA of 3.0 on a 4.0 scale or from a recognized international university with a bachelor’s degree equivalent to a US bachelor's. Submit an online graduate school application which requires: Unofficial transcripts (official transcript(s) will be required if you are accepted into the program) A current resume Two recommendation forms Recommendation forms are emailed directly to recommenders via the online application process From professional references or professors Five essay responses Prompts included in application Official TOEFL/IELTS scores for international students Additional information concerning supporting materials The counselor education program faculty seeks to admit a diverse applicant pool, and we review applicant files comprehensively. We try to admit 17-22 students per year in each specialization, and we have a very competitive admissions process. The stronger your application, the better chance you have of being offered admission. The applicant pool varies from year to year, so it is not possible for us to convey specifics regarding individual factors. Tips for applying to each specialization are shared below. In general, we want to admit students who have the potential to succeed in graduate school. Strong applicants show evidence of academic success (e.g., undergraduate GPA of 3.00 or above), especially in related coursework; potential for success in graduate school (e.g., evidenced by GPA and recommendation letters); and analytical thinking skills. The counselor education program does not accept transfer students per se. That is, individuals who have started working on a graduate degree in counselor education at another institution must apply to this program in the same way as any applicant. Clemson can accept up to 12 graduate course credits from another institution. Transfer courses must meet the requirements of a Clemson graduate course and have been taken within six years from the date you will complete your graduate degree. See the Counselor Education Transfer Credit Policy for more information. Tips For Applying Tips for Applying to the Clinical Mental Health Counseling Specialization In addition to possessing academic potential, applicants ideally should have some background in psychology, social work, sociology, or a related area. Priority will be given to individuals who possess some knowledge of mental health issues through prior coursework, research experience, and/or volunteer or paid work experiences. We also look for individuals who have an ability to work well with others and a desire to become culturally competent. Application essay questions provide an opportunity for applicants to address these areas, and the interview process allows faculty to explore these areas further. Finally, we expect applicants to have some knowledge of clinical mental health counseling and to be able to articulate what, in particular, about the profession interests them, especially in comparison to other related mental health professions (like social work, psychology, etc.). Applicants are encouraged to chat with or briefly shadow people who are currently working as mental health counselors, and to explore the differences between counselors, psychologists and social workers. More information about mental health counseling can be found through the American Mental Health Counselors Association. Tips for Applying to the School Counseling Specialization The school counseling program admits students from a variety of majors and backgrounds. It can be helpful for applicants to have completed some coursework in areas such as psychology, lifespan development, or education, but we do not require any prerequisite coursework or prioritize any specific undergraduate degrees during the application process. We do look for certain characteristics that we believe to be important, which are outlined below. In addition to possessing academic potential, applicants must enjoy working with children and adolescents. We look for individuals who have demonstrated a commitment to children and adolescents through their own recent volunteer or paid experiences – and we love to read in your application essays about experiences that led you to want to work with kids. Working as a school counselor no longer means only working one-on-one and in small groups with students (although those things still are important parts of the job). Today's school counselors are leaders in their schools and advocates for students. They possess effective counseling skills, are collaborative, and are able to work effectively with diverse populations. As such, we also look for individuals who have demonstrated leadership skills as well as an ability to work well with others and a desire to become culturally competent. We love receiving recommendation letters from individuals who can speak from first-hand experience to those characteristics, as well as to your work ethic. Finally, we expect applicants to have some knowledge of school counseling and to be able to articulate what, in particular, about the profession interests them. Applicants are encouraged to chat with or briefly shadow people who are currently working as school counselors, and to explore what the job is like at various building levels. It helps us to know what aspects of the profession excite you and in what ways you view yourself as a good fit for school counseling. More information about school counseling can be found through the American School Counselor Association. Master of Education - Clinical Mental Health Counseling Specialization The Clinical Mental Health program is designed to provide knowledge, abilities, and skills for counselors who plan to work in a variety of community agency settings including mental health centers, psychiatric hospitals, substance abuse programs, couples and family counseling facilities, social service agencies, etc. The program is designed as a generalist approach to preparing clinical mental health counselors. Graduates of this program complete all required coursework for the Licensed Professional Counselor (LPC) credential in South Carolina. Counselor Education- Clinical Mental Health M.Ed./Ed.S. (60 credit hours minimum): EDC 8050 – Clinical Mental Health Counseling EDC 8100 – Theories/Techniques of Counseling EDC 8110 – Multicultural Counseling EDC 8120 – Career Counseling EDC 8130 – Assessment in Counseling EDC 8140 – Development of Counseling Skills EDC 8150 – Group Counseling EDC 8160 – Introduction to Couples and Family Counseling EDC 8170 – Crisis Intervention Counseling EDC 8210 – Diagnostics of Psychopathology for Counselors EDC 8220 – Addictions Counseling EDC 8230 – Advanced Counseling Techniques and Strategies EDC 8240 – Ethical Issues in Counseling EDC 8250 – Counseling Across the Lifespan EDC 8280 – Research in Counseling EDC 8360 – Clinical Mental Health Practicum EDC 8460 – Clinical Mental Health Counseling Internship (2 semesters) In addition to the coursework and field experience requirements, during their final year in the program students must successfully complete a written final examination. More Information about Field Experiences Through the two field experiences courses (i.e., practicum and internship) listed above, students must complete a minimum of 700 hours in mental health settings. Download a current version of the Clinical Mental Health Counseling Field Experience Manual. Practicum involves students completing 100 hours in a mental health setting. This equates to approximately one day a week, or two half-days a week, for an entire semester. The purpose of practicum is to learn about the setting and to begin developing skills in individual and group counseling. Of the 100 hours, students must accumulate 40 by providing direct services to clients. Internship involves students completing 600 hours in mental health settings. The purpose of the internship is to further develop skills. The internship is to be completed over the course of two semesters, so students will register for two separate six-credit classes of EDC 8460 during back-to-back semesters. During each six-credit class, students are required to accumulate 300 hours at their sites, with a minimum of 120 direct hours per semester. These 300 hours equate to approximately two and a half days a week, or five half-days a week, for an entire semester. It is very difficult for individuals to be employed full-time in a 9-5 type job during the internship and successfully complete their internship requirements, as most agencies require interns be there during daytime hours. Licensure Students completing the MEd specialization in clinical mental health counseling will be eligible to pursue the Licensed Professional Counselor (LPC) credential upon graduation. Master of Education - School Counseling Specialization Students completing the M.Ed. specialization in school counseling are prepared to work as school counselors in P-12 settings. In addition to developing counseling skills, they will be prepared to work effectively with diverse populations, to engage in data-driven practices, and to be leaders and advocates in their schools. They also will demonstrate an ability to collaborate with teachers, administrators, parents, and other members of the community. Counselor Education- School Counseling M.Ed./Ed.S. (60 credit hours minimum): Core Courses (57 credit hours) EDC 8010 – Foundations of School Counseling     EDC 8100 – Theories/Techniques of Counseling EDC 8110 – Multicultural Counseling EDC 8120 – Career Counseling EDC 8130 – Assessment in Counseling   EDC 8140 – Development of Counseling Skills EDC 8150 – Group Counseling EDC 8170 – Crisis Intervention Counseling    EDC 8210 – Diagnostics of Psychopathology for Counselors   EDC 8240 – Ethical Issues in Counseling EDC 8250 – Counseling Across the Lifespan EDC 8280 – Research in Counseling EDC 8300 – School Counseling Practicum EDC 8410 – School Counseling Internship (taken across two semesters, 12 credits total) EDC 8510 – Leadership in School Counseling EDSP 8530 – Legal and Policy Issues in Special Education Approved Electives (3 credit hours) EDC 8220 – Addictions Counseling OR EDC 8160 – Introduction to Couples and Family Counseling  In addition to the coursework and field experience requirements, during their final year in the program students must successfully complete a written final examination and receive a passing score on the PRAXIS II Exam in Professional School Counseling. More Information about Field Experiences Through the two field experiences courses (i.e., practicum and internship) listed above, students must complete a minimum of 700 hours working with school counselors in K-12 settings. The faculty encourages (but does not require) students to complete their field experiences in different building levels to increase their understanding of K-12 school counseling programs. The faculty require students to complete at least one of their field experiences in a diverse school. The Upstate South Carolina area boasts very diverse schools (e.g., ethnicity, language, socioeconomic status), and the faculty are committed to helping students gain experience with populations that will help facilitate their readiness to work effectively with a variety of students and families. Download a current version of the School Counseling Program Field Experience Manual. Practicum involves students completing 100 hours in a school. This equates to approximately one day a week, or two half-days a week, for an entire semester. Students must arrange their work schedules to allow for at least half-days at their sites and must be at their sites throughout the course of an entire semester. The purpose of practicum is to learn about the school setting and to begin developing counseling skills. Of the 100 hours, students must accumulate 40 by providing direct services to students (i.e., individual or group counseling, or classroom lessons). The internship involves students completing 600 hours in a school. The purpose of the internship is to further develop skills in individual and group counseling and classroom lessons, as well as to practice consultation skills by actively working with teachers and parents. Students are placed in K-12 schools and they can choose the building levels they would like. The internship is to be completed over the course of two semesters, so students will register for two separate six-credit classes of EDC 8410 during back-to-back semesters. During each six-credit class, students are required to accumulate 300 hours at their sites, with a minimum of 120 direct hours per semester. This 300 hours equates to approximately two and a half days a week, or five half-days a week, for an entire semester. Students must arrange their work schedules to allow for at least half-days at their sites (i.e., it is not acceptable for hours to be accumulated in a piecemeal manner, with an hour or two here and there) and must be at their sites throughout the course of an entire semester. It is not possible for individuals to be employed full-time in a school setting in a position other than school counselor (e.g., teacher, school-based mental health counselor) during their internship and successfully complete the internship requirements. Certification Students completing the M.Ed. specialization in school counseling will become eligible for starting salaries at the master's + 30, or EdS., pay level. Graduates are eligible for certification in South Carolina as elementary and secondary school counselors. Students moving to other states usually have little difficulty pursuing certification, as our program requirements are comparable to requirements in most states. Furthermore, through careful selection of elective courses during their program, students can complete all coursework necessary to pursue the Licensed Professional Counselor (LPC) credential in South Carolina after graduation. Educational Specialist in Counselor Education The Ed.S. degree in counselor education is designed for individuals who already possess a master’s degree in counselor education (preferably from a CACREP-accredited program) consisting of a minimum of 48 credit hours. Most Ed.S. applicants desire to add a different specialization to their existing degree, while some just want to further their knowledge and skills in counseling. Students entering this program must choose either a school counseling emphasis or a mental health counseling emphasis. All students enrolled in the Ed.S. degree must complete a minimum of 30 credit hours. Courses that were completed as part of a previous degree program may NOT count toward the 30 credits. Most students will complete the program on a part-time basis, taking one or two classes per semester, including summers. All students must complete the program in six years. Courses are taught in the afternoons / evenings, Monday through Thursday, at either the University Center in Greenville or on Clemson’s campus. Ed.S. School Counseling Emphasis Individuals choosing this emphasis typically are interested in completing requirements for school counseling certification or in advancing their knowledge and skills in school counseling to be eligible for salaries at the master’s +30/EdS pay rate. Students in this emphasis will choose courses as follows: Complete any of the courses currently required for school counselor certification (see Master of Education - School Counseling Specialization tab) that they have not previously completed. Take elective courses approved by the advisor and based on the student’s professional goals. Ed.S. Mental Health Counseling Emphasis Individuals choosing this emphasis typically are interested in completing requirements for counselor licensure (i.e., LPC) or in advancing their knowledge and skills in mental health counseling. Students in this emphasis will choose courses as follows: Complete any of the courses currently required for the master’s degree in clinical mental health counseling (see Master of Education - Clinical Mental Health Counseling Specialization tab) that they have not previously completed. Take elective courses approved by the advisor and based on the student’s professional goals. Financial Information Tuition and Fees Explore information on tuition and fees using the Student Financial Services’ tuition and fee calculator (be sure to choose the ‘online’ tab at the top of the page). Financial Aid For information regarding Financial Aid, please contact the office of Student Financial Aid. Assistantships A limited number of graduate assistantships are available each year through our department and other locations on campus, and they tend to be competitive. Assistantships are available to full-time students (enrolled in at least nine credit hours per semester) and typically require a 20-hour per week work commitment. The work assignments will vary depending on the assistantship. Students who obtain these positions will receive an extensive tuition reduction as well as a monthly stipend. Funding for these positions usually does not become finalized until the summer months, so it is difficult to know how many opportunities might be available until the summer. Applicants interested in assistantships should discuss this with the Program Coordinator upon receiving an offer of admission. Additional Fees For clinical mental health counseling: One-time purchase of a Chalk and Wire account for student artifact management and assessment (approx. $100) Liability insurance during practicum and internship (student rate approximately $100 per year — will need two years) Cost to apply for the National Counselor Certification (NCC) and to take the National Counselor Examination (NCE) or to take the National Clinical Mental Health Counselor Exam (NCMHCE) is $355. Depending on the state, one of these exams will be required for LPC licensure. For school counseling: One-time purchase of a Chalk and Wire account for student artifact management and assessment (approx. $100) Application fee for school counselor certification, including fingerprinting (approximately $160) Membership in American School Counselor Association during practicum and internship for liability insurance purposes (student rate $69 per year — will need two years) Fee to take the Praxis examination in school counseling prior to graduation ($120) Information Sessions & Calendar Review our College of Education Graduate Calendar to view upcoming events and information sessions. Graduate Event Calendar Find Out More For more information regarding the program or questions associated with applying, please contact Alison Search, Student Services Program Coordinator, at alisonp@clemson.edu or 864-250-8880. Hear From Counselor Education Students School Counseling Clinical Mental Health Counseling Department of Education and Human Development Copyright © Clemson University Department of Education and Human Development | 209 Gantt Circle 864-656-7645 | Email Us | Website Updates intro-arrow Engage With Us Through Facebook Twitter Instagram Clemson University Facebook Instagram Twitter Linkedin Youtube Tiktok Policy/Terms of Use Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Copyright © 2022 Clemson University • Clemson, South Carolina 29634 Clemson University Facebook Instagram Twitter Linkedin Youtube Tiktok Resources A-Z Index Campus Map CU Safety Directory Webcams Apply to Clemson