Skip to main content. ADVISORY | COVID-19 Information × kumc.edu School of Health Professions School of Medicine School of Nursing University of Kansas The University of Kansas Health System The University of Kansas Cancer Center Search within this section Search all sites School of Medicine Wichita About Dean Minns Campus Maps Departments News News Clips Contact Us Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Support the School 4-Wichita Healthy Hawks Support Services Events Calendar Simulation Center William J. Reals Gallery of Art George J. Farha Medical Library Living in Wichita Our Campuses Make a Gift Info for Current Students Blackboard Webmail myKUMC Prospective Students Prospective Employees Alumni Faculty & Staff Residents & Fellows Patients Donors Researchers Visitors KU School of Medicine-Wichita Our Campuses Make a Gift Info for KU School of Medicine-Wichita Academics Academics M.D. Program-Wichita MPH Program Graduate Medical Education-Wichita Academic & Student Affairs-Wichita George J. Farha Medical Library Simulation Center JayDoc Community Clinic Research Research Office of Research-Wichita Center for Clinical Research-Wichita Center for Research for Infant Birth and Survival Human Research Protection Program-Wichita Patient Care Patient Care Medical Practice Association & Clinics Affiliate KU Wichita Clinics JayDoc Community Clinic School-Based Health Care Outreach Outreach Community Programs Student Life Student Life The BEAT Academic & Student Affairs Healthy Hawks About School of Medicine Wichita About About Dean Minns Campus Maps Departments News News Clips Contact Us Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Support the School 4-Wichita Healthy Hawks Support Services Events Calendar Simulation Center William J. Reals Gallery of Art George J. Farha Medical Library Living in Wichita About News-Wichita The University of Kansas School of Medicine-Wichita is improving lives and communities in Kansas and beyond through innovation in education, research and health care. Explore some of our recent accomplishments. May, 18, 2022 Family Medicine Bootcamp prepares medical students for new world of residency Read story April, 19, 2022 Exploration Place, KU School of Medicine-Wichita collaborate on new 'Health Inside Out' exhibit Read story Latest News View All News Bill and Judy Docking endow faculty development fund May 18, 2022 Family Medicine Bootcamp prepares medical students for new world of residency May 18, 2022 Teamwork began in the dugout, continues in medical field May 18, 2022 First Friday at KU School of Medicine-Wichita will spotlight 3 local artists May 18, 2022 KU School of Medicine-Wichita leadership wants students to be empowered, inspired by museum exhibit April 28, 2022 Free Skin Cancer Screening Clinic returns May 7 to KU School of Medicine-Wichita April 22, 2022 In the News News Clips May 11, 2022 Kansas saw the nation’s second-highest increase in drug deaths last year “The problem that we’re facing in Kansas, among many others, is that access to systems and practices that reduce the risk for people who are using drugs are largely absent or they are criminalized,” said Dr. Daniel Warren, an assistant professor at the University of Kansas School of Medicine in Wichita. www.kcur.org May 03, 2022 Rural mentors, national conference solidified her specialty choice Morgan Weiler knew she was interested in family medicine, but as a first-year medical student she wasn’t sure exactly what a career in the specialty would look like. www.aafp.org May 01, 2022 Here’s where you can get a free skin cancer screening on Saturday in Wichita Free skin cancer screenings will be offered Saturday at the KU School of Medicine-Wichita. www.kansas.com April 30, 2022 ‘The best exhibit I’ve seen in a long time’: Exploration Place opens health exhibit An advisory group comprising officials from the Sedgwick County Health Department, Wichita State’s College of Health Professions, Wesley and Ascension Via Christi health systems, the Medical Society of Sedgwick County, Kansas Health Foundation, the Greater Wichita YMCA and the University of Kansas School of Medicine-Wichita helped Exploration Place develop the exhibition’s concept and content. www.kansas.com KU School of Medicine-Wichita Media Inquiries Belinda Venters bventers@kumc.edu 316-706-5945 Publications Facebook Wichita Twitter Wichita Youtube Wichita LinkedIn Wichita Instagram Wichita Make a Gift 3901 Rainbow Boulevard, Kansas City, KS 66160 | 913-588-5000 About Calendar News Equal Opportunity Statement Careers Facebook opens in new tab Twitter opens in new tab YouTube opens in new tab Instagram opens in new tab LinkedIn opens in new tab © 2022 The University of Kansas prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, ethnicity, religion, sex, national origin, age, ancestry, disability, status as a veteran, sexual orientation, marital status, parental status, gender identity, gender expression, and genetic information in the university's programs and activities. Retaliation is also prohibited by university policy. Inquiries regarding our non-discrimination policies should be directed to the Director for the Equal Opportunity & Academic Compliance Office, Mail Stop 7004, 4330 Shawnee Mission Parkway, Fairway, KS 66205, 913-588-5964, 711 TTY (for the Wichita, Salina, and Kansas City, Kansas medical center campuses). Inquiries regarding the University Sexual Harassment Policy should be directed to the Title IX Coordinator at 913-588-8011. Free Expression Statement | Privacy Statement | Notice of Privacy Practices | Consumer Information We use cookies to analyze our traffic & provide social media features. Visit the KU Medical Center Privacy Statement for more information. By closing this window & browsing this site, you agree to our use of cookies.