Rss Email Tweet facebook Calendar Maps Directory Contact Us Show menu Home Research Research Faculty Research Interests Undergraduate Overview Bachelor of Science in Statistics BS + MS in Statistics Minor in Statistics Undergraduate Courses Undergraduate Opportunities Undergraduate Research Hullabaloo U – Statistics Help Sessions Questions and Contact Student Ambassadors Graduate Overview MS in Statistics Degree Statistics MS Admissions Ph.D. in Statistics Degree Statistics PhD Admissions Graduate Courses MS Statistics (Online) MS in Data Science People Events Current Week Current Month Colloquium and Seminar Schedule Recorded Virtual Events About Awards and Prizes News New Faculty Members History Giving Statistical Collaboration Center Contact Us Strategic Plan Statistics Graduate Student Association SETCASA Poster Sessions Statistics Former Student Network Hiring Explore Online Learning Marcin Jurek and Matthias Katzfuss at 2018 Aggie Reunion, Vancouver Aggieland Saturday 2020 Visit the Statistical Collaboration Center Learn about the undergraduate statistics program @ Texas A&M Learn about Graduate Admissions Discover Research Possibilities Prospective Graduate Students Information for potential students on why to choose the Statistics Department at Texas A&M. Learn More Undergraduate Program is Thriving After welcoming our first cohort of students in Fall 2016, we now have over 120 undergraduates working to complete their BS in Statistics. Find out more details about our outstanding program here. Find Out Now The College of Arts and Sciences The colleges of Geosciences, Liberal Arts, and Science are becoming the College of Arts and Sciences in Fall 2022. As the academic heart of Texas A&M, the College of Arts and Sciences will provide world-class teaching, research, service and resources. Get up-to-date information at artsci.tamu.edu. More Information Sina Mokhtar and Juan-Pablo Gonzalez Awarded with Diversity Scholarship The Department of Statistics Climate, Inclusion and Diversity Committee recognizes that diversity and inclusion help to create thriving scientific communities. To encourage Statistics students’ commitment to diversity and inclusion, the Department of Statistics Climate, Inclusion and Diversity Committee offers a competitive Diversity scholarship that is awarded annually in the spring. Join us in congratulating the Diversity Scholarship Awardees for Spring 2022: Sina Mokhtar (right) and Juan-Pablo Gonzalez (left)! I Am Texas A&M Science - Derya Akleman Even for the most seasoned academic, career inspiration starts somewhere, and it all begins with a story. Here’s one from statistician Derya Akleman, who divides her time between being a professor and her duties as the assistant dean for diversity and college climate. Recent news Texas A&M Science to Induct Three into Academy of Distinguished Former Students By admin / In Thu, 31 Mar 2022 1 Texas A&M Science takes great pride in celebrating three of its finest — Gregory Fuller '76, James Lalonde '87 and Carl McAfee '90 — as the college's most recent inductees into its Academy of Distinguished Former Students. The post Texas A&M Science to Induct Three into Academy of Distinguished Former Students appeared first on Texas A&M College of Science. Read More → Texas A&M Statistician Branislav Vidakovic Elected to National Academies Statistics Committee By admin / In Sat, 26 Feb 2022 1 Texas A&M statistician Branislav Vidakovic has been elected as a member of the National Academies of Sciences, Engineering and Medicine Committee on Applied and Theoretical Statistics, where he will help advise stakeholders in government, academia, industry and nonprofit organizations on statistics and data science. The post Texas A&M Statistician Branislav Vidakovic Elected to National Academies Statistics Committee appeared first on Texas A&M College of Science. Read More → Dept. of Statistics 3143 TAMU College Station, TX 77843 (979) 845-3141 Site Policies Contact Webmaster Resources Graduate Admissions Online Learning Texas A&M Statistical Services People Directory Site Directory College of Science Employee Resources Employee Email (TAMU) TAMU NetID Management Statistics Password Reset Texas A&M Directory Statistics Computer Support TAMU Computer Support Faculty Resources Social Media Online Learning: Facebook | Twitter Calendar Maps Directory Contact Us • Texas A&M University - College of Science - State of Texas - Site Accessibility - State Privacy & Linking Policy • Texas A&M University is a member of The Texas A&M University System