SMU Cox Display Navigation and Site Search SMU Cox School of Business SMU Cox Utility Navigation Students Companies Alumni Apply Contact Us smu.edu Display Navigation Display Search Search SMU SMU Cox Main Navigation At SMU Cox Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu An exceptional school in the heart of a vibrant, global, business-friendly city. Collins Center Cox News Cox Events Graduate Outcomes CoxToday Magazine Academic Departments Career Growth Global Programs Degrees & Programs Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu Rigorous programs within a truly customized academic experience. Master of Science MS in Accounting MS in Business Analytics MS in Finance MS in Management MS Health Promotion Management MS in Sport Management MBA Full-Time Two-Year MBA Full-Time One-Year MBA MBA Direct Professional MBA Online MBA Executive MBA Joint Degrees JD/MBA MA / MBA MS Engineering / MBA Undergraduate Bachelor of Business Administration Non-Degree Executive Education Summer Business Institute Diversity & Inclusion Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu Shaping Leaders for a Changing World. Diversity at Cox Latino Leadership Initiative I Am Latino in America Subiendo Academy at SMU Cox School Dean’s Message Executive Education Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu Meet your career challenges head-on by mining the expertise of the nation's top business leaders. Programs for Individuals Custom Solutions Latino Leadership Initiative HR Roundtable Graduate Certificates Collins Center Learning Culture Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu An innovative learning culture influences the way the world does business. Centers and Institutes Academic Departments Research Business Library NextGen Cox Curriculum People & Community Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu A community where professors know students by name and help them create powerful networks. Students Alumni Faculty Companies Cox Executive Board Cox100 Press Releases Display Search Utility Navigation Students Companies Alumni Apply Contact Us smu.edu Bachelor of Business Administration Bachelor of Business Administration BBA Home Curriculum Experiential Learning Support for Your Success Admissions for High School Class of 2020 & After Admissions for High School Class of 2019 & Earlier BBA Home Curriculum Experiential Learning Support for Your Success Admissions for High School Class of 2020 & After Admissions for High School Class of 2019 & Earlier Shine Brighter Here Wherever your road leads, you'll go further with business skills. SMU Cox gives you all the tools for success in a city that’s built for it. The Cox BBA curriculum enhances rigorous learning with hands-on experience that empowers you. And because small classes are led by world-class professors with open doors, you'll form powerful bonds with peers and teachers. Outside the classroom, you'll connect with corporate leaders and mentors who expect to see you shine. Whether you major or minor in business, you’ll grow a network for life, on campus and in the heart of Dallas — the dynamic Global 500 hub that’s right on your doorstep. Admissions Information High School Classes of 2019 and Before Admissions Information High School Class of 2020 & after Start Your Application Frequently asked questions SMU Cox is one of the best places to differentiate yourself as a student. It’s not just finding a niche; there are organizations and opportunities to connect you to a job market, service project or other people who will help you make the most of your interest. Kovan Barzani BBA 2017 Find Your Student Club See All Clubs Boulevard Investment Group Get hands-on experience in portfolio management as you research, analyze and invest in the stock market. Student analysts drive the research cycle and take an active role in decision-making. The club — which boasts strong alumni ties throughout Dallas — donates its profits to SMU Cox scholarships. BBA Energy Association There’s no better place than Dallas to explore the dynamic oil and gas industry. From hard-hat tours to guest speakers and research projects, this club offers students an up-close look at the energy business through its connections with CEOS and other leaders in the field. Entrepreneurship Club Fuel your passion for entrepreneurship and connect with supportive mentors and peer entrepreneurs across the SMU campus. From the maker space in the Lyle School of Engineering to national business plan competitions, this club will open new doors to opportunity — both on campus and beyond. By the Numbers: The Cox BBA Class of 2020 Average Cox Student GPA 3.7 Average # of internships per student 2-3 Faculty-Taught Classes 100% Job Placement 90% Value of the student managed portfolio $3 MM Average Starting Salary $67,500 After Cox: Success Stories Jack Reynolds, BBA & BA, 2015 Co-founder at BioLum Sciences He was a teen with a dream — and drive. Jack Reynolds was in high school when he co-founded an online marketplace to unite businesses and nonprofits. After an injury interrupted his varsity tennis career, he transferred to SMU as a double major. Good move! A passionate innovator, Jack immersed himself in the Entrepreneurship Club, honed his skills via internships, made connections and while still a senior, launched BioLum to develop a mobile device for managing asthma. Tegan Webster, BBA & BA, 2017 Associate Digital Marketing Specialist at FedEx Services Winner of the SMU Cox 2017 JCPenney Outstanding Marketing Student Award, Tegan Webster wasn’t just a grade A student. She was an SMU career development ambassador and sought out challenging internships, including a summer internship in corporate digital marketing at FedEx Services in Memphis, her hometown. There, she tested the skills she’d learned at Cox and during a semester abroad studying international marketing. The outcome: On graduating, FedEx offered Tegan a job in Dallas. Kaleb Lee, BBA 2017 Associate at The Boston Consulting Group SMU celebrated the 20th anniversary of the Nancy Ann and Ray L. Hunt Leadership Scholars Program during Founders’ Day Weekend. The scholarship program enables outstanding student leaders from all walks of life to attend SMU. Ray L. Hunt ‘65 and President R. Gerald Turner greet Hunt Scholars Olivia Buerkle ‘17 and Kaleb Lee ‘17 at the Hunt Leadership Scholars reception April 10. SMU Cox Footer Utility Nav Give Contact Us Apply © Cox School of Business Southern Methodist University PO Box 750333 Dallas, Texas 75275-0333 214-768-2000 SMU Cox Legal Home SMU Cox on Social Media Facebook Instagram Twitter