Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Spanish and Latinx Studies for the Health and Human Services Professions Certificate (Undergraduate) You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Spanish and Latinx Studies for the Health and Human Services Professions Certificate (Undergraduate) Spanish and Latinx Studies for the Health and Human Services Professions Certificate (Undergraduate) Admissions Undergraduate Certificate in Spanish and Latino Studies for the Health and Human Services Professions Learn to communicate effectively in Spanish within medical and related human-service areas with the Undergraduate Certificate in Spanish and Latino Studies for the Health and Human Services Professions in the College of Liberal Arts. This 18-credit specialized certificate program prepares undergraduate students to meet the unique healthcare and social service needs of the Latinx populations in the U.S. Develop oral communication, reading comprehension and written expression through highly interactive classes. Study essential medical vocabulary and Latinx culture as it specifically applies to the delivery of healthcare. Increase knowledge and competency in Spanish and become equipped with the terms and cultural norms relevant within a hospital, clinic or other health facility. As the number of Spanish speakers in the U.S. continues to climb, knowledge of the language and culture provides the skill sets needed to efficiently and compassionately work with the Latinx community. Once students understand cultural nuances, they provide more accurate care for Spanish speakers and potentially increase efficiencies and patient safety across healthcare systems. Students pursuing the certificate can also participate in study away opportunities, internships and departmental events. Classes & Curriculum The interdisciplinary curriculum requires six Spanish language courses including four language classes and two culture classes from which there are many options available based on your personal and professional interests. Students do not need prior experience with the language and may begin with introductory level coursework. Courses offered as part of the curriculum may include Basic Spanish I and II, Hispanic Readings, Intermediate Spanish, Latin America through Film and Fiction, Latino Identity in the United States, and Spanish for Health Professionals. The certificate is awarded at the completion of your bachelor’s program. It cannot be awarded as a stand-alone program of study or after completion of your bachelor’s degree. Learn more about Certificate of Specialization in Spanish and Latino Studies for the Health and Human Services Professions courses. Related Graduate Degrees Spanish MA Spanish PhD Careers Students pursuing the Certificate of Specialization in Spanish and Latino Studies for the Health and Human Services Professions are prepared to meet the rising demand for bilingual healthcare professionals. They are poised to advance their careers and have access to greater job opportunities. Speaking more than one language can set you apart in today’s global job market. It can increase your marketability and opportunities for career advancement and promotion. Bilingual professionals can communicate with a larger population and help increase an employer’s competitive edge. According to the American Council on the Teaching of Foreign Languages, acquisition of a second language may help improve standardized test scores, and it may improve memory and problem-solving skills. Additionally, studying a language and its culture can help you develop empathy and global thinking. It can broaden your perspective and help you cultivate a greater understanding of people and, in turn, the world. The critical skills gained from learning another language are directly applicable to today’s rapidly diversifying world and can be used across all fields and disciplines. Tuition & Fees The tuition for this Certificate is based on school or college of your major, program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. Learn more about our tuition and fees. Our Advisors Joyce K. Salzberg Center for Professional Development Dedicated advisors at the Joyce K. Salzberg Center for Professional Development in the College of Liberal Arts are available to guide students through their academic careers and with their career paths beyond Temple. They can help you choose a major, navigate your curriculum, identify internship opportunities, explore career opportunities and determine your post-graduation plans. Learn more about the center. Program Contact With questions regarding the Undergraduate Certificate of Specialization in Spanish and Latino Studies for the Health and Human Services Professions, contact the following staff member. Joshua Pongan is the advisor for the certificate programs in the Spanish Department. Phone: 215-204-8285 Email: joshua.pongan@temple.edu The following staff members lead the Spanish and Portuguese Department. Montserrat Piera is the chair. Phone: 215-204-8285 Email: mpiera01@temple.edu Patricia Moore-Martinez is the undergraduate chair. Phone: 215-204-5129 Email: pmoore04@temple.edu Michelle Xu is an administrator in the Spanish and Portuguese Department. Phone: 215-204-5628 Email: xu.michelle@temple.edu Annette Vega is the coordinator. Phone: 215-204-2877 Email: avega1@temple.edu Accreditation Temple University’s departments and programs are accredited by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education. LA-SXSH-CR2+ Additional Program Information Visit College Site Go back to AcademicsMore in Spanish and Latinx Studies for the Health and Human Services Professions Certificate (Undergraduate) Admissions Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community.