Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Campus Recreation Menu About Our Team Grad Student Team Grad Student Job Descriptions Join Our Team Events Map Contact Quick Search Partners Counseling Center Health Center HHPR Wellness Student Conduct Care Team Campus Rec App Facilities McLane Student Life Center (SLC) Amenities Pool Fitness Center The Rock Hours of Operation Reservations Facility Reservation Request Form Equipment Rental Massage Therapy Intramurals Registration Schedule Points & Standings Handbooks Dia Cup Club Sports Resources Sport Club Manual Outdoor Adventure The Rock Bear Climb Pullin Family Marina Dia Marina 2022 Bike Shop Trips San Marcos River (Day) Reimer's Ranch Grand Canyon Paria Canyon Pedal Paddle Mountain Bike Trail Ride Clinics & Events Line Camp Registration Forms Cancellation Policy Gear Rental Bear Adventures Camps & Education Safety Education CPR First Aid Lifeguarding Christian Leadership Institute Baylor REC Day Camp Day Camp Log in Challenge Course Baylor Community Professional/Corp. Baylor>Campus Recreation>Facilities>McLane Student Life Center (SLC) McLane Student Life Center (SLC) Today's Hours Tuesday, May. 31 Student Life Center 6am-8pm Full Hours of Operation The McLane Student Life Center (SLC) is a 156,000 square foot recreation center for student, faculty, and staff. The SLC includes a fitness center, a climbing ROCK, leisure pool, outdoor basketball & sand volleyball courts, 4-court gymnasium, conference rooms, racquetball/squash courts, indoor jogging track, aerobics studio and student lounge. Come and check out everything the SLC has to offer! Be sure and review our Building Usage Policies. Member Services The Student Life Center offers a variety of services for students, faculty, and staff. Services include locker rentals, towel services, equipment, massage therapy, and guest passes. Locker Rentals Lockers in the Student Life Center include both full and half-size lockers that may be rented by the semester for the entire year. Full Size $150 for one year (3 semesters) $100 for two semesters $50 for one semester Half Size $75 for one year (3 semesters) $50 for two semesters $25 for one semester Note: Lockers that have not been renewed by their expiration date will be cleared and made available for a new user. The contents of expired lockers will be held at the SLC for no more than four (4) weeks before being donated to local charity. Towel Services Towels are required for all patrons working out in the Fitness Center. You may purchase either a Full or Workout Towel Service that allows you to present your Towel Card at the Service desk each visit for a fresh towel. Towel Services expire on August graduation date. Full Towel Service: This towel service provides one large bath towel and one workout towel on each visit and expires each August. Purchased in Fall: $60 Purchased in Spring: $40 Purchased in Summer: $20 Workout Towel Service: This towel service provides one small workout towel on each visit. $5 per semester Workout Towel: Patrons who do not wish to have the service may opt to purchase and keep a green workout towel for $3 per towel. Equipment Forget something? There are a variety of convenience items available at the SLC Service Desk and it’s open anytime the building is in operation. Additional Equipment Available: Combination Lock: $5 Keyed Lock: $8 Headphones: $7 Swim Goggles: $10 Athletic Tape: $3 Racquetball Goggles: $10 Within 14 days of the date of purchase, unopened items are available for refund; open items, found to be defective, may be exchanged for the same product if available. Massage Therapy Our skilled and licensed therapist offers 30 minute, 60 minute and a 90 minute massage sessions that will leave you feeling refreshed and relaxed! To schedule an appointment, stop by the SLC Service Desk or call (254) 710-7542. Should you need to cancel or reschedule an appointment, please do so at least 24 hours in advance to avoid cancellation fees. Visit Massage Therapy for more information. Guest Access Current Baylor students, faculty, and staff may bring their friends and family along with them to enjoy the McLane Student Life Center. All guests must present a picture ID, complete a Guest Registration and Waiver Form, and pay all applicable guest fees before entering. All SLC policies will be enforced. Guest Registration and Waiver Forms: Adult Guest Waiver Form (18 years & up) Minor Guest Waiver Form (17 years & under) Daily Guest Fee: Adult: $10/day Child (15 years and under): $5/day Guest Policies Maximum of five guests allowed per active Baylor ID holder per day. Guests must be accompanied by the Baylor cardholder throughout their stay in the facility. Guests must complete the appropriate waiver form and pay the guest fee. Minor waiver forms REQUIRE the signature of a parent or legal guardian, no exceptions can be made. Children under the age of 16 may only access the facility during Family Hours. Campus Recreation Cardholders (dependents, grandchildren and student spouses) may NOT bring in guests. This privilege is only extended to current Baylor cardholders. Please note: To use the Fitness Center, all users must be 16 years of age, bring a towel and wear a full-length shirt with sleeves. Open House Weekends - guest fees are waived, but all other guest policies apply. Home Football Game weekends Baylor Family weekend Fall and Spring Premiere weekend Sing weekends Move-In and Welcome weekends Graduation weekends Family Registration & Waiver Forms Adding Family Members: In order to add a student spouse, dependent (single persons under the age of 26 who live at home), or grandchild (15 years & under) to a Campus Recreation Family Account, the Baylor ID holder and additional family member(s) must come to the SLC Service Desk together to complete the registration process. Baylor students may purchase a family membership for $75/semester. This membership will allow access for the student's spouse and dependents. Forms needed to register family members under the age of 18 are available below. Please print and complete the proper registration and waiver form and bring it with you to the SLC Service Desk to complete the registration process. Dependent Registration: 17 & under Grandchild Registration (15 years & under)* *Note: As part of the Grandchild Registration process, the waiver form MUST be signed by their parent or legal guardian before access can be granted. Baylor faculty and staff can register their dependents and grandchildren at the SLC Service Desk at no additional charge. Family Hours Spouses and dependents of Baylor cardholders are welcome to use the SLC after registering at the SLC Service Desk. Access for children under the age of 16 is limited to Family Hours and they must be accompanied by an adult cardholder throughout their use of the facility. Summer Family Hours Monday -Friday: 6am-8pm Saturday: 10pm-8pm Sunday: CLOSED Policies Children under the age of 16 must be accompanied by an adult at all times in the SLC. Children under the age of 16 are limited to family hours and must maintain a ratio of 5 minors to 1 adult. Children under the age of 16 may NOT use the fitness center and weight room at any time. Dependent children (single persons under the age of 26 who live at home) ages 16-25 must show their Campus Recreation dependent card or photo ID card to enter the facility; they are welcome to use the SLC any time the facility is open. Facilities McLane Student Life Center (SLC) Amenities Pool Fitness Center The Rock Hours of Operation Reservations Facility Reservation Request Form Equipment Rental Massage Therapy Show More General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Campus Recreation Facebook Instagram Twitter Campus Recreation One Bear Place #97100 Waco, TX 76798-7100 Physical Address McLane Student Life Center 209 Speight Avenue Waco, TX 76706 Feedback (254) 710-7542 (SLIC) Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 About Our Team Grad Student Team Grad Student Job Descriptions Join Our Team Events Map Contact Quick Search Partners Counseling Center Health Center HHPR Wellness Student Conduct Care Team Campus Rec App Facilities McLane Student Life Center (SLC) Amenities Pool Fitness Center The Rock Hours of Operation Reservations Facility Reservation Request Form Equipment Rental Massage Therapy Intramurals Registration Schedule Points & Standings Handbooks Dia Cup Club Sports Resources Sport Club Manual Outdoor Adventure The Rock Bear Climb Pullin Family Marina Dia Marina 2022 Bike Shop Trips San Marcos River (Day) Reimer's Ranch Grand Canyon Paria Canyon Pedal Paddle Mountain Bike Trail Ride Clinics & Events Line Camp Registration Forms Cancellation Policy Gear Rental Bear Adventures Camps & Education Safety Education CPR First Aid Lifeguarding Christian Leadership Institute Baylor REC Day Camp Day Camp Log in Challenge Course Baylor Community Professional/Corp.