Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Learning Commons Learning Commons right arrow down arrow Schedule a Service Programs and Policies right arrow down arrow Academic Coaching right arrow down arrow Meet the Academic Coaches Academic Writing Center right arrow down arrow Meet the Tutors Graduate Tutoring Learning Assistants Learning Communities right arrow down arrow Peer Leader Program Current Peer Leaders Current Peer Leader Coordinators Math & Science Support Center Peer Facilitation right arrow down arrow Current Peer Facilitators Current Peer Facilitator Coordinators Peer Tutoring Success Skills Workshops right arrow down arrow Step by Step Guide to Register Success Skills Workshop Policies Success Skills Workshop Topics Supplemental Instruction right arrow down arrow SI Schedule Supplemental Review Sessions (MATH 1096) Learning Resources right arrow down arrow Note-Taking and Test Strategies right arrow down arrow The Cornell Method for Note-Taking Reading for Main Ideas vs. Details SQ4R: Getting the Most from Your Textbooks PLAN: An Active Reading Strategy How to Ace Your Finals Learning Styles and Study Habits right arrow down arrow Strategies for Aural Learners Strategies for Kinesthetic Learners Strategies for Visual Learners Writing Resources Business Writing Materials right arrow down arrow Resume Writing Tips Cover Letter Tips Memo Writing Tips First-Year Students right arrow down arrow First Semester Checklist Achieve Your Goal GPA Technology Skills Anxiety, Attitude, and Stress right arrow down arrow Managing Stress New Concentration Ideas Look at Your Classes to Find Your Passion Defining Your Career Goals Math Minute right arrow down arrow Math Minute - Algebra Math Minute - Calculus Online Learning Strategies Student Employment right arrow down arrow Academic Coaching Positions Academic Writing Center Positions Front Desk Assistant Positions Learning Assistant Positions Learning Community Peer Leader Positions Peer Facilitator Positions Peer Tutoring Positions Success Skills Workshop Positions Supplemental Instruction Leader Positions SRS Leader & MASS Tutor Positions Professional Staff Home » Campus Life » Learning Commons » Programs and Policies » Peer Tutoring Set Navigation title in component Academic Coaching Meet the Academic Coaches Academic Writing Center Meet the Tutors Graduate Tutoring Learning Assistants Learning Communities Peer Leader Program Current Peer Leaders Current Peer Leader Coordinators Math & Science Support Center Peer Facilitation Current Peer Facilitators Current Peer Facilitator Coordinators Peer Tutoring Success Skills Workshops Step by Step Guide to Register Success Skills Workshop Policies Success Skills Workshop Topics Supplemental Instruction SI Schedule Supplemental Review Sessions (MATH 1096) Peer Tutoring Peer Tutoring Service Hours Peer Tutoring is currently open for Summer 2022! You may make an appointment via the "Schedule a Peer Tutoring Appointment" button below. Peer Tutoring Location and Hours: Monday-Thursday, 11am-5pm Online appointments only Online appointments available Schedule a Peer Tutoring Appointment Apply to be a Peer Tutor The Learning Commons offers free tutoring for UC students. Please note, Peer Tutoring appointments are primarily offered in-person. However, virtual appointments may be available for some courses. Students should make note of the location when they make an appointment. Sessions are one-on-one with a subject-specific tutor to answer your questions. Our dedicated tutors participate in ongoing training to equip them with strategies to support extended classroom learning. Students may register using the button above. The Learning Commons offers tutoring in more than 300 undergraduate courses including subjects such as math, science, languages, business, and writing. If you notice your desired course is not offered or if you are not available at any of the tutoring times offered for your course, please let us know. It is possible you may not see your course listed because it is fully booked at the time of your search. In this case, we recommend you search early in the morning a week ahead of when you want the appointment to be. At this time, we do not support courses above the 4000-level. How does scheduling work? Students may schedule appointments for 30, 60, or 90 minutes. Unless you only need help on a very specific question or concept, it is best to schedule a 60- or 90-minute appointment in order to cover the material. Appointments can be made up to 7 days in advance, and no less than 24-hours in advance. All cancellations must be made at least 24 hours in advance through your online account in TracCloud or by calling the Learning Commons Front Desk. To cancel an appointment on Clifton's campus, call (513) 556-3244. To cancel an appointment on Clermont's campus, call (513) 558-8319. Cancellations less than 24 hours notice will result in a No Show occurrence. What to know before your Peer Tutoring appointment Homework Help Notice Peer Tutoring focuses on creating independent learners and making sure you understand the concepts necessary for you to complete your work and excel in a course. Remember – your homework is a way to prepare for your exams. By helping you to understand the concepts in your course, your Peer Tutor is preparing you to complete your homework on your own. And if you’re able to complete your homework independently, then you’ll know that you’ll be prepared for your exam! If at any point you find yourself struggling with your homework and the concepts, be sure to visit us again. It is important to know that Peer Tutoring does not provide homework help, but you can bring in assignments that are already graded to review the problems you missed. What to Bring Please bring your materials (textbook, notes, etc.) with you to your appointment. It is recommended that you take screenshots of any questions/diagrams from your textbook or class notes that you do not understand and save these as PDFs or JPEGs to upload into the session. Technology for Online Appointments Prior to your appointment you should have Zoom downloaded or make sure your Chrome or Firefox browsers are updated. Please also make sure your web camera and audio equipment (microphone/speakers/headset) are functioning. Learning Commons 2510B French Hall West 513-556-3244 Fax: 513-556-0823 learningcommons@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Learning Commons 2510B French Hall West 513-556-3244 Fax: 513-556-0823 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top