Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Search BC.edu Links Agora Portal Directory A to Z Listing Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close BC News > BC Events > Commencement > Portfolio: Commencement 2018 Channels Close Home Chronicle Art & Culture Athletics & Recreation Campus & Community Humanities Faith & Religion Science, Tech & Health Nation, World & Society Economics BC Events Let there be light Veterans Remembrance Pops Off the Heights 2020 Pops Off the Heights 2020 Pops Off the Heights wins CASE gold award Pops hits a high note Archives BC News Archive Agora Portal Search News Archive Portfolio: A jubilant day Scenes from Boston College Commencement 2018 BC Events / Commencement - Published on May 28, 2018 Nearly 4,300 undergraduate and graduate students received degrees at the University's 142nd Commencement Exercises on May 21 at Alumni Stadium. Here are some scenes from a jubilant day. Photography (except where otherwise indicated) by Gary Wayne Gilbert and Lee Pellegrini of University Communications. ABOVE: members of the BC community contributed prayer ribbons with wishes for the Class of 2018 along the railing outside Bapst Library. The ribbons are part of an ongoing project of the University's Church in the 21st Century Center. BELOW: Members of the graduating class assemble on Linden Lane for a short speaking program—and photos by family and friends—prior to their 'Final Flight' procession to Alumni Stadium. BELOW: Students process to Commencement led by the banners of their school or college. In the first photograph, students flank Carroll School of Management Associate Dean and longtime BC administrator Richard Keeley, who is retiring this year. BELOW: The procession through Gasson Hall Rotunda and down to Lower Campus mimics the route the Class of 2018 followed to their First Year Academic Convocation four years ago. BELOW: Behind the scenes, Boston College administrators and platform dignitaries robe for the main ceremony. In the first photograph, Boston College Law School Dean Vincent Rougeau and University Provost and Dean of Faculties David Quigley with outgoing Harvard University President Drew Gilpin Faust, an honorary degree recipeint. ABOVE: Honorary degree recipient Alberto Vasallo III '89, president and CEO of El Mundo Boston, greets Cardinal Seán O'Malley, OFM., Cap., Archbishop of Boston, in the robing room, as BC administrators look on. BELOW: The formal portrait of the 2018 honorary degree recipients. L-R (standing): Cardinal O'Malley; Boston College President William P. Leahy, S.J.; El Mundo Boston President and CEO Alberto Vasallo III '89; HBO documentary producer Kendall B. Reid '79; Boston College Board of Trustees chair Peter K. Markell '77; (seated) retired Boston College administrator Joseph Duffy, S.J., '50, MA'51, STL'58; Archbishop of Atlanta Wilton D. Gregory; Harvard University President Drew Gilpin Faust. Read the honorary degree citations here. ABOVE: University President William P. Leahy, S.J., congratulates honorary degree recipient and longtime BC administrator Joseph P. Duffy, S.J.,'50, MA'51, STL'58; as BC Board of Trustees Chair Peter K. Markell '77 looks on. BELOW: A wave to the crowd by Harvard University President Drew Gilpin Faust following receipt of her honorary degree. ABOVE: Award-winning HBO documentary producer Kendall B. Reid '79 is presented with her honorary degree. BELOW: Archbishop of Atlanta Wilton D. Gregory, honorary degree recipient and this year's Commencement speaker, addresses the Class of 2018. ABOVE: Archbishop Gregory, the highest-ranking African American bishop in the United States and former president of the U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops, reminded the Class of 2018 that words have the power to unite or divide, uplift or discourage. BELOW: hs remarks drew a standing ovation. BELOW: Following the presentation of honorary degrees and the main address, student representatives from each school and college were invited to the platform to accept the degree on behalf of their class. ABOVE: Chrisopher Reynolds of the Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences received the 2018 Edward H. Finnegan, S.J., Award, the University's highest undergraduate Commencement honor. BELOW: The inaugural Saint Robert Bellarmine, S.J., Award was presented to Rattigan Professor of English Mary Crane, director of BC's Institute for the Liberal Arts. ABOVE: John Finney directing the University Chorale. (Photo by Tommy Weir). BELOW: No rain for this Commencement, but an umbrella and shades came in handy for the sun. Others let smiles be their umbrella. Related links Gallery: Signs of the time Commencement 2018 Social Story Back To Top Back To Top Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College