Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Division of Student Affairs Student Affairs Information for Employers Faculty and Staff Alumni Search BC.edu Links Career Center Menu Main Nav Career Center Meet With a Career Coach Back Back Close About Overview Meet Our Team Student Employment Contact and Visit Us Meet with a Career Coach Learning Outcomes Career Clusters Overview Career Exploration Business, Consulting, and Finance Communication, Arts, and Media Education, Nonprofit, and Social Service Government, Law, and Public Policy Healthcare and Nursing Science, Technology, and Engineering Jobs and Internships Overview Be Career Ready Internships Jobs Resumes Cover Letters Online Presence Networking Interviewing Evaluating an Offer and Salary Negotiation Graduate School Overview Applying to Graduate School Law School For Current Graduate Students Events and Programs Overview Event Calendar Careerfest Endeavor Schedule of Events Endeavor Fellows Endeavor Keynote Endeavor FAQs Information for Alumni Envision Designing Your Career Course Alumni Job Shadow Program Career Fairs and Networking Events Campus Recruitment Eagle Intern Fellowship Career Closet Praxis Summer Program Winter Break Challenge Illumination Awards Outcomes Resources Overview Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Handshake Guide Eagle Exchange Guide Meet With a Career Coach Close Directory A to Z Listing Search BC Career Center Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Employers Faculty and Staff Alumni BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Government, Law, and Public Policy Home Career Clusters Government, Law, and Public Policy Career Clusters Career Exploration Business, Consulting, and Finance Communication, Arts, and Media Education, Nonprofit, and Social Service Government, Law, and Public Policy Healthcare and Nursing Science, Technology, and Engineering Explore GLP Careers in government, law, and public policy offer a wide range of opportunities to lead, serve the public interest, and ensure fundamental rights and social justice. We invite you to explore this cluster to determine if it is a good fit for you and leverage our resources to launch your job, internship, or graduate school search. Meet Your Career Coaches Our specialized Government, Law, and Public Policy career coaches will help you launch a job, internship, or graduate school search in your field of interest. They also do pre-law advising. MAKE AN APPOINTMENT Salvatore Cipriano, Ph.D. Katie Osterkamp Key Resources Handshake Use your Handshake account to search for jobs/internships, connect with employers, find events, and more. Eagle Exchange Use your Eagle Exchange account to connect with BC alumni. Join the Government, Law, and Public Policy group to network with members and participate in group discussions. Jobs + Internships Browse our jobs and internships pages to prepare to apply to GLP positions. Use our GLP resume and cover letter examples to help you get started. GLP Newsletters Update your career interests in Handshake to receive regular updates from our coaches with exclusive resources, reminders, event invites, job/internship postings, and more. Upcoming Events Government, Law, and Public Policy Career Center Explore Opportunities in Government, Law, and Public Policy Government (Federal) Government (State/Local) International Affairs Law Law Enforcement Military/Defense Public Policy/Advocacy Government (Federal) Careers within the federal government include opportunities within the three branches—executive, legislative, and judicial—as well as in any of the vast number of federal agencies and departments, like the Environmental Protection Agency, Department of Labor, Federal Trade Commission, National Science Foundation, and many more. Depending on where your interests lay, you can pursue career paths affecting policy, legislation, the environment, transportation, education, commerce, and much more. Types of Positions There is a range of functional roles and positions within the federal government, from environmental scientists to museum curators and beyond. Below are common entry-level positions within the federal legislature. Analyst Legislative Aide Congressional Aide Press Assistant Entry-Level Officer or Agent (in federal agencies/departments) Where BC Graduates Have Gone U.S. House of Representatives U.S. Senate Department of State Department of Justice National Institutes of Health Department of Commerce Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) Hiring Timelines 6% received job offers before senior year 17% received job offers during fall semester of senior year 56% received job offers during spring semester of senior year 22% received job offers after graduation Outcomes Learn About Federal Government Careers Vault Guide to Government Jobs Go Government Partnership for Public Service Congressional Staffer Career Guide Federal News Network - Workforce Government Executive How to Write a Federal Resume Opportunities in Federal Government USAJobs Virtual Student Federal Service College to Congress U.S. House of Representatives Placement Service U.S. Senate Job and Internship Openings White House Internships Daybook Campus Resources Clough Center for the Study of Constitutional Democracy Boston College Democrats Boston College Republicans Young Democratic Socialists of Boston College Americans for Informed Democracy, BC Chapter John Quincy Adams Society Professional Associations and Organizations American Federation of Government Workers National Association of Government Employees National Federation of Federal Employees Young Government Leaders Blacks in Government Department of Justice Pride LGBT Congressional Staff Association Federal Asian Pacific American Council Congressional Hispanic Caucus Institute Future Leaders in America’s Government House Office of Diversity and Inclusion Do I need to go to graduate school? Graduate degrees are not required for working in the federal government. However, there are a number of graduate degree paths, including law school and masters and doctoral programs in fields such as policy, administration, public affairs, international affairs, and government, as well as STEM and the liberal arts, for those interested in gaining greater knowledge and experience in areas relevant to government work. Graduate School Visit the "Find Your Graduate Degree for Public Service" page on the NASPAA website to explore graduate degrees in public policy and public administration. Government (State/Local) Similar to the federal government, careers within state and local government include opportunities in each of the three branches of government: executive (such as a governor’s or county executive’s offices), legislative (such as a state or town assembly), and judicial (such as state superior courts or county district attorney offices). In addition to legislature, governance, and policy, state and local governments also afford ample opportunities to forge careers in areas such as the environment, energy, health, education, and many more. Types of Positions Much like the federal government, there are a number of functional roles within state and local government beyond the political sphere, including engineering, education, and energy. Common early-career job titles within state and local governments in each of the three branches of government include: Legislative Aide Assistant City Manager State Senate Staff Assistant Judicial Aide Government Associate Where BC Graduates Have Gone California Governor’s Office Massachusetts Attorney General’s Office Massachusetts Court Service Center Massachusetts State House New York State Assembly Rhode Island Attorney General’s Office Suffolk County District Attorney Town of Brookline Hiring Timelines 46% received job offers during spring semester of senior year 54% received job offers the summer after senior year Outcomes Learn About State/Local Government Careers Vault Guide to Government Jobs Local Government Career Guide International City/County Management Association (ICMA) MASSterlist (Massachusetts) Massachusetts Office of Access and Opportunity City of Boston Office of Diversity Opportunities in State/Local Government Daybook Massachusetts Careers/Internships New York Careers/Internships California Careers/Internships Connecticut Careers/Internships New Jersey Careers/Internships Pennsylvania Careers/Internships Florida Careers/Internships ICMA Job Center ICMA Local Government Fellowship/Internship Programs Campus Resources Clough Center for the Study of Constitutional Democracy Boston College Democrats Boston College Republicans Young Democratic Socialists of Boston College Americans for Informed Democracy, BC Chapter Professional Associations and Organizations Engaging Local Government Leaders National Conference of State Legislatures National Civic League Council of State Governments National Association of Counties National League of Cities State Government Affairs Council Blacks in Government Society of American Indian Government Employees National Black Chamber of Commerce National LGBT Chamber of Commerce U.S. Hispanic Chamber of Commerce Future Leaders in America’s Government Do I need to go to graduate school? Graduate degrees are not required for working in state and local government. However, there are a number of graduate degree paths, including law school and masters and doctoral programs in fields such as policy, administration, public affairs, international affairs, and government, as well as STEM and the liberal arts, for those interested in gaining greater knowledge and experience in areas relevant to government work. Graduate School Visit the "Find Your Graduate Degree for Public Service" page on the NASPAA website to explore graduate degrees in public policy and public administration. International Affairs International affairs encompasses a wide range of multi- and interdisciplinary careers in diplomacy, economic development, policy, trade, security, human rights, and various other areas. Students interested in international affairs may embark on careers in government agencies like the Foreign Service and Peace Corps, multilateral organizations like the United Nations, or a range of international non-governmental organizations and nonprofits. Types of Positions International affairs is a broad industry field. From ambassador down to language editor, there are a number of positions depending on organization type and functional area. Common early-career job types in international affairs include the following: Junior Foreign Service Officer Advisor Program Officer Administrative Officer Strategy Analyst Policy Analyst Translator Where BC Graduates Have Gone Department of State United Nations World Food Programme United States Committee for Refugees and Immigrants U.S. Institute of Peace British Embassy, Paris Society for International Development ACCION International Norwegian Refugee Council Outcomes Learn About International Affairs Careers APSIA International Career Guide Boston Network of International Development (BNID) Expatica Going Global Yearbook of International Organizations Global Access Pipeline Opportunities in International Affairs BNID Job and Internship Board ImpactPool Devex Job Board United Nations Careers State Department Careers APSIA Jobs and Internships Board Campus Resources Office of International Programs Center for Human Rights and International Justice Global Leadership Institute Irish Institute BC Model United Nations International Studies Student Association Professional Associations and Organizations American Foreign Service Association National Democratic Institute for International Affairs Foreign Policy Association Young Professionals in Foreign Policy Women’s Foreign Policy Group Women in International Security LGBT+ Pride in Foreign Affairs Agencies Do I need to go to graduate school? Graduate study for an international affairs career is dependent on the organization and functional area within the industry. For example, multilateral organizations like the United Nations value candidates who are embarking on or have graduated with advanced degrees in relevant fields, including international affairs and a range of STEM and liberal arts disciplines. Examples of industry-specific graduate degrees include master’s and doctorates in global affairs, international affairs, development, public administration, and policy. Foreign Policy keeps an updated list of top graduate programs for international relations, while interested students should also visit the APSIA website. Graduate School Law Law is a vast field that offers career options in a variety of settings and specializations. Broadly speaking, lawyers work in private practice, business, public interest, government, and academia. Attorneys who specialize in transactional law carry out research and counsel individuals and organizations on a range of legal matters, while those who specialize in litigation settle civil and criminal legal suits in court. Anyone who wishes to become a lawyer must attend law school, which is generally a three-year commitment, and pass the bar exam in the state(s) where they wish to practice. Types of Positions There is a wide range of careers within the law and legal services industry. Students who wish to work in the industry prior to entering law school generally assume positions as the following at law firms, district attorney offices, and elsewhere: Paralegal Legal Assistant Legal Analyst During law school and following graduation from law school and passage of the bar, JDs start their careers as the following: Associate Summer Associate Attorney Where BC Graduates Have Gone Law Schools: Boston College Law School Boston University Law School Columbia University Law School Duke University School of Law Fordham Law School Georgetown Law Center George Washington University Law School Harvard Law School UCLA Law School University of Pennsylvania Carey Law School University of Virginia Law School Employment: Belcher Fitzgerald Hogan Lovells Hudson Latham and Watkins Massachusetts Court Service Center Mintz Paul Weiss Ropes and Gray U.S. Attorneys Office, Boston White and Case Hiring Timelines 2% received job offers during fall semester of senior year 64% received job offers during spring semester of senior year 34% received job offers the summer after senior year Outcomes Learn About Legal Careers Law School Admissions Council (LSAC) AccessLex National Association for Law Placement (NALP) Vault Guide to Law Vault Guide to Law Jobs Law.com Opportunities in Law ABA Legal Career Center LawCrossing.com LawJobs.com Public Service Jobs Directory NALP Job Center Campus Resources AHANA Pre-Law Student Association Bellarmine Law Society BC Mock Trial Boston College Law School Admissions Boston College Rappaport Center for Law and Public Policy Business Law and Society Department Professional Associations American Bar Association (ABA) National Association of Law Placement (NALP) Boston Lawyers Group Council on Legal Education Opportunity (CLEO) Hispanic National Bar Association Minority Corporate Counsel Association National Native American Bar Association National Association of Women Judges LGBT Bar For People of Color, Inc. Pre-Law Transgender Law Center Pre-Law Summer Programs Looking for something to do this summer? Check out our database that details summer programs for students at various points of the law school application process. Browse the different tabs to find a program that is right for you! Pre-Law Summer Programs Database Applying to Law School In order to begin your career as an attorney, you must attend law school. The Boston College Career Center offers resources to help you explore your interests in law school and prepare your law school applications, from writing your personal statement to studying for the LSAT. Consider scheduling an appointment with the GLP career coach and pre-law advisor for one-on-one advising. Law School Law Enforcement Law enforcement officials operate at every level of society, from smaller, community-based police organizations, to municipal and state police forces, national agencies like the FBI, U.S. Marshals, DEA, and Secret Service, and international organizations like Interpol. Beyond policing, the broader fields of law enforcement and criminal justice include careers in forensics, social work, and counseling, among others. Types of Positions From FBI Director to crime scene investigator, there are various career paths within the law enforcement industry. Common entry-level positions in local, state, and federal law enforcement agencies include: Patrol Officer Deputy U.S. Marshal Entry-Level Special Agent Entry-Level FBI Agent Outcomes Learn About Law Enforcement Careers Vault Guide to Public Safety Jobs Vault Guide to Criminal Justice Jobs Go Law Enforcement Opportunities in Law Enforcement Vault Guide to Public Safety Jobs Vault Guide to Criminal Justice Jobs Go Law Enforcement Go Law Enforcement Job Board FBI Collegiate Hiring Initiative Secret Service Careers Interpol Internships Campus Resources Boston College Public Safety Alumni Network Boston College Police Department Professional Associations American Academy of Forensic Sciences American Society of Criminology National Criminal Justice Association National Association of Police Organizations Women in Federal Law Enforcement Blacks in Law Enforcement of America Hispanic American Police Command Officers Association Do I need to go to graduate school? For forensic work, graduate work in STEM fields, and forensic science in particular, is valued. For counseling psychology, clinical graduate work is required. Graduate School Military/Defense The U.S. armed forces and federal departments and agencies like the Department of Defense, National Security Agency, and Central Intelligence Agency defend the nation and American interests at home and abroad. While the conventional path to defense careers starts with joining one of the four branches of the U.S. military (Army, Navy, Air Force, and Marine Corps), the National Guard, or the Coast Guard as an enlisted serviceman or officer, there are many opportunities for civilians to embark on defense careers in federal departments and agencies. Defense careers include number of diverse sectors, including intelligence, policy, research, medicine, aid, engineering, and technology. Types of Positions There are a number of civilian and military positions within the defense industry, including in the areas of engineer, technology, and intelligence. Depending on the branch of the military, and if a student has participated in ROTC, one can enter the armed forces as an enlisted serviceman via recruiter or embarking on officer training. Technician Administrator Intelligence officer Enlisted Service Person Where BC Graduates Have Gone Boston College has alumni actively serving in all branches of the military. Alumni also work in areas such as the Department of Defense and National Security Agency. Outcomes Learn About Military/Defense Careers Military.com Today’s Military Vault Guide to Defense Jobs Vault Guide to Military Services Jobs Armed Forces Recruiting Opportunities: Air Force Army Marines Navy Campus Resources BC Veterans BC Army ROTC BC Veterans Alumni Network Professional Associations and Organizations American Legion Association of Former Intelligence Officers Air Force Association Reserve Officers Association Association of Naval Services Officers National Defense Industrial Association Modern Military Association American Veterans for Equal Rights Do I need to go to graduate school? Graduate school is not required. Graduate School Public Policy/Advocacy Careers in public policy and advocacy include a range of opportunities to research and implement government policy, advocate and lobby for interest groups, fight for social justice, influence lawmakers, and elect candidates to office. Students interested in pursuing careers in public and policy and advocacy may work in think tanks, government relations offices, activist organizations, policy and advocacy nonprofit organizations, political campaigns, lobbying firms, and political consulting companies. Types of Positions From director of research at a global think tank to speechwriter for a political campaign, there is a wide range of positions and functions within the public policy and advocacy career fields. Some common early-career positions include: Legislative lobbyist Government relations associate Campaign staff worker Program analyst Policy analyst Researcher Translator Where BC Graduates Have Gone Brookings Institute GLAAD RAND Corporation Blue Revolution League of Conservation Voters Partnership for Public Service Blue Revolution American Enterprise Institute U.S. Public Interest Research Group International Chamber of Commerce Outcomes Learn About Public Policy/Advocacy Careers Vault Guide to Politics, Public Policy, and Activism Jobs Think Tank Career Guide - 80,000 Hours Public Policy Career Guide - Indeed Human Rights Career Paths Guide to Working on Political Campaigns - Harvard Law School Opportunities in Public Policy/Advocacy Idealist Daybook HillZoo Go To Think Tank - UPenn LobbyingJobs.com Congressional Research Service Careers Interested?? Job Email Campus Resources Clough Center for the Study of Constitutional Democracy Winston Center for Leadership and Ethics Boisi Center for Religion and American Public Life Americans for Informed Democracy, BC Chapter Climate Justice at Boston College EcoPledge Professional Associations American Association for Public Administration Alliance for Nonprofit Management American Association of Political Consultants Association for Public Policy Analysis and Management Association of Government Relations Professionals National Academy of Public Administration National Council of Nonprofits National Association of Election Officials International Association of Political Consultants Women in Government Relations Women Impacting Public Policy Preparing Women to Lead National Forum for Black Public Leadership National Black Justice Coalition Congressional Hispanic Caucus Institute Do I need to go to graduate school? Advanced degrees, including masters or doctorates, are desirable for many public policy positions, which oftentimes require expertise in specific subject areas. Think tank policy analysts, for example, have advanced degrees in economics, public policy, public administration, or public affairs. Advanced degrees in liberal arts and STEM disciplines are also desirable. Visit the "Find Your Graduate Degree for Public Service" page on the NASPAA website to explore graduate degrees in public policy and public administration. The Princeton Review Public Policy page has more information about degrees in public policy. Graduate School From the Career Center Blog How to Explore Cybersecurity Careers Cybersecurity is a rapidly growing industry that spans the government, business, law, engineering, and tech sectors. If you’re interested in April 11, 2022 BCCareerCenterTeam Internship Spotlight: Summer Internships in Government and Intelligence What exactly is an internship? When browsing internship postings, it can be difficult to imagine the day-to-day work and potential April 06, 2022 BCCareerCenterTeam Internship Spotlight: Summer Internships in Law Every summer, with or without prior work experience, BC undergraduates secure internships in various legal practices. Although a legal internship March 07, 2022 BCCareerCenterTeam Internship Spotlight: Summer Internships in Government and Legislative Affairs Interested in pursuing an internship in government or legislative affairs? Hear from four BC undergraduates who completed internships last summer February 14, 2022 BCCareerCenterTeam 6 Employers Give You Their Career Fair Advice Registration for the Boston College Career Fair opens to all students on February 7th. As you think about how to January 24, 2022 BCCareerCenterTeam Internship Spotlight: Summer Internships in International Affairs Interested in pursuing an internship in international affairs? Learn about the experiences of your classmates, all of whom interned at October 07, 2021 BCCareerCenterTeam How to Explore Cybersecurity Careers Cybersecurity is a rapidly growing industry that spans the government, business, law, engineering, and tech sectors. If you’re interested in April 11, 2022 BCCareerCenterTeam Internship Spotlight: Summer Internships in Government and Intelligence What exactly is an internship? When browsing internship postings, it can be difficult to imagine the day-to-day work and potential April 06, 2022 BCCareerCenterTeam Internship Spotlight: Summer Internships in Law Every summer, with or without prior work experience, BC undergraduates secure internships in various legal practices. Although a legal internship March 07, 2022 BCCareerCenterTeam VIEW MORE POSTS VIEW LESS POSTS Visit Blog Back To Top Back To Top Career Center Southwell Hall 38 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 617-552-3430 About Departments & Programs How can we help you? Events Division of Student Affairs Division of Student Affairs BAIC BC Bands Business Service Center Career Center Counseling Services Graduate Student Life Health Promotion Health Services Residential Life Robsham Theater Student Conduct Student Involvement Student Outreach & Support Women’s Center Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College