Indoor face covering requirements reinstated through June 13. More COVID-19 information. × Skip to main content A to Z Listing Campus Map Find People News Skip to main content University of California, Riverside Search Quicklinks Visit Events Make a Gift Campus Map Jobs Library Parking and Transportation Apply UC Riverside University of California, Riverside University of California, Riverside Search About About Overview Rankings and Facts Impacts History Visitors International Leadership Find Information for... Current Students Prospective Students Faculty Staff Parents Alumni Academics Academics Overview Undergraduate Majors Graduate Programs Colleges and Schools UCR Extension Find Information For... Current Students Prospective Students Faculty Staff Parents Alumni Admissions Admissions Overview Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions International Admissions Transfer Admissions Cost Veteran Admissions Find Information For... Current Students Prospective Students Faculty Staff Parents Alumni Research Research Overview Undergraduate Research Graduate Research Centers and Facilities Library Find Information For... Current Students Prospective Students Faculty Staff Parents Alumni Campus Life Campus Life Overview Events Campus Map Arts and Culture Athletics and Recreation Health and Safety Botanic Gardens Housing Dining About Riverside Find Information For... Current Students Prospective Students Faculty Staff Parents Alumni Quicklinks Visit Events Make a Gift Campus Map Jobs Library Parking and Transportation Apply Research Breadcrumb Research Saving Lives, Improving the World Like the university itself, research at UC Riverside, is on the rise. Funding for our path-breaking research initiatives is up more than 70 percent over the past 10 years. Here you’ll find world-class genetics experts who are leading the global fight against mosquito-borne illness, saving millions of lives. Our campus also boasts the nation’s largest indoor atmospheric test chamber, rendering us a leader in air pollution and alternative fuels research. And as California’s top resource for citrus research, UC Riverside partners with growers to protect California’s $7 billion+ citrus industry. As a catalyst for economic growth and technological innovation, the campus contributes $2.7 billion to the United States economy. We proudly partner with local, national, and global entrepreneurs, corporate leaders, and fellow research enterprises to take our expertise and visionary solutions from the lab to the marketplace. Related Topics Research Undergraduate Research Graduate Research Centers and Facilities The Office of Research and Economic Development (RED) The Office of Research and Economic Development (RED) works with UCR faculty, departments, and schools to launch research collaborations, increase federal research funding, facilitate technology commercialization and start-up ventures, and ensure compliance with federal and state regulations. Office of Technology Partnerships (OTP) The Office of Technology Partnerships (OTP) helps to further the entrepreneurial efforts of innovators on the UCR campus and in the Riverside community at large. OTP’s team of experts provides personalized support for individuals and teams seeking to develop, fund, or commercialize their ideas. Entrepreneurial Proof of Concept and Innovation Center (EPIC) In collaboration with the Riverside County Economic Development Agency and numerous regional partners, the Entrepreneurial Proof of Concept and Innovation Center (EPIC) provides training, resources, and incubator space for UCR and Riverside-based innovators and startup companies. Clearing the Air Boasting the world’s largest indoor air pollution research facility, the College of Engineering-Center for Environmental Research and Technology (CE-CERT) will partner with the soon to co-locate California Air Resources Board to develop pathbreaking solutions to sustainability issues affecting California and the world. Explore More ADDITIONAL RESOURCES UCR Economic Impact More Information UCR 2020 Strategic Plan More Information UCOP Research and Grad Studies More Information UCR Library More Information Featured Research EAT OR BE EATEN When predators attack prey, what determines success or failure? WATCH VIDEO > × 1 PHOTON = 2 ELECTRONS Physicists show how tiny photosensors can double their... WATCH VIDEO > × SILENT KILLER Effects of thirdhand smoke on liver and lungs found to worsen overt time WATCH VIDEO > × FEAR NO MORE Erasing particular fear memories permanently WATCH VIDEO > × For the latest news and information on UCR's world class research initiatives VISIT UCR NEWS Search University of California, Riverside 900 University Ave. Riverside, CA 92521 Tel: (951) 827-1012 UCR Library Campus Status Campus Store Career Opportunities Diversity Maps and Directions Visit UCR University Communications 1156 Hinderaker Hall tel: (951) 827-1012 email: webteam@ucr.edu Find Us Related Links Campus Return UCR Admissions UCR News Colleges and Schools Graduate Division UCR Jobs UCR Health Giving Follow Us: Privacy and Accessibility Terms and Conditions © 2022 Regents of the University of California × Let us help you with your search Enter your Search Criteria. Search Cancel