Chancellor Offices Directory Contact Us About Us Leadership Our Universities Giving Reports Policies Texas Tech University System Economic Impact Grows to $16.4 Billion The Texas Tech University System recorded a statewide economic impact of $16.4 billion for fiscal year 2021, a 64% increase from a decade ago, according to a report on the TTU System and its component institutions’ influence on business activity. Read more Vice Chancellor & Chief Financial Officer Search The Texas Tech University System, under the transformative leadership of Chancellor Tedd L. Mitchell, M.D., seeks an innovative servant leader with proven experience, comprehensive knowledge and shared values to join the TTU System Administration as Vice Chancellor and Chief Financial Officer. Read More Texas Tech Celebrates School of Veterinary Medicine with Official Ribbon Cutting Texas Tech University marked a historic occasion on April 22 as university and TTU System leaders were joined by Gov. Greg Abbott, elected officials and agricultural industry leaders for the ribbon cutting of the TTU School of Veterinary Medicine ribbon-cutting ceremony in Amarillo. Read more JuliAnn Mazachek Officially Appointed MSU Texas President JuliAnn Mazachek, Ph.D., will begin her tenure as the 12th president of Midwestern State University effective May 23. The official appointment was made today (March 28) by Tedd L. Mitchell, M.D., chancellor of the Texas Tech University System (TTU System). Read More TTU System Sets Enrollment Record with More Than 63,000 Students The Texas Tech University System set a record enrollment with 63,498 students enrolled across its five member institutions for the 2021-22 academic year. Four of the system's five institutions also set record enrollment figures for their respective universities. Read More The TTU System Focused on advancing higher education, health care, research and outreach, the Texas Tech University System is taking a leading role in meeting the global challenges of today and the future. Our component institutions—Texas Tech University, Texas Tech University Health Sciences Center, Angelo State University, Texas Tech University Health Sciences Center El Paso and Midwestern State University—are impacting the lives of individuals not only in West Texas, but across the entire state, country and the world. News Around the System TTU | May 10, 2022 Texas Tech Receives $1.5M Grant to Continue Addressing Rural Teacher Shortage TTUHSC | April 25, 2022 TTUHSC and Permian Strategic Partnership Announce a Major Gift ASU | April 29, 2022 Longtime Physics Prof Appointed Dean of the College of Graduate Studies and Research TTUHSC El Paso | May 11, 2022 Hunt School of Nursing Celebrates 10 Years MSU Texas | May 9, 2022 Forrester named 2022 Hardin Professor Connect with the TTU System: Fraud & Misconduct Hotline | Careers | Site Map | Webmaster Texas Tech University Texas Tech University Health Sciences Center Angelo State University Texas Tech University Health Sciences Center El Paso Midwestern State University State of Texas Statewide Search Online Institutional Resumes Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal SAO Fraud Reporting Energy Management TTU System Regulations General Policy Information Title IX Open Records Requests ©2013 Texas Tech University System 1508 Knoxville Avenue, Lubbock, TX 79409 806.742.2011 ©