Skip to main content Resources for: Parents Faculty/Staff Alumni Request Info One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search University of Oregon Sites Search Site Navigation Academics Research Admissions & Financial Aid Duck Life About Board of Trustees Leadership Diversity Government & Community Relations Accountability Spring 2022 Academic Initiatives Update Resources for: Parents Faculty/Staff Alumni Request Info Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give University of Oregon Main navigation Academics Research Admissions & Financial Aid Duck Life About Spring 2022 Academic Initiatives Update Main menu Board of Trustees Leadership Diversity Government & Community Relations Accountability About the UO ABOUT THE UO Nestled in the lush Willamette Valley, with an easy drive to both the Pacific Ocean and the Cascade Mountains, the University of Oregon is renowned for its research prowess and commitment to teaching. Nine Schools and Colleges College of Arts and Sciences Charles H. Lundquist College of Business College of Design College of Education Robert D. Clark Honors College School of Journalism and Communication School of Music and Dance School of Law Graduate School Admissions Our students are smart, creative, and increasingly diverse. We support and celebrate their successes, and we work hard to provide inspiring educational opportunities in the classroom and beyond. Not so small that everyone knows you. Not so large that you feel lost. 22,298 STUDENTS 3.73 AVERAGE GPA OF ENTERING STUDENTS 87.2% RETENTION RATE FOR FRESHMEN 32% OF NEW FRESHMEN ARE ETHNIC AND RACIAL MINORITIES 28.4% OF Resident Oregon FRESHMEN ARE FIRST-GENERATION COLLEGE STUDENTS 31% of Resident Oregon freshmen are eligible for Federal Pell Grants Office of Admissions Cost of Attendance Financial Aid & Scholarships Academics The University of Oregon is one of just two schools in the Pacific Northwest selected for membership in the prestigious Association of American Universities, a consortium of 65 leading public and private research institutions in the United States and Canada. #1 public university in Oregon Tier 1 national public research university 23.8% of undergraduates study abroad 331 DEGREE AND CERTIFICATE PROGRAMS 17:1 STUDENT TO TEACHER RATIO 20 MEDIAN CLASS SIZE Top 10 Majors Business Administration Psychology Pre-Business Administration Human Physiology Biology Political Science Advertising Pre-Journalism Computer and Information Science General Social Science Faculty, Research, and Impact Welcome to the life of the mind. Our faculty members are as busy learning as they are teaching. This ongoing pursuit—and sharing—of fresh ideas and better ways is what sets apart top-tier research universities like the UO. We want to energize you with a liberal arts education that rewards your curiosity, sharpens your thinking, and challenges you to live your best life. In the process, the fruits of our teaching, research, and public service efforts return billions to Oregon’s economy every year. The benefits for society and our world? Priceless. 1,951 University of Oregon Teaching and Research Faculty $172.5M Grants, Contracts and Competitive Awards (FY21) 1,276 Research Proposals Submitted (FY21) $1B UO Operating Budget (FY21) 6.5% Amount Funded by State Appropriation $2.6B Economic Return to Oregon (FY21) $3.2B Campaign Gifts as of June 30, 2021 $1.2B UO Endowment value as of June 30, 2021 Our Faculty Include Image 1 Nobel Prize Winner Image 1 MacArthur Fellow Image 2 National Medal of Science Recipients Image 2 American Cancer Society Fellows Image 3 Pulitzer Prize Winners Image 9 National Academy of Sciences Members Image 41 Guggenheim Fellows What We Do We exist to provide Oregonians and their peers from around the world access to an excellent education. We challenge our students to question critically, think logically, communicate clearly, act creatively, and live ethically. We serve the people of Oregon, our nation, and the world through research, teaching, and outreach that benefits humanity, drives innovation, strengthens the economy, and transforms lives. Values and Mission Who We Are We have students from all fifty states and more than a hundred countries. Our students, faculty, and staff represent all walks of life. Differing points of view. Every part of Oregon, our nation, and our planet. Because one of the best things about being at a great university is the chance to study, work, play, explore, debate, and engage with people from places you haven't been. Whose lives are nothing like your own. It's looking for commonalities while also celebrating differences. Learning from each other. Making the future brighter. Together. Equity and Inclusion UO and Oregon Throw sepia tones on an October morning in 1876. That’s when 155 students showed up for the first day of classes at the University of Oregon. They filed into a looming, four-story building in the middle of a muddy clearing, with workers inside still hammering away on the upper floors and cattle grazing in the pasture outside. From these rustic origins grew one of the nation’s leading research institutions. Today, our campus is vibrant and green, and we're pursuing the grand challenges facing our state and the world. Our History Alumni Ducks are everywhere. They're leaders in business, industry, education, the arts, government, NGOs, and their communities. They include winners of Emmy, Oscar, and Tony awards, Pulitzer Prizes, Guggenheim Fellowships, MacArthur Genius Grants, the Nobel Prize, Olympic medals, Rhodes Scholarships, the National Humanities Medal, and countless other honors for achievement and public service. Our ROTC graduates more officers than any other civilian school, and we rank in the top 20 for Peace Corps volunteers produced by the nation’s largest universities. 253,415+ TOTAL LIVING ALUMNI 116,901 LIVING IN OREGON 100,552 LIVING IN OTHER STATES 16,610 LIVING ABROAD Our Alumni Include UO Alumni Association CAMPUS News Events Maps Directions A–Z Index Find People Report a Concern TOOLS Webmail UOmail Canvas Duckweb RESOURCES Class Schedule Academic Calendar UO Libraries For Journalists University of Oregon 1585 E 13th Ave. Eugene, OR 97403 P: 541-346-1000 Contact Us Visit us on Facebook Visit us on Twitter Visit us on Youtube Visit us on Vimeo Visit us on Instagram Visit us on LinkedIn Accessibility Report a Concern Careers Privacy Policy About Find People © University of Oregon. All Rights Reserved. UO prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, sex, national or ethnic origin, age, religion, marital status, disability, veteran status, sexual orientation, gender identity, and gender expression in all programs, activities and employment practices as required by Title IX, other applicable laws, and policies. Retaliation is prohibited by UO policy. Questions may be referred to the Title IX Coordinator, Office of Affirmative Action and Equal Opportunity, or to the Office for Civil Rights. Contact information, related policies, and complaint procedures are listed on the statement of non-discrimination.