Skip to main content Toggle subitems Main navigation Meet Princeton Toggle sub-items In Service of Humanity Facts & Figures History Honors & Awards Contact Us Visit Us Our Faculty Our Students Our Alumni Our Staff Our Leadership Academic Freedom and Free Expression Academics Toggle sub-items Studying at Princeton Library Areas of Study Humanities Social Sciences Engineering Natural Sciences Advising Academic Calendar Course Tools Learning Abroad Career Development Continuing Education Innovative Learning Research Toggle sub-items Engineering & Applied Science Humanities Natural Sciences Social Sciences Interdisciplinary Approach Dean for Research Office External Partnerships Facilities & Labs One Community Toggle sub-items Lifelong Connections Student Life Arts & Culture Athletics Living in Princeton, N.J. Housing & Dining Activities & Organizations Cultural & Affinity Groups Health & Wellness Religious Life Serving the Public Good Families Admission & Aid Toggle sub-items Affordable for All About Financial Aid Current Undergraduate Financial Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission For International Students Utility menu News Events Work at Princeton Services & Resources Work-Life Balance Links for Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Giving Search Sites & People × Visit Us COVID-19 Information for Visitors Tours & Information Sessions Campus Maps Traveling on Campus Driving & Parking Public Transportation Lodging Accessibility COVID-19 Information for Visitors While Princeton remains operational during the COVID-19 outbreak, the University is following the guidance of health officials. For the latest information about visiting campus, please see the Princeton COVID Resources website. Tours & Information Sessions Photo by Denise Applewhite, Office of Communications The Office of Admission holds general admission information sessions throughout the year. You may combine an information session with a student-led campus tour, which is run by the Orange Key Guide Service. The School of Engineering and Applied Science offers tours of the engineering quad during the academic year. Our 23-stop, student-led virtual tour of the main campus is available in English, Korean, Mandarin and Spanish and includes 360-degree panorama photos and videos. Princeton can also be toured from different perspectives via the GuidiGO mobile app: African American Life at Princeton "Firsts" at Princeton Traditions at Princeton Women at Princeton Stories of Asians and Asian Americans at Princeton Campus Maps Interactive Map Printable Campus Map (.pdf) Traveling on Campus Photo by Amaris Hardy, Office of Communications Campus Bus System TigerTransit's shuttle routes circulate through main campus and make connections to the Princeton train station, Forrestal campus, the Princeton Plasma Physics Laboratory and several local grocery stores. (On-demand service is available after hours.) View Real-Time Bus Tracking Accessibility Accessible parking, van services, paths and entrances are available. Driving & Parking Campus is located in Princeton, N.J., approximately one mile west of U.S. Route 1. Visitor parking is available for free on weekdays in Lot 23 (GPS: “Princeton University Lot 23” or lat./long. “40.340605,-74.656773”). On weekends and evenings, visitors may park in most other lots and garages. Metered parking is also available on streets around campus. Visiting for a tour, the undergraduate admission office or the graduate admission office? Park in Lot 23 and take the Route 4 bus to the Admission Information Center located at 36 University Place (adjacent to the University store). Beginning Friday, Dec. 20, the vehicle gates at the Nassau Street entrance to campus will remain closed 24 hours a day, and there will be no vehicle access to campus from Nassau Street. The gates will continue to open for vehicles leaving campus. All vehicles should enter campus on Elm Drive via Faculty Road, where the South Guard Booth will continue to be open and staffed 24 hours a day, seven days a week. Public Transportation Bus New Jersey Transit operates local bus routes in the area. Rail Routes A train known locally as "The Dinky" connects campus (Princeton Station at Alexander Street) to the Northeast Corridor line at Princeton Junction station. Northbound NJ TRANSIT trains passing through Princeton Junction provide direct service to New York City and Newark Liberty International Airport. A southbound transfer to the SEPTA regional rail Trenton Line train at Trenton provides service to Philadelphia. Amtrak trains connect Princeton Junction to Washington, D.C., Boston and the broader region. International Airports Shuttles and trains from campus reach four international airports. Newark and Philadelphia are closest if you have the choice. Newark Liberty International Airport (EWR) Philadelphia International Airport (PHL) John F. Kennedy International Airport (JFK) LaGuardia International Airport (LGA) Lodging Numerous motels and other forms of lodging are available in the Princeton area. The Princeton Regional Chamber of Commerce and Visitors Bureau offers an accommodations page on its website. Visitors to campus can take advantage of discounted rates through the University's Travel and Expense website. Look for the "Local Hotels" heading. Accessibility Accessible Buildings, Walkways and Parking Areas (.pdf) If you plan to attend an event and have accessibility concerns, please contact the office you are visiting, Transportation and Parking Services or the Office of Disability Services. Eruv Map (.pdf) An eruv is a symbolic enclosure that allows observant Jews, mostly of the Orthodox community, to carry objects outdoors on the Sabbath. Meet Princeton In Service of Humanity Facts & Figures History Honors & Awards Contact Us Visit Us Our Faculty Our Students Our Alumni Our Staff Our Leadership Academic Freedom and Free Expression Contact links Contact Us Accessibility Advanced People Search Media Inquiries Website Feedback Visiting links Plan a Visit Maps & Shuttles Varsity Athletics Giving to Princeton Academic links Library Academic Calendar Student Links Faculty & Staff Links Footer social media Facebook Twitter Instagram Snapchat LinkedIn YouTube Social Media Directory Equal Opportunity and Nondiscrimination at Princeton University: Princeton University believes that commitment to principles of fairness and respect for all is favorable to the free and open exchange of ideas, and the University seeks to reach out as widely as possible in order to attract the ablest individuals as students, faculty, and staff. In applying this policy, the University is committed to nondiscrimination on the basis of personal beliefs or characteristics such as political views, religion, national or ethnic origin, race, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, pregnancy, age, marital or domestic partnership status, veteran status, disability, genetic information and/or other characteristics protected by applicable law in any phase of its education or employment programs or activities. In addition, pursuant to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 and supporting regulations, Princeton does not discriminate on the basis of sex in the education programs or activities that it operates; this extends to admission and employment. Inquiries about the application of Title IX and its supporting regulations may be directed to the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, Office for Civil Rights, U.S. Department of Education or to the University's Sexual Misconduct/Title IX Coordinator. See Princeton’s full Equal Opportunity Policy and Nondiscrimination Statement. Princeton University Princeton, NJ 08544 Operator: (609) 258-3000 © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Subfooter links Copyright Infringement Privacy Notice