Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index Office of Communications & Marketing Menu Search TTU Office of Communications & Marketing Emergency Communications Center Coronavirus Information Coronavirus Update: March 25, 2020 Texas Tech University Community, Best Practices for Secure Online Meetings and Courses When meeting online, be sure to practice safe computing, and avoid unwanted guests (Zoombombing). General tips for hosting secure online meetings: Do not publicly post meeting links to social media, unless you intend to invite all those that can read your social media feed; Use unique meeting identifiers so that your meeting is only available to those with that code; Utilize a waiting room to manage participants joining prior to the host or rejoining after leaving the meeting; Limit who can join meetings as a presenter; enable only specific individuals to help co-host the meeting; Disable file sharing, if possible; Mute participants who do not need to speak. We have compiled technical instructions for securing the following supported platforms, Zoom, Skype for Business and Teams at https://askit.ttu.edu/onlinemeetings. For instructional assistance, eLearning and Academic Partnerships has created a resource for faculty; the resource includes guidance from the Teaching, Learning, and Technology Center - https://www.depts.ttu.edu/elearning/blackboard/collaborate/index.php. Home Bandwidth Considerations Internet Service Provider (ISP) options normally provide adequate Internet bandwidth to meet your daily needs, with most plans starting around 1-3 Mbps capacity. While such capacity is likely sufficient for one user, concurrent users may require a higher household bandwidth. In addition to bandwidth, other factors also contribute to slower response times, such as hardware capability (CPU, RAM, storage access times, etc.) or service type (email, Skype, Blackboard, document sharing, video streaming, etc.). With increased Internet usage in your household, your current Internet packages—bandwidth and data limits—may not be sufficient. Check with your provider to see if your plan works for your current needs. In general, most TTU resources, such as email, Blackboard, Skype for Business, Microsoft Teams, and Zoom, do not need a large amount of bandwidth. To help gauge the bandwidth requirements for these services, we provide more detailed information at https://askit.ttu.edu/bandwidth. Tips to reduce your household bandwidth consumption: Avoid streaming entertainment (movies, music, news, etc.) during work and school activities; Download large files outside of typical work hours; As possible, use audio for online activities that do not require video. Note that most online meeting tools will automatically prioritize audio over video, if sufficient bandwidth is unavailable. Online, Cloud Services and Internet Connectivity With the increasing number of local, national, and international households moving to remote work and instruction, Internet Service Providers (ISPs) and cloud-based services will have large increases in usage. These providers have adjusted to increase their capacities, but demand may exceed available resources periodically. The TTU IT Division has proactively collaborated with our vendor partners, such as Microsoft, Blackboard, Adobe, as well as our Internet providers, to increase bandwidth and capacity as much as possible. During this international, unprecedented situation, we ask for your patience and understanding as IT services may have slower response times. TTU IT staff are monitoring our systems and services, working diligently with vendors to address issues as quickly as possible. Personal Behavior and Working Habits While it may be convenient to walk into the next room for classes or work, learning, teaching, and working from home takes adjustment to be productive and successful. eLearning & Academic Partnerships offers a helpful video with great strategies for effective participation in online courses, and the same themes apply for working at home: Treat your online course and work as if it were face-to-face; Utilize a schedule; Create a dedicated physical learning/working space; Create a dedicated virtual learning/working space; Just as you would in a traditional learning, teaching, and working environment, focus your attention and communicate effectively. Scheduled Technology Maintenance While TTU works to minimize the amount of service downtime, some technical maintenance is still required to sustain our robust information technology and resources. When systems and services are unavailable (planned or unplanned), TTU IT posts notifications to TechAnnounce, as well as appropriate mailing lists. However, you can also access a list of known TTU and vendor partner system maintenance and outages at www.askit.ttu.edu with your eRaider username and password. To report any TTU system outages or to obtain additional information please contact IT Help Central at (806) 742-4357 (HELP) or via email at ithelpcentral@ttu.edu. Thank you for your partnership during this challenging international health situation. Office of Communications & Marketing Address 2625 Memorial Circle, Administration 212, Lubbock, TX 79409 Phone 806.742.2136 Email webmaster@ttu.edu Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock, Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversityMar 26, 2020 9:42 AM Office of Communications & Marketing Marketing Office of Communications & Marketing Marketing Back Identity Guidelines Official Logos Communications Office of Communications & Marketing Communications Back News Office of Communications & Marketing Communications Back Texas Tech Today Monthly e-Newsletter Event Announcements A List Emergency Office of Communications & Marketing Communications Back Emergency Communications Center General Emergency Procedures Social Media Office of Communications & Marketing Communications Back YouTube Facebook Twitter Foursquare Flickr LinkedIn Wikipedia Experts Guide Office of Communications & Marketing Communications Experts Guide Back Experts Guide About Office of Communications & Marketing Back Staff Work With Us Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index