Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Office of the Vice President for Student Affairs Leadership Leadership Vice President VP's Leadership Team Diversity Officer Student Advisory Board Student Reps to BOT Committees Programs Programs Special Funding Student Boulevard Guidelines Courageous Change Leader Award Hilltop Excellence Awards Resources Resources Student Event Guidelines Student Values Statement Off Campus Party Registration Alcohol Request Form Student Employment Employment Opportunities Strategic Direction Get Help ☰ Office of the Vice President for Student Affairs Vice President's Leadership Team Dean of Students Dr. Melinda (Mindy) Sutton (she/her/hers) Associate Vice President and Dean of Students As the Associate Vice President for Student Affairs and Dean of Students at Southern Methodist University (SMU), Dr. Melinda (Mindy) Sutton is responsible for the well-being and student support initiatives for the Division, including the Dr. Bob Smith Student Health Center; counseling services; wellness education; student conduct; student advocacy and support services; the Mustang Band and spirit programs; and the Dedman Center for Lifetime Sports (campus recreation). Dr. Sutton also represents the Division of Student Affairs on campus crisis response teams and coordinates student affairs support for the SMU-in-Taos programs. Education and Credentials Bachelor of Arts, Public Relations – Southern Methodist University Master of Science in Education, Higher Education and Student Affairs – Indiana University–Bloomington Doctor of Philosophy, Higher Education Administration – The University of Texas at Austin mjsutton@smu.edu (214) 768-4564 About Dr. Sutton Dr. Melinda (Mindy) Sutton is the Associate Vice President for Student Affairs and Dean of Students at Southern Methodist University (SMU) in Dallas, Texas, a position she began in May 2019. In this role, Dr. Sutton is responsible for the well-being and student support initiatives for the Division, including the Dr. Bob Smith Student Health Center; counseling services; wellness education; student conduct; student advocacy and support services; the Mustang Band and spirit programs; and the Dedman Center for Lifetime Sports (campus recreation). Dr. Sutton also represents the Division of Student Affairs on campus crisis response teams and coordinates student affairs support for the SMU-in-Taos programs that take place on the University’s campus in Taos, New Mexico. Prior to her tenure at SMU, Dr. Sutton served as the Assistant Vice Chancellor for Student Affairs and Dean of Students at the University of Mississippi and has also held positions at The University of Texas at Austin, The University of Texas at Tyler, theUniversity of Houston, and Quinnipiac University in Connecticut, working in a variety of functional areas and roles at each of these institutions. Dr. Sutton is active in several professional organizations, including the National Association of StudentPersonnelAdministrators (NASPA), the Association for Student Conduct Administrators (ASCA), and the Association of Fraternity and Sorority Advisors (AFA). In addition, she is an active volunteer for Gamma Phi Beta Sorority, having served as a vice president on the organization’sInternational Council for four years. A native Texan, Dr. Sutton earned her undergraduate degree in public relations with minors in English and French from SMU; a master’s degree in higher education and student affairs from Indiana University –Bloomington; and a doctoral degree from the University of Texas at Austin in higher education administration. Favorite SMU Tradition My favorite SMU tradition is the pre-game show at football games with the band, cheer and pom, and Peruna coordinating the leading of the team onto the field. There is nothing like witnessing the talent of students; the excitement they generate as we prepare to take on the opposing team; and the school spirit displayed. Perhaps my favorite part is the Mustang Band forming the Diamond M and playing Varsity (the prettiest alma mater there is) with everyone’s pony ears raised. I tear up every time! Learn More about SMU Spirit Squads Learn more about the Office of the Dean of Students Visit the website Learn more about the Dr. Bob Smith Health Center Visit the website Learn more about Campus Recreation at SMU Visit the website Explore Other Student Affairs Leaders Dr. K.C. Mmeje Vice President for Student Affairs Read My Bio Dr. Adam Cebulski Assistant Vice President & Chief of Staff Read My Bio Ashley Wendler Dean of Residence Life and Student Housing ad Interim Learn About RLSH Rev. Lisa Garvin Chaplain and Minister to the University Read My Bio Dr. Crystal Clayton Executive Director of the Hegi Family Career Development Center Read My Bio Apply Visit School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share