Skip to content iastate.edu Index Directory Maps Safety Sign ons Toggle Navigation HOME ACADEMICS Undergraduate Programs Masters Programs PhD Program Faculty Research UNDERGRADUATE STUDENTS Majors, Minors and Certificates Transfer Students Scholarships Undergraduate Student Services Undergraduate Career Services International Programs Writing & Speaking Center Student Organizations Hire an Ivy Graduate Start Something GRADUATE STUDENTS Masters Programs MBA Programs PhD Program Graduate Student Services Graduate Career Services Hire an Ivy Graduate Start Something ABOUT Ivy College of Business College Leadership Faculty & Staff Directory Rankings Alumni & Friends Upcoming Events Feature Stories APPLY SEARCH Loading... Master of Science in Information Systemsfritzn2022-05-26T13:56:35-05:00 Project Description Master of Science in Information Systems The master of science in information systems (MSIS) program gives you the tools you need to take your career to the next level. As an MSIS student, you will learn how to bridge the gap between business and technology — solving business problems using cutting-edge IT solutions. Graduates of our program are bilingual in IT and business and are highly sought after by employers. This flexible program can be completed on a full- or part-time basis online or on campus. The MSIS program features: a proven track record of employment average starting salary of $80,000 a capstone research project based on your interests customized course planning, choose electives from across campus flexible delivery methods with both online and in-person courses internship coaching and support double-degree option with the Ivy MBA add-on graduate certificates in other business disciplines science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) designation for international students scholarship and assistantship opportunities Degree Requirements Sample Program Course Offerings FAQs AT A GLANCE PROGRAM TUITION AND FEES Iowa residents: $722/credit hour + fees Non-residents: $1610/credit hour + fees International students: $1705/credit hour + fees PREFERRED APPLICATION DEADLINE July 1 (fall) December 1 (spring) April 1 (summer) GMAT/GRE Not required. FORMAT Online and in-person LENGTH 30 credits, 2-3 semesters LOCATION Ames and Des Moines, Iowa WHAT TO DO NEXT Request Information × We're here to help MA Request Information Name First Last Email Phone Which Masters program are you interested in? MACC MBAN MFIN MRED MSIS MHAO Are you an international student? Yes No CAPTCHA When you click submit above, a confirmation of your submission will be sent to the email address you provide. If you do not see a copy, check your spam folder or feel free to contact us at busgrad@iastate.edu Close CONSULT AN AMBASSADOR START MY APPLICATION Meet Yadav Jyothi Yadav Jyothi dreams of working in the electronic vehicle (EV) industry. The masters of information systems program is already driving his career in that direction. Jyothi landed an internship working for the Institute of Transportation (InTrans) here in Ames. He collects data from vehicle testing studies used for improving driver behavior. The data is then used to assist the Iowa DOT for highway safety standards. He sees a connection between the InTrans research and the potential for improving EV’s self-driving capabilities. “I was able to make the necessary connections at a networking event hosted by graduate career services, which ultimately helped me land my internship. By applying what I’m learning in the MSIS program and in my internship, I’m setting myself up for success in a career I’ve always wanted. ” Growing up in the UAE (United Arab Emirates), Dubai, specifically, it was very important for Jyothi to network with other international students because they share the same experiences when it comes to navigating the work visa process and landing full time jobs here in the U.S. I was able to make the necessary connections at a networking event hosted by graduate career services, which ultimately helped me land my internship. By applying what I’m learning in the MSIS program and in my internship, I’m setting myself up for success in a career I’ve always wanted.” Yadav Jyothi Current Student Data Annotator Institute of Transportation MEET YOUR NEW NETWORK 0 Average years of work experience 0 Average age Land Your Dream Job 100 percent of MSIS graduates are employed within six months of graduation with both local and global companies. Whether you’re looking for an internship, need help perfecting your resume, or you’re looking for advice about preparing for the big interview, our career services team offers each student personalized, customized advice and services. Other career-building opportunities like networking events and career fairs are also part of the package. Let us help you land your dream job! Learn more about our employment data for MSIS grads. See the full class profile Explore MSIS Coding experience is NOT required. Instead, our STEM-designated program focuses on analytical skills, business foundations, strategic communication, decision making, and organizational techniques. Our customizable curriculum gives you room to explore your personal interests and culminates in a creative capstone project. Step up your studies by adding an MBA with our double-degree option or a graduate certificate specialization. Scholarships and assistantships are available for qualified applicants. Explore MSIS Apply Today Ivy MSIS students can begin the program in the fall or spring. Students are admitted year-round. Applications are due July 1, for fall, and December 1, for spring. International students who currently reside outside U.S. are encouraged to apply at least three months prior to the start of the semester. The following application materials are required: resume college transcripts two references personal statement of purpose GMAT/GRE score is not required. TOEFL, IELTS, or Duolingo English score for non-native English speakers Once the application is complete, it will be reviewed promptly. Please note: Graduate students whose native language is not English and who do not have a degree from Iowa State University, must take the English Placement Test at the beginning for their first semester of enrollment. The test is administered by the Department of English. It must be taken in addition to the Test of English as a Foreign Language), which is taken as a part of the admissions process. A student who does not pass this examination is required to take specific courses in the English 99/101 series. This coursework must be completed no later than the semester BEFORE you graduate. Apply Ivy College of Business 2200 Gerdin 2167 Union Drive Ames, IA 50011-2027 CONTACT IVY VISITORS About Ivy Faculty & Staff Directory News & Events AACSB Accredited Rankings Learning Goals Facilities Alumni & Friends FOR COMPANIES Recruit a Student Post a Job CyBiz Lab Pappajohn Center SBDC Faculty Research Business Career Services Employer Services FACULTY & STAFF Iowa State Sign ons Faculty & Staff Directory News & Events Marketing Project Request Faculty Research Awards Faculty & Staff Resources Ivy A-Z Index CURRENT STUDENTS Iowa State Signs ons Faculty & Staff Directory News & Events Academic Advising Business Career Services Student Services Student Organizations CyHire Start Something FUTURE STUDENTS About Ivy Undergraduate Programs Master’s Programs MBA Programs PHD Programs International Programs Transfer Students Facilities Apply Ivy College of Business 2200 Gerdin 2167 Union Drive Ames, IA 50011-2027 CONTACT IVY VISITORS About Ivy Faculty & Staff Directory News & Events AACSB Accredited Rankings Learning Goals Facilities Alumni & Friends FOR COMPANIES Recruit a Student Post a Job CyBiz Lab Pappajohn Center SBDC Faculty Research Business Career Services Employer Services FACULTY & STAFF Iowa State Sign ons Faculty & Staff Directory News & Events Marketing Project Request Faculty Research Awards Faculty & Staff Resources Ivy A-Z Index CURRENT STUDENTS Iowa State Signs ons Faculty & Staff Directory News & Events Academic Advising Business Career Services Student Services Student Organizations CyHire Start Something FUTURE STUDENTS About Ivy Undergraduate Programs Master’s Programs MBA Programs PHD Programs International Programs Transfer Students Facilities Apply Copyright © 2022 | Iowa State University – Ivy College of Business | All rights reserved | Non-discrimination Policy | Privacy Policy | Digital Accessibility Policy | Remote Support | Iowa State Sign ons | Iowa State A-Z Index | Media Credits × Page load link Go to Top