Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Explore Brown University Search Global Navigation Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Classics Home About Office Hours Contact Information Faculty Bookshelf The Couch Library Stay Connected [email protected] Intranet People Academics Diversity & Inclusion News Events Alumnae/i Graduate Alumnae/i Graduate Placement The Occasional Classicist Recent Graduates Site Navigation Home About Office Hours Contact Information Faculty Bookshelf The Couch Library Stay Connected [email protected] Intranet People Faculty Affiliated Faculty Visiting Scholars & Fellows Graduate Students Staff Emeriti Faculty Office Hours Academics Undergraduate Program Study Abroad Research & Travel Funding Academic Prizes Departmental Undergraduate Group Brown Classical Journal History Submission Guidelines Graduate Program PhD Programs Classics Sanskrit Track Ancient History Reading List MA in Classics Graduate Student Symposia Graduate Alumnae/i Graduate Placement Courses Classics Greek Latin Modern Greek Sanskrit Diversity & Inclusion Diversity Statements News The Occasional Classicist Stay Connected Events Annual Lectures & Events Latin Carol Celebration Past Classics Events Alumnae/i Graduate Alumnae/i Graduate Placement The Occasional Classicist Past Volumes Recent Graduates Class of 2020 Class of 2021 Contact Information Contact Us Department of Classics Brown University Box 1856 Providence, RI 02912-1856 U.S.A Phone: 401-863-1267 Fax : 401-863-7484 Email: [email protected] Like Us on Facebook Follow us on Instagram Give to the Classics Department Your generous gift will support the continued study of classical antiquity at Brown University and the lively [email protected] community. Through your donation, the Classics Department can continue to foster an innovative and collaborative program, lead ground-breaking research in the field, and achieve excellence in teaching. Donate to [email protected] Visit Us Please review the University's COVID-19 guidelines for guests before visiting campus. Macfarlane House 48 College Street, Providence, RI 02906 The main office of the Classics Department is located in Macfarlane House, just down the hill from Brown’s iconic Van Wickle Gates. Macfarlane House hosts the offices of several departmental faculty and emeritus faculty, our Couch Memorial Library, the graduate student lounge, and a seminar room. Wilbour Hall 2 Prospect Street, Providence, RI 02906 The Department of Classics occupies the lower level and first floor of Wilbour Hall. Wilbour Hall hosts the offices of several departmental faculty along with an office for Teaching Fellows and Teaching Assistants. Brown’s Department of Egyptology & Assyriology is also located in Wilbour Hall. Maps & Directions Caveat autocinetistes! ("Let the driver beware") If you are using GPS to find us, be sure to type in "Macfarlane House" as the address, otherwise you will most certainly get lost. Also, parking is at a premium around campus. Although those arriving after business hours should have little difficulty parking within a few blocks of Macfarlane House or Wilbour Hall, visitors are encouraged to allow enough time to find parking. Parking and driving directions can be found on the About Brown page. Various campus maps are available from Brown's Department of Facilities Management. About Office Hours Contact Information Faculty Bookshelf The Couch Library Stay Connected [email protected] Intranet Department of Classics Department of Classics Brown University Box 1856 48 College Street Providence, RI 02912-1856 Phone: 401-863-1267 Fax: 401-863-7484 Email [email protected] Facebook Facebook Instagram Instagram Brown University Giving to Brown Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA 401-863-1000 Contact Us Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility All Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top