Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Division of Mission & Ministry Mission & Ministry Information For: Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links CSF Menu Main Nav Center for Student Formation Contact Back Back Close About Overview Resources Undergraduate Programs Overview Compass Mentoring Program Stride Ascend Ascend Lead Profiles AHANA Summit Freshmen League Halftime Leadership Positions Collaborations Contact Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Mission & Ministry Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Freshmen League Home Undergraduate Programs Freshmen League Undergraduate Programs Compass Mentoring Program Stride Ascend AHANA Summit Freshmen League Halftime Because Every Guy Needs His Team The Freshmen League is an all-male program designed for first-year men at BC. Freshmen are placed on a team with seven other freshmen guys and two upperclassmen leaders called “Captains.” The purpose of the program is to help freshmen guys learn the ropes of BC, give them access to upperclassmen mentors, and take part in various fun and creative experiences with a good group. What will I do in the Freshmen League? Freshmen League teams meet once a week during the spring semester with their Captain. The meetings are a casual get together where guys can talk about their BC experience and benefit from the wisdom of the Captains. Freshmen League teams also have a modest programming budget to spend on various bonding activities and fun events. Teams have played trampoline dodgeball, gone F-1 go kart racing, had dinner at Fire and Ice and gone to Red Sox games among other activities. Participants and leads of the Freshmen League will attend an all-program off-campus overnight event during one of two sessions: Friday, January - Saturday, January 22, 2022 or Friday, January 28 - Saturday, January 29, 2022. Decisions regarding specific dates for each team will be coordinated at a later date. How do I become part of the Freshmen League? Applications to the Freshmen League open a few weeks into the school year (we want to give you a chance to settle in first). The deadline to apply is November 4, 2021 at 11:59 PM. The program really begins in January, but all freshmen must apply in the Fall. Does the program cost anything? We ask all participants to pay a $125 deposit to be part of the Freshmen League. This money goes towards programming for each team. If the $125 is a financial burden, there is a grant application process available for those who qualify. Why should I do the Freshmen League? We realize that you’ll make tons of friends in your hall as a freshman, which is awesome. The Freshmen League is a way to make even more friends. It also gives you access to upperclassmen who want to help you have a great BC experience. Learning Outcomes After participating in the Freshman League as a freshmen participant, students will be able to: 1. Choose to actively participate in student programs such as retreats and service trips 2. Construct a healthier sense of gender identity relative to their peers as determined by the Gender Role Conflict Scale After participating in the Freshman League as a student leader, students will be able to: 1. Demonstrate growth in leadership and mentorship skills 2. Construct a healthier sense of gender identity relative to other BC student leaders as determined by the Gender Role Conflict Scale 3. Develop the habit of self-reflection Inclusivity The Center for Student Formation is committed to inclusive programs that welcome all students. Apply If you have any questions, email frleague@bc.edu In and around Boston « » Freshman League Freshmen League teams will go on one outing each month in the city of Boston. Teams have played trampoline dodgeball, gone F-1 go kart racing, had dinner at Fire and Ice and gone to Red Sox games among other activities. What are freshmen guys saying about their experience in the League? “Freshmen League was great because I got to meet new people and upperclassmen. I got a lot out of this experience and would definitely do it again. I loved my Captains, they were so cool and it was helpful.” “I think Freshmen League has given me good perspective on my experience so far and what I should do in the future to make the most of BC.” “The Freshmen League was an awesome way to explore Boston and get to know other cool guys outside my friends in my hall. I think every single freshmen guy should do it” Back To Top Back To Top Center for Student Formation 90 College Road Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 617-552-6140 About Undergraduate Programs Leadership Positions Collaborations Division of Mission & Ministry Mission and Ministry Campus Ministry Center for Ignatian Spirituality Center for Student Formation First Year Experience Intersections Montserrat Pastoral Support The Volunteer and Service Learning Center University of Mission and Ministry Service Center Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College