Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences Information For Current Students Faculty Search BC.edu Links Biology Department Menu Main Nav Biology Department Biology Department Contact Back Back Close About Overview Contact Giving to Biology News and Notes Open Positions Science on Campus People Undergraduate Overview Current Students Research Experience Research for Credit Undergraduate Research Day Research Opportunities Senior Thesis Program Academic Advising First-Year Students Forms & Resources Frequently Asked Questions B.S./M.S. Program Majors Minors Careers Science Education Summer Research Experiences Health Professions Professional Development Events and Activities Undergraduate Seminars SACNAS Graduate Overview B.S./M.S. Program Forms and Resources Program Policy Tuition, Stipend and Health Care International Students Graduate Consortium Recent Ph.D. Graduates Research Overview Seminars Seminars 2020-2021 Seminars 2019-2020 Seminars 2018-2019 Seminars 2017-2018 Seminars 2016-2017 Seminars 2015-2016 Seminars 2014-2015 Seminars 2013-2014 Seminars 2012-2013 Scientific Retreats 2017 Retreat Data Club Data Club Archive Science on Tap! Faculty Research Selected Publications Core Facilities Imaging Facility Flow Cytometry BD FACSAria Cell Sorter Bioinformatics Server Cleanroom and Nanofabrication Facility Diversity and Outreach Close Contact Directory A to Z Listing Search Morrissey College Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Current Students Faculty BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Biology Department Home Undergraduate Majors Undergraduate Current Students Majors Minors Careers Undergraduate Seminars SACNAS Majors The Biology department offers three undergraduate degree programs: Biology B.S. Major Biology B.A. Major Biochemistry B.S. Major Biology B.S. Major The Bachelor of Science (B.S.) in Biology is a structured program for biology majors who are interested in pursuing those aspects of the field that require a strong background knowledge in physics, chemistry, and mathematics and for students who want to fulfill pre-medical/pre-dental requirements. Biology B.S. Curriculum Checklist Concentrations Print Open All Close All Bioinformatics Bioinformatics Concentration The Bioinformatics Concentration is offered to students majoring in Biology, Mathematics, and Computer Science. In order to obtain a concentration in Bioinformatics a student must complete a number of core and elective requirements. Courses that count towards a student's primary major can be used to simultaneously count towards the bioinformatics core or elective requirements as well. For example, the basic requirements for the biology major will automatically fulfill the required elective course requirement at the level of BIOL 2000 or above, and the BIOL 4200, BIOL 5240, or BIOL 6160 courses can double count to fulfill biology electives. Computer science majors will naturally fulfill the three CS course requirement in their primary coursework. Computer science students taking the B.S. option will also naturally fulfill the Probability requirement through CSCI 2244 (Randomness and Computation). One elective course may be substituted by a semester of research in bioinformatics. Students wishing to pursue this option should visit the Biology Department (Higgins 355) for course approval. More Information Cell Biology and Development Concentration in Cell Biology and Development The fields of cell and developmental biology aim to discover the functions and activities of cells, and how these cells function in concert to develop functional organisms. Cells vary incredibly in form and function, from free-living bacterial spirochetes to meter-long motor neurons. Cell biology focuses on the molecules and macromolecular structures in cells and their respective functions, the biochemistry of the reactions underlying a cell’s function, and the ways in which cells interact and communicate with each other. Developmental Biology asks how single unspecialized cells differentiate and become more specialized and how groups of cells in multicellular organisms undergo morphogenesis, the process of anatomical structure formation. Fundamentally, the field of Developmental Biology seeks to understand the mechanisms by which organisms go from fertilized egg to functional, reproductive adult. Courses in this concentration will explore the elaborate architecture of eukaryotic cells, the genetic and molecular basis of cell differentiation and morphogenesis, and the molecular biology of basic cell functions and organismal development. This concentration will provide excellent preparation for students interested in pursuing an allied health career or graduate studies in cell/molecular/developmental biology, direct entry into a research or technical position, or other careers. It is also a good choice for students who simply wish to understand how life works at the cellular level. More Information General Biology Concentration in General Biology A concentration in General Biology provides students with the greatest degree of course flexibility. Students uncertain of their post-graduate goals or who wish to experience a wide variety of biology sub-disciplines can choose any biology elective 3000 level or higher to complete their degree. Such course selection can complete the requirements for medical school and allied health, prepare students for research and teaching and provide science exposure suitable for a wide variety of careers in areas such as business, public health and law. The General Biology concentration is the default for students not completing one of the other more specific concentrations in Microbiology, Cell Biology and Development, Physiology and Organismal Biology or Genetics and Genomics. All courses within these concentrations (with the exception of biostatistics) can be applied to the General Biology concentration More Information Genetics Concentration in Genetics and Genomics Genetics is the study of genes, genetic variation, and heredity, which all have at their core nucleic acid sequences. The field of genetics examines how genetic information is transmitted from parent to offspring or from cell to cell, and the term genetics also broadly encompasses the use of mutant organisms to assign biological functions to DNA sequences. With advances in DNA sequencing methods, genome-wide analyses have become common. Genomics studies include investigations of the structure and evolution of entire genomes and the simultaneous examination of the role of each gene of an organism’s genome in a particular biological process or response, e.g., identifying all of the genes that are activated in response to infection with a particular pathogen. Because all biological processes are carried out by the products of genes, genetics is relevant to every life form on Earth, and sequencing technologies are driving a growing role for genetics in research and in human society, e.g., in the identification of linkage between genes and disease risk. The Genetics and Genomics concentration provides preparation for graduate study in many areas of biological science, as well as professional study in medical school or other post-graduate programs. Graduates with a BS degree may pursue careers in medicine, genetic counseling, biotechnology, bioinformatics, forensics, or work as technicians in university, hospital, government, or industrial research laboratories. More Information Microbiology Concentration in Microbiology Microbiology is the study of organisms that are too small to be seen with the naked eye. This includes, Bacteria, Archaea, viruses, and single-celled eukaryotes. Microorganisms, or microbes, thrive in nearly all environments, from deep sea thermal vents to the human gut where it is estimated that there are more bacteria present than eukaryotic cells in the human body. Microbes perform important functions as part of biogeochemical cycling, bioremediation, biotechnology, and are critical for human health and nutrition, as well as cause human disease. Furthermore, microbes are important experimental systems to study cell physiology, photosynthesis, ecology, evolution, genetics, biotechnology, biochemistry, and human health, reaching into many areas of biology. The microbiology concentration provides preparation for graduate study in many areas of biological science, as well as professional study in medical, dental, or veterinary school. Graduates with a BS degree may pursue careers in medicine, environmental or food safety, biotechnology, or work as technicians in university, hospital, government, or industrial research laboratories. More Information Physiology and Organismal Biology Concentration in Physiology and Organismal Biology Physiology and organismal biology are broad, integrative, and overlapping disciplines that generally focus on the study of life above the cellular level. Physiology integrates molecular, cellular, systems, and whole-body functions of organisms. Related courses in the department mainly emphasize the study of vertebrates and provide a foundation for the understanding of the mechanical, physical, and biochemical basis of human physiology. Organismal biology focuses on the mechanisms that contribute to the form, function, and behavior of whole organisms. Courses in this area approach these subjects in an ecological and evolutionary context. The concentration offers opportunities to gain hands-on experience through upper-level electives that include a laboratory section (e.g., Human Anatomy, Human Physiology) or advanced experience courses (e.g., Topics in Biomechanics, Cancer as a Metabolic Disease). Additionally, research, mentoring, or teaching opportunities may be arranged with core faculty. This concentration prepares students for a wide variety of career paths, including the perusal of advanced degrees in human and veterinary medicine and graduate research in ecology, evolutionary biology, and applied natural sciences. Graduates with this concentration may also pursue employment in an array of fields including animal science, biology education, biotechnology, wildlife and fisheries biology, exercise physiology, pharmaceutical/biotechnology research, natural resource management, or conservation. More Information Biology B.A. Major The Bachelor of Arts (B.A.) in Biology is a flexible program that can prepare students for graduate school in the life sciences or can be integrated with other areas including law, ethics, history, sociology, computer science, and management. The B.A. provides a solid foundation in biology, but removes some of the chemistry and quantitative requirements that characterize the B.S. program. Students in the B.A. program have more flexibility to select courses within the biology curriculum or other B.A. electives. Students should note that, unlike the B.S. program, the B.A. program does not fulfill medical school admission requirements. Biology B.A. Curriculum Checklist Concentrations Bioinformatics The Bioinformatics Concentration is offered to students majoring in Biology, Mathematics, and Computer Science. In order to obtain a concentration in Bioinformatics a student must complete a number of core and elective requirements. Courses that count towards a student's primary major can be used to simultaneously count towards the bioinformatics core or elective requirements as well. For example, the basic requirements for the biology major will automatically fulfill the required elective course requirement at the level of BIOL 2000 or above, and the BIOL 4200, BIOL 5240, or BIOL 6160 courses can double count to fulfill biology electives. Computer science majors will naturally fulfill the three CS course requirement in their primary coursework. Computer science students taking the B.S. option will also naturally fulfill the Probability requirement through CSCI 2244 (Randomness and Computation). One elective course may be substituted by a semester of research in bioinformatics. Students wishing to pursue this option should visit the Biology Department (Higgins 355) for course approval. More Information Biochemistry B.S. Major Biochemistry is an interdisciplinary major, administered jointly by the Biology and Chemistry departments. The major provides the student with a broad background in biochemistry and related courses in biology and chemistry. Biochemistry B.S. Curriculum Checklist Concentrations Bioinformatics The Bioinformatics Concentration is offered to students majoring in Biology, Mathematics, and Computer Science. In order to obtain a concentration in Bioinformatics a student must complete a number of core and elective requirements. Courses that count towards a student's primary major can be used to simultaneously count towards the bioinformatics core or elective requirements as well. For example, the basic requirements for the biology major will automatically fulfill the required elective course requirement at the level of BIOL 2000 or above, and the BIOL 4200, BIOL 5240, or BIOL 6160 courses can double count to fulfill biology electives. Computer science majors will naturally fulfill the three CS course requirement in their primary coursework. Computer science students taking the B.S. option will also naturally fulfill the Probability requirement through CSCI 2244 (Randomness and Computation). One elective course may be substituted by a semester of research in bioinformatics. Students wishing to pursue this option should visit the Biology Department (Higgins 355) for course approval. More Information Back To Top Back To Top Biology Department 355 Higgins Hall 617-552-3540 Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences Gasson Hall 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 About Undergraduate Graduate Faculty & Research Departments Contact Departments Art, Art History, and Film Biology Chemistry Classical Studies Communication Computer Science Earth and Environmental Sciences Economics Engineering English German Studies History Mathematics Music Philosophy Physics Political Science Psychology Romance Languages and Literatures Slavic & Eastern Languages and Literatures Sociology Theatre Theology Give to Biology Apply Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College