Brown University Quick Exit General Health Physical Health Acne Asthma Breast Exams Bronchitis Colds Concussion Headaches Meningitis Mononucleosis Sleep Seasonal Flu Sun Safety and Skin Cancer Stomach Flu Testicular Self-Exams Travel and Health Yeast Infection Emotional Wellbeing Mindfulness Sleep Stress Self-Care Techniques for Stress Relief Wellness on Campus Social Wellbeing Community, Connection and Coping: Remote Resources Consent Economic Stress Roommate Relationships Unlearning Toxic Masculinity Reproductive Health Abortion Adoption Amenorrhea Bacterial Vaginosis Colposcopy Erectile Dysfunction Pregnancy Gender Care GYN Visits HPV Vaccine Menstruation Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pregnancy Tests Premature Ejaculation Prenatal Care Testicular Self-Exams Accessing Care Gender Care GYN Visits LGBTQ Health Care at Health Services Men's Health Exams Pregnancy Tests STI Testing Options Resources and Links Nutrition & Eating Concerns Eating Well at Brown Being a Vegetarian Dietary Guidelines Eating Off Meal Plan Meal Plan And Dining Information Supplements Eating Concerns and Body Image Body Image Concerns Eating Concerns Help at Brown Sports Nutrition Relative Energy Deficiency in Sport (RED-S) Sports Nutrition Accessing Care Help at Brown Worried about a Friend Sexual Health Sex 101 SHAG! Erectile Dysfunction Orgasm Premature Ejaculation Sex and Alcohol Sex Toys Sexually Explicit Media Contraception Birth Control Pills Cervical Cap Condoms Depo-Provera Emergency Contraception Fertility Awareness Method Implant Internal Condoms IUD Ortho Evra (The Patch) Ring Spermicides and Lubricants The Recent Election & Contraception Access Withdrawal (Pull Out Method) Reproductive Health Abortion Adoption Amenorrhea Colposcopy Erectile Dysfunction Pregnancy GYN Visits HPV Vaccine Menstruation Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pregnancy Tests Prenatal Care Testicular Self-Exams Yeast Infection Safer Sex Ship n SHAG! Sexual Health and Safer Sex During Covid-19 Abstinence Condoms Dental Dams Internal Condoms Post Exposure Prophylaxis (PEP) Pre Exposure Prophylaxis (PrEP) Safer Sex Withdrawal (Pull Out Method) STIs AIDS/HIV Bacterial Vaginosis Chlamydia Colposcopy Gonorrhea Hepatitis B Herpes HPV and Genital Warts HPV Vaccine Molluscum Contagiosum Oral Sex and STIs Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pubic Lice and Scabies Sexually Transmitted Infections Syphilis Talking with a Partner STI Testing Options Trichomoniasis Urinary Tract Infections Yeast Infection Sexual Assault & Dating Violence Get Help Sexual Assault Response Line SHARE Advocates Dating Violence First Five Days After an Assault Male Survivors Sexual Violence and Assault Sexual Harassment Stalking Help a Friend SHARE Advocates How to Help a Friend Get Involved in Prevention Interrupting the Red Zone: How we keep each other safe Culture of Respect Collective Sexual Assault Peer Education (SAPE) Help Prevent Sexual Assault Unlearning Toxic Masculinity Relationships and Communication Consent Dating Violence Learn More Common Reactions to Sexual Violence and Assault Predatory Drugs Sexual Misconduct and Title IX Sexual Violence: Key Terms Resources and Links Alcohol & Other Drugs Alcohol Alcohol and Your Body Recognizing a Problem Risks and Realities Sex and Alcohol Ways to Cut Down Other Drugs Caffeine Cocaine Ecstasy Energy Drinks GHB Inhalants Ketamine LSD Marijuana Methamphetamine Predatory Drugs Psilocybin (Mushrooms) Rohypnol Tobacco Smokeless Tobacco Smoking Cessation Tobacco Learn More Law and Policy Summary Educational Links Accessing Care Resources at Brown Off Campus Resources Calling EMS How to Help a Friend Quit Smoking How to Talk to a Friend about Drinking or Drug Use Google Tag Manager Get Involved in Prevention Sexual Assault Peer Education (SAPE) SAPE is currently recruiting new members! Apply here by February 16th! “We ask others to be mirrors for ourselves at our most vulnerable places...to be intentional in the present moment, to take responsibility for your state of being and for your life” ― adrienne maree brown, Emergent Strategy: Shaping Change, Changing Worlds What is SAPE’s mission? To be a collectively accountable and mutually supportive community of Brown University students who are grounded in intersectional feminism and dedicated to shaping campus culture around sexual, relationship, and gender-based harm. We provide preventative education for our peer communities to actively engage in consent, intervention, survivor support and community healing. What does SAPE do? Working with BWell Health Promotion, SAPE provides an opportunity for students to play a meaningful role in moving Brown towards a culture of consent. SAPE members do outreach work on campus, facilitate workshops with student groups, create and deliver content meant to raise awareness, prevent harm and support survivors at Brown, and participate in a supportive, accountable, and values-driven community. What does SAPE teach? Our curriculum was designed for Brown through the collaboration of students and staff members in BWell Health Promotion. The curriculum focuses on: the foundational elements of consent and barriers to consent systems of oppression and how they relate to sexual and gender-based harm skills to intervene, challenge harmful norms, and talk to others about their behaviors how to support those who have experienced harm how to create community-based plans for care, action, and change How do I request a workshop? To request a workshop for your student group, fill out this form or click GET INVOLVED below and choose BOOK A PROGRAM. For more information, email [email protected]. What are the requirements to apply? While facilitation experience and/or previous knowledge about sexual, relationship, and gender-based violence are beneficial, there are not prerequisites for joining or working with SAPE. We will consider all applicants and offer training and support to build the necessary knowledge base and skill set to do this work effectively. ***There are many communities whose voices have been historically left out of violence prevention spaces and conversations (e.g. people with disabilities, people of color (POC), native folks, and people who identify as LGBTQIA+). We seek to center the voices of those most minoritized, targeted, and impacted by sexual, relationship, and gender-based violence.*** Safety, Care & Accountability Safety, self-and-community care, and accountability are major aspects of this program. Because this is a difficult topic to work on, we will support you to balance taking care of yourself, caring for others, and being accountable to your communities. When does the group meet? The group meets bi-weekly for all-SAPE meetings and Coordinators meet weekly for team meetings. Community-building events, community learning sessions, and professional development opportunities occur regularly throughout the year. How do I join? SAPE volunteers are a crucial part of this community and engage in outreach, workshops, and other sexual violence prevention education efforts on campus. We conduct our annual recruitment and selection process for volunteers in the Spring semester, led by a Selection committee of current SAPE members. We look for a diverse group of people to serve as members including those willing to take a critical lens to the work and examine the impacts of Whiteness and White Feminism on sexual violence as well as violence prevention and response efforts. SAPE is currently recruiting new members! Apply here by February 16th, 2022! Where can I learn more? Please contact [email protected] with any questions! You can also follow us on Instagram @sapeatbrown or learn more at our Linktree https://linktr.ee/sapeatbrown Thank you so much! About BWell: Quick Links About Us Staff Confidential Appointments Sexual Assault Response Line Workshops Peer Education Programs Health Empowerment Tools PHONE NUMBERS 401.863-2794 Health Promotion 401.863-3953 Health Services 401.863-6000 Sexual Assault Response Line 401.863-4111 EMS 401.863-3476 Counseling & Psychological Services 401.863-4111 DPS Make an Appointment How to Help a Friend When someone has been sexually assaulted, chances are that they will turn to a friend for help. You are an important person to the survivor; this is why the survivor shared this experience with you. Knowing how to respond will be very helpful in your friend's recovery. This page offers guidance on how to best support your friend. Get Involved Meet Our Staff About Us Make an Appointment Brown University BWell Health Promotion Health and Wellness Brown University Box 1928 450 Brook Street Providence, Rhode Island, 02912 Phone 401-863-2794 Fax 401-863-7953 [email protected] © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Related Offices Brown EMS Counseling and Psychological Services Health Services Social Media BWell on Facebook SHAG on Facebook BURP on Facebook Health Services on Facebook