Emergency Notification More details Skip to main content Dartmouth Home Search Index Dartmouth College Human Resources About Employment Compensation Benefits Professional Development Quick Links After Hours Child Care Compliance & Ethics Hotline Dartmouth Health Connect Educational Assistance Employee Discounts Employee Recognition Employment Policies & Procedures Faculty/Employee Assistance Program (F/EAP) Forms Holidays & Winter Break Human Resources Consultants Jobs Labor Condition Application Notifications New Employee Resources Payroll Office Performance Evaluations Student Employment Talent Acquisition Consultants Wellness Weather Policy Worker's Compensation Search this Site Home > Employee COVID-19 Resources Last updated: May 6, 2022 External Quick Links: Employees are encouraged to bookmark these links for easy reference. Dartmouth COVID-19 information: http://covid.dartmouth.edu Dartmouth COVID-19 Dashboard: https://covid.dartmouth.edu/covid19-dashboard College Face Mask Policy during COVID-19 College Visitor Guidance during COVID-19 Submit Employee Vaccination &/or Booster Record: http://dartgo.org/vax COVID-19 Guidance on Children in the Workplace, effective September 15, 2021 COVID-19 Paid Time for Employee Absences, effective August 29, 2021 COVID-19 Employee Vaccination Policy, updated October 15, 2021 Employee Testing Policy, effective August 4, 2020 Employee Vaccine FAQs: http://dartgo.org/eevaxfaqs Environmental Health and Safety COVID-19 Resources Schedule your COVID test: https://health-clinics.dartmouth.edu Supervisor Health Screening Report: http://dartgo.org/RTWdashboard Take-Home Testing FAQs: https://covid.dartmouth.edu/frequently-asked-questions-on-take-home-testing Test result instructions: https://covid.dartmouth.edu/covid-19-test-result-instructions Quick links to COVID-19 information on this page: Symptomatic COVID testing Asymptomatic COVID testing What to expect during asymptomatic testing How to schedule a COVID test How to reschedule or cancel a scheduled COVID test How to access your test results Positive test results and Contact Tracing Definition of Close Contact Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) regarding employee testing Supervisor/Manager Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) regarding employee testing Conflict management solutions to workplace conflicts around masking COVID-19 Testing for Employees: Asymptomatic surveillance PCR COVID-19 testing is optional for all Dartmouth employees. All employees approved to work on-site, including faculty, staff, and researchers, continue to have access to PCR and antigen COVID-19 testing at Dartmouth and may choose to take up to two PCR tests per week. Employees are able to conduct asymptomatic PCR testing either in-person or via take-home test on an as-desired basis. We encourage all employees to take advantage of Dartmouth’s testing resources as they see fit. All employees can also take home rapid antigen tests from current test pick-up locations as supply allows. Observed antigen testing is required for employees experiencing COVID-like symptoms or attempting to test out of isolation. The most updated testing hours and locations can be found on the Vaccines & Testing website and the Take-Home Test Box Locations website. Employee COVID-19 testing is managed by Axiom Medical, our Occupational Medicine partner. Faculty and staff who test positive for COVID-19 must isolate immediately and contact Axiom Medical at 1-833-408-1338 for specific instructions regarding their isolation. Symptomatic testing for employees approved to work on-site: Do not report to work or to the regular Dartmouth on-site asymptomatic testing clinic if you have symptoms or have been exposed to someone with a confirmed case of COVID-19. Instead, employees experiencing COVID-like symptoms should call Axiom Medical at 833-408-1338 to report their symptoms. Axiom Medical will provide additional instructions; typically, employees will be required to conduct an observed rapid antigen test at the employee testing trailer. Following an in-person rapid antigen test, employees should receive their results via email followed by an instructional phone call from Axiom. If you receive a positive result from a take-home rapid antigen test, you are required to report your positive result to Axiom Medical by calling 833-408-1338; they will provide you with additional instructions. You may also call Axiom Medical at 833-408-1338 for additional screening/medical case management. You may be prompted to leave a message with your phone number, name, and reason for your call. Calls will be returned in the order received, so please watch for and answer the call, typically from a Texas or Utah area code. An employee may have COVID-19 ruled out and be referred to their primary provider, released to return to work, asked to quarantine or complete symptomatic/exposure COVID testing. Axiom Medical will provide specific instructions on how to complete a drive-through symptomatic/exposure COVID test. Employees are required to respond to Axiom Medical's call or email immediately. Axiom Medical is open 24/7. Symptomatic testing for employees NOT working on-site: Do not report to work or to the Dartmouth asymptomatic testing clinic if you have symptoms or have been exposed to someone with a confirmed case of COVID-19. Instead, contact your primary care provider and follow all medical guidance. If you have tested positive for COVID-19 on a test taken outside of Dartmouth, report your positive result to Axiom Medical by calling 833-408-1338; they will provide you with additional instructions. back to Quick links Asymptomatic testing for employees working on-site Asymptomatic surveillance COVID-19 testing is optional for all employees. Employees working on-site still have access to in-person and take-home PCR testing options, up to two tests per week. Take-home rapid antigen tests are also available to employees working on-site and can be used at employees’ discretion. The most updated testing hours and locations can be found on the Vaccines & Testing website and the Take-Home Test Box Locations website. If you test positive on a Dartmouth PCR test (in-person or take-home), your results will automatically be reported to Dartmouth and Axiom Medical. If you test positive on take-home rapid antigen test, you are required to report your positive result to Axiom Medical by calling 833-408-1338. For more information about receiving a positive test result, please reference the Test Results section below. back to Quick links What to Expect during Asymptomatic Testing NOTE: If you are experiencing COVID-like symptoms or have been exposed to someone with a confirmed case of COVID-19, do not report to work or to the Dartmouth asymptomatic testing clinic. Please refer to Symptomatic Testing for Employees Approved to Work On-Site for additional guidance. Employees can conduct asymptomatic PCR testing in-person or via take-home test. To conduct an in-person PCR test, employees must visit a Dartmouth in-person testing site during their normal hours of operation. When you arrive: All testing participants must arrive at the testing site wearing their mask. Employees will be directed to a check-in table where they will provide their employee ID and receive a bar-coded sample tube with their name and date of birth on the label. Employees will blow their nose (away from others and the testing table) into a tissue, then self-collect the sample in the lower nasal openings (anterior nares) under the guidance of trained observers/medical personnel. You may view step-by-step pictorial instructions (pdf) for sample collection to familiarize yourself with the procedure. This process generally takes a maximum of 5 minutes to complete. Collected samples will be delivered to the Broad Institute, where they will be tested for the presence of COVID-19. Employees conducting take-home PCR tests should collect their sample by following the instructions provided with their kit. Once you have conducted the swab, place your swab head-down into the tube, place one of your personalized labels on the outside of the plastic bag (not the test tube), and securely seal the bag with your collected sample inside. Clearly write the time and date of when you collected your sample on your label in the space provided. Within 12 hours of collecting your sample, drop your test kit at a designated drop-off location during hours of operation. Employees seeking additional assistance can watch this instructional video. Employees conducting take-home rapid antigen tests will follow a swabbing procedure according to the instructions of the antigen test kit they are using. Antigen test results will be available shortly after conducting the swab; employees should refer to the test instructions to determine the result of their test. If you test positive for COVID-19 using an take-home rapid antigen test, please report your positive result to Axiom Medical by calling 833-408-1338; they will provide you with additional instructions. If you test negative for COVID-19 using a take-home rapid antigen test, no further action is required. back to Quick links How to Schedule a COVID test: While appointments are not required for COVID-19 tests, Dartmouth encourages all employees to schedule their in-person tests in advance. Testing appointments can be scheduled online. Employees must bring their Dartmouth employee ID to the testing location. If an employee does not have a Dartmouth ID, email the Dartmouth Card Office to request one prior to your appointment. It can take 2 business days to create a new ID card. If your appointment is imminent, take your state-issued ID as proof of identification while you await your new employee ID card. back to Quick links Rescheduling or Canceling a Test for Same-Day If you are unable to make your scheduled testing time but can drop by at another time during the day, the testing site is able to accommodate schedule changes on the same day. Do not miss a test just because you are running late for your scheduled time. Rescheduling or Canceling a Test for future date If you are no longer reporting to work on the date you'd scheduled a test, log back into the scheduling system to reschedule or cancel your scheduled test. If you are unable to make your scheduled testing time but can drop by at another time during the day, the testing site is able to accommodate schedule changes on the same day. Do not miss a test date just because you are running late for your scheduled time. back to Quick links Test Results In-person and take-home PCR test results should be available to you within 24-72 hours of conducting an in-person test or dropping off a take-home test. Within that time frame, you will receive a secure message from the Broad Institute <NoReply@lknotification.com> with instructions on how to view your results. If you do not receive an email, please check your spam or junk folder(s). We have created a Dartmouth employee step-by-step guide (pdf) on how to create your account so that you may access your test results. This process will require you to create security questions and a personal password, which will be known only to you. Please make note of your username and password, as logging into this portal is how you will be able to access your test results each time you complete a test. If you are experiencing difficulty accessing your test results, please contact CareEvolve directly at crsp-careevolve@broadinstitute.org. If you need to reset your password, you can do so by following these instructions. If you continue to experience issues, you can reach out to Dartmouth’s Occupational Medicine team at occupational.medicine@dartmouth.edu for additional information and assistance. In-person rapid antigen test results will be delivered to you via email. No additional information about your results will be shared with you other than the email you received. If the email says you are required to begin isolation immediately, that indicates a positive result and you should begin isolation (or remain in isolation if you were attempting to test out of isolation) and expect a call from Axiom Medical regarding isolation instructions. If your email says no additional follow-up is required, that indicates a negative result, and you should wait to hear from Axiom Medical with further instructions regarding your result/exiting isolation. If you have tested out of isolation, please remember to wear a well-fitting, medical-grade mask (preferably a KN95 face mask) for the full 10 days after your initial positive result. If your email says your test was unable to be processed, your result was invalid. Please re-test as soon as possible. Take-home rapid antigen test results will be available to you according to the instructions of your rapid antigen test kit. If you test positive for COVID-19 using a take-home rapid antigen test, please report your positive result to Axiom Medical by calling 833-408-1338; they will provide you with additional instructions. If you test negative for COVID-19 using a take-home rapid antigen test, no further action is required. If Your Test Result is Negative If your test is negative, it is very unlikely that you have the virus at this time. You will need to continue to follow Dartmouth's policies as well as any applicable federal, state or local orders related to COVID-19. If you test negative for COVID-19 using a take-home rapid antigen test, you will not need to report your results to Dartmouth. If your Test is Inconclusive Inconclusive results are neither positive nor negative, but require additional testing. They occur because a small amount of SARS-CoV-2 virus is detected in only one of the two probes used to analyze the sample. A true positive result occurs when virus is detected by both probes. Axiom Medical will contact any employee with an inconclusive test and ask them to retest and isolate (stay home from work, wear a KN-95 mask or double-mask when necessary to go out, and maintain physical distancing from others in your living environment) until the confirmatory test is received. Again, this is not a positive result. If Your Test Is Invalid or Test Not Processed (TNP) Approximately 4% of all samples cannot be processed for one reason or another. This could be because there was too much solid collected on the swab, not enough cells were collected during swabbing, the swab being inserted in the tube upside down, a lab error, or a host of other reasons. These results will be returned to the occupational health provider who ordered the test, who will contact the employee asking them to come back to the testing site to retest. Invalid/TNP test results are not emailed to participants from Care Evolve and these do not show up in your portal. If You Test Positive for COVID-19 The thought of testing positive for COVID-19 can feel daunting. Dartmouth is committed to providing support to all of our community members who are faced with a positive result. If you receive a positive test result through an in-person PCR, take-home PCR, or in-person rapid antigen test taken at Dartmouth, Axiom Medical will call you to provide more information and instructions and will also ask about your close contacts. If you test positive for COVID-19 using a take-home rapid antigen test or on a PCR test taken somewhere other than Dartmouth, please report your positive result to Axiom Medical by calling 833-408-1338; they will provide you with additional instructions. Employees that receive a positive test result will be required to (1) remain in isolation for at least 5 days and (2) receive a college-administered negative antigen test and be fever-free with symptoms improving before being released by Axiom Medical to return to work on-site. Employees with continued symptoms or those who do not receive negative antigen tests will remain in isolation for up to 10 days or until their symptoms resolve. Employees are required to engage with Axiom Medical, respond to their outreach in an urgent manner and follow all instructions provided, including the completion of additional testing. As long as you remain symptom free, once you've tested positive for the virus, you will be instructed not to complete a (non-symptomatic) test for 90 days from symptom onset (if you became ill) or from the date of your positive test (if you remained asymptomatic). However, if you develop symptoms of COVID-19 during that 90-day period, you may be instructed by Axiom Medical to be re-tested at that time. It is possible to become infected and re-infected with COVID-19 despite being up to date on your COVID-19 vaccinations, and Axiom will follow guidelines put forth by the CDC. For more information, see CDC guidance. Dartmouth is required by law to report a positive result to the Department of Health for the state in which an employee resides. Your test results will be stored in a secure location and are only accessible by authorized personnel. back to Quick links Contact Tracing Anyone who receives a positive COVID-19 test result will be required to participate in contact-tracing protocols. The College has contracted with Axiom Medical contact tracers who will work with the employee to determine if there were close contacts with other employees or students within 48 hours of symptom onset or test completion. back to Quick links Definition of Close Contact Close contact is defined as being within six feet of someone with COVID-19 for a cumulative time of 15 minutes or longer in a 24 hour period during the person's infectious period (the 48 hours before symptoms began or the person testing positive, whichever is earlier.) An individual can be a close contact regardless of vaccination status or recent COVID-19 infection. back to Quick links CONFLICT MANAGEMENT SOLUTIONS TO WORKPLACE CONFLICTS AROUND MASKING Dartmouth’s Face Mask Policy does not require employees to wear face masks indoors in many instances. However, we ask that employees respect that the decision to wear a face mask is a personal choice that anyone is welcome to make if they would like. To avoid conflict, consider being flexible in relation to occupied spaces and work arrangements where possible. If a conflict arises as a result of a discussion around face masks, please remember to respect one another’s privacy related to medical history and decision-making, even if you do not agree with a medical decision your coworker has made. Do not ask questions about another person’s health history or the health of their family members. Act quickly to resolve the conflict to avoid conflict escalation, and contact your HR Consultant for support when needed. back to Quick links Employee COVID-19 Testing FAQs: Are asymptomatic employees required to be tested for COVID-19? Are symptomatic employees required to be tested for COVID-19? I have contact with students. Do I need to be tested before I do so? Where does testing take place? How often do I need to test as an employee at Dartmouth? Where does testing take place? Do I need to make an appointment to register for a COVID test? Why am I being asked to provide my birth date, gender, race, ethnicity and phone number when registering for my employee COVID test? What should I do on the day of my in-person PCR test? How do I access my test results? What happens if I am identified as a close contact? How do I get a new employee ID card? Where will asymptomatic testing take place? What should I do if I receive a positive test result on a test completed by Dartmouth? What should I do if I receive a positive test result on a test not administered by Dartmouth? I've tested positive for COVID-19; how soon do I need to be tested again? Can you test my family? Can I use a Dartmouth COVID test to satisfy testing requirements for my travel? I need documentation of my recovery from COVID-19 so I can travel. How do I obtain this? How do I contact Axiom Medical? What actions is the College taking to keep others safe if a student or employee tests positive for COVID-19? The Broad consent form states "your leftover specimen and/or information about you may be used without information that identifies you after the testing is over for analysis by the laboratory in collaboration with a public health authority." Does that mean that my specimen could be used in ways that have absolutely nothing to do with the COVID-19 crisis and could be traced back to individuals? I'm worried that my private information may be misused by the testing company. What steps have been taken to protect my interests? What if I have concerns about Dartmouth's test or testing provider? Supervisor COVID-19 Testing FAQs: What do I do if an employee working on-site notifies me that they have had a positive COVID-19 test result? What do I tell others about the individual's absence? Does the employee need to use Personal Time or Vacation for their absence? What do I do if I hear rumors that an employee has had a positive COVID-19 test result? What if the employee with a positive COVID-19 test result does not work on-site but is fully remote? Who is on my Supervisor Health Screening and COVID-19 testing report? Will the Supervisor Health Screening report show my employee's COVID-19 vaccination status? Will the Supervisor Health Screening report show me my employee's COVID test results? Employee COVID-19 Testing FAQs: are asymptomatic employees required to be tested for COVID-19? Surveillance PCR testing is optional for asymptomatic employees. Testing remains available in-person and via take-home test for employees who choose to submit tests when asymptomatic. Review the asymptomatic testing for employees working on-site section of this page for details. back to FAQs Are symptomatic employees required to be tested for COVID-19? Employees experiencing COVID-like symptoms are required to conduct an observed, in person rapid antigen test at the employee testing trailer. Please review the Symptomatic Testing for Employees Approved to Work On-Site section of this page for additional instructions. back to FAQs I have contact with students. Do I need to be tested before I do so? No. Inclusion for testing is not dependent upon interaction with students. back to FAQs WHERE DOES TESTING TAKE PLACE? Please refer to Dartmouth’s Vaccines & Testing website and Take-Home Test Box Locations for the most updated information on testing locations and hours of operation. The most current locations are also indicated in our appointment scheduling system. A few common locations include: West Gym: Enter using the front right door of Alumni Gym, located at 16 E. Wheelock Street in Hanover. 4 Currier, Suite 102: This location is used for employees who are working 2nd or 3rd shift and is located in the Currier building, diagonally across the street from Ramunto's Brick and Brew in Hanover. Borwell Research Building, conference room 381 (3rd floor): This DHMC-based testing location is intended to be used by employees and students that are working on-site on the Lebanon campus. Hours and days are limited. back to FAQs How often do I need to test as an employee at Dartmouth? Asymptomatic surveillance COVID-19 testing is optional for all Dartmouth employees, regardless of vaccination status or location. However, testing remains required in the following scenarios: In-person antigen testing at the testing trailers is still required for individuals experiencing COVID-like symptoms or attempting to test out of isolation on Day 5 or Day 7. If you have been identified as a close contact to someone who has tested positive for COVID-19, you must test immediately and again on Day 5. If you have been identified as a close contact but have tested positive within the previous 90 days, you only need to test if you are experiencing symptoms. In-person and take-home PCR testing remain available for anyone who would like to conduct a test; you can find testing locations and hours of operations on Dartmouth’s Take-Home Test Box Locations website. Take-home rapid antigen tests are also available for pick up at select locations for faculty, staff, and appointees to use at their discretion. While asymptomatic surveillance testing is optional, please be responsible about testing when you think it is appropriate. You can consult the CDC website for recommendations on when to complete a test. back to FAQs What should I do on the day of my in-person PCR test? If you have symptoms of COVID-19, do not come to the testing clinic. Instead, contact Axiom Medical at 1-833-408-1338 and visit the Axiom Medical testing trailer for an in-person rapid antigen test. You will be prompted to leave a message with your phone number, name, and reason for your call. Calls will be returned in the order received, so please watch for and answer the call, typically from a Texas or Utah area code. To conduct an in-person PCR test, employees must visit a Dartmouth in-person testing site during their normal hours of operation. When you arrive: You will be required to confirm your identity and provide a valid personal telephone number. Bring your employee ID card. All testing participants must arrive at the testing site wearing their face mask or face covering. Employees should look for signs to the EMPLOYEE registration table at the testing location There, employees will be directed to a check-in table where they will provide their employee ID and receive a bar-coded sample tube with their name and date of birth on the label. Employees are asked to double check this information each time they check in so that they can access their test results (pdf) without difficulty when notified of the result via email. Employees will be directed to a designated testing area to blow their nose (away from others and the testing table) into a tissue, then self-collect the sample in the lower nasal openings (anterior nares) under the guidance of trained observers/medical personnel. Participants will then submit their sample. You may view step-by-step pictorial instructions (pdf) for sample collection to familiarize yourself with the procedure. This process generally takes a maximum of 5 minutes to complete. Collected samples will be delivered to the Broad Institute, where they will be tested for the presence of COVID-19. back to FAQs HOW DO I ACCESS MY TEST RESULTS? For PCR test results, you will receive a secure message from the Broad Institute <NoReply@lknotification.com> within 24-72 hours of your test with instructions on how to view your results. If you do not receive an email, please check your spam or junk folder(s). Use this Dartmouth-specific step-by-step guide (pdf) to create your account so that you may access your test results. This process will require you to create security questions and a personal password, which will be known only to you. If you use the guide and are unable to create/access your account, you may get assistance in person at the COVID testing clinic. With antigen test results from rapid antigen tests taken at the employee testing trailer, you will receive an email from <noreply.antigen.tests@dartmouth.edu>. No additional information about your results will be shared with you other than the email you received. If the email says you are required to begin isolation immediately, that indicates a positive result and you should begin isolation (or remain in isolation if you were attempting to test out of isolation) and expect a call from Axiom Medical regarding isolation instructions. If your email says no additional follow-up is required, that indicates a negative result, and you should wait to hear from Axiom Medical with further instructions regarding your result/exiting isolation. If you have tested out of isolation, please remember to wear a well-fitting, medical-grade mask (preferably a KN95 face mask) for the full 10 days after your initial positive result. If your email says your test was unable to be processed, your result was invalid. Please re-test as soon as possible. If you conducted a take-home test, please refer to the test kit instructions to find your test results. If you test positive on a take-home test, please report your positive result to Axiom by calling 833-408-1338 to receive additional instructions. back to FAQs DO I NEED TO MAKE AN APPOINTMENT TO REGISTER FOR A COVID TEST? Appointments are not required for in-person PCR testing. However, Dartmouth encourages all employees to schedule their in-person tests in advance. Asymptomatic testing appointments can be scheduled online. Employees experiencing COVID-like symptoms are required to conduct an observed rapid antigen test at the employee testing trailer. Please review the Symptomatic Testing for Employees Approved to Work On-Site section of this page for additional instructions. back to FAQs Why am I being asked to provide my birth date, gender, race, ethnicity and phone number when registering for my employee COVID test? The CDC and Dept. of Health and Human Services (HHS) require that age, gender, race and ethnicity be recorded for COVID-19 testing in order to learn more about the impact of COVID-19 on certain demographics. Your phone number is collected so that our Occupational Medicine team can contact you to provide medical instructions. Our contracted testing vendors, Occupational Medicine professionals, and Dartmouth are the only ones who have access to the collected information unless there is a positive case. If positive, the information will be reported to the state HHS as required by the CDC. back to FAQs What happens if I am identified as a close contact? If you are identified as a close contact, you will need to follow the safety instructions provided by Axiom Medical. Additionally, until you receive a negative result on a PCR test taken 5 days after exposure, you will need to: Wear a well-fitting face mask indoors at all times Avoid large crowds indoors and outdoors Avoid all close contact (less than 6 feet distance to others for more than 15 minutes), indoors and outdoors Dine in isolation (do not eat with others)  back to FAQs How do I get a new employee ID card? Please review the current instructions, available on the Dartmouth Card Office website. It can take 2 business days to create a new ID card. If your COVID-19 testing appointment is imminent, take your state-issued ID as proof of identification while you await your new employee ID card. back to FAQs Where will asymptomatic testing take place? The on-site COVID testing location is dependent upon campus facility availability. The most current locations can be found on Dartmouth’s Vaccines & Testing website or the COVID-19 Testing and Face-Mask Pick-Up map. A few common locations include: West Gym: Enter using the front right door of Alumni Gym, located at 16 E. Wheelock Street in Hanover. 4 Currier, Suite 102: This location is used for employees who are working 2nd or 3rd shift and is located in the Currier building, diagonally across the street from Ramunto's Brick and Brew in Hanover. Rubin 4th floor, Zimmerman Lounge: This DHMC-based testing location is intended to be used by employees and students that are working on-site on the Lebanon campus. Hours and days are limited. Take Home Testing Option: Review the interactive Google map to view the multiple locations that employees can drop off completed tests and pick up new test kits. Review the FAQs about the take-home testing process. back to FAQs What should I do if I receive a positive test result on a test completed by Dartmouth? If you test positive via in-person PCR, take-home PCR, or in-person rapid antigen test, you may receive an email from noreply@dartmouth.edu informing you to begin isolation immediately. Please stay home or, if you are at work, return home as soon as possible. A medical professional from Axiom Medical, Dartmouth's Occupational Medicine partner, will call you to provide more information and instructions and to ask about your close contacts. Calls from Axiom Medical will appear with area codes in Texas or Utah. If you test positive via take-home rapid antigen test, please contact Axiom Medical at 833-408-1338 to report your positive result and receive additional instructions. Employees that receive a positive test result will be required to (1) remain in isolation for at least 5 days and (2) receive a college-administered negative antigen test and be fever-free with symptoms improving before being released by Axiom Medical to return to work on-site. Employees with continued symptoms or those who do not receive negative antigen tests will remain in isolation for up to 10 days or until their symptoms resolve. Employees are required to engage with Axiom Medical, respond to their outreach in an urgent manner and follow all instructions provided, including the completion of additional testing. Dartmouth is required by law to report a positive result to the Department of Health for the state in which an employee resides. An employee may also be contacted by their state's Health Department. back to FAQs WHAT SHOULD I DO IF I RECEIVE A POSITIVE TEST RESULT ON A TEST NOT ADMINISTERED BY DARTMOUTH? If you test positive on an at-home test or a test conducted in-person but not at Dartmouth, please report your positive result to Axiom by calling 1-833-408-1338 to receive additional instructions. back to FAQs I've tested positive for COVID-19; how soon do I need to be tested again? As long as you remain symptom free, once you've tested positive for the virus, you should not complete a (non-symptomatic) test for 90 days from symptom onset (if you became ill) or from the date of your positive test (if you remained asymptomatic). If you received a positive COVID-19 test result from a test conducted outside of Dartmouth within the last 90 days, you must report your positive result to Axiom by calling 833-408-1338. However, if you develop symptoms of COVID-19 during that 90-day period, you may be instructed by Axiom Medical to be re-tested at that time. For more information, see CDC guidance. Can you test my family? No. We are only providing testing for students and employees. If an employee does test positive, they will be encouraged to reach out to anyone they've been in close contact with outside of work and encourage them to pursue testing if appropriate. Testing for non-Dartmouth College employees can be done at local clinics, DHMC, or through the state-managed clinics. If you have household members that would like to be tested, they may either reach out to their primary care provider or schedule a test through the state in which they reside. The links to "Get Tested" are online on each of the following state pages. Residents of NH: https://www.nh.gov/covid19/resources-guidance/residents.htm Residents of VT: https://www.healthvermont.gov/covid-19/testing back to FAQs Can I use a Dartmouth COVID test to satisfy testing requirements for my travel? The lab that processes Dartmouth’s PCR tests can take between 24-72 hours to process both take-home and on-site tests. This fluctuation is based on testing volume across all of the lab’s customers. As such, using take-home or on-site testing for travel or to fulfill other requirements outside of Dartmouth’s community testing program is not recommended if you require results within a strict timeline. If you require a COVID-19 test for travel or to comply with a non-Dartmouth policy, you can find local testing sites on the health department website for both New Hampshire and Vermont. back to FAQs I need documentation of my recovery from COVID-19 so I can travel. How do I obtain this? Employees should contact their primary care provider to request this documentation. Dartmouth College cannot provide documentation or certification of recovery from COVID-19. back to FAQs How do I contact Axiom Medical? If you already have an open case, have COVID-like symptoms, or were a close contact of someone who tested positive for COVID, you can reach Axiom Medical, Dartmouth's Occupational Health partner at 1-833-408-1338. You will be prompted to leave a message with your phone number, name, and reason for your call. Calls will be returned in the order received, so please watch for and answer the call, typically from a Texas or Utah area code. back to FAQs What actions is the college taking to keep others safe if a student or employee tests positive for COVID-19? Dartmouth's commitment to employee health and safety is our top priority. Employee contact tracing is conducted by Axiom Medical, Dartmouth's Occupational Health provider. If you are identified as a potential close contact, you will receive a phone call from Axiom Medical who will provide you with information and resources to support you. back to FAQs The Broad consent form states "your leftover specimen and/or information about you may be used without information that identifies you after the testing is over for analysis by the laboratory in collaboration with a public health authority." Does that mean that my specimen could be used in ways that have absolutely nothing to do with the COVID-19 crisis and could be traced back to individuals? Individual samples sent to Broad for test processing are not used for research purposes. In collaboration with relevant public health agencies, de-identified data may be shared by Broad with public health officials for analysis, such as to determine infection rates. Samples may also be included in the CRSP standard quality-control procedures to ensure high-quality testing and accurate clinical care. back to FAQs I'm worried that my private information may be misused by the testing company. What steps have been taken to protect my interests? Dartmouth has chosen vendors with good reputations and experience in the field of COVID-19 testing. We have taken reasonable steps with our testing providers to assure that industry-standard data privacy measures are in place to protect the privacy of your sensitive information. back to FAQs What if I have concerns about Dartmouth's test or testing provider? If you have concerns about Dartmouth's test or testing provider, please contact Occupational Medicine at occupational.medicine@dartmouth.edu to discuss. In every circumstance where testing is conducted by an outside testing provider, it is your responsibility to share any positive result in a timely fashion with Axiom Medical, Dartmouth's Occupational Medicine provider. If you use a testing provider other than those contracted by Dartmouth, you will be responsible for the costs of the test. back to FAQs Supervisor COVID-19 Testing & Reporting FAQs: What do I do if an employee working on-site notifies me that they have had a positive COVID-19 test result? If you are notified that an individual you supervise has tested positive for COVID-19, encourage them to contact their primary care provider and seek emergency care, if needed. Then follow the steps below. COVID-19 testing, isolation and quarantine details are private health information and should not be shared with others. If the individual is on-site at the time of notification, send them home immediately. Case management: Employees (faculty or staff) should be instructed to call Axiom (1-833-408-1338), Dartmouth's Occupational Medicine provider. Employees will be prompted to leave a message with their phone number, name, and reason for your call. Calls will be returned in the order received, so please watch for and answer the call, typically from a Texas or Utah area code. Axiom will manage the employee's isolation and return-to-work plan. Students should be instructed to call (603-646-6440) or email Dick's House, which will manage isolation and return-to-study plans for all students. back to Supervisor FAQs What do I tell others about the individual's absence? Reply that they are out of the office or working remotely (for those that can continue to perform work away from campus). If asked in general what information will be shared about employee test results, isolation, or quarantine, advise that you will not share any private health information and that in the event there is a confirmed case of COVID-19, close contacts will be notified by Axiom Medical, Dartmouth's Occupational Medicine partner (for employees) the Dartmouth College Health Service (for students), or by their state health department with further instructions. Employees with specific concerns about their health should contact their primary care provider. back to Supervisor FAQs Does the employee need to use Personal Time or Vacation for their absence? Effective August 29, 2021, regular employees directed by Axiom to remain away from the workplace/campus may use Other Lost Time (OLT) for their previously scheduled hours up to a maximum of 10 days total by June 30, 2022 or apply for short-term disability, if applicable. back to Supervisor FAQs What do I do if I hear rumors that an employee has had a positive COVID-19 test result? The Occupational Medicine processes and procedures will not be visible to those that are not directly involved in a given case and it can sometimes appear as if cases are not being addressed when they are. That said, if you have concerns that the appropriate Dartmouth offices are not aware of a situation, you may send an email to occupational.medicine@dartmouth.edu. Given the requirements for privacy of personal health information, it is likely that you may not be told the resolution to your inquiry, however you can be assured that attention will be given to the matter. And, of course, speculative information about others should not continue to be shared. back to Supervisor FAQs What if the employee with a positive COVID-19 test result does not work on-site but is fully remote? The steps outlined above do not apply to fully remote employees. The Occupational Medicine function is designed to support those employees working on-site with the appropriate medical clearance to return to on-site work. Remote employees should work with their health care provider and manage any adjustments in their work commitments directly with their supervisor. back to Supervisor FAQs Who is on my Supervisor Health Screening and COVID-19 testing report? The report shows all the employees assigned to a supervisor as listed in HRMS, the HR/Payroll system. If you do not see your employee on your report or if you have people on your report that do not report to you, or need to make updates to your employee's recorded work arrangement, please notify your finance center. The finance center will update the HRMS records appropriately. The report also shows your employee's required testing frequency, compliance with COVID testing expectations, and the employee's work arrangement designation as either On-site, Hybrid, or Remote. If an employee has more than one assignment and each assignment has a different work arrangement designation, then the employee’s designation will be calculated as Hybrid. Supervisors who have claimed lab members do not have a visible work arrangement. Informal changes in work arrangement that are for less than six weeks do not require a formal change to the employee’s recorded work arrangement designation. These informal changes may be arranged directly between the employer and the employee. This is called an ‘informal request’ and is noted online. Employees and supervisors who have agreed to a hybrid or fully remote work arrangement must complete an online Hybrid/Remote Work Agreement. The written agreement confirms the relevant details of the work arrangement in clear terms. Please refer to the Flexible Work at Dartmouth webpages and the visual Flexible Work Arrangement Process diagram (pdf) for details and supporting information. back to Supervisor FAQs Will the supervisor Health Screening report show my employee's COVID-19 vaccination status? No. However, it will indicate whether or not each employee is considered compliant with the college's COVID-19 Vaccination Policy. Supervisors are expected to follow-up with any employee who is not listed as 'In Compliance'. back to Supervisor FAQs Will the supervisor Health Screening report show my employee's COVID-19 test results? No. However, you will see their testing status. The indicator of the employee's testing status is color-coded: Compliant, Exempt, Monitored = Employee is in compliance with COVID-19 testing expectations. They either completed their testing as instructed, are exempted from testing, or currently have a case open with Axiom Medical. One test, NO test = Indicates the number of tests completed by the employee this week. Employee is expected to schedule and complete testing, or use their take-home test to complete testing. You are expected to take action if the employee(s) are reporting to work on-site and are not compliant with the testing, vaccine, and/or face covering requirement. If you are uncertain how to address the employee, please contact your Human Resources Consultant for assistance or support. If the non-compliant employee(s) listed on your report are not working on-site, no action is required on your part. back to Supervisor FAQs Contact Us Top of page | Privacy | Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College Last Updated: 5/6/22