Skip to main content SMU Explore SMU Academics Undergraduate Admission Student Affairs About News Athletics Events Calendar Bush Center Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Apply to SMUGIVE NOW Meadows School of the Arts Areas of Study Admissions About Menu Search Patricia Villacin shoots B-roll of the main quad on campus. Patricia Villacin shoots B-roll of the main quad on campus. Areas of Study Journalism Undergraduate Studies Undergraduate Studies Undergraduate Studies Admissions B.A. in Journalism William J. O'Neil Program in Business Journalism Minor in Journalism B.A. in Fashion Media Schedule a Visit Students must first gain admission to the University. Additional requirements for the major and minor are listed below. Admission and Degree Requirements Strong writing skills are essential to the student’s success in the division’s journalism curriculum and later in the profession of journalism. Students may enroll in journalism classes as first-year students. Those seeking permission to major or minor in the Division of Journalism must have completed 24 hours of study, which may include transfer hours. Students must also have taken DISC 1312 (or equivalent) and earned a minimum grade of B in this course. Students are required to take JOUR 2103 before further journalism study, and they must declare the major or minor before taking JOUR 2312. Students transferring from other universities must have completed equivalent courses and obtained the equivalent GPA in those courses before they can be considered a major candidate in the Division of Journalism. All journalism and fashion media majors must declare and complete a second major or a minor of their choosing. The Journalism Division has a focus on and commitment to diversity, recognizing the need for diversity in media and communications in the 21st century. Scholarships Honors Scholarships are awarded each year to outstanding students who intend to major in journalism. Other scholarships are available to journalism students through a variety of foundations and gifts to the division. Meadows School of the Arts Meadows School of the Arts 6101 Bishop Dallas, Texas 75205 214-768-2000 Mailing Address: P.O. Box 750356 Dallas, Texas 75275-0356 Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Apply Now Visit Us Back to top © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 Areas of Study Advertising Art Art History Arts Management & Arts Entrepreneurship CCPA Creative Computation Dance Film & Media Arts Journalism Music Theatre Admissions Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions Scholarships And Financial Aid Internships & Collaborations Visit Meadows Contact Meadows Admission Dual Admission About A Statement of Our Values Mission History Message From The Dean Dean's Executive Council Student Academic Services Academic Affairs Contact SMU Meadows Faculty Directory Faculty/Staff Bio Submission Form Facilities Resources Employment Meadows Graduate Student Council Site Map Report a Web Problem News and Events Art History After Hours Virtual Season Subscribers News Featured Media Our Calendar Performing Arts Season Music Recitals Events Newsletter Meadows Events Parking Directions & Public Transportation Meadows Recognition Ceremony The Movement Mission Ignite Arts Dallas SMU DataArts Meadows Prize Arts Entrepreneurship International Opportunities Interdisciplinary Studies Research and Creativity Alumni Submit Your Information Alumni News Alumni in the Media Alumni on LinkedIn Support Meadows Contact Development The Meadows Scholars Program Meadows Gala Apply NowVisit UsGive Menu Search Search Submit Menu Search