Skip to the main content United States Air Force Academy Go to home page image/svg+xml Page 1 Go to home page Link to home page Virtual Tour Radio Parents Graduates Visitors Prep School Graduation Newsletter Apply Today Menu Search the Site Academics A rigorous academic program that balances STEM with the arts and humanities. Academics Core Curriculum Departments Majors & Minors Library Academic Calendar Registrar Faculty and Staff Directory Academic Success Center Request a Transcript Investigator or Verifications Admissions News Research Learn more about cutting-edge research that supports the Air Force and our global society. Research Office of Research Research Centers Cadet Summer Research STEM Outreach Future Conflict Cadet Life Take a peek into the life of a United States Air Force Academy cadet. Cadet Life Dormitories & Dining Cadet Clubs Cadet Support Services Day in the Life Frequently Asked Questions Military With a focus on innovation and adaptation to the changing world of warfare, we’re setting higher expectations for what it means to serve. Military Basic Cadet Training Squadrons Airmanship Military Careers Wings of Blue Athletics About There’s no limit to what you will achieve here. Academics. Athletics. Military training. We deliver the future leaders of modern warfare. About Leadership Character Development History Awards Traditions Educational Innovation More Virtual Tour Radio Parents Graduates Visitors Prep School Graduation Newsletter Apply Today Back To Research Office of Research Research Centers STEM Outreach Cadet Summer Research Program Research Awards Institute for Future Conflict Global Opportunities CADET SUMMER RESEARCH The Cadet Summer Research Program provides dynamic opportunities for cadets to take their research beyond the classroom and into real-world application. Through the United States Air Force Academy’s robust research and development network, cadets engage in hands-on problem-solving of cutting-edge research topics while having opportunities to travel and collaborate with various military and civilian institutions around the world. The Academy maintains more than 260 national and international research agreements which strengthen its private sector, government, and academic partnerships. These partnerships give cadets unparalleled access to advanced research facilities, equipment, and mentorship at institutions such as NASA, Boeing, Amazon, Tesla, the White House, the Library of Congress, U.S. Space Command, Cornell University and more. The Cadet Summer Research Program has great impact across diverse fields of study. Cadets have conducted award-winning research in topics such as red blood cell manufacturing for use in field trauma, computer applications for bionic limb control, and the development of novel enzymes in degrading environmental carcinogens. These wide-ranging research projects create additional opportunities for cadets in the form of graduate research scholarships, substantial increases in research funding, and the awarding of patents. Whether stateside or abroad, the Cadet Summer Research Program provides ample opportunities for travel, which prepares cadets for military life and broadens their global perspectives. Among these opportunities, cadets have ventured to Maui to conduct satellite research on top of a volcano as well as journeyed as far as Prague to research political and economic systems. CONTACT US Maj Dan O’Keefe (719) 333-9733 Daniel.O’Keefe@afacademy.af.edu Capt Damon Kirkpatrick Damon.Kirkpatrick@afacademy.af.edu ACADEMICS Departments Majors & Minors Library Academic Calendar Research Centers Faculty and Staff Directory CAMPUS Events Employment Emergency Weather Helping Agencies Apps COMMUNITY AF CyberWorx USAFA Band Force Support Wings of Blue VISIT Visitors Campus Map Facilities Cadet Chapel Planetarium Base Access Contact Us Social Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Flickr © 2022 United States Air Force Academy, All Rights Reserved The appearance of hyperlinks does not constitute endorsement by the Department of the Air Force or the information, products, or services contained therein. For other than authorized activities such as military exchanges and morale, welfare and recreation sites, the Department of the Air Force does not exercise any editorial control over the information you may find at these locations. Such links provided are consistent with the stated purpose of this DOD Web site.