Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Information Technology UCIT right arrow down arrow About right arrow down arrow IT College Contacts Diversity and Inclusion Sitemap Services right arrow down arrow Student Hardware Software right arrow down arrow Student Software Productivity (Students) right arrow down arrow Student Printing with Wepa Computer Labs App & Web Development Research Computing Services Connectivity (Visitors) IT NEXT Get Help right arrow down arrow Report an issue Student Quickstart Guide ResNet Documentation Center Home » About UC » IT@UC » Services » Research Computing Services Set Navigation title in component Student Hardware Software Student Software Productivity (Students) Student Printing with Wepa Computer Labs App & Web Development Research Computing Services Connectivity (Visitors) Research Computing Services IT@UC facilitates academic research by enabling access to advanced research computing resources; cloud-based services and assistance with grants. Innovative, emerging technologies and the latest research tools are available through IT@UC Research Computing Services (RCS). Supporting COVID-19 Research: Priority Access & HPC Resources right arrow down arrow Priority Access to ARC Cluster right arrow down arrow Research related to COVID-19 will receive priority access to the high-performance computing resources established by the Advanced Research Computing (ARC) initiative within the Office of Research. *HPC assets may be used for modeling and simulation coupled with machine and deep learning techniques to study a range of areas including: Examining underlying protein structure. Classifying the evolution of the virus. Understanding mutation. Uncovering important differences and similarities with the 2002-2003 SARS virus. Searching for potential vaccine and antiviral compounds. Simulating the spread of COVID-19 and the effectiveness of countermeasure options. Remote access to the Office of Research HPC cluster requires a VPN connection. Sign into the SSL VPN. Learn more about SSL VPN. Contact IT@UC Research Computing Services for more information. Email: Jane.Combs@uc.edu Call or text: 513-484-8162 *Per the Ohio Supercomputer Center (OSC) Community Notice for Extraordinary Support for COVID-19 Research, March 16, 2020. Not using HPC for COVID-19 Research? Be prepared for possible disruptions by implementing checkpointing in your code. IT@UC Research Computing Services is investigating mechanisms for automated checkpointing utilizing the SLURM resource manager. If successful, these features would be enabled during a future second Tuesday of the month maintenance day.  Part of the Pilot HPC Cluster? We do not expect any impact on the services and support provided for the pilot HPC Cluster.  We continue to monitor the hardware and provide remote support. Contact us to request assistance. Email: arc_info@uc.edu Additional HPC Resources for COVID-19 Research right arrow down arrow COVID-19 HPC Consortium The White House Office of Science and Technology Policy’s COVID-19 HPC Consortium seeks to expedite applications for advanced computing research to combat the COVID-19 pandemic. Researchers interested in conducting this timely work are asked to submit research proposals to the COVID-19 Online Portal, which is managed by the NSF XSEDE’s XRAS team. View the COVID-19 Online Portal View the COVID-19 HPC Consortium webpage Jetstream – NSF’s Cloud Computing Resource (virtual machines) Research requests, especially those related to the COVID-19 effort, may apply for expedited startup allocations for Jetstream computing resources. Jetstream offers interactivity without batch processing. Applications must include a three-to-four sentence research description and a vita. View more about expedited startup allocations View application details Using Globus for COVID-19 Research – move and share data with collaborators Globus helps researchers move and share data with collaborators. Every institution engaged in COVID-19 research can access all Globus at no cost. Sign up for free access Email: outreach@globus.org Ohio Supercomputer Center Extraordinary Support for COVID-19 Research The Ohio Supercomputer Center (OSC) offers unique capabilities that the scientific community may leverage for the COVID-19 response and recovery. Faculty researchers from UC other Ohio higher education institutions are already engaged in these efforts. Examples of the types of special support OSC can provide include: Priority, unbilled access to OSC computational and storage resources for COVID-19 research. Flexible billing terms and prices for clients anticipating negative economic impacts. Remote, virtual computing lab resources for classroom instructors and educators. Connections to domain experts in academia and industry. View more about available OSC support during COVID-19 crisis Contact IT@UC Research Computing Services for more information. Email: Jane.Combs@uc.edu Call or text: 513-484-8162 Priority help to COVID-19 projects offered by Trusted CI, NSF CI CoE Pilot, and SGCI The NSF Cyberinfrastructure Center of Excellence Pilot, Trusted CI, and the Science Gateways Community Institute are helping the science community tackle research to address the coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) outbreak. Expert cyberinfrastructure consulting areas include: Data management and visualization Workflow management Use of cloud resources, high-performance clusters, or distributed resources Science gateway technology Cybersecurity Compliance Priority will be given to active projects related to COVID-19; however, proposal-writing assistance is available to support new projects related to the pandemic. Email: covid19@trustedci.org Other groups supporting COVID-19 research View information about Zooniverse View information about XSEDE Advanced Research Computing (ARC) right arrow down arrow The Advanced Research Computing (ARC) facility establishes a high-performance computing (HPC) infrastructure that supports and accelerates computational and data-enabled research, scholarship and education at the University of Cincinnati. Get Access right arrow down arrow UC's Advanced Research Computing Resources ARC pilot HPC Cluster Access (CPUs, GPUs, basic storage) Faculty can immediately gain access to the HPC cluster pilot resources by filling out the ARC Computing Resources Request (you must login with your UC Credentials to access the form). Cost: No cost IT@UC KB ARC Access and Use Instructions Contribute nodes to the cluster – priority access to your nodes plus access to additional shared resources Faculty can use their HPC and research computing funding to contribute nodes to the central cluster. Priority access is given to the owner of the nodes, however, when not in use by the owner, the nodes can be shared with others. This is a good option for faculty who need to have full access to their nodes periodically and can take advantage of access to additional shared resources in the cluster. Using the central resource maximizes the amount of compute resources a faculty can purchase because the HPC infrastructure (networking, racks, head/management nodes, support) are provided at no cost. Contact: arc_info@uc.edu Cost: Nodes contributed to the cluster must be consistent with current cluster hardware configurations. The ARC team can work with you to review your needs and provide an estimate for your purchase. Research Quickstart Guide right arrow down arrow Get set up and Discover resources UC ScienceNet (UCSN) right arrow down arrow UC ScienceNet (UCSN) is a high-speed academic research network that enables high-speed (10Gps-40Gps) data transfers. High speed connections can be made in your office, classrooms, or labs as long as certain security conditions are met. High-speed networking is available for on-campus transfers as well as connections made to endpoints on Internet 2 sites. Transfers to sites on the public Internet are not guaranteed to maintain high(er) speeds. For more info contact: IT@UC RCS Remote Training Resources right arrow down arrow While in-person workshops are suspended, there are HPC training resources available remotely including: UC Data & Computational Science Series: attend a free workshop and learn a new computational tool that can support your research XSEDETraining YouTube Channel for workshops on Hadoop, Spark, OpenMP, GPU programming with OpenACC XSEDE & Pittsburgh Supercomputing Center Workshops Ohio Supercomputer Center Events Science Gateways Monthly Webinars Campus Research Computing Consortium (CaRCC) Events Advanced Research Computing Consultation Hours 1st Tuesdays, 1-4pm & 3rd Fridays, 9:00am - 12:00 pm Join us for virtual office hours to ask questions, discuss research & data needs, ARC consultation, or to share an idea! Contact IT@UC RCS Please contact IT@UC Research Computing Services with any questions, requests for consultation, and more by sending us an email. University of Cincinnati IT@UC - 51 Goodman Dr. Cincinnati, Oh 45221-0658 513-556-HELP (4357) UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati IT@UC - 51 Goodman Dr. Cincinnati, Oh 45221-0658 513-556-HELP (4357) © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top