Skip to main site navigation Skip to main content Open the search panel Open the main menu Search Go Close the search panel Information for… Incoming J.D. Current Students Faculty Staff Media Employers News Events Alumni Giving About Library Login Open the Search panel Admissions Admissions Why Columbia J.D. Admissions Graduate Admissions Academics Academics J.D. Program and Curriculum LL.M. Program and Curriculum Executive LL.M. Program and Curriculum J.S.D. Program and Curriculum Dual and Joint Degrees International Programs Public Interest and Public Service Experiential Learning Courses Registration Services Academic Calendar Executive Education Areas of Study Areas of Study Constitutional Law, Regulation, and Public Policy Corporate, Business, and Transactional Law Criminal Justice Data Analytics Environment and Energy Family, Gender, and Sexuality Intellectual Property and Technology International and Comparative Law Law of the Workplace Leadership Legal History Litigation and Dispute Resolution National Security and Privacy Social Justice and Human Rights Faculty & Scholarship Faculty & Scholarship Faculty Directory Research Centers and Programs Scholarship Archive Workshops, Lectures, and Colloquia Careers Careers Private Sector Careers Public Interest and Public Service Careers Academic Careers Judicial Clerkships Employment Statistics Employment Policies Community Life Community Life Visit Campus Dean’s Welcome Your Campus, Your City Student Life Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Strategic Initiatives Private Sector Careers Careers Private Sector Careers Columbia Law School graduates go on to hold leadership roles at the world’s most elite private sector organizations. Prepare to join their ranks. More in this Section Explore Private Sector Careers: For Employers LL.M. Interview Program Interviewing and Networking Early Interview Program For Alumni Columbia Law’s Office of Career Services and Professional Development (OCS) helps students and alumni explore career paths with top law firms and businesses around the world—from global and boutique firms to multinational corporations and Silicon Valley startups. The OCS counseling team assists you from your first semester at the Law School until graduation and beyond. Our advisers will help you develop a career roadmap tailored to your goals, passions, and geographic preferences. In addition, our extensive alumni network and close connections with leading employers provide unrivaled access to a world of opportunities. Connect with a wide range of top employers. Over three to four days every summer, the Early Interview Program invites the most prestigious law firms in New York City and other national and international legal centers to interview J.D. students. OCS also arranges a yearly interview program for LL.M. students at Columbia and other leading law schools, as well as additional fall and spring semester programs for J.D. students. Learn from the best. Our professional development speakers include outside lecturers and Law School alumni, most of whom hold partnerships at major law firms or serve as in-house counsel at international corporations and startups. Polish your résumé to perfection. OCS career counselors meet individually with students throughout the year to develop their résumés and other written material. They also host résumé writing workshops. Boost your confidence. All first-year students are required to participate in mock interview programs—at Columbia Law School or the offices of leading law firms—in advance of the fall recruiting season. The practice interview (conducted by an attorney) and subsequent feedback session allow students to better prepare for “real” interviews and sharpen their skills for future job search opportunities. Access a wealth of resources. OCS maintains a separate library of online and print resource materials—from specialty practice directories to career choice manuals—that inform students about career options and connect them to employers. The office also utilizes a specialized database tailored to accommodate students participating in recruiting programs. Through the database, you can choose the employers with which you would like to interview, sign up for a counseling appointment, view a calendar of upcoming career-related events, and browse hundreds of job postings updated daily. Office of Career Services The Office of Career Services and Professional Development helps students and alumni explore opportunities in the private sector. We advise students and alumni, provide career-related resources, and host career exploration, professional development, and recruitment programs. Related Links Contact the Office of Career Services Staff Symplicity for Students and Alumni Symplicity for Employers “My advisers in the Office of Career Services were unbelievably helpful with the process of applying for and choosing a summer position, and I am so grateful for the time, patience, and guidance that I received. OCS helped me find positions I would be interested in, gave me a chance to practice for interviews, reviewed my cover letter and résumé, and provided advice when I was choosing among offers. “This past summer, I interned with the in-house legal team at HBO, which gave me an in-depth look at the role of an entertainment attorney—I had the opportunity to work on a wide breadth of litigation and transactional issues related to copyright, licensing, employment, privacy, and contracts, and was able to [find] some wonderful mentors.” Nikita Lamba ’20 Related Events View All Events May 31 2022 Deadline - June 6th - Moot Court Student Editor/LPW Teaching Fellow Tue, 6:00 p.m. - 8:00 p.m. William and June Warren Hall, 1125 Amsterdam Ave., New York, NY 10027 Jun 1 2022 Revolution 12/13 | Abolition Feminism with Sarah Haley Wed, 6:00 p.m. - 8:00 p.m. The People's Forum, 320 W. 37th St., New York, NY 10018 Jun 2 2022 Annual Staff Appreciation & Recognition Luncheon Thu, 12:00 p.m. - 2:00 p.m. Faculty House, 64 Morningside Dr., New York, NY 10027 Presidential Ballroom View All Events Admissions Why Columbia Visit 435 West 116th Street New York, NY 10027 212-854-2640 Contact Us Social Media (Administrative Title) Twitter LinkedIn Facebook Instagram Admissions Academics Areas of Study Faculty & Scholarship Careers Community Life Information for… Incoming J.D. Current Students Faculty Staff Media Employers Login News Events Alumni Giving About Library Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Donate © Copyright 2022 The Trustees of Columbia University in the City of New York.