Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. UC News UC News right arrow down arrow UC News Search Topics right arrow down arrow UC Answers #UCtheGood In The News Arts & Culture Science & Tech International Athletics Health College Bound Impact right arrow down arrow #UCtheGood Insights Diversity Experience-Based Learning Next Lives Here Bicentennial COVID-19 Student Experience Colleges right arrow down arrow College of Allied Health Sciences College of Arts & Sciences College of Business Blue Ash College Clermont College College-Conservatory of Music College of Design, Architecture, Art, and Planning College of Education, Criminal Justice, & Human Services College of Engineering and Applied Science Graduate School College of Law College of Medicine College of Nursing College of Pharmacy Units right arrow down arrow Academic Health Center Admissions Alumni Association Board of Trustees Campus Services Equity and Inclusion Hoxworth Human Resources IT@UC Libraries Office of Innovation Office of Research President's Office Provost Public Safety Student Affairs UC Foundation Veteran's Affairs Continuing Education Media Contacts Featured News UC offers summer course on animal-inspired robotics May 23, 2022 The UC creators of Biology Meets Engineering are wrapping up a three-year National Science Foundation grant to develop and demonstrate a new curriculum drawing from both fields in UC’s College of Arts and Sciences and its College of Engineering and Applied Science. UC students take the class for course credit while faculty will offer a three-week course in June to introduce the concept to high school students. CPS grad finds ‘UC makes dreams come true’ May 19, 2022 Benya Colleman is one of 10 students who has been awarded the University of Cincinnati’s Marian Spencer Scholarship created to recognize high-achieving students in Cincinnati Public Schools (CPS). 'I’m a Bearcat' May 12, 2022 From the moment she was surprised on Decision Day with admittance to the University of Cincinnati, Lachelle Dixon was ready to move on from high school and start the next chapter of her life at UC. Debug Query for this Latest News Keyword topics Select topics Answers Arts & Culture Athletics Bicentennial College bound COVID-19 Diversity Entrepreneurship Experience-based Learning Faculty Staff Health Impact In The News Insights International Must Read Next Lives Here Science & Tech Student Experience Thought Leadership colleges Select colleges College of Arts and Sciences Blue Ash College College of Allied Health Sciences College-Conservatory of Music College of Engineering and Applied Science College of Education, Criminal Justice, & Human Services Clermont College Lindner College of Business College of Design, Architecture, Art, and Planning Graduate School College of Law College of Medicine College of Nursing Online College of Pharmacy Clear All Filters {{facet.display}} remove {{facet.display}} remove {{facet.display}} remove {{facet.display}} remove UC offers summer course on animal-inspired robotics May 23, 2022 The UC creators of Biology Meets Engineering are wrapping up a three-year National Science Foundation grant to develop and demonstrate a new curriculum drawing from both fields in UC’s College of Arts and Sciences and its College of Engineering and Applied Science. UC students take the class for course credit while faculty will offer a three-week course in June to introduce the concept to high school students. CPS grad finds ‘UC makes dreams come true’ May 19, 2022 Benya Colleman is one of 10 students who has been awarded the University of Cincinnati’s Marian Spencer Scholarship created to recognize high-achieving students in Cincinnati Public Schools (CPS). 'I’m a Bearcat' May 12, 2022 From the moment she was surprised on Decision Day with admittance to the University of Cincinnati, Lachelle Dixon was ready to move on from high school and start the next chapter of her life at UC. UC Clermont to hold Express Application Event May 24 April 27, 2022 UC Clermont will hold a free on-campus Express Application Event Tuesday, May 24. The last day to apply for admission to the college for fall semester 2022 is July 1. UC business grad goes viral on TikTok April 14, 2022 Jeff Bezos’ $165 million purchase of a Los Angeles-area mansion and TikTok helped University of Cincinnati alumnus John Eringman kick-start his career as a full-time content creator. Young, gifted and Black April 4, 2022 A Seat at the Table content series looks to explore the experiences and identities of diverse student populations at UC while shedding light on support, resources and opportunities available at the university. U.S. News & World Report grad school rankings spotlight UC... March 29, 2022 The 2023 edition of the U.S. News & World Report “Best Graduate School” rankings released March 29 shows several programs at the University of Cincinnati moved up significantly. Cacophonous crowds, diverse cultures: Why UC feels like home to... March 4, 2022 Kyle Lascano, a UC Bachelor of Science in Nursing student, reflects on his experience choosing a college and what it was about UC that instantly made him feel at home. Spend your summer at CCM: Explore programs for youth, teens and... February 22, 2022 The University of Cincinnati's College-Conservatory of Music provides high-caliber summer arts classes and workshops for youth, teens and adults that are open to students of all experience levels. Summer at CCM offers arts enthusiasts the chance to work with the college's world-class faculty and renowned guest artists at CCM's state-of-the-art facilities. Tuition guaranteed or held flat for UC students February 22, 2022 Annual vote Spectrum News: Cincinnati high school student surprised with... February 10, 2022 Ten high school students from Cincinnati Public Schools (CPS) were the first to be honored with the new Marian Spencer Scholarship awards by the University of Cincinnati. Spectrum News covers one of the surprises. WCPO: UC featured on Amazon Prime February 9, 2022 The Amazon Prime series “The College Tour,” which highlights colleges and universities around the country, features UC in its upcoming season. Ohio media cover its premiere. Inaugural class of Marian Spencer Scholars announced February 8, 2022 The University of Cincinnati has awarded 10 high school students from Cincinnati Public Schools the new Marian Spencer Scholarship. ‘College Tour’ spotlight: Camryn Morrow January 28, 2022 Camryn Morrow is one of 10 students and alumni featured in UC’s episode of “The College Tour,” an Amazon Prime series that features universities from across the country Yahoo: Future University of Cincinnati Bearcats get surprised at... January 28, 2022 News media highlight UC's Decision Day records as students get surprised with admission and scholarships. Load More Debug Query for this University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45220 513-556-0000 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45220 513-556-0000 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top