Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Human Resources HR right arrow down arrow Current Employees right arrow down arrow Staff Success Center Employment & Income Verification Holidays & Winter Season Days Student Employees Affiliated Faculty UC Retirees and Former Employees right arrow down arrow UC Retirees Former Employees Unions right arrow down arrow AAUP AFSCME FOP-ECD FOP-SO FOP-Supervisors FOP-ULEO IUOE ONA SEIU Work at UC Contact Us Home » Employees » Human Resources » Current Employees » Staff Success Center Set Navigation title in component Staff Success Center Employment & Income Verification Holidays & Winter Season Days Staff Success Center NOTE TO UC EMPLOYEES: More details about events, programs, and facilities can be found on our Staff Success Center Bearcats Landing intranet site (UC login required). Please visit us there! About The UC Staff Success Center provides individuals with numerous options to develop their skills, knowledge, and abilities to both support their goals and the goals of the university. We offer comprehensive professional development workshops, software training for University of Cincinnati applications, and much more. Leadership Tamie Grunow, M. Ed, SPHR Senior Associate Vice President & Chief Human Resource Officer, Human Resources 51 Goodman Drive | University Hall | Cincinnati, OH 45221 513-556-1015 grunowtl@ucmail.uc.edu Tina Mahle Director of Learning & Development, Staff Success Center 51 Goodman Drive | University Hall | Cincinnati, OH 45221 513-556-0178 mahleta@ucmail.uc.edu Services The following services are available through the Staff Success Center. For more information, contact us at hrlearning@uc.edu. Team Enrichment Sessions right arrow down arrow Highly effective teams are those that work together to accomplish shared goals. There may be times when issues such as communication, interpersonal issues, conflict, or lack of appreciation for differences can prevent teams from accomplishing their best. The Staff Success Center works with leaders to determine the underlying issues facing a team and then designs team-building programs to address these issues. eLearning Solutions right arrow down arrow eLearnings are online self-paced courses. Our team will work with you to convert or develop new courses to online eLearning format to meet your team's learning needs. We have experience, resources and tools to to help develop eLearnings for numerous subjects. Microlearning Videos right arrow down arrow In addition to the eLearning solutions, we can create short instructional and explainer videos to give employees on-demand support and guidance. Videos are 3-5 mintues on one topic and can be tracked to see what user has completed the video for completion. General Offerings The following offerings are available through the Staff Success Center. For more information, contact us at hrlearning@uc.edu. Personal Leadership right arrow down arrow These trainings are designed for individuals to: Boost interpersonal skills Enhance individual and group effectiveness Enhance collaboration Build strategic working relationships Leading Others right arrow down arrow For those who lead individual contributors or formal leaders within their departments Accelerate new leader development Attract and hire the right talent for the right job at the right time Build and maintain strategic partnerships Coach and develop talent Create an environment of innovation Drive performance and accountability Lead high-performing teams Manage change Motivate and retain talent Software Systems right arrow down arrow We have the experience to build training for all software systems. Below are some examples: Catalyst Student Information System Concur Travel & Expense Purchasing & Contract Exchange Microsoft 365 UC Flex (SAP) Staff Success Stories See some of our participants sharing their success stories they have achieved this year. Please feel free to share how you have achieved your own success working with the Staff Success Center. Email us at hrlearning@uc.edu or share via our social media accounts using hashtags #SSC #MySuccess LOVED IT! Been through way too many to count Customer Service workshops. I love that this one is straight and to the point and uses skill sets that are more natural. Often, workshops driven for Customer Service try to fancy things up to almost one-up every other program that's out there. Stick with this Service Excellence approach. It's simple and I appreciated the opportunity to go through it. Course Participant I think the program was great and I liked that they made me feel comfortable in this course especially since I recently received access to Catalyst and have not actually used it yet. I have a lot of good notes which will help me going forward and they offered me information related to Catalyst to assist me. Course Participant Human Resources 340 University Hall 51 Goodman Dr. Cincinnati, OH 45221-0039 513-556-6381 PO Box 210039 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Human Resources 340 University Hall 51 Goodman Dr. Cincinnati, OH 45221-0039 513-556-6381 PO Box 210039 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top