Skip to main content Navigation Academics Admissions Research Locations Student Life Alumni & Giving Athletics Apply Now Bachelor of Science in Mathematics, BS Use Reasoning, Logic and Analysis to Solve Complex Real-World Problems Program at a Glance Program Bachelor College(s) College of Sciences Department(s) Mathematics 4 Years In State Tuition Out of State Tuition $212.28 per credit hour $748.89 per credit hour Learn more about program tuition and fees. Develop a Strong Mathematical Foundation Mathematics is in the broadest sense the study of structure. Through quantification, relationships and modeling, mathematics offers the intellectual structural framework that permits us to develop an understanding of the phenomena that envelops us. The BS in Mathematics program prepares you to help lead the charge for a high-technology future. Our renowned faculty provide a high-quality learning experience that provides you with the knowledge and skills necessary to advance mathematical research that benefits society. The program’s coursework covers various contemporary approaches for solving mathematical problems. Plus, with 6 tracks available, you can concentrate your studies in a number of areas of interdisciplinary mathematics — giving you an opportunity to align your passion with your career path. Graduates with degrees in mathematics are well prepared for a variety of careers and are in high-demand for positions requiring analytical skills, data organization and problem solving. The skills that you’ll develop through the mathematics program have a broad application in the workplace and can be applied to different fields such as education, logistics, management, medical, engineering and other industries. Additionally, graduates of the bachelor’s in mathematics program can go on to further study in mathematics, in another area of science or to professional schools. Program Tracks: Mathematical Data Analysis Track General Mathematics Track Mathematical Biology Track Mathematical Economics Track Computational Track Engineering/Physics Track Highlights Private businesses and government agencies are expected to see the largest growth for math occupations as the use of big data continues to play an important role. Math occupations are projected to see a job growth of 28% through 2029. Math occupations have a median annual wage of $93,170. Undergraduate Application Deadlines Freshmen Transfers International Fall May 1 Spring November 1 Summer March 1 Fall July 1 Spring November 1 Summer March 1 Fall March 1 Spring September 1 Summer January 1 Ready to get started? Apply Today Start Your Application Today Ready to get started? Take the next step to save your spot at UCF. 1 Check out your application requirements. See what freshmen and transfer students need to apply. 2 Short on time? You can start your application today and come back later to finish. Apply Today Course Overview Ordinary Differential Equations I Methods of solution for first order equations. Linear equations. Laplace transforms. Series solutions. Selected applications. Calculus with Analytic Geometry I, II and III Three-part series. First course covers limits, continuity, differentiation of algebraic and trigonometric functions; applications of derivatives; integration and the fundamental theorem of calculus; applications of definite integrals. In the second course, you’ll explore a study of techniques of integration, selected topics in analytic geometry, polar coordinates, sequences and series, parametric equations, indeterminate forms, and application of the definite integral. The final course covers geometry of higher dimensional Euclidean space; vectors and vector functions; partial derivatives; multiple integrals; line integrals; vector fields; Green’s Theorem and Stoke’s Theorem. Logic and Proof in Mathematics Basic mathematical logic. Methods of proof in mathematics. Application of proofs to elementary mathematical structures. Mathematics Skills You'll Learn Examine complex data problems, make sense of them and generate potential solutions Use reasoning, logic and analysis when working through various scenarios Have a flexible problem-solving mindset to achieve success on different teams in a variety of industries Apply mathematical theory to real-world problems to determine the best outcome Career Opportunities Actuary Mathematician Statistician Operations Research Analyst Data Scientist Post-Secondary Mathematics Teacher College of Sciences News Check out more stories Colleges & Campus Knights Do That Podcast: Best Moments of Season 1 and 2 Theater student Alex Cumming reflects on his favorite moments as his time as host comes to an end. Season three of Knights Do That launches… Colleges & Campus Research in 60 Seconds Video: Examining Effective Crisis Communication Pegasus Professor Timothy Sellnow, who teaches in the Nicholson School of Communication and Media, researches the importance and impact of simply using the right words during… Colleges & Campus 5 UCF Scholars to be Inducted into Academy of Science, Engineering and Medicine of Florida The organization’s members are top scholars and researchers from universities, public agencies, and industries statewide who are committed to addressing key issues and challenges impacting… Student Life UCF’s Planetary Science Rock Stars Guests at MegaCon 2022 UCF faculty participate in pop culture convention to help people understand space science and why it matters in an entertaining way. Degree Search College of Sciences programs Bachelors Mathematics (BS) University of Central Florida Colleges Burnett Honors Arts and Humanities Business Community Innovation and Education Engineering and Computer Science Graduate Studies Health Professions and Sciences Medicine Nursing Optics and Photonics Undergraduate Studies Hospitality Management University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida