Skip to main content iastate.edu Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons Iowa State University Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Menu Toggle Search Main navigation About Us Resources Campus Climate Principles of Community Free Speech at ISU Land Acknowledgement Land-grant Legacy Diversity, Equity and Inclusion at Iowa State What is DEI? Diversity Commitment to fostering a climate in all the ways people differ, including primary and secondary characteristics* in a welcoming environment (Measurement for success and opportunities: IPEDS, enrollment data, graduation rates). *Refer to the diversity wheel (primary is internal and secondary is external), Loden, M. Equity Commitment to fostering a climate where all individuals have access and opportunity to fully participate in the educational and working environment. Measurement for success and opportunities: campus climate survey, exit interviews (HR, & Provost/FA), transfers (Athletes & Admissions), reaccreditation (HLC), program outcomes/feedback, bias reports, equity/civil rights reports, reasonable accommodations feedback (services and academic - learning outcomes), advocacy services, counseling & wellness services, benefits, center for teaching and learning opportunities. Inclusion Commitment to fostering a climate where all individuals have a sense of belonging* through support and respect to fully participate in the educational and working environment. Measurement for success and opportunities: Campus climate survey, exit interviews, learning outcomes, program feedback, absenteeism reports, curriculum, student organizations, faculty/staff associations, Greek Life membership, multicultural/identify. *The construct goes beyond national or cultural identity, instead emphasizing the dynamic processes of emotional attachment. Reviewing the substantial theoretical literature on belonging, we identify four of its key elements: connection, participation, identification, and congruence. News and Events Remote video URL The inaugural Ames Asian American and Pacific Islanders Heritage Month Celebration was held May 7 in the Memorial Union. Video courtesy of the event steering committee. In the news Sharon Perry Fantini was named vice president for diversity, equity and inclusion, assuming her duties on Jan. 18, 2022. Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Resources Campus Climate Free Speech The Campus Climate website provides information about campus climate reporting, initiatives, surveys, and policies at Iowa State. Principles of Community Land Acknowledgement Created by a coalition of students and employees, the Principles of Community are expectations for how Iowa State community members conduct themselves and engage with others. Iowa State University Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Contact Diversity, Equity and Inclusion 2680 Beardshear Hall Ames, Iowa 50011-2103 vpdeioffice@iastate.edu 515-294-8840 Copyright © 1995- Iowa State University of Science and Technology All rights reserved. Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility Consumer information Loading...