Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu College of Health Sciences About Undergraduate Graduate Certificates & Continuing Ed Students Research Centers & Institutes News & Events Contact Us Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact College of Health Sciences Degree Programs Find a program that drives you. PhD - Applied Physiology & Neuromechanics New doctoral program beginning fall 2022 Driven by Research Research focus in health science-specific inquiry at both the cellular and applied levels. Dietetics Positively impact the nutritional health of the global community. Sport Coaching Designed to train forward-thinking people to be the coaches who will lead the next generation of athletes. Healthcare Leadership Fully online; Certified by the Association of University Programs in Health Administration Exercise, Sport & Movement Sciences Kinesiology, physiology, biomechanics, motor behavior and exercise programming Physical Education Teacher Education Nationally ranked licensure program Health Sciences Combines basic sciences and behavioral sciences into an applied discipline to promote healthy living. Student Resources You can get there from here. PreviousNext Take Action Find a Program that Drives You Meet our Faculty Schedule an Advising Appointment Contact Us Follow Us Online InstagramFacebooktwitterYoutubeLinkedIn Nationally Ranked # 2 BestHealthDegrees.com Best Online Master’s in Health Promotion View All Rankings Home College of Health Sciences Welcome from the Dean The College of Health Sciences is on the move! We currently employ well over 50 full-time faculty and staff, while servicing over 1800 declared majors. We’ve recently added new programs in Nutrition Science and Medical Assisting, and online programs in Exercise Nutrition and Healthcare Leadership. We also just launched our Sport Coaching concentration and a Nutrition, Health and Wellness minor. The Tennessee Higher Education Commission recently approved two new doctoral programs in the College of Health Sciences. Our PhD in Applied Physiology and Neuromechanics will include two concentrations - Applied Biomechanics and Applied Physiology & Nutrition. This program will begin this fall. We are developing a Doctorate in Physical Therapy to be offered at UofM Lambuth, date to be announced. These are the first doctoral programs for the College of Health Sciences and will provide an excellent opportunity for students to be trained as future clinicians and scientists. Finally, we have developed a partnership with Methodist Le Bonheur Healthcare for our new Surgical Technology continuing education program. In addition to our academic expansion, our research program has also grown significantly. We’ve hired several excellent scientists and have expanded our labs, which are now extremely well-equipped. We have developed a strong research focus in health science-specific inquiry, at both the cellular and applied levels. Our personnel are leaders in their respective disciplines, publishing their research findings in top-tier peer-reviewed journals, and receiving national and international recognition for their work. You can always email us with any questions or for assistance at healthsciences@memphis.edu. Follow us on social media (@uofmhealthsci on Instagram, Twitter, Facebook) for news, events, resources and spotlights. We constantly seek to improve the service that we provide to students and I welcome all feedback to assist us in this goal. If I can personally be of service to you, please contact me directly at rbloomer@memphis.edu. We thank you for your continued support. Sincerely, Richard J. Bloomer Dean, College of Health Sciences CV Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 5/5/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.