Skip to main content Close search Search for people, topics, events, etc. Search Go to homepage Toggle menu Toggle search Close menu Events & Exhibitions Visit Upcoming Events Past Events Fellowship Fellows Become a Fellow Schlesinger Library About the Library Research Services Collections Visit the Library News & Ideas Opportunities For Students For Researchers For Educators Toggle search About Give Media Harvard and Slavery Opportunities For Students For Researchers For Educators About Give Media Harvard and Slavery Schlesinger Library / Collections Schlesinger Library / Collections Julia Child Julia Child (1912–2004) is esteemed for her work as an author of French cookbooks and as a teacher and television personality. Toggle information Close detail panel Child, Paul. Simone Beck, Julia Child, and Louisette Bertholle cook fish at the Ecole des Trois Gourmandes, ca. 1960. Simone Beck Papers. Related Julia Child Papers Research Guide: Julia Child Julia Child's television series The French Chef, which first aired in 1963, launched a revolution in cooking and eating in the United States. It was followed by Julia Child & Company, Julia Child & More Company, and Dinner at Julia’s. She married Paul Cushing Child in 1946 and studied at the École Cordon Bleu while he was in Paris with the US Information Agency. Her book Mastering the Art of French Cooking (written with Simone Beck and Louisette Bertholle) and many subsequent cookbooks and articles demonstrated methods and recipes of classic French cooking. View details View details View details View details View details 01 / 05 Slide left Slide right Julia Child 01 / 05 Slide left Slide right Close modal window Details Close detail panel Child, Paul. Five snapshots of Julia Child in France, ca. 1948-1950. Julia Child Papers. Details Close detail panel Julia Child kneading dough by an open kitchen window. Avis MacVicar De Voto Papers. Details Close detail panel Child, Paul. Simone Beck, Julia Child, and Louisette Bertholle cook fish at the Ecole des Trois Gourmandes, ca. 1960. Simone Beck Papers. Details Close detail panel Child, Paul. La Pitchoune; 1st breakfast on the terrace; Paul and Julia, 1971 Sep 01. Julia Child Additional papers. Details Close detail panel Julia Child filming a 1964 promo with four others at the Cambridge Gas and Electric Kitchen Collections 01 / 11 Slide left Slide right 01 Betty Friedan 02 Florynce Kennedy 03 Pauli Murray 04 Records of the National Organization for Women 05 Susan B. Anthony 06 Dorothy West 07 June Jordan 08 Black Women Oral History Project 09 Alice Paul 10 Maud Wood Park Papers in the Woman's Rights Collection 11 Beecher-Stowe Family See All Collections Back to top B a c k t o t o p Get the latest Radcliffe news delivered to your inbox Enter your e-mail address Continue Radcliffe Institute for Advanced Study Harvard University 10 Garden Street Cambridge, MA 02138 Directions Give Now Contact Visit Careers Housing Meeting Spaces Site Map Digital Accessibility Accessibility Harvard University Policies Follow us on Facebook Follow us on Twitter Follow us onInstagram Subscribe to our RSS feed Visit our LinkedIn page Visit our YouTube channel © 2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College