Skip to content Columbia University Irving Medical Center Find People Events Faculty and Staff Resources Give Now Search About Us About Us Facts and Figures Explore CUIMC Events Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion at CUIMC Community Development and Alumni Explore CUIMC Leadership and Administration A-Z Listing Affiliated Hospitals Campus Map and Directions Campus Resources Contact CUIMC Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion At CUIMC, we are committed to continuous improvement in providing culturally inclusive medical education and clinical care. Learn About Our Commitment Education Education Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Mailman School of Public Health School of Nursing College of Dental Medicine VP&S Columbia Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons is dedicated to developing the next generation of leaders in medicine Learn About Our Academic Programs Research Research The Louisa Gross Horwitz Prize Columbia Technology Ventures Research Administration Columbia Clinical Innovation Lab Patient Care Patient Care ColumbiaDoctors Children's Health Columbia Primary Care Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Digital Health Services at Columbia Find a Doctor Search for a provider by specialty, expertise, location and insurance. Schedule an appointment online. Find a Doctor News News For the Media Share Your News CUIMC Update CUIMC Celebrates Columbia Medicine Read the latest news stories about CUIMC faculty, research, and events Explore Our News COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Information for Patients COVID-19 Campus Safety for Employees and Students COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students COVID-19 Information and Resources for Clinical Staff COVID-19 Vaccine Information Learn about COVID-19 vaccine availability and requirements for employees and students at CUIMC Get the Latest Information Neurology Topics Campus News Research Medical School Public Health Cancer Mental Health Infectious Diseases Neurology Neuroscience Education Heart Health Pediatrics View All Topics Search All News Keywords News Subtopics: Alzheimer's Epilepsy Parkinson's Stroke Top Stories Missing Link Between Alzheimer’s and Vascular Disease Found? A gene called FMNL2 may explain why people with hypertension, diabetes, heart disease, or obesity have a greater risk of developing Alzheimer's disease. Topic Alzheimer's Transient Ischemic Attacks May Be Brief But Need Serious Attention A transient ischemic attack (TIA) is a stroke that usually lasts under five minutes and resolves on its own, but just because the symptoms disappear, does not mean a TIA should be ignored. New Initiative to Develop Personalized Therapies for People with Rare Genetic Forms of ALS A new initiative led by Columbia University and the n-Lorem Foundation will develop personalized therapies for individuals with "nano-rare" genetic forms of ALS and treat them for free, for life. Topic Campus News Genetic Testing for Parkinson’s Disease: What You Need to Know Parkinson’s patients and their families are increasingly turning to genetic testing to learn more about their disease or risk of passing it on. But testing is complex, and counseling is advised. Topic Campus News Latest News Neurosurgeon Investigates Deep Brain Stimulation to Treat Depression May 19, 2017 Neurosurgeon Sameer Sheth uses deep brain stimulation to treat depression in patients who have not been helped with other therapies. Topic Depression Spinal Muscular Atrophy: New Clues to Cause and Treatment May 15, 2017 Spinal muscular atrophy is partly due to defects in the sensory neuron synapses that activate motor neurons. Symptoms may be reduced by improving synapse function. Topic Medical School 5 Questions for Columbia Neurologist and Debut Novelist Melodie Winawer May 10, 2017 Columbia neurologist Melodie Winawer talks about her debut novel, "The Scribe of Siena," and the parallels between science and writing historical fiction. Topic Campus News Detailed Images Reveal Interactions that Affect Signaling In The Brain May 3, 2017 Columbia scientists observed how molecules that regulate chemical signaling in the brain interact with the AMPA receptor, governing brain function. Topic Alzheimer's Brain-Aging Gene Discovered March 15, 2017 Columbia researchers have discovered a common genetic variant that greatly affects normal brain aging in older adults. Topic Medical School Among College Athletes, Concussion Risk May Be Higher in Women February 28, 2017 In a study of athletes at Columbia University, researchers found that women may be more susceptible to concussions than men. In Alzheimer’s, Excess Tau Protein Damages Brain’s GPS January 19, 2017 Columbia researchers have linked excess tau protein in the brain to the spatial disorientation that leads to wandering in many Alzheimer's disease patients. Topic Alzheimer's Common Epilepsies Share Genetic Overlap with Rare Types January 13, 2017 Columbia and NewYork-Presbyterian research has shown that several genes implicated in rare forms of pediatric epilepsy also contribute to common forms of the disorder. Topic Precision Medicine By Studying His Own Disease, Grad Student Hopes to Help Others December 2, 2016 Wolfgang Pernice hunts for the gene that caused his neuromuscular disorder and hopes it will help lead to better treatments for others with Charcot Marie Tooth Disease. Topic Campus News Fruits and Vegetables May Slow ALS November 2, 2016 A diet rich in antioxidants and carotenoids is linked with better outcomes for patients with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. Topic Nutrition Pages first previous … 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 … next last Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian About Us Careers News Education Patient Care Research Resources at CUIMC Columbia University Irving Medical Center 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Back to top