retweet bullhorn reply info flickr tumblr vimeo reddit podcast angle-down angle-left angle-right angle-up ban hamburger book bookmark bug caret-down caret-left caret-right caret-up chain check check-circle chevron-down chevron-left chevron-right chevron-up circle circle-o clone close download-cloud code download ellipsis envelope warning external-link eye eye-slash facebook github google-plus heart heart-o home info-circle instagram linkedin lock medium minus-circle send pause-circle play-circle plus-circle question-circle quote-left quote-right rss-square search share-alt slack snapchat ticket twitter wheelchair youtube Skip to main content MENU Header Menu Great Hall Shop Support the Museum Search Search Visit the Museum Admission & Hours Group Visits Great Hall Shop Directions and Parking Safety Guidelines Accessibility Education Audio Tour Special Policies for UT Austin Classes Teaching Resources Exhibits Hall of Geology and Paleontology Great Hall Hall of Texas Wildlife Hall of Biodiversity Outdoor Exhibits & Collaborations Events About Us Leadership & Staff Other Natural History Websites TMM is temporarily closed to the public while we reimagine our mission between UT and the community. We apologize for any inconvenience. Please keep an eye out for future announcements. Home butterflies Stay Hooked on Texas Memorial Museum! Support the museum Austin's First Science Museum In the early 1930s, James E. Pearce, The University of Texas at Austin Chair of Anthropology, later named the museum's first director, and A. Garland Adair, department historian for the Texas American Legion, joined forces to establish a state museum. They wanted the museum to contribute to the conservation of the historic treasures of Texas and also to the educational system of the state. With this joint effort, the Texas Memorial Museum (TMM) was born. Learn more about our history Upcoming Events No events at this time. View all Events Stay connected with the museum FacebookFind us on Facebook TwitterFind us on Twitter InstagramSee us on Instagram YoutubeSee us on Youtube Contact Us Location: 2400 Trinity Street Austin, Texas 78712-1621 Address: 2400 Trinity Street Mail Stop D1500 Austin, Texas 78712-1621 Email: tmminfo@austin.utexas.edu Phone: 512-471-1604 Website: http://tmm.utexas.edu Hours: 9:00 am – 1:00 pm and 2:00 pm - 5:00 pm Last entry at 4:30 pm Tuesday through Saturday Questions? Contact Us FacebookFind us on Facebook InstagramSee us on Instagram TwitterFind us on Twitter YoutubeSee us on Youtube Footer menu Great Hall Shop Support the Museum Copyright Subscribe to our newsletter UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2022