Skip to content Columbia University Irving Medical Center Find People Events Faculty and Staff Resources Give Now Search About Us About Us Facts and Figures Explore CUIMC Events Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion at CUIMC Community Development and Alumni Explore CUIMC Leadership and Administration A-Z Listing Affiliated Hospitals Campus Map and Directions Campus Resources Contact CUIMC Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion At CUIMC, we are committed to continuous improvement in providing culturally inclusive medical education and clinical care. Learn About Our Commitment Education Education Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Mailman School of Public Health School of Nursing College of Dental Medicine VP&S Columbia Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons is dedicated to developing the next generation of leaders in medicine Learn About Our Academic Programs Research Research The Louisa Gross Horwitz Prize Columbia Technology Ventures Research Administration Columbia Clinical Innovation Lab Patient Care Patient Care ColumbiaDoctors Children's Health Columbia Primary Care Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Digital Health Services at Columbia Find a Doctor Search for a provider by specialty, expertise, location and insurance. Schedule an appointment online. Find a Doctor News News For the Media Share Your News CUIMC Update CUIMC Celebrates Columbia Medicine Read the latest news stories about CUIMC faculty, research, and events Explore Our News COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Information for Patients COVID-19 Campus Safety for Employees and Students COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students COVID-19 Information and Resources for Clinical Staff COVID-19 Vaccine Information Learn about COVID-19 vaccine availability and requirements for employees and students at CUIMC Get the Latest Information You are here Home > COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC > COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students > December 20, 2021: Updated COVID-19 Guidance COVID-19 Information for Patients COVID-19 Campus Safety for Employees and Students COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students COVID-19 Information and Resources for Clinical Staff December 20, 2021: Updated COVID-19 Guidance Dear fellow members of the Columbia community, As you are undoubtedly aware, there is a substantial increase in the number of COVID-19 cases now being reported in New York City and New York State. Not surprisingly, we have also experienced a significant increase in the number of COVID-19 cases and test positivity reported among our Columbia affiliates over the past week as will be posted on the Columbia COVID-19 website. It is likely that this increase is largely due to the Omicron variant, which has resulted in a sharp increase in the number of COVID-19 cases in other countries. We have to date no reports of any severe cases requiring hospitalizations among Columbia affiliates. Available information indicates that this new variant is more transmissible than prior virus variants based on the rates of increase in total numbers of cases. At the same time, early data suggest that it may result in less severe illness. This is based on information from South Africa and the United Kingdom, two countries that have experienced a substantial increase in the number of cases, but where hospitalizations have not risen at a rate commensurate with the increase in cases and have remained below the level of hospitalizations noted with prior surges. At Columbia, we are fortunate that we have in place several measures that will be critically important in stemming transmission. Most importantly, Columbia is a fully-vaccinated community. Data from New York City continue to show much lower COVID-19 case and hospitalization rates among vaccinated individuals relative to those who are unvaccinated. In addition, data from nursing homes in the US show the protective effect of vaccination and demonstrate the additional benefit of booster doses. Early data also indicate that booster doses are likely to offer protection against the Omicron variant. Lastly, our universal indoor masking mandate remains in place offering further protection, combined with our daily attestation system and the robust testing program we have in place. Nonetheless, in view of the increase in the number of cases in our community and our city, the following measures will be put in place as of Monday, December 20: All Columbia-related social gatherings on and off campus require special approval. Only grab-and-go food will be available, with the exception of dining services for residential students remaining on campus. All affiliates are urged to avoid social gatherings wherever they are located, unless aware of vaccination and testing status of all attendees. Stay home if you have symptoms, and seek testing at locations that offer symptomatic testing. We urge wearing of masks indoors in all public settings as well as in crowded settings when outdoors. Get tested if you become aware that you were in contact with a case; if you have attended a gathering that may have facilitated transmission; or if you have recently travelled domestically or internationally. Get a booster dose as soon as possible (consistent with the recently-announced Columbia booster mandate). We refer you to our prior message sent on December 14 which provides details regarding the availability of booster doses and testing venues for our affiliates. We will continue to monitor the rapidly evolving situation and provide ongoing updates to our community. Sincerely, Donna Lynn Senior Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, CUIMC University COVID Director Gerry Rosberg Senior Executive Vice President Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian About Us Careers News Education Patient Care Research Resources at CUIMC Columbia University Irving Medical Center 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Back to top