Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Department of Chemistry About Programs People Research Resources Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Programs Undergraduate Advising BS, Chemistry Major BS, Chemistry, Biochemistry conc. BS in Chemistry (ACS Approved) BS in Chemistry, Biochemistry conc. Chemistry Minor Courses and Information Permit Requests Scholarships & Awards Student Members of ACS (SMACS) Research Opportunities NSF REU Program Graduate Ph.D. in ChemistryMS in ChemistryCoursesFAQ Take Action Apply to the Department of Chemistry Contact us! Seminar Schedule Follow Us Online Facebooktwitter Home Department of Chemistry Programs Permits Chemistry Permit Requests This permit request is not for classes offered through the Regents Online Degree Program (TN eCampus, section R50) or for courses in subjects other than CHEM. Information on obtaining such permits is available from the Registrar. PLEASE READ THE FOLLOWING BEFORE YOU FILL OUT THE PERMIT REQUEST If you encounter a problem when attempting to register for a chemistry course, you may need to submit a permit request form. Note that pre-requisites for CHEM courses are listed in the Undergraduate Catalog and must be completed with a grade of C- or better before the course you wish to enroll in starts. Research courses (CHEM 4901, 4902, 4903), Teaching (CHEM 4916), and Internship (CHEM 4918) require prior approval by an appropriate sponsor. Follow the links for more information and make arrangements with a sponsor of your choice. Complete the appropriate prospectus and send it to pbridson@memphis.edu. Do not submit a separate permit request form. The following are reasons for submitting the permit request form and further instructions: A course equivalent to the pre-requisite has been accepted by the University of Memphis but with a different course number. Submit the permit request form. The pre-requisite has been completed at another college, but UofM has not yet received the transcript. Submit the permit request form with a copy of your unofficial transcript. You will complete the pre-requisite course at another college. Submit the permit request form and, if your official transcript has not been processed by UofM at least 10 days before the course starts, send a copy of your unofficial transcript to Dr. Jermaine Johnson (jjhnsn26@memphis.edu). Failure to comply will result in your registration being cancelled at the beginning of the semester. The section is listed as requiring permission of instructor. Obtain prior permission from the instructor, ask him or her to confirm approval by email to Dr. Jermaine Johnson, and submit the permit request form. You wish to audit the class (grade of AU on transcript). Obtain prior permission from the instructor, ask him or her to confirm approval by email to Dr. Jermaine Johnson, and submit the permit request form. Some other reason. Submit the permit request form and include a complete explanation in the space provided. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 2/13/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.