Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Parent & Family Services Get InvolvedEvents & ServicesNews ResourcesSupport UsVisit UofM Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Resources Tiger Family Resource Hub Parent & Family Calendar I Want To In the Now Tiger Vocabulary Publications Parents of… Future StudentsFreshmenTransferCommuterOut of StateSeniors Take Action Join the Parent & Family Association Check out the Tiger Family Resource Hub Check out In the Now: Monthly FAQs Contact Us: We are here to help! Follow Parent & Family Services InstagramFacebooktwitter Home Parent & Family Services Resources Parent and Family Services UMparents FAQs FAQs Below you will find some of our most frequently asked questions. Please click on the question to see the answer. If you have a questions that is not answered here, please email us at parents@memphis.edu or call us at 901.678.2115. Academics How does my student actually register for classes at the UofM? What makes a student full-time? How many courses can or should a student take a semester? I need proof that my student is enrolled at the University of Memphis. How can I get this? How much study time is required? Can I contact my student's instructors? Does my student have to declare a major right away? What if my student doesn't know what he/she wants to major in? How does my student pick or change a major? Are freshmen courses taught mostly by temporary or part-time instructors and by graduate assistants? Is any tutoring or extra help available? Should my student have a computer? Can my student earn a degree in 4 years? How are students assigned an advisor? How do I get a copy of last semester's grades or verification that my student qualifies for a Good Student Discount for auto insurance? When is Commencement? What are the University Colleges and Academic Departments? Grades How do students get their grades? Can I check my student’s grades? Finances Is my student eligible for financial aid? How does my student apply for financial aid? Miscellaneous Where can my student buy their books and supplies for classes? How does my child reserve an on campus mail box? My student needs to withdraw from the University. What do they need to do? What is the University's organizational structure? Emergencies and Medical Problems How can I reach my student in an emergency if he or she is in class? How does my student withdraw for medical reasons? What if my student becomes ill while at college? Can he or she get any treatment on campus? What is LiveSafe? How can my student sign up for this service? Can my student sign me up for this service? Housing What are the dorms like? What sort of on-campus housing options are available? What sort of off-campus housing is available? Expenses How much is tuition? How can I pay my student's fees? Can I buy my student's textbooks online? Scholarships, Aid, and Student Employment What sort of financial aid or scholarships are available? Is my student eligible for in-state tuition? Is my student eligible for a Tennessee Hope lottery scholarship? Does the University offer any internships? What jobs are available on campus for students? Campus Safety How safe is campus? Career & Psychological Counseling Center Can I make an appointment for my daughter/son to do career testing? Can anyone come in for counseling whenever they want? Is there a limit on how many times they can come in? Can I come with them to their appointments? Is there a charge for counseling? Can you give my child an aptitude test to show them what they’re good at? Is there a psychiatrist available for prescribing medication, like for ADD or depression? Are services only for undergraduates? Disability Resources for Students Can my daughter/son get testing for ADHD/LD before school starts so s/he doesn’t have to wait? How much does the ADHD/LD testing cost? I would like to have my son/daughter evaluated for a Learning Disability or Attention Deficit Disorder. Are there any places on campus that can do this type of evaluation? If my son/daughter registers with Disability Resources for Students, will reference to his/her disability appear on his/her transcript? I am concerned about my son/daughter’s disability limitations will affect his/her career choice. Can you assist with this? Life After College Does the University help students find jobs after they graduate? Dining Services What is Dining Dollar$? How can I add Tiger Funds to my student's account? What are the costs for meal plans? Information Technology Is there a computer lab in the new University Center? Can my student rent a laptop from the University? Parking Services How can my student obtain a parking pass? What is priority parking? Calendar When are semester breaks, finals, and other important dates? Health Insurance How can I get health insurance for my student through the university? Visiting Campus How do I get to campus? Honors Program What is the Honors Program? Can anyone apply to be in the Honors Program? More Information I can't find the answer I need on this page. Can you help? Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 6/29/20 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.