Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Coronavirus (COVID-19) Information Menu University Updates About Baylor Dashboard COVID-19 Contact Isolation and Quarantine Procedures - 2022 Faculty & Staff Resources How to Report a COVID-19 Positive Case COVID-19 Testing Information Vaccine Information Hybrid or Remote Work Resources Learning Together External Resources FAQs Testing, Face Coverings Vaccination Isolation/Quarantine Procedures Student Health, Pastoral Care and Counseling Services Operations & Facilities Interim COVID-19 Policies/University Requirements General Information About COVID-19 COVID-19 Information Sources Outside of Waco Travel Contacts COVID-19 Testing Vaccination Information Resources Primary Resources For Students For Faculty and Staff Travel Advisories and Resources From the CDC COVID-19 Contact Baylor>Coronavirus (COVID-19) Information>Resources>For Students For Students Interim COVID Policies These interim policies include updated guidance regarding COVID-19 protocols on campus. COVID-19 Testing Information Baylor University Isolation and Quarantine Procedures that show what you should do if you are exposed to or test positive for COVID-19. Baylor Office of the Registrar For any registration-related or academic records questions. Baylor University Libraries For help accessing resources remotely and librarian assistance. Student Technology and Student Success Resources Discover resources available from departments and programs to help you master classes of all formats. Paul L. Foster Success Center The Paul L. Foster Success Center (PLFSC) provides a supportive environment for all students with a wide range of services intentionally designed to undergird and maximize opportunities for success in their Baylor experience. Email: Success_Center@baylor.edu Baylor Health Services in the McLane Student Life Center Call Baylor Health Services at 254-710-1010 or log in to the Health Portal on the Health Services website to make an appointment. When the health center is closed or the University is closed for the holidays, Baylor students have 24/7 access to on-demand urgent care through Baylor Telehealth by AcademicLiveCare. Baylor Spiritual Life and University Chaplain 254-710-1735 Dr. Burt Burleson, University Chaplain Tyler Conway, Senior Coordinator for Care and Campus Ministries Students also may reach out to Resident Chaplains. Baylor Counseling Center 254-710-2467 Email: Counseling_Center@baylor.edu CARE Team Services The Department of CARE Team Services is a team of case managers who connect students to resources both on and off campus and offer holistic care through creating trusting relationships. Campus Living & Learning Baylor Center for Global Engagement 254-710-2657 Email: Global_Baylor@baylor.edu Email: StudyAbroad@baylor.edu Baylor International Student and Scholar Services 254-710-1461 Email: ISSS_Support@baylor.edu Baylor Bookstore For assistance, call 254-710-2161 or email baylor@bkstr.com. Resources Primary Resources For Students For Faculty and Staff Travel Advisories and Resources From the CDC General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 University Updates About Baylor Dashboard COVID-19 Contact Isolation and Quarantine Procedures - 2022 Faculty & Staff Resources How to Report a COVID-19 Positive Case COVID-19 Testing Information Vaccine Information Hybrid or Remote Work Resources Learning Together External Resources FAQs Testing, Face Coverings Vaccination Isolation/Quarantine Procedures Student Health, Pastoral Care and Counseling Services Operations & Facilities Interim COVID-19 Policies/University Requirements General Information About COVID-19 COVID-19 Information Sources Outside of Waco Travel Contacts COVID-19 Testing Vaccination Information Resources Primary Resources For Students For Faculty and Staff Travel Advisories and Resources From the CDC COVID-19 Contact