Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. UC News UC News right arrow down arrow UC News Search Topics right arrow down arrow UC Answers #UCtheGood In The News Arts & Culture Science & Tech International Athletics Health College Bound Impact right arrow down arrow #UCtheGood Insights Diversity Experience-Based Learning Next Lives Here Bicentennial COVID-19 Student Experience Colleges right arrow down arrow College of Allied Health Sciences College of Arts & Sciences College of Business Blue Ash College Clermont College College-Conservatory of Music College of Design, Architecture, Art, and Planning College of Education, Criminal Justice, & Human Services College of Engineering and Applied Science Graduate School College of Law College of Medicine College of Nursing College of Pharmacy Units right arrow down arrow Academic Health Center Admissions Alumni Association Board of Trustees Campus Services Equity and Inclusion Hoxworth Human Resources IT@UC Libraries Office of Innovation Office of Research President's Office Provost Public Safety Student Affairs UC Foundation Veteran's Affairs Continuing Education Media Contacts Featured News Meduza: Genocide in Ukraine May 31, 2022 Erin Farrell Rosenberg, a Visiting Scholar with the Urban Morgan Institute for Human Rights at the University of Cincinnati College of Law, was one of four panelists discussing genocide with the Latvian-based news publication Meduza. Local 12 News: ‘It’s changing my life’: Ten students awarded... May 30, 2022 Benya Coleman, a recent graduate of Hughes STEM High School, spoke with Local 12 News reporter Jenna Cisneros about her award of the Marian Spencer Scholarship to attend the University of Cincinnati this fall. Imaging Technology News: First FLASH proton therapy trial... May 27, 2022 The University of Cincinnati's John Breneman, MD, spoke with Imaging Technology News about the completion of enrollment of the FAST-01 trial, the first FLASH proton therapy trial completed in humans. Debug Query for this Latest News Keyword topics Select topics Answers Arts & Culture Athletics Bicentennial College bound COVID-19 Diversity Entrepreneurship Experience-based Learning Faculty Staff Health Impact In The News Insights International Must Read Next Lives Here Science & Tech Student Experience Thought Leadership colleges Select colleges College of Arts and Sciences Blue Ash College College of Allied Health Sciences College-Conservatory of Music College of Engineering and Applied Science College of Education, Criminal Justice, & Human Services Clermont College Lindner College of Business College of Design, Architecture, Art, and Planning Graduate School College of Law College of Medicine College of Nursing Online College of Pharmacy Clear All Filters {{facet.display}} remove {{facet.display}} remove {{facet.display}} remove {{facet.display}} remove Meduza: Genocide in Ukraine May 31, 2022 Erin Farrell Rosenberg, a Visiting Scholar with the Urban Morgan Institute for Human Rights at the University of Cincinnati College of Law, was one of four panelists discussing genocide with the Latvian-based news publication Meduza. Local 12 News: ‘It’s changing my life’: Ten students awarded... May 30, 2022 Benya Coleman, a recent graduate of Hughes STEM High School, spoke with Local 12 News reporter Jenna Cisneros about her award of the Marian Spencer Scholarship to attend the University of Cincinnati this fall. Imaging Technology News: First FLASH proton therapy trial... May 27, 2022 The University of Cincinnati's John Breneman, MD, spoke with Imaging Technology News about the completion of enrollment of the FAST-01 trial, the first FLASH proton therapy trial completed in humans. KNX In Depth: Twitter cracks down on misinformation May 27, 2022 Social media expert Jeffrey Blevins featured guest on live radio show, KNX InDepth. The topic is Twitter and information regulation. 6ABC: Light pollution can interfere with monarch migration May 26, 2022 National media highlight biology research in UC's College of Arts and Sciences that finds light pollution affects the navigation ability of monarch butterflies. WLWT: UC finance professor encourages investors not to panic May 25, 2022 Even though the stock market has experienced extra volatility in recent weeks, investors shouldn’t panic, WLWT reported. Legal News Network: Delivering bad news to clients May 25, 2022 Marjorie Aaron, professor of practice and director of the Center for Practice in the UC College of Law, spoke with the Lawyerist Podcast on Legal News Network for a segment about delivering bad news to clients. NYT: Glyndebourne Opera Festival revives 'The Wreckers' starring... May 24, 2022 The New York Times features the Glyndebourne Festival Opera's revival of The Wreckers by British composer Ethel Smyth, which features UC College-Conservatory of Music alumna Karis Tucker (MM Voice, '16). The mezzo-soprano plays Thurza in the opera, which runs May 21-June 24 at the Festival. WATCH: Ilya Finkelshteyn featured in latest episode of Showcase... May 24, 2022 On this episode of Showcase, Barbara is joined by Cincinnati Symphony Orchestra Cellist Ilya Finkelshteyn to discuss the newly obtained Montagnana Cello. Crafted by master luthier Domenico Montagnana, from Venice Italy, whose work is sought after by orchestras and collectors alike. Ilya talks about the history and impact this cello has on the CSO as well as gives us an exclusive solo performance. Local 12 News: Developing an app could help transgender people... May 24, 2022 Vesna Dominika Novak, PhD, associate professor in UC’s College of Engineering and Applied Science, spoke with Local 12 News about her research now available in the Journal of Voice. It shows the results of a 57-question survey of 21 transgender and gender diverse individuals focusing on voice, technology app usage, surgery, training and gender expression and identity. Yahoo News/WCPO: Health leaders investigating monkeypox May 24, 2022 WCPO interviewed Carl Fichtenbaum, MD, of the Division of Infectious Diseases at the UC College of Medicine about the monkeypox outbreak. Construction Brothers Podcast: Be a builder, not a broker May 23, 2022 Tim Steigerwald, president of Messer Construction, spoke with the host of Construction Brothers Podcast about improvements in the construction industry and the growing role of co-op. Stegerwald called out UC’s role in co-op, the university is ranked in the top four of schools providing co-op experiences for students nationally. 55KRC: Naomi Judd suicide brings awareness to mental health... May 23, 2022 The University of Cincinnati's Caleb Adler discussed the recent death by suicide of singer Naomi Judd, risk factors for suicide and resources available for those struggling with mental health issues. WVXU: Scientists track next virus down to ZIP code May 23, 2022 UC College of Engineering and Applied Science professor Manish Kumar is working with Cincinnati Children's Hospital and the University of Dayton on new predictive models for tracking the spread of infectious diseases like COVID-19. Cincinnati Business Courier: Filak’s own medical practice lends... May 23, 2022 The Cincinnati Business Courier profiled Andrew Filak, MD, dean of the UC College of Medicine. Load More Debug Query for this University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45220 513-556-0000 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45220 513-556-0000 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top