Music & Music Education Skip to content Skip to primary navigation Skip to search box Skip to admissions quick links Skip to secondary navigation Skip to breadcrumb TC Menu Search for people, news & websites Go Resource Links Prospective Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links Columbia Library myTC Directory Apply Now Request Info Search Bar Primary Navigation About Academics Admission & Aid Faculty & Research News Give to TC Music & Music Education Secondary Navigation Main Degrees & Requirements Courses Faculty Research Secondary Navigation More News About Studio Music Lessons Resources Events Teachers College Community Choir Alumni TC Arts & Humanities Music & Music Education Carousel Find Your Fit Launch or advance your professional career in music education through this student-centered program at Teacher’s College, Columbia University. Learn More About Us In Your Program Our students learn from one another in our constructivist environment full of meaningful music making and learning. Whether you study classical or jazz, early childhood or college teaching, we will prepare you for roles in teaching, research, and performance. View Our Degrees See Your Future Grow into an extraordinary music educator and help improve music instruction through this highly customizable graduate program in NYC. Explore Our News Apply Now for Admission Take the next step and start your application today! Apply Now Welcome to the Music & Music Education program The Program in Music and Music Education program at Teachers College, Columbia University embraces humanistic values as they relate to contemporary musical and educational life. while respecting the musical traditions of the past. The faculty in Music and Music Education recognize the importance and uniqueness of the arts in our society and strive to offer flexible and individualized programs for the preparation of musician-educators. Faculty members are seasoned educator-musicians and practitioners, who reflect a wide range of expertise in comprehensive musicianship, early childhood music, instrumental and jazz pedagogy, vocal and choral performance, assessment, improvisation, jazz, technology, and the full spectrum of public and private school music through graduate school and research practices. You'll study and learn alongside diverse musicians who come from all over the world to study in this esteemed school of education. You’ll benefit from our location in New York City, the most eclectic and vibrant music center in the world. Choose Your Degree I'm interested in Initial Certification in Music Education (PK-12) I'm interested in advanced study in Music and Music Education (non-certification track) I'm interested in doctoral study The Master of Arts degree (M.A) leading toward Initial New York State Teacher Certification is a program designed for students with an undergraduate degree in music who wish to prepare for teaching music in the public schools. The Master of Education degree (Ed.M.) leading toward initial New York State Teacher Certification is a program designed for students with a graduate degree in music who wish to prepare for teaching in the public schools. M.A in Music and Music Education with initial NYSED certification (40 credits) Ed.M. in Music and Music Education with initial NYSED certification (60 credits) The Hybrid Summer M.A in Music and Music education offers an intellectually rigorous and creatively engaging education that prepares you for the challenges and rewards of teaching music in the 21st century with a two summers of intensive coursework in New York City. The traditional M.A. program is designed to allow flexibility in course selection, so that each student may prepare for his or her professional career in music education. The M.A. degree is geared toward musicians and music teachers who wish to further their teaching, performing, and leadership skills. The Master of Education degree (Ed.M.) in Music and Music Education is an advanced professional degree for practitioners in music education that is designed to prepare graduates for careers in elementary schools, secondary schools, and colleges. It is well suited for individuals who are currently teaching and who wish to concentrate their studies further within the field and/or for individuals who are thinking about undertaking doctoral work but feel a need to first expand their grasp of current issues in the field. M.A. Summer Hybrid in Music and Music Education (32 credits) M.A. in Music and Music Education (32 credits) Ed.M. in Music and Music Education (60 credits) The primary purpose of the doctoral programs in Music and Music Education at Teachers College is to advance knowledge relevant to the teaching and learning of music and to prepare expert teachers of music and music education for careers as artists, scholars, researchers, and teacher educators in the field of music education. The doctoral programs in Music and Music Education are open to a wide range of interests, backgrounds, and professional ambitions in its applicants. Applicants to the doctoral programs ordinarily possess a master’s degree in Music, Music Education, or a related field and have significant prior professional experience at the PK-12 school or college/university level. The Ed.D. prepares students for positions in the teaching and supervision of music in elementary and secondary schools, the teaching and administration of music in early childhood settings, the teaching of music in schools and studios, the teaching and administration of music in colleges and universities, and careers in music and interdisciplinary areas, such as the arts and humanities, special and adult education. The Ed.D. in College Teaching is designed primarily for students with a high level of performance skills whose goal or present position is focused on the pedagogy of performance in higher education. Applicants have significant prior professional experience at the college/university level The Doctoral Summer Cohort Program is a unique offering designed for students who are also music faculty members holding full-time academic appointments who are interested in completing a doctoral program. It allows students to complete primary coursework over four summers and gain competency in Musicianship, Performance, Pedagogy, and Research. The program combines focused curriculum geared towards teaching with noted faculty in New York City. Students receive individual attention due to the small cohort size of incoming classes. Specifically, the Ed.D. Summer Cohort Program is a unique offering designed for music education professionals holding full-time professional appointments who are interested in completing a doctoral program. The Ed.D.C.T. Summer Cohort Program is designed primarily for music professionals with a high level of performance skill whose goal or present position is focused on the teaching of performance in higher education. Doctor of Education (Ed.D.) (90 credits) Ed.D. Summer cohort (90 credits) Doctor of Education in College Teaching (Ed.D.C.T) (90 credits) Ed.D.C.T. Summer cohort (90 credits) Events Stories View As View as grid View as list For admissions, please contact ahadmission@tc.columbia.edu Admissions Information /media/media-library-2018/images/program-admissions-info-boxes/resized-Admission-Info-4-lg-1.jpg|/media/media-library-2018/images/program-admissions-info-boxes/resized-Admission-Info-5-lg.jpg|/media/media-library-2018/images/program-admissions-info-boxes/resized-Admission-Info-1-lg.jpg|/media/media-library-2018/images/program-admissions-info-boxes/resized-Admission-Info-3-lg-1.jpg|/media/media-library-2018/images/program-admissions-info-boxes/resized-Admission-Info-2-lg.jpg|/media/media-library-2018/images/program-admissions-info-boxes/resized-Admission-1-lg-1.jpg Application Requirements Music and Music Education Master of Arts Master of Arts Initial Cert: Music Pre-K-12 Master of Education Initial Cert: Music Pre-K-12 Master of Education Non-Certification Doctor of Education Doctor of Education in College Teaching Music and Music Education (Summer Cohort) Doctor of Education Doctor of Education in College Teaching Music and Music Education (Summer Hybrid) Master of Arts Non-Certification Fund Your Degree Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Request Info Apply Now × Music and Music Education Master of Arts Major Code: MUSC Points/Credits: 32 Entry Terms: Spring/Summer/Fall Certification View Public Disclosure Notification Non-Certification Track Application Deadlines Spring: November 1 Summer/Fall (Priority): January 15 Summer/Fall (Final): Rolling * For details about rolling deadlines, visit our admission deadlines page. Supplemental Application Requirements/Comments * Online Degree Application, including Statement of Purpose and Resume Transcripts and/or Course-by-Course Evaluations for all Undergraduate/Graduate Coursework Completed Results from an accepted English Proficiency Exam (if applicable) $65 Application Fee Two (2) Letters of Recommendation Program does not lead toward certification, applicants should already be certified or not seeking certification * Additional information and requirements from the program are listed on the Degrees & Requirements page. View Degree Page × Music and Music Education Master of Arts Major Code: MUSC-INIT Points/Credits: 40 Entry Terms: Summer/Fall Certification View Public Disclosure Notification NY State Initial: Music Pre-K-12 Application Deadlines Spring: N/A Summer/Fall (Priority): January 15 Summer/Fall (Final): April 15 Supplemental Application Requirements/Comments * Online Degree Application, including Statement of Purpose and Resume Transcripts and/or Course-by-Course Evaluations for all Undergraduate/Graduate Coursework Completed Results from an accepted English Proficiency Exam (if applicable) $65 Application Fee Two (2) Letters of Recommendation GRE General Test Performance Recordings (included in online application) * Additional information and requirements from the program are listed on the Degrees & Requirements page. View Degree Page × Music and Music Education Master of Education Major Code: MUSC-INIT Points/Credits: 60 Entry Terms: Summer/Fall Certification View Public Disclosure Notification NY State Initial: Music Pre-K-12 Application Deadlines Spring: N/A Summer/Fall (Priority): January 15 Summer/Fall (Final): April 15 Supplemental Application Requirements/Comments * Online Degree Application, including Statement of Purpose and Resume Transcripts and/or Course-by-Course Evaluations for all Undergraduate/Graduate Coursework Completed Results from an accepted English Proficiency Exam (if applicable) $65 Application Fee Two (2) Letters of Recommendation GRE General Test Performance Recordings (included in online application) Must hold Master's degree in Music * Additional information and requirements from the program are listed on the Degrees & Requirements page. View Degree Page × Music and Music Education Master of Education Major Code: MUSC Points/Credits: 60 Entry Terms: Spring/Summer/Fall Certification View Public Disclosure Notification Non-Certification Track Application Deadlines Spring: November 1 Summer/Fall (Priority): January 15 Summer/Fall (Final): Rolling * For details about rolling deadlines, visit our admission deadlines page. Supplemental Application Requirements/Comments * Online Degree Application, including Statement of Purpose and Resume Transcripts and/or Course-by-Course Evaluations for all Undergraduate/Graduate Coursework Completed Results from an accepted English Proficiency Exam (if applicable) $65 Application Fee Two (2) Letters of Recommendation Program does not lead toward certification, applicants should already be certified or not seeking certification * Additional information and requirements from the program are listed on the Degrees & Requirements page. View Degree Page × Music and Music Education Doctor of Education Major Code: MUSC Points/Credits: 90 Entry Terms: Fall Only Application Deadlines Spring: N/A Summer/Fall (Priority): January 5 Summer/Fall (Final): January 5 Supplemental Application Requirements/Comments * Online Degree Application, including Statement of Purpose and Resume Transcripts and/or Course-by-Course Evaluations for all Undergraduate/Graduate Coursework Completed Results from an accepted English Proficiency Exam (if applicable) $65 Application Fee Two (2) Letters of Recommendation Academic Writing Sample * Additional information and requirements from the program are listed on the Degrees & Requirements page. View Degree Page × Music and Music Education Doctor of Education in College Teaching Major Code: MUSC Points/Credits: 90 Entry Terms: Fall Only Application Deadlines Spring: N/A Summer/Fall (Priority): January 5 Summer/Fall (Final): January 5 Supplemental Application Requirements/Comments * Online Degree Application, including Statement of Purpose and Resume Transcripts and/or Course-by-Course Evaluations for all Undergraduate/Graduate Coursework Completed Results from an accepted English Proficiency Exam (if applicable) $65 Application Fee Two (2) Letters of Recommendation Academic Writing Sample Performance Recordings (included in online application) * Additional information and requirements from the program are listed on the Degrees & Requirements page. View Degree Page × Music and Music Education (Summer Cohort) Doctor of Education Major Code: MUSC Points/Credits: 90 Entry Terms: Summer Only Application Deadlines Spring: N/A Summer/Fall (Priority): January 5 Summer/Fall (Final): January 5 Supplemental Application Requirements/Comments * Online Degree Application, including Statement of Purpose and Resume Transcripts and/or Course-by-Course Evaluations for all Undergraduate/Graduate Coursework Completed Results from an accepted English Proficiency Exam (if applicable) $65 Application Fee Two (2) Letters of Recommendation Academic Writing Sample * Additional information and requirements from the program are listed on the Degrees & Requirements page. View Degree Page × Music and Music Education (Summer Cohort) Doctor of Education in College Teaching Major Code: MUSC Points/Credits: 90 Entry Terms: Summer Only Application Deadlines Spring: N/A Summer/Fall (Priority): January 5 Summer/Fall (Final): January 5 Supplemental Application Requirements/Comments * Online Degree Application, including Statement of Purpose and Resume Transcripts and/or Course-by-Course Evaluations for all Undergraduate/Graduate Coursework Completed Results from an accepted English Proficiency Exam (if applicable) $65 Application Fee Two (2) Letters of Recommendation Academic Writing Sample Performance Recordings (included in online application) * Additional information and requirements from the program are listed on the Degrees & Requirements page. View Degree Page × Music and Music Education (Summer Hybrid) Master of Arts Major Code: MUSC Points/Credits: 32 Entry Terms: Spring/Summer Certification View Public Disclosure Notification Non-Certification Track Application Deadlines Spring: December 13 Summer/Fall (Priority): February 1 Summer/Fall (Final): June 1 Supplemental Application Requirements/Comments * Online Degree Application, including Statement of Purpose and Resume Transcripts and/or Course-by-Course Evaluations for all Undergraduate/Graduate Coursework Completed Results from an accepted English Proficiency Exam (if applicable) $65 Application Fee Two (2) Letters of Recommendation * Additional information and requirements from the program are listed on the Degrees & Requirements page. View Degree Page Contact Us Program Director: Kelly Parkes Contact Person: Malika Amraoui Phone: (212) 678-3285 Fax: (212) 678-4048 Email: musiced@tc.edu Contact Us Teachers College, Columbia University 525 West 120th Street New York, NY 10027 Tel: +1 (212) 678-3000 Map & Directions Directory Ask a Question Resources Admission & Aid Student Life Courses Academic Calendar Office of the Registrar Office of Teacher Education TC NEXT Employment Legal Consumer Information / Student Right to Know Legal Notices Policy Library Non-Discrimination Title IX Compliance Ethics Reporting Public Safety GDPR Notice Make a Gift to TC Diversity Work at TC TC Facebook TC Twitter TC Instagram TC Youtube TC LinkedIn © 2022, Teachers College, Columbia University, New York, NY 10027. Back to skip to quick links