Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Human Resources Retirement Retirement Medicare Social Security Working at SMU Working at SMU Staff Careers Faculty Careers Temporary Jobs Student Jobs Internal Applicant Get Involved Living In Dallas Benefits & Wellness Benefits & Wellness Health and Other Benefits Wellness Information Learning & Development Learning & Development Total Orientation Process for New Employees On-Demand Learning Professional Development Manager Development Workshops Manager Orientation Enrollment Instructions Cancel Enrollment or Switch Sessions Customized Learning Experiences Consultation FAQ for the LawRoom Training Tutorials Workshop Facilitators HR Training Room Linked-In Learning Courses Manager Lunch and Learn Series SMU Program for the Protection of Minors Continuing Education Credits/Units - Proof of Attendance Reference Library Training Summary Resources Resources New Employee Resources Faculty Resources Staff Resources Work-Life Resources Manager Resources Retiree Resources Safety at SMU SMU's Mission and Code of Ethics Forms Forms All HR Forms & Resources Benefits Compensation General HR Forms Exiting SMU Performance Review Employee Recognition Talent Acquisition and Management ☰ Human Resources Business Finance Human Resources Learning & Development Learning & Development The value of learning at SMU isn't just about preparing our students for the future. It's also about preparing ourselves. We hope you'll study the opportunities before you, plan your personal actions and have some fun along the way! As employees, we are fortunate to have access to a wide variety of professional and personal development opportunities. Although we encourage you to get to know HR's offerings, don't stop there! Other departments on campus offer programs that are quite popular among staff and faculty. Visit the website for the Office of Information Technology, the Office of Risk Management, Continuing and Professional Education (CAPE), and Cox Executive Education for a variety of offerings including certificate programs. SMU's individual schools offer a number of popular programs and eligible employees may be able to use tuition benefits toward specific courses of study. Visit the website for each program to learn more about the course offerings and requirements for degree completion. Many provide excellent part-time programs to meet the needs of the working professional. By utilizing the right-hand links on this page, you'll find information on the various learning opportunities offered through Human Resources as well as other departments. In addition, you'll find links to several of the degree-programs often of interest to SMU employees. Learning and Development Blog Learning & Development Total Orientation Process (TOP) On-Demand Learning Professional Development Opportunities Manager Development Workshops Manager Orientation Enrollment Instructions Cancel Enrollment or Switch Sessions Customized Learning Experiences Consultation FAQ for the LawRoom Training Tutorials HR Facilitators HRTR Request Form Linked-In Learning Manager Lunch and Learn Series SMU Program for the Protection of Minors Continuing Education Credits/Units - Proof of Attendance Reference Library Training Summary Can't find what you need? DevelopU@smu.edu benefitsu@smu.edu 214-768-3311 Quick Links Continuing and Professional Education Professional, Certification, Cultural offerings Cox Executive Education Professional Training Office of Information Technology Technical training Office of Risk Management EHS and Engaged Driving Tuition Benefits at SMU LinkedIn Learning online tutorial training Apply Visit Schools Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share