How to Apply Skip to content Skip to primary navigation Skip to search box Skip to admissions quick links Skip to secondary navigation Skip to breadcrumb How to Apply Start Your Application Secondary Navigation Main Home How to Apply How to Apply Degree Programs Advanced Certificate Programs Non-Degree Programs Workshops & Non-Credit Certificates International Applicants Application Deadlines FAQs Areas of Study Areas of Study All Programs Education Health Psychology Events Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Financial Aid How to Apply for Aid Types of Aid Current Students Understanding Your Cost of Attendance Accept Your Financial Aid Resources FAQs CARES Resources Our Team Our Team Admission Financial Aid TC Admission How to Apply Application Information Toggle Tertiary Menu Degree Programs Advanced Certificate Programs Non-Degree Programs Workshops & Non-Credit Certificates International Applicants Application Deadlines FAQs We believe in the power of educators to excite, inspire and advocate for positive change in our world. Our goal is to prepare the next generation of education leaders to meet the practice and policy challenges of the 21st century. If you’re looking to make a difference in how learners of all backgrounds and circumstances grow and thrive, we have a program designed for you. Instructions Faculty member, Srikala Naraian, listens to a student. Degree Programs View our guide to completing your application. Instructions A graduate student studies in the TC library using a book and her laptop. Advanced Certificates View our application instructions for our Advanced Certificates. Instructions A graduate student has an animated conversation with his peers at TC. Non-Degree Programs View instructions for General Non-Degree, Klingenstein Summer Institute, Klingenstein Heads of School program, or the School Law Institute. Instructions A group of students converse in a study group at Teachers College. Workshops & Non-Credit Certificates View our Continuing Professional Studies programs and application instructions. Instructions Contact Office of Admission Phone: 212-678-3710 admission@tc.columbia.edu Office of Financial Aid Phone: 212-678-3714 financialaid@tc.columbia.edu Follow Us on Social Media Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn YouTube Copyright © 2022 • All Rights Reserved • Privacy Notice Back to skip to quick links