Search | Directories | Reference Tools UW Home > Discover UW > Student Guide UW Bothell Course Descriptions UW Tacoma Course Descriptions Glossary SCHOOL OF LAW SCHOOL OF LAW LAW E Detailed course offerings (Time Schedule) are available for Spring Quarter 2022 Summer Quarter 2022 Autumn Quarter 2022 LAW E 500 Advanced Writing Project (1-3, max. 3) Independent research and writing project supervised by a faculty member. Projects are structured to develop skills in research, analysis, and writing. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: LAW E 500 LAW E 502 White Collar Crime (3-4) View course details in MyPlan: LAW E 502 LAW E 503 Analytic Writing (3) View course details in MyPlan: LAW E 503 LAW E 505 International Business Compliance (4) Examines legal regulations covering businesses operating internationally, including ways businesses structure efforts to comply with those regulations. Risk management principles applied by businesses, the roles of lawyers, directors, and others in the compliance program, and the underlying law that compliance programs address. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: LAW E 505 LAW E 506 Business and Financial Literacy for Law Students (3) Introduces students to a broad range of fundamental business and financial topics. Emphasizes breadth, relevance, and promoting a basic understanding of foundational business concepts and terms; financial statements; quantitative concepts; how markets function; core business challenges; and practical, business-related challenges often faced by lawyers. View course details in MyPlan: LAW E 506 LAW E 507 Access to Justice Seminar (2) Explores the legal, ethical, and financial issues involved in providing legal services to moderate income persons. Uses a combination of lectures and interactive discussion. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: LAW E 507 LAW E 508 Persuasive Writing (2-4) Anderson Studies persuasion and rhetoric by practicing legal argument: working with facts, framing issues, constructing legal arguments. Studies examples of good and bad persuasive writing. Students practice written advocacy skills in a number of assignments. Students practice advocacy in the context of pre-trial motions and appeals. View course details in MyPlan: LAW E 508 LAW E 509 European Union Law (2-4) Survey of the legal origins of the European Union and the synthesis of the major European legal traditions achieved. Focus on the process of harmonizing national laws of the member states and economic integration in the area of competition law and free movement of goods and services. View course details in MyPlan: LAW E 509 LAW E 510 Banking Law (2-3) Introduces the basics of banking law and regulation. Topics include separate sections on U.S. regulation of financial services with emphasis on federal regulation of banks, and on international, cross-border, and comparative banking regulatory issues. View course details in MyPlan: LAW E 510 LAW E 511 Venture Capital Deals (4) O-Conner Focuses on the legal environment of venture capital (VC) financing of technology start-ups. Analyzes relevant statues and regulations, and the standard set of negotiated terms in typical VC deals. Students negotiate and draft VC deal documents. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: LAW E 511 LAW E 512 Rule of Law in a Global Context (2/3) Anita Ramasastry Political systems must operate according to the "rule of law" to be deemed legitimate. What does this mean? Explores the meaning of the rule of law, and the importance of the rule of law in terms of economic, socio-political, and human development. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: LAW E 512 LAW E 513 Theories and Tools for Combatting Corruption ([1-4]-, max. 4) Corruption has been identified as an obstacle to development, and a 'cost of doing business' in many countries. Examines theories, causes and consequences of corruption, and select regimes established to combat and measure it, e.g., UNCAC, ORCD Anti-Bribery Convention, U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and the Transparency International's Corruption Perceptions Index. View course details in MyPlan: LAW E 513 LAW E 514 The Law of Nonprofit Organizations (2-4, max. 4) Examines laws generally applicable to nonprofit corporations and legal issue relating to cooperatives, credit unions, and thrift/mutual associations. Attention given to the Washington Nonprofit Corporations Act with comparable statutes and model legislation. View course details in MyPlan: LAW E 514 LAW E 515 Post-Conviction Review (2-4) Covers direct appeals and collateral remedies in state and federal criminal proceedings. Topics include jurisdictional issues, harmless error, exhaustion, time limits, cognizable claims, history of the Great Writ of habeas corpus, and the federal AEDPA statute. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: LAW E 515 LAW E 516 Criminal Procedure: Adjudication (4/5) Covers the formal charging, trial, and appellate stages of criminal proceedings, including grand jury proceedings, prosecutorial discretion in charging, pretrial release and detention, charging and venue joiner and severance, double jeopardy assistance of counsel, discovery, and disclosure, criminal trials appeals, and collateral post-conviction remedies. View course details in MyPlan: LAW E 516 LAW E 517 Legal Information Technology (2-4) A. THOMSON, B. WILLIAMS Introduces the theory and practice of legal informatics. View course details in MyPlan: LAW E 517 LAW E 518 Torts II (2-4, max. 4) Covers advanced topics in tort law, including defamation, invasion of privacy, intentional infliction of mental distress, medical malpractice, misuse of legal proceedings, misrepresentation, interference with prospective advantage, nuisance, products liability, toxic torts, trespass to chattels, conversion, and vicarious liability. Prerequisite: LAW A 504. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: LAW E 518 LAW E 519 Ninth Circuit Appellate Advocacy Clinic ([2-9]-, max. 9) Students develop and deploy a wide range of skills, including legal writing and analysis, communication skills, and the mechanics of filing a persuasive and compliant brief. Students also develop and master knowledge and application of the rules of civil procedure, appellate procedure, and substantive law of immigration or another area of law at issue in the appeal Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: LAW E 519 LAW E 520 European Union Constitution (4) Examines the European Union constitution adopted in the Lisbon Reform Treaty: history, values, and objectives; EU institutions and finances; economies, political, and constitutional competences; citizenship and democracy; human rights and fundamental freedoms; common foreign policy; security and defense; and amending the constitution. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: LAW E 520 LAW E 521 Litigation Perspectives: Bench to Trench (3) Focuses on areas of trial practice, highlighting difference between state/federal practice: client communications; cost effective case management; pleadings, discovery and motion practice; Rule 11 sanctions; local rules of Western District of Washington; mysteries inside judicial chambers; managing "big" case; settlement negotiation/ alternative dispute resolution; expert witnesses; demonstrative evidence; trial preparation; and the trial itself. View course details in MyPlan: LAW E 521 LAW E 522 Advanced Constitutional Law: Sexual Orientation and Gender Identity (1-4, max. 4) Examines various constitutional provisions from a gay rights perspective. Topics include the rights of equal protection and substantive due process, as well as the First and Ninth Amendments and the Full Faith and Credit Clause. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: LAW E 522 LAW E 523 Entrepreneurial Law Clinic ([1-9]-, max. 9) Prerequisite: LAW A 526, LAW E 547, or LAW A 546. Offered: S. View course details in MyPlan: LAW E 523 LAW E 524 Child Advocacy Clinic ([3-12]-, max. 12) View course details in MyPlan: LAW E 524 LAW E 525 Poverty Law (3-4) Overview of legal issues affecting poor people, including relevant background readings on poverty and access to justice, and selection problems such as housing and homelessness, education, employment issues of low-wage workers, income support and welfare reform, consumer law, family law, and child care. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: LAW E 525 LAW E 526 Law Reform in Transition Economies Seminar ([2-4]-, max. 6) Using interdisciplinary perspectives and case studies, this seminar probes the assumptions, methods and outcomes of commercial law reform in transition economies. Also highlights and critiques the role of international lawyers in this important, emerging area of practice. View course details in MyPlan: LAW E 526 LAW E 527 Bankruptcy Client Representation Project ([1-4]-, max. 4) Kuno Provides an opportunity for students to interview a client, evaluate the appropriateness of different forms on bankruptcy as a solution to their debt problems, and provide representations in obtaining the bankruptcy. Student teams are paired with pro bono attorneys under the supervision of a part-time faculty member. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: LAW E 527 LAW E 528 Masters of Jurisprudence Practicum (1/6) Experience with an approved non-profit organization, judicial or legislative body, or governmental agency on issues related to law and/or policy. Students work under the guidance of experienced practitioners. Both student and field supervisor provide the supervising law faculty member with a final written evaluation. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: LAW E 528 LAW E 529 Tribal Court Public Defense Clinic (4-, max. 12) Offers clinical training in substantive areas of law implicated in representation of Native American tribal court criminal and dependency proceedings. Open to third year students in the JD program. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: LAW E 529 LAW E 530 Race and Justice Clinic (3-4, max. 12) Focuses on how lawyers can address racial disparities for youth in the juvenile justice system by advocating in multiple forums. Students participate in direct representation on clients, community education, and coalition building. Topics include the history of race in juvenile justice, past efforts to reduce disproportionate minority contact in juvenile justice, the School to Prison Pipeline, skills training, community lawyering, and systems cha View course details in MyPlan: LAW E 530 LAW E 533 Rights in America Seminar: Equality, Liberty, and Democracy (4) Deep historical exploration of a jurisprudentially revolutionary constitutional conflict that pits courts, local government, and the U.S. Congress in passionate struggles over gay and lesbian antidiscrimination rights; freedoms of speech and religion; and African-American political equality in the nation's capital. Offered: S. View course details in MyPlan: LAW E 533 LAW E 534 Risk and Reward in Sustainable Development (3) Focuses on the intersection of green, high performing buildings and the law. Students learn to identify and understand the risks and challenges presented by high performing buildings, and analyze frameworks and strategies to manage and overcome these challenges. Offered: jointly with R E 559; Sp. View course details in MyPlan: LAW E 534 LAW E 535 Basic Income Tax Concepts (3) Basic federal income tax principles, how the tax law impacts a wide variety of business and personal transactions and decisions, and what a reformed tax law might look like. View course details in MyPlan: LAW E 535 LAW E 536 Practical and Professional Responsibility Issues in the Small or Solo Law Practice (3-4) Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: LAW E 536 LAW E 537 Refugee Law (2) Examines the processes in the United States for the admission of refugees and for the adjudication of asylum claims. Explores international refugee policy and evolving legal norms concerning asylum, temporary protection, repatriation, resettlement, and internal displacement. View course details in MyPlan: LAW E 537 LAW E 538 Transnational Civil Litigation in U.S. Courts (3-4) Examines the law governing private civil disputes in U.S. courts arising from transnational transactions, including: jurisdiction; forum selection and choice-of-law clauses; extraterritorial service of process, discovery, and application of U.S. law; parallel proceedings; foreign sovereign immunity; Act of State doctrine; and recognition and enforcement of foreign judgments. View course details in MyPlan: LAW E 538 LAW E 539 United States and European Union E-Commerce Law (2/3) Compares the different attitudes to regulation of e-commerce and the information society in the U.S. and the European Union. Topics may include: an introduction to European Union institutions, regulatory, cultural themes in the Internet; e-society and e-commerce in Europe; regulation of illegal, harmful content, and Internet Service Provider liability, etc. View course details in MyPlan: LAW E 539 LAW E 540 Transnational Litigation (3) John O Haley Considers transnational litigation involving civil, common, and hybrid law jurisdictions. Students learn nuances of how jurisdiction is asserted and forum determined in global transnational disputes. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: LAW E 540 LAW E 541 Cannabis Law Seminar (2) Seminar introduces student to federal and state laws governing medical and recreational cannabis. Guest lecturers will include government officials, cannabis law practitioners, and industry leaders. Students will write and present a substantial research or policy paper. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: LAW E 541 LAW E 542 Queer Youth Advocacy (2) Addresses the legal needs of lesbian, gay, bi-sexual, and transgendered youth. Topics include educational advocacy; legal consequences within the parent-child relationship, access, consent, and right to refuse physical and mental health services; and accessing services for homeless and foster youth. View course details in MyPlan: LAW E 542 LAW E 544 Privacy Law (2) Examines the legal doctrines of privacy and confidentiality used to protect personal information. Aims to understand how courts and legislatures seek to protect information as new technologies and institutional practices emerge. Studies scope and implications of federal statues that attempt to establish fair information practices with respect to electronic personal information. View course details in MyPlan: LAW E 544 LAW E 545 International Trade Law (2-4, max. 4) Introduces the legal framework, policies, and jurisprudence of the World Trade Organization (WTO). Provides an overview of the regulation of trade in goods, services, and intellectual property that is necessary for international legal practice, and provides the policy analysis to better understand the trade dimensions of international legal disputes. View course details in MyPlan: LAW E 545 LAW E 546 International Commercial Arbitration (2-3) Introduces the legal framework of international commercial arbitration (ICA) with a focus on the New York Convention of 1958 and the United States Federal Arbitration Act of 1925. View course details in MyPlan: LAW E 546 LAW E 547 Robotics Law and Policy (2) Explores the legal and policy aspects of near-term robotics and artificial intelligence. Relevant technologies include driverless cars, drones, medical, personal or service robots, and various expert systems. Readings draw from multiple disciplines, but focus particularly on legal or policy sources. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: LAW E 547 LAW E 549 International Investment Law and Practice (4/5) Examines the rise of international investment law and practice, including topics such as Bilateral Investment Treaties (BITs), standards of treatment, investor-state arbitrations, and social and political controversies related to the governance of foreign direct investment (FDI) in developed and developing countries. Offered: jointly with JSIS B 549. View course details in MyPlan: LAW E 549 LAW E 550 Complex Litigation Seminar (2-4) Examines practical and theoretical problems associated with complex litigation, including class actions and multidistrict litigation. Prerequisite: either LAW B 500 or LAW B 507. View course details in MyPlan: LAW E 550 LAW E 551 Law and Entrepreneurship (3/4) Planning-oriented course uses the problem method to explore the corporate tax and securities law, general business and financial considerations related to small business formation and financing. Prerequisite: LAW A 515; LAW A 530. View course details in MyPlan: LAW E 551 LAW E 552 Moderate Means Program Practicum (4) The UW Moderate Means Program Practicum provides students, working under faculty supervision, a hands-on, experiential course that will enhance their interviewing, issue spotting, legal research and legal writing skills, while at the same time providing help to individuals in Washington State who need civil legal assistance. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: LAW E 552 LAW E 553 Technology Law and Public Policy (2) Survey of the domains of public policies that have been affected by the information revolution. Examines issues from Internet taxation, to personal data privacy, information warfare. Discusses the implications of the new public policies and whether it is feasible for states to enact different information policies. View course details in MyPlan: LAW E 553 LAW E 554 Technology Law and Public Policy Clinic ([2-4]-, max. 12) Clinical training in legislative and public policy advocacy under supervision of law school faculty. Examines legislative process, drafting, commentary and advocacy, appellate advocacy, and professional responsibility concerns. Supervised practice experience representing public interest with respect to law and technology. Prerequisite: LAW E 553, which may be taken concurrently. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: LAW E 554 LAW E 555 Legislation ([2-5]-, max. 5) Studies topics related to legislation and the legislative process. Examines the structure and operation of legislative bodies as well as the contemporary debates and laws that surround the process. Considers the theories and canons of statutory construction and interpretation. Introduces the basic techniques of statutory drafting. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: LAW E 555 LAW E 556 International Human Rights Clinic ([1-12]-, max. 12) Interdisciplinary clinical training in international human rights. Includes seminar component on legal issues, practice skills, and reflections on human rights projects. Fieldwork on human rights projects tests, develops, and enhances skills training through real-world human rights practice with cross-campus, U.S., and international partnerships. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: LAW E 556 LAW E 557 Human Rights Advocacy Seminar ([2-4]-, max. 4) Provides interdisciplinary training in international human rights advocacy. Provides background knowledge and exposure to skills needed to participate effectively in advocacy efforts, including the Interdisciplinary International Human Rights Clinic. Offered: AW. View course details in MyPlan: LAW E 557 LAW E 558 Voting Rights Research and the Law (3) Address two primary topics related to the Voting Rights Act of 1965, Sections 2 and 5, and their application today: 1) redistricint and minority representation; and 2) the protection or suppression of the right to vote. Also includes introductory research metods and statistical analysis. View course details in MyPlan: LAW E 558 LAW E 560 Contemporary Muslim Legal Systems Seminar (2-6, max. 6) Provides a forum for in-depth research of legal developments in nations where governments are trying to establish legal systems that ensure economic development and human rights, while at the same time ensuring that their law respects "Islamic norms.' Prerequisite: LAW B 556. Instructors: Lombardi Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: LAW E 560 LAW E 561 Critical Race Theory (2-4) Provides an overview of Critical Race Theory (CRT) and the contrasts between CRT and liberal and conservative analytical frameworks on race and the law. Examines the questions and criticisms raised about CRT, as well as the impact of the field on legal and political discourse. View course details in MyPlan: LAW E 561 LAW E 562 Museum Law (3) Adam Eisenberg Explores the legal issues faced by art and science museums. Topics include copyright/trademark law, how the First Amendment protects controversial exhibits, repatriating Native American remains and cultural artifacts, donor rights, art appraising, wartime looting, and the ongoing debate over stewardship and ownership of the world's natural and cultural resources. Offered: jointly with MUSEUM 562; A. View course details in MyPlan: LAW E 562 LAW E 566 Washington Innocence Project Clinic (3-4, max. 12) Offers students clinical training investigating and litigating claims of actual innocence on behalf of prisoners serving lengthy sentences for serious crimes. Open to second- and third-year students in the JD program. View course details in MyPlan: LAW E 566 LAW E 567 Technology Transfer Law and Policy Seminar (2) O'Connor Covers the law and policy affecting university and non-profit research commercialization and technology transfer. Focuses on the Bayh-Dole Act, the laws and regulations covering data, copyrightable works, materials, tax exempt issues, employee assignments, and other matters. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: LAW E 567 LAW E 568 Indian Law Clinic (4-, max. 12) Supervised practice component on Indian law practice and procedure and advocacy skills. Provide legal advice, brief services, and representation to low income Indian clients under the direct supervision of a practicing attorney. Client counseling research, negotiation, and community education. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: LAW E 568 LAW E 569 Advanced Mediation Practicum (3) Ewalt Advanced clinical practicum in mediation under the supervision of the faculty and experienced mediators. Students convene and mediate cases referred to the Mediation Clinic from government agencies and other sources. Only for students who have successfully completed the Mediation Clinic LAW B 526, or have other comparable experience. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: LAW E 569 LAW E 570 International Economic Relations and Comparative Trade Policy (3/4) View course details in MyPlan: LAW E 570 LAW E 571 LatCrit Theory, Praxis and Community Seminar (2) Details LatCrit Theory from its origins to its present form as a branch of contemporary critical legal scholarship. Provides students with tools for understanding inter-group differences, including transnational dynamics, within the context of legal decisions and interpretations. View course details in MyPlan: LAW E 571 LAW E 572 Race and the Law (3-4) Evaluates the legal regulation of race in the United States. Addresses the racial and legal history of major groups in the United States, including African-Americans, Asian-American, Latinos, Native Americans, and whites, and examines the nexus between law and the construction of race as a concept and locus of identity. View course details in MyPlan: LAW E 572 LAW E 575 Veterans Legal Aid Clinic (3, max. 9) Students provide legal aid to low income veterans on upgrading military discharges, child support, VA housing programs, correcting criminal convictions, reinstating suspended driver licenses, assistance before VA on overpayments or complex benefits issues. Specialized outreach and service provided to incarcerated veterans, veterans in treatment courts, women veterans and homeless/at-risk veterans. View course details in MyPlan: LAW E 575 LAW E 576 Persuasive Oral Communication (3) No matter whether in the office, the conference room or the courtroom, all great lawyers must be great communicators. Course is designed to help achieve more effective, dynamic and persuasive speech. Workshop setting gives opportunities for regular practice in vocal skills, physical presence, rhetorical devices and acting techniques. There will be weekly assignments to prepare, which will be presented to the class as well as required readings. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: LAW E 576 LAW E 578 Foundations in American Law tested on the Bar Exam (2-8, max. 8) Provides LLM students an early start on bar exam preparation. Students review heavily tested areas across several bar exam subject areas while learning test taking strategy for the Essay Multistate and MPT portions of the Washington UBE, NY, or CA bar exams. Offered: WSp. View course details in MyPlan: LAW E 578 LAW E 579 International and Foreign Law Research (2-3) Overview of international law materials. Examines primary materials in the vernacular and in translations: constitutions, charters, codes, administrative rules, cases, treaties, and other international agreements. Focuses on practice tools such as directories, guides, digests, and proceedings. Prerequisite: LAW A 506 or permission of instructor. View course details in MyPlan: LAW E 579 LAW E 580 Gender Violence and the Law (3-4) Introduces substantive legal areas including: evidence and rape shield laws; protection orders; civil liability of perpetrators and third-parties, and restorative civil remedies in housing, employment, and education contexts. Looks at national trends and primarily focuses on Washington State Law. View course details in MyPlan: LAW E 580 LAW E 581 Reproductive Rights and Justice Seminar (4) Ainsworth Provides students with an in-depth study of the constitutional framework governing reproductive rights, as well as critiques of that framework from feminist theorist, those who oppose abortion and contraception, and those whose reproduction and sexuality have been historically marginalized and regulated. Studies different bases in the law for reproductive rights claims, including privacy, equality, and dignity. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: LAW E 581 LAW E 582 Information Policy: Domestic and Global (5) National and international information policy: public and private sector policy in terms of privacy, access, and exploitation; technology infrastructures and policies supporting the information industries. Coverage includes freedom of information privacy, copyright, telecommunications, and emerging technologies. View course details in MyPlan: LAW E 582 LAW E 583 Globalization and the Law ([1-6]-, max. 6) Focuses on the rise of global law, intersection of national, international, and global law, and the legitimacy of global law. View course details in MyPlan: LAW E 583 LAW E 584 Masters of Jurisprudence Professional Development Seminar (1-, max. 2) Professional development colloquium for Masters of Jurisprudence students. Students learn about professional opportunities available for Masters of Jurisprudence graduates, and obtain key skills to access positions to optimize their opportunities. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: WSp. View course details in MyPlan: LAW E 584 LAW E 590 Incarcerated Parents Advocacy Clinic ([4-5]-, max. 9) Students advocate for incarcerated parents seeking to preserve relationships with children despite incarceration. Supervised by clinic faculty, students represent incarcerated parents in dependency and other court proceedings, working with clients and families to maintain the parent-child relationship. Students develop interviewing and counseling, negotiations, and trial preparation skills. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: LAW E 590 LAW E 591 Non-Profit Organizations Clinic (1-3, max. 3) Provides students with an opportunity to represent a real client in setting up a non-profit organization and applying for tax-exempt status. Students draft multiple documents such as articles of incorporation, applications for tax-exempt status, and client communications. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: LAW E 591 LAW E 592 Federal Appellate Advocacy (1-6, max. 6) Representation of an otherwise pro se litigant in an appeal in the Ninth Circuit. Preparation of the opening and reply brief and conduct the oral argument. Requires substantial research, multiple drafts, and painstaking familiarity with the record. Prerequisite: permission of the instructor. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: LAW E 592 LAW E 594 Regulatory Environmental Law and Policy ([1-12]-, max. 12) Examines the applied and theoretical dimensions of environmental rule-making, with particular emphasis on the development of an administrative record. Students prepare written comments on pending rules proposed by governmental agencies. Prerequisite: either LAW A 527 or LAW B 585; LAW A 509, which may be taken concurrently. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: LAW E 594 LAW E 595 Animal Law (3) Examines substantive law and procedure, specific cases, legislation, and background societal mores that force an evolution and backlash in the level of jurisprudential and legislative comfort with new ways of seeing and speaking about animals other than humans. Offered: WSp. View course details in MyPlan: LAW E 595 LAW E 596 Wildlife Law Seminar (3) Anderson, Knudsen Covers the basic issues involved in the law of fish and wildlife management. Topics include the relationship between property and wildlife, federalism issues, and international regulatory regimes. View course details in MyPlan: LAW E 596 LAW E 597 Global Warming and Justice Seminar (4) Rodgers Explores case studies (worldwide but with an emphasis on indigenous peoples) addressing multiple legal responses to the consequences of climate change. Explores remedies under U.S. and international law. Offered: WSp. View course details in MyPlan: LAW E 597 LAW E 598 Climate Change Law (3-4) Rodgers Develops student understanding of the consequences of anticipated climate change across a spectrum of issues that include human health, the Earth, and its oceans. Covers the practice of agriculture, revised energy futures, legislative responses to climate change, and local, state, regional, and tribal efforts to address it. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: LAW E 598 LAW E 599 Legislative Advocacy Clinic (2-6, max. 15) Clinical training in legislative and public policy advocacy. Topics include the legislative process, drafting commentary, advocacy, building a legislative agenda, working with coalitions, and ethics. Direct work with non-profit and other organizations advocating in the state legislature to develop and move legislation as well as respond to proposed legislation. Prerequisite: LAW A 579. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: LAW E 599 Office of the University Registrar registrar@uw.edu Modified: May 30, 2022