Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Skip to primary site search Google Tag Manager Physics Show/Hide About Graduate Undergraduate Concentrations AP, IB & Transfer Credit Honors Senior Theses Research Opportunities Ways to Get Involved! Resources Prospective Students Research Courses People Events Centers Diversity & Inclusion Room Reservations Resources During COVID Research Opportunities The variety of research opportunities for undergraduates at Brown is substantial. Students are welcome, and encouraged, to become involved in research; participation is voluntary and can begin as early as the freshman year. Early affiliation as a volunteer can lead to summer or academic-year employment and provide the foundation for substantial research projects and a senior thesis. It is not uncommon for this research to result in student presentations at meetings of the American Physical Society or co-authorship of published papers. The University’s UTRA program provides opportunities for collaborative work between Brown students and faculty members and allows students to gain insight into the structure of academic research in a particular field. Students are also able to arrange research positions with faculty that are not funded through the UTRA process; students should consult with faculty regarding these possibilities. There are also many national and international undergraduate research programs, most notably the National Science Foundation’s REU program. Research Opportunities at Brown Current Research Projects: Find out about the physics research Brown undergraduates are doing this summer. Past Research Projects: Be inspired by the many different undergraduate projects from the past few years. Want to get involved? Explore the Current Openings. (Note that this page will be updated each year by the first week in November to coincide with the department Poster Session.) Undergraduate Concentrations AP, IB & Transfer Credit Honors Senior Theses Research Opportunities Ways to Get Involved! Resources Prospective Students Explore Brown University Search Brown Show/Hide Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Department of Physics Department of Physics Brown University Box 1843 182 Hope Street Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-2641 Fax: 401-863-2024 Email [email protected] Twitter Twitter Facebook Facebook Make a Gift Giving to Brown Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat