Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Limited Tobacco-Use Campus Designated Areas Facts FAQ Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact PreviousNext Take Action Tobacco Policy Map of Designated Areas Getting in the Tobacco-Free Tiger Zone Smokers Can’t Do This Follow Us Online twitter Home Limited Tobacco-Use Campus Limited Tobacco-Use Policy The University of Memphis believes that a healthy, safe and aesthetically pleasing campus environment for students, faculty and staff to learn, live, and work is beneficial to everyone. In 2011, UofM President Shirley Raines appointed a committee to develop a 'healthy campus' initiative. Named Memphis Healthy U, the initiative has three action components: move more, eat healthier and be tobacco-free. The tobacco-free initiative was originally proposed by the Student Government Association, which enacted a resolution calling for a smoke-free campus. The Faculty Senate and Staff Senate then passed similar resolutions. Building on these developments, the University's Policy Review Board approved a comprehensive policy to limit the use of tobacco on all UofM campuses by faculty, staff, students, contractors and visitors. It will be effective October 1, 2012, 24 hours a day, year round. The complete policy can be viewed at http://policies.memphis.edu/UM1738.htm, but key components include: Tobacco use is not permitted in any UofM-owned or leased property, including grounds, vehicles, and buildings. The only exception is residential rental properties governed by tenant leases, and individual guest rooms designated as 'smoking rooms' in the UofM Holiday Inn and the Fogelman Executive Center. Tobacco use is also prohibited in all state-owned vehicles. Several sites on the main, Park Avenue (South Campus), Lambuth and Millington campuses have been designated where the use of tobacco products is permitted. These sites are noted via links on the Designated Areas page. In developing the new policy, the University took the following statistics into account: Almost 70 percent of UofM students said they had not used tobacco in the past year. (Core Alcohol and Drug Survey, 2011) Tennessee ranks fifth in the nation in terms of tobacco usage. The U.S. Surgeon General's office has determined that tobacco smoking is the leading preventable cause of death and disability in the United States. Approximately 50,000 Americans die each year from lung cancer and heart disease because of exposure to second-hand smoke. (Centers for Disease Control) The risk for most chronic diseases can be reduced by changes in personal lifestyle, such as increased physical activity, a healthier diet and not smoking or using tobacco products. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 8/8/19 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.