Skip to main content Skip to main content Degree Programs Perkins Chapel Bridwell Library Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Contact Us Contact Us Follow Us Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Twitter Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Perkins School of Theology About About Mission Perkins United Methodist Seminaries Accreditation Statement of Educational Effectiveness Executive Board History Administration and Staff Habito Labyrinth Directions Campus Map Faculty & Academics Faculty & Academics Academic Services Bridwell Library Degree Programs Faculty by Teaching Area Faculty Listing A-Z Faculty Publications Perkins Video Library Global Theological Education Home Hybrid Houston-Galveston Extension Program Degree Interest Areas Perkins Intern Program Other Academic Programs Spiritual Formation Program Emeritus Faculty Open Faculty Positions Admission Admission Connect Visit Campus Apply Affording Seminary Admit Portal Student Life Student Life Academic Services Student Engagement Student Resources Alumni/ae & Friends Alumni/ae & Friends Update Your Records How to Get Involved Publications and News Events | Calendar Perkins Scholarship Luncheon Faith and Business Luncheon Series Distinguished Alumnus/a Award Seals Laity Award Make a Gift to Perkins News News News Archives Perkins Perspective Events Calendar External Programs and Centers External Programs and Centers Perkins Summit for Faith & Learning Certificate in Practical Ministry Certificate in Spiritual Direction Perkins Fall Convocation | November 15 - 16, 2021 Webinars & Hybrid Events Perkins School of Youth Ministry Course of Study | Curso de Estudio Center for Methodist Studies Center for Preaching Excellence Center for Religious Leadership Center for the Study of Latino/a Christianity and Religions El Programa de Ministerios Hispan@/Latin@ The Hispanic/Latino/a Ministries Program Video Library Contact Office of External Programs ☰ Perkins School of Theology External Programs and Centers Course of Study | Curso de Estudio Course of Study School The Course of Study is a program of The General Board of Higher Education and Ministry of The United Methodist Church, in partnership with and administered by Perkins School of Theology. It provides a basic theological education, as prescribed by the United Methodist Book of Discipline (par. 1421.3d), to licensed local pastors. The Basic Course of Study is a five-year curriculum required of all licensed local pastors who are not enrolled in a seminary degree program. For questions about registration, please call 214-768-2222 or email coss@smu.edu. For more information regarding housing on-campus, class schedule and syllabi, browse through the navigation menu on the right side of this page. El Curso de Estudio El Curso de Estudio es un programa de La Junta General de Educación Superior y Ministerio de la Iglesia Metodista Unida, administrado en asociación por la Escuela de Teología de Perkins. Ha sido diseñada para aquellas personas que han decidido entrar al ministerio de la Iglesia Metodista Unida por medio de la ruta alternativa de "pastor local" en lugar de completar su maestría de divinidad en un seminario. Para información o preguntas, llame a 214-768-2222 o escriba a coss@smu.edu. Para mas información acerca de los dormitorios, el horario de las clases y el plan de estudio para cada clase, vea las otras paginas navegando el menu que esta al lado derecho. Melissa Hernandez Probus, Assistant Director coss@smu.edu 214-768-2222 Previous Next pause play hide show Course of Study | Curso de Estudio Summer Course of Study | Curso de Estudio Verano Fall |Spring Spanish Courses Fall | Spring English Courses Extension Schools Escuela Satélite de la Jurisdicción Occidental Course of Study Satellite School at McMurry University Satellite for the Oklahoma Indian Missionary Conference Contact Information Who Can Attend? An Academy for the Whole Church in the Whole World Prepare to Serve Our groundbreaking Intern Program allows students to transform classroom knowledge into actual practical experience before graduation. Diverse Community We believe cross-cultural immersion experiences best teach students to build intercultural relationships, resolve cultural conflicts and guide intercultural ventures. Academic Excellence The combination of courses taught by renowned scholars with a diverse list of degree programs best prepares students for a wide variety of roles in ministry. Connect Visit Apply Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © SMU Perkins School of Theology, PO Box 750133, Dallas, TX 75275-0133 214-768-8436 or 1-888-843-6564 twitter facebook youtube share