Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Student Financial Services Menu About Leadership Contact Us Search the Site Events News Billing & Payment View & Pay Bill Student Login Authorized User Login Payment Due Dates Financial Aid Refunds Authorize Access to Bill Understanding Financial Settlement Undergraduate, Graduate, and Seminary Law New Student Orientation Guide - Undergraduate New Student Orientation Guide - Graduate Online Programs Trimester Programs Quarter Programs Online MBA Master of Laws (LL.M.) Payment Plans Refunds Add/Drop Refunds Cancellation/Withdrawal Refunds Direct Deposit Title IV Credit Authorizations International Payments E-Bill System Security Financial Aid & Your Bill FAQs Resources Forms E-Bill System BearWeb Student Financial Literacy Dining Services Housing Parking Services ID Cards Center for Global Engagement Student Success Center Education Tax Benefits Form 1098-T Private College 529 Plan Loan Collections Student Loan Repayment 101 Seminar Faculty & Staff Emergency Relief Funds (CARES Act, HEERF II, ARP/HEERF III) Student Financial Services Appointments Wintermester HEOA Student Consumer Information Student Conduct Code Financial Aid Consumer Information Tuition & Costs Tuition & Fees Undergraduate Graduate Online MBA MBA, CSD, MSW Law Seminary Summer Guaranteed Tuition Option Tuition Refund Insurance 2022-2023 Tuition Cost Online Programs Meal Plans Housing Optional Fees Affordability Planner Net Price Calculator Student Financial Aid Applying for Financial Aid Cost of Attendance (COA) Types of Financial Aid Online Graduate Student Aid Scholarships Grants Work-Study Affordability Planner Maintaining Eligibility Drug Convictions and Eligibility Satisfactory Academic Progress Award Guide Over Awards Financial Aid Timeline Graduate Student Financial Aid Timeline Helpful Links Financial Aid Videos - Get Answers 24/7 Videos - Baylor Financial Aid Return of Federal Funds Types of Financial Aid - Quick Chart Financial Aid Requirements FAQs Scholarships & Loans Scholarships Loans Baylor>Student Financial Services>Billing & Payment>Financial Aid & Your Bill FAQs Financial Aid & Your Bill FAQs Financial Aid & Your Bill 1. When can I expect financial aid disbursements, and how do I make sure my aid is issued in a timely manner? 2. I received my bill, but why don't I see my academic scholarship listed? 3. I received my bill, but why don't I see my outside scholarship listed? 4. I received my bill, but why don't I see my department scholarship listed? 5. I applied for a PLUS loan, but why don't I see it applied to my bill? 6. I applied for an alternative (private) loan but, why don't I see it applied to my bill? 7. Will my bill and financial aid automatically update when I change my enrollment? 8. I want to use my direct unsubsidized/subsidized loan summer eligibility, but why don't I see it applied to my bill? 9. Why did the Guaranteed Tuition Option (GTO) increase for the 2021-22 academic year? 10. Why is my current bill amount lower than expected? 11. If I'm not enrolled full-time, will this impact my financial aid disbursement? 12. If I'm on a waitlist for a course, can I receive financial aid for those credits? 13. If I don't see financial aid on my bill, what should I do? 14. Why does the balance in my bill not include my estimated aid? 15. How do I know if my financial aid has been applied to my account after my initial bill? 16. What should I do if my financial aid isn't enough to cover my bill? 17. If I didn't apply for financial aid, is it too late to request aid to help me pay my bill? 18. When should I begin the process if I know I'll need financial aid to meet my payment deadline? 19. If my Tuition Remission is not on my bill, what should I do? Financial Aid & Your Bill 1. When can I expect financial aid disbursements, and how do I make sure my aid is issued in a timely manner? Baylor University disburses financial aid 10 days prior to the start of a term. In order for your financial aid to disburse on time, make sure all of your requirements are completed in your BearWeb account. You may contact the Baylor Financial Aid office at baylor.edu/sfs/contactus, or call 254-710-2611 for more information about financial aid disbursements. More Information: http://baylor.edu/sfs/contactus 2. I received my bill, but why don't I see my academic scholarship listed? In order to maintain your eligibility for the academic scholarship, you must meet the scholarship requirements of full-time enrollment of 12 or more hours and a cumulative minimum GPA of 3.0 or above. Please note, if you will be graduating early as a result of taking classes in the summer, you may be able to apply one semester of your academic scholarship toward the cost of tuition for the summer term. See our Scholarship Exception Request through our appeals page at www.baylor.edu/sfs/appeals. More Information: https://www.baylor.edu/sfs/appeals 3. I received my bill, but why don't I see my outside scholarship listed? If you have been awarded an outside scholarship that does not appear on your bill, make sure you have reported the scholarship online at www.baylor.edu/sfs/osrf. In addition, you can check with the entity awarding the scholarship to ensure it was sent to Baylor, and designated for the term of the bill. If the scholarship funds have already been sent to Baylor and designated for the term of the bill, please follow up with our Student Financial Accounts Office at www.baylor.edu/sfs/contactus. More Information: https://www.baylor.edu/sfs/contactus 4. I received my bill, but why don't I see my department scholarship listed? If you have been awarded a department scholarship, confirm with the department that they have submitted the scholarship information to Financial Aid. If they have, please email scholarships@baylor.edu to inquire about the status of the award. 5. I applied for a PLUS loan, but why don't I see it applied to my bill? If you applied and were approved for a ParentPLUS or GradPLUS loan greater than 1 week ago, please submit a contact us inquiry at www.baylor.edu/sfs/contactus if you do not see the loan in BearWeb. In addition to the approved application, you must have also submitted a Master Promissory Note and completed entrance counseling for the PLUS loan through studentaid.gov. More Information: https://www.baylor.edu/sfs/contactus 6. I applied for an alternative (private) loan but, why don't I see it applied to my bill? If you applied and were approved for an alternative loan, and your lender initiated the certification process more than 10 business days ago, please submit a contact us inquiry at baylor.edu/sfs/contactus. More Information: https://www.baylor.edu/sfs/contactus 7. Will my bill and financial aid automatically update when I change my enrollment? No, if you change your enrollment status (i.e. go from full-time to half-time) you will need to submit a contact us inquiry here to ensure that the financial aid award is packaged correctly and disburses in a timely manner. More Information: https://www.baylor.edu/sfs/contactus 8. I want to use my direct unsubsidized/subsidized loan summer eligibility, but why don't I see it applied to my bill? If you completed the FAFSA and had eligibility for the direct unsubsidized and subsidized loan, you must accept all or the portion of the loan you are requesting through BearWeb at bearweb.baylor.edu. In addition, you must complete the Master Promissory Note and entrance counseling for these loans at studentaid.gov. If you have completed all of these steps greater than 3 business days ago, please submit a contact us inquiry form at www.baylor.edu/sfs/contactus. 9. Why did the Guaranteed Tuition Option (GTO) increase for the 2021-22 academic year? Baylor's leadership team recently decided to combine what has previously been a separate component of each student's semester bill, the General Student Fee, into the total amount due for tuition. As you have likely noticed, although you have been paying the same flat tuition rate – and are guaranteed to be able to do so for the four-year duration of the program – the amount you have been paying for the General Student Fee has risen each year with the prevailing approved increase, just the same as every other student. That disparity is now ending. Beginning with the 2021-22 academic year, as a GTO student you will benefit from having the General Student Fee frozen at last year's rate ($4,702) for the remainder of your participation in the GTO program. As a result, the amount you will pay for the combined General Student Fee and tuition will not increase as you continue through your studies at Baylor toward the goal of an earned degree. More Information: https://www.baylor.edu/sfs/index.php?id=936927 10. Why is my current bill amount lower than expected? Bills are based on the number of hours a student is currently registered for. If you are registered for less than 12 hours (12+ hours is full-time status), only those registered hours will be reflected on your bill. However, if you then register for additional hours and become full-time, your bill will be adjusted. 11. If I'm not enrolled full-time, will this impact my financial aid disbursement? Students can receive financial aid up to the cost of attendance for half-time enrollment and greater. To determine cost of attendance for different enrollment statuses, you can access the cost of attendance information at www.baylor.edu/sfs/coa. Each enrollment status does have a different total limit. To be eligible for aid, you must be classified at a minimum of half-time enrollment. More Information: https://www.baylor.edu/sfs/coa 12. If I'm on a waitlist for a course, can I receive financial aid for those credits? No. Your financial aid eligibility is determined based on courses you are currently enrolled in. 13. If I don't see financial aid on my bill, what should I do? Did you complete your FAFSA? If not, complete your FAFSA for the term you're applying for at fafsa.gov. This will determine eligibility for any federal aid. Did you apply for an alternative loan? If not, and you need additional funds, you can access information on alternative loans at baylor.edu/sfs/alternative. 14. Why does the balance in my bill not include my estimated aid? Here are a few helpful tips if your estimated aid is not currently reflected in your bill: Make sure you are enrolled in 12+ hours Confirm you have accepted your aid in BearWeb If accepting Federal Loans, the Master Promissory Note and Loan Entrance Counseling must be complete for aid to show Be sure you have submitted all Verification Documents listed in your BearWeb account If you are a Texas resident, complete the Texas Residency Form 15. How do I know if my financial aid has been applied to my account after my initial bill? You can see the application of financial aid through the E-Bill system. 16. What should I do if my financial aid isn't enough to cover my bill? You can explore alternative loans to supplement your financial aid package at www.baylor.edu/sfs/alternative. Here, you will find a preferred lender list to compare rates and terms to find a loan that fits your needs. You can also explore outside scholarships at www.baylor.edu/sfs/outsideschps. More Information: https://www.baylor.edu/sfs/alternative 17. If I didn't apply for financial aid, is it too late to request aid to help me pay my bill? The FAFSA must be completed and processed prior to the end of the specific term. The last day the current academic year (2019/2020) FAFSA is available on fafsa.gov is June 30. 18. When should I begin the process if I know I'll need financial aid to meet my payment deadline? Immediately. Ideally, this process should be completed and finished prior to the start of the term. If you are using loans to pay for your educational costs, the certification period and loan set-up can take up to 3 weeks for processing. If using federal financial aid and you are selected for verification, it can take up to 3-4 weeks to complete the process. 19. If my Tuition Remission is not on my bill, what should I do? Tuition Remission is applied manually each term. If you have an approved application through the HR system for the term in question, the Tuition Remission should be applied to your bill prior to the bill due date. If you do not see it by the bill due date, and you have an approved application, you can contact us to inquire. www.baylor.edu/sfs/contactus More Information: https://www.baylor.edu/sfs/contactus BACK TO TOP Billing & Payment View & Pay Bill Student Login Authorized User Login Payment Due Dates Financial Aid Refunds Authorize Access to Bill Understanding Financial Settlement Undergraduate, Graduate, and Seminary Law New Student Orientation Guide - Undergraduate New Student Orientation Guide - Graduate Online Programs Trimester Programs Quarter Programs Online MBA Master of Laws (LL.M.) Payment Plans Refunds Add/Drop Refunds Cancellation/Withdrawal Refunds Direct Deposit Title IV Credit Authorizations International Payments E-Bill System Security Financial Aid & Your Bill FAQs VERIFICATION PAY YOUR BILL CONTACT US LOCATION Limited Access to Clifton Robinson Tower Financial Aid, Student Accounts and One Stop (first floor) are open to walk-in visitors, however we encourage students to reach us via phone, contact us form or virtual office visit while a construction project occurs at the Clifton Robinson Tower. Parking is very limited. More information about how to contact us can be found here. Show More General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Student Financial Services Student Financial Accounts One Bear Place #97048 Waco, TX 76798-7048 Student Financial Aid One Bear Place #97028 Waco, TX 76798-7028 Student Financial Accounts: 254.710.2311 Financial Aid: 254.710.2611 Contact Us GDPR Privacy Notice Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 About Leadership Contact Us Search the Site Events News Billing & Payment View & Pay Bill Student Login Authorized User Login Payment Due Dates Financial Aid Refunds Authorize Access to Bill Understanding Financial Settlement Undergraduate, Graduate, and Seminary Law New Student Orientation Guide - Undergraduate New Student Orientation Guide - Graduate Online Programs Trimester Programs Quarter Programs Online MBA Master of Laws (LL.M.) Payment Plans Refunds Add/Drop Refunds Cancellation/Withdrawal Refunds Law & LL.M. Cancellation & Withdrawal Policies Direct Deposit Title IV Credit Authorizations International Payments E-Bill System Security Financial Aid & Your Bill FAQs Resources Forms E-Bill System BearWeb Student Financial Literacy Dining Services Housing Parking Services ID Cards Center for Global Engagement Student Success Center Education Tax Benefits Form 1098-T Private College 529 Plan Loan Collections Student Loan Repayment 101 Seminar Faculty & Staff Emergency Relief Funds (CARES Act, HEERF II, ARP/HEERF III) Student Financial Services Appointments Wintermester HEOA Student Consumer Information Student Conduct Code Financial Aid Consumer Information Tuition & Costs Tuition & Fees Undergraduate Graduate Online MBA MBA, CSD, MSW Law LL.M. Tuition & Fees Seminary Summer Seminary Summer Guaranteed Tuition Option Tuition Refund Insurance 2022-2023 Tuition Cost Online Programs Meal Plans Housing Optional Fees Affordability Planner Net Price Calculator Student Financial Aid Applying for Financial Aid Cost of Attendance (COA) Types of Financial Aid Online Graduate Student Aid Scholarships Departmental Scholarship Grants Work-Study Affordability Planner Maintaining Eligibility Drug Convictions and Eligibility Satisfactory Academic Progress Award Guide Over Awards Financial Aid Timeline Graduate Student Financial Aid Timeline Helpful Links Financial Aid Videos - Get Answers 24/7 Videos - Baylor Financial Aid Federal Aid, Work-Study, And Alternative Loans Financial Aid Application Process Scholarship Options International Student Aid Return of Federal Funds Types of Financial Aid - Quick Chart Financial Aid Requirements FAQs Scholarships & Loans Scholarships Loans