Skip to main content Skip to site menu Skip to Brown menu Skip to site search Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Enter search keyword About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS) Home Welcome! Counseling & Psychological Services (CAPS) takes a goal-focused and collaborative approach to mental health services to assist students in improving their lives. Our diverse staff offers a range of psychological treatment and prevention services in an inclusive, compassionate,affirming and socially just environment. CAPS provides a range of mental health services to the Brown community, including individual psychological treatment, mental health support, medication management, trainings and consultation for faculty and staff, crisis stabilization, after hours assessment and urgent care, outreach programming, and groups. CAPS is excited to welcome students into our new space at 450 Brook Street. As the fall 2021 semester starts students can contact us by phone (401-863-3476) to schedule a next day appointment to meet immediate needs. Starting 9/20/21 students can schedule a time to meet with a CAPS counselor to make a collaborative plan for the semester. Our current hours are Monday-Friday from 8:30-5:00. Outside of our typical work hours CAPS is available to all students, regardless of location, through the CAPS after hours resource (401-863-3476, follow prompts to speak to a counselor). Please see our About Us page for information on our commitment to anti-racism. CAPS Care Update 1/24/22: Start of Semester Telehealth Options We are excited to welcome students back and kick off the spring semester. From 1/24 to 2/1, we will be offering care in the format of telehealth appointments. This will allow us to manage density around student move-in and check-ins at the Wellness Center. We understand that there may be an increased need for student care as you acclimate to being back on campus, and we are here to support you. CAPS Commitment to Care: Winter 2021 View our [email protected] communication here. Update: CAPS Therapist at Horace Mann CAPS in collaboration with the Graduate School is pleased to announce the embedding of a CAPS therapist within Horace Mann. Jamall Pollock, LICSW will provide graduate students with goal-focused, collaborative care from his office at 47 George Street, starting on October 18, 2021. Current hours for this service are Monday 8:30-3pm and Wednesday 8:30-noon. We are grateful for the support of Vanessa Britto, Executive Director of Health and Wellness, Eric Estes, VP of Campus Life and Andrew G. Campbell, Dean of the Graduate School towards this initiative to improve access to mental health services for graduate students. Utilizing Your Mental and Emotional Health Resources As we continue to renew our commitment to rejoin community, I write to share with you gentle reminders of the wide array of resources available in support of our student community. We recognize that you are now halfway through the semester and have been juggling a number of stressors, namely the transition to college and back into in-person education and COVID protocols, and we are here to assist you in navigating these challenges. It is the continued goal of our staff and faculty to support the emotional wellbeing of all students including students in need of urgent care or in crisis regardless of the student’s location of study. We encourage you to make use of the resources below that have been designed with your wellbeing in mind: CAPS Resources: To contact Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS) for a routine appointment please give us a call (401-863-3476) or visit us at the new Health & Wellness Building (450 Brook Street, Providence, RI) during our regular business hours. For urgent needs, call or walk into CAPS during regular business hours, or contact CAPS On Demand (call 401-863-3476, follow prompts to speak to a counselor) overnight, weekends and holidays, 365 days/year. CAPS On Demand is available for all students, regardless of physical location. Join student groups and workshops with CAPS and Student Accessibility Services (SAS) including ADHD Support and Neurodiversity Support. Access teletherapy via Healthiest You for 24/7 care regardless of where you are traveling, researching or studying nationally or internationally. Additional Campus Life Resources: Student Support Services BWell Health Promotion Health Services Chaplains and Religious Life Administrator On-Call Additional Resources: http://www.samaritansri.org/ https://suicidepreventionlifeline.org/ https://www.deafinc.org/deaflead/24-hour-crisis-line-for-the-deafhh.html https://www.thetrevorproject.org/get-help/#sm.001frwkek412crb10pc21co78w8rc https://www.crisistextline.org/ HealthiestYou App: Health & Wellness is excited to offer remote telehealth and telemental health services available to Brown students, particularly those who are outside of the state of Rhode Island. In an effort to ensure we are offering you the highest quality and most quickly accessible care, Brown has partnered with HealthiestYou, a robust teleclinical service which offers students remote consultation with clinicians and mental health providers licensed throughout the country. Students can access telehealth and telemental health care via the HealthiestYou app 24/7 from any location, especially while living, studying, or traveling outside of Rhode Island both nationally and internationally. The app allows students to identify providers, find low-cost prescriptions, compare care prices, and can connect with their insurance. When going abroad, it is easiest for a student to use the app if they have established a pre-existing relationship with a HealthiestYou provider. This service is intended to supplement existing local resources to provide students with easily accessible and dependable care, regardless of location of study. The app will be available to all enrolled Brown students throughout the year, spanning the fall, spring, and summer semesters. Care provided by HealthiestYou providers is unlimited and there is no additional cost to students. We encourage students to take advantage of this offering when outside of Rhode Island by downloading the HealthiestYou app and creating their accounts today! Please reach out to HealthiestYou at 866.703.1259 for assistance with setting up an account. If you are having trouble setting up your HealthiestYou account, please email CAPS ([email protected]) for assistance. ------ COVID-19 UPDATE & FAQ 8/23/21 Update 215: We are fully committed to serving our community in the ways available to us. Due to newly-implemented regulations, CAPS therapists located in Rhode Island are unable to provide telehealth services to students outside of Rhode Island. We are looking at additional ways we can support students who are studying remotely for the rest of the year and will update the community as that information becomes available. We aim to care for you as possible in the meantime, and look forward to seeing you back on campus. Available to students anywhere in the U.S.: All students can access care through CAPS on Demand, available 24/7, by calling 401-863-3476 and following the prompts. We encourage students to contact us with concerns both during the business day and after hours, and can also be reached by email at [email protected]. Students studying internationally: Students may also get help accessing international “local” care through International SOS, even if they are studying in their home country. The first step is to register your “trip” with International SOS and then contact them to request a counselor near where you are. Available to students in the Providence area: Our current hours at CAPS are Monday-Friday from 8:00 AM-4:00 PM, located at 450 Brook St. There is additional availability for graduate and medical students on Saturdays as well. In addition to business hours, all students can reach CAPS on Demand 24/7 by calling 401-863-3476 and following the prompts. We encourage students to contact us with concerns. Meeting details: Scheduled meetings are taking place in person at the new Health & Wellness Center at 450 Brook St. Scheduling a session: You are able to access care in many ways. If you are located outside of RI you can contact CAPS On-Demand to speak to a licensed therapist for support. If you are located in RI, you can schedule a counseling session by using our new Appointment Request Form. If you're emailing about scheduling, it can speed things up if you also send times between 8:00-4:00 with your request, and if you've been in before, send the name of the provider you saw if you would like to see them again. If you have an active prescription with us: For all inquiries about medication (refills, adjustments, etc), please email us so we can get you to the right person [email protected]du. Urgent needs: Students are welcome to reach out after hours and we continue to provide services for urgent situations. We continue to provide services for urgent situations. In those cases, please access one of the urgent help options immediately, including our number at 401-863-3476. If you call, follow the prompts to be connected to someone who can help. This is available 24/7, every day of the year, and you can access it from anywhere. Finding Care Off Campus: If you interested in finding a mental health provider geographically near you, or in Providence but outside the university, start with our page on Finding Care Off Campus. If you need more assistance, email us and someone on our team can help sort things out with you. Accessing Workshops: All students are invited to join our workshops, outreach, and community building events. We also encourage you to engage in our weekly groups. Check back here for any updates, and be in touch with any questions or concerns related to your mental health needs. Take good care of yourself and each other. -CAPS Team ------ Eligibility In paying the Student Health Fee, you are eligible for services at CAPS. There are no additional charges for services at CAPS, and we do not bill your insurance for any reason. Please read through the rest of this site to learn more about what we offer and our scope of practice. Any student unsure of their eligibility should check and see if they paid the Student Health Fee for the current semester. ------ A Different Kind of Counseling Center Our center operates differently than a lot of other college counseling centers. For [email protected], we really strive to provide help as fast as possible and on-demand. Given that, we offer a substantial number of meetings you can book the next day, so we can help when you need us the most. Our average wait for a first meeting during the COVID-19 transition is 1 day. We spend even your first meeting working to support you with the immediate situation you are struggling with, and your provider will collaborate with you on a follow-up plan that matches your needs. We do that in a culturally informed, trauma informed, and social justice framework. Welcome & Information Our Services Our Staff Labs Groups About Us FAQ Immediate and After Hours Care Psychiatry Outreach & Community Building Training Program Finding Care Off Campus Additional Resources Print this Page Share this Page Counseling & Psych Services Brown University Box 1960 450 Brook St Providence, RI 02906 Phone 401-863-3476 Fax 401-863-3657 Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory What's New? Current Groups Help a Distressed Student Self-Help Library