COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW WSU News - All Stories For WSU News and WSU Today content older than July 2018, Search the WSU News Archive. WSU News Archive Return to WSU News Home Filter by: All students Applied Learning Faculty/Staff Fairmount College of Liberal Arts and Sciences pandemic community Alumni College of Engineering COVID-19 Research Graduate Profiles Community Engagement Innovation Campus Life Diversity/Inclusion Scholarships Talent Pipeline Innovation Campus College of Applied Studies College of Health Professions SearchDirectory Filter Search Beyond the Classroom: Alia Michaelis May 23, 2022 — Alia Michaelis is working in several Wichita-area hospital emergency rooms to record patient-physician interactions. This applied-learning opportunity is helping prepare her for a career in medicine. WSU Esports varsity team marks a milestone for the program May 18, 2022 — After winning the Eastern College Athletic Conference Championship, the Wichita State Varsity Esports Valorant team qualified for a direct bid to compete in the Collegiate Esports Commissioners Cup, a milestone for WSU's Esports program. Meet a Shocker: Rola Khaleel May 12 - Rola Khaleel enjoyed the clinical experiences in audiology during her time at Wichita State University. She will use those lessons as she continues in her career. Rola is one of more than 2,400 students eligible for spring 2022 graduation. Learn more about her time at Wichita State and what is next for the grad. Meet a Shocker: Kaitlyn Cowen May 5, 2022 — Kaitlyn Cowen will graduate in spring 2022. She chose to attend Wichita State because of its access and affordability. Meet a Shocker: Madeline Shonka Madeline Shonka is an entrepreneur who started a health tech startup for people with chronic illnesses while a student at Wichita State. Madeline is one of more than 2,400 students eligible for spring/summer 2022 graduation. Learn more about her time at WSU and what is next for the grad. New esports director brings his vision of gaming to Wichita State March 30, 2022 - The vision for varsity esports at Wichita State encompasses much more than people gaming on Cybertron Computers and wearing a Logitech Headset. While gaming success is important, the program is also seen as way to provide extra-curricular activity and applied learning for students in disciplines across campus. Travis Yang, hired in December as WSU’s Esports director, wants to build a program that follows that direction. WSU School of Nursing receives endowed RN to BSN scholarship March 23, 2022 – The School of Nursing at Wichita State University has received a $35,000 endowed scholarship gift from retired faculty member Shirley Hazen through the Shirley E. Hazen RN-BSN Endowed Nursing Scholarship. College of Health Professions begins expansion of robotic-based clinical simulation technology Dec. 7, 2021 – The College of Health Professions (CHP) has initiated a major expansion to the its clinical simulation capabilities. Students across the CHP’s clinical degree programs will have increased exposure to high-tech robotic simulated patients in preparation for treating humans. WSU announces new esports director Dec. 7, 2021 — The College of Applied Studies at Wichita State University announced today that Travis Yang has been hired as the new director of varsity esports. Meet a Shocker: Megan Schmidt December 6, 2021 — From being a mom of five to becoming a labor and delivery nurse. How does Megan Schmidt do it all? Schmidt is one of more than 1,100 students eligible for fall 2021 graduation. Meet winners of fall 2021 Women for Women's Innovation Award November 29, 2021 – Wichita State University’s Center for Entrepreneurship (CEI) has granted two students the Women for Women's Innovation Award — one who wants to use an app to help those with chronic illnesses, the other who wants to support local businesses by creating Wichita artisan gift boxes. KLC grants help Wichita State HEALTH students fight COVID-19 on campus Nov. 1, 2021 - Helped by six grants from Kansas Leadership Center, Wichita State University’s HEALTH Student Association is working to end the pandemic and support students with information and resources to keep them healthy. HEALTH distributed more than 6,000 free and reusable masks, some with “Shockers United” branding, some plain black and sequined masks for the inauguration of president Rick Muma. It assembled gift boxes for quarantining students with information on COVID-19 vaccines and testing and gifts such as Wichita State water bottles, stickers and lanyards. WSU Medical Laboratory Sciences program receives generous endowed scholarship Oct. 27, 2021 – The Medical Laboratory Sciences department at Wichita State University has received a $280,000 endowed scholarship gift from Southcentral Pathology. Dr. Joel Alderson, president of Southcentral Pathology in Wichita, KS, established this fund to provide two full-ride scholarships each year in WSU’s Medical Laboratory Sciences program. Wichita State's School of Nursing names new chair and associate dean of nursing practice Oct. 14, 2021 – The College of Health Professions (CHP) at Wichita State University is pleased to announce Dr. Debra Pile as the chair for the School of Nursing and associate dean for Nursing Practice. High-tech simulation manikins revolutionize audiology education Oct. 4, 2021 – The Department of Communication Sciences and Disorders has received a gift to create the Audiology Simulation Lab at Wichita State University. The lab contains five state-of-the-art Canadian Audiology simulator for Research and Learning (CARL) manikins and auxiliary equipment. 1 2 3 4 5 Next Last 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©