Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Skip to primary site search Google Tag Manager For Faculty and Staff For Alumni For Students For Potential Students Biomed A-Z People Directory Department of Ecology, Evolution and Organismal Biology Show/Hide Home About Us Anatomical Gift Program EEB Internal Intranet Facilities Herbarium Plant Environmental Center People Faculty Staff Postdoctoral Researchers Graduate Students Graduate Education Undergraduate Education News Faculty Mark Bertness Robert P. Brown Professor Emeritus of Biology Lab website Problems in the population and community, ecology of marine plants and animals. Elizabeth Brainerd Robert P. Brown Professor of Biology, Professor of Medical Science, Ecology, Evolution and Organismal Biology Lab website Functional morphology, comparative physiology, and biomechanics. Amy Chew Senior Lecturer, Ecology, Evolution and Organismal Biology Website Human and comparative vertebrate anatomy; mammal evolution and paleoecology; climate change; stable isotope geochemistry and macro-evolutionary theory. Matthew Fuxjager Associate Professor of Ecology, Evolution and Organismal Biology, Graduate Program Co-Director Fuxjager Lab Website Animal behavior, with an emphasis on its physiological and evolutionary basis. Stephen M. Gatesy Professor of Biology, Professor of Medical Science, Ecology, Evolution and Organismal Biology Website Functional morphology, the evolution of the vertebrate locomotor system. Emilia Huerta-Sanchez Associate Professor of Ecology, Evolution and Organismal Biology Website , Lab Website Detecting and characterizing natural selection in human populations and estimating human demographic histories. Christine M. Janis Professor Emerita of Ecology, Evolution and Organismal Biology Vertebrate evolution (especially Cenozoic mammals), craniodental functional morphology, mammalian systematics (especially ungulates). Prof. Janis has retired from Brown, is now working in the UK, and is not available to supervise student research projects. Rebecca Kartzinel Assistant Professor (Research) Ecology, Evolution and Organismal Biology, Herbarium Director Website, Herbarium Website Plant population genetics, genomics, and ecological epigenetics. Tyler Kartzinel Peggy and Henry D. Sharpe Jr. Assistant Professor of Environmental Studies, Assistant Professor, Ecology, Evolution and Organismal Biology Lab Website Conservation biology, molecular ecology and the evolution of species interactions. James Kellner Associate Professor of Ecology, Evolution and Organismal Biology, and Environment and Society, Graduate Program Co-Director Lab website Structure and dynamics of tropical forests, environmental remote sensing. Douglass H. Morse Hermon Bumpus Professor Emeritus of Biology, Professor of Ecology, Evolution and Organismal Biology (Research) Website Behavioral ecology: foraging, life history variables, and sexual selection. Stephen Porder Assistant Provost for Sustainability, Professor of Ecology, Evolution and Organismal Biology and Environment and Society Lab website Biogeochemistry, nutrient cycling in tropical forests, interaction between geologic and ecological processes. Sohini Ramachandran Professor of Biology, Department of Ecology, Evolution, and Organismal Biology, Associate Professor of Computer Science, Department of Computer Science, Director, Center for Computational Molecular Biology, Director, Data Science Initiative Lab website Population genetics and evolutionary theory, applied to human genetic variation. David M. Rand Stephen T. Olney Professor of Natural History, Professor of Biology, Chair of Ecology, Evolution and Organismal Biology Lab website Molecular ecology and evolution, coevolution of nuclear and mitochondrial genomes, and speciation. Dale Ritter Senior Lecturer in Biology, Ecology, Evolution and Organismal Biology Website Thomas J. Roberts Vice Chair, Professor of Ecology, Evolution and Organismal Biology Roberts Lab website Biomechanics and energetics of vertebrate movement. Dov Sax Professor of Ecology, Evolution and Organismal Biology, Associate Professor of Environment and Society Lab website Species invasions of non-native plants and animals; Evaluating conservation strategies best suited to preserving biodiversity from the novel threats posed by climate change. Sharon Swartz Professor of Biology, Professor of Engineering, Ecology, Evolution and Organismal Biology Lab website Biomechanics, functional morphology, and the evolution of vertebrate limbs. Marc Tatar Professor of Biology, Ecology, Evolution and Organismal Biology Website Life history evolution with an emphasis on Senescence. Daniel M. Weinreich Professor of Ecology, Evolution and Organismal Biology Lab website Darwinian evolution at the level of individual mutations within protein coding genes. Jon D. Witman Professor of Biology, Ecology, Evolution and Organismal Biology Lab Website Population and community ecology, oceanography, and marine biology. People Faculty Staff Postdoctoral Researchers Graduate Students Brown Biology and Medicine Search Brown Show/Hide Learn More About Warren Alpert Medical School Program in Biology Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty and Staff Potential Students Alumni The Department of Ecology, Evolution, and Organismal Biology The Department of Ecology, Evolution, and Organismal Biology Brown University Box G-W 80 Waterman Street Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-2100 Fax: 401-863-2166 Twitter Twitter Giving to Brown Division of Biology and Medicine Brown University Box G-A1, Providence, RI 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-3330 Maps / Contact Us © 2022 Brown University Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram LinkedIn SnapChat