Kathrine G. McGovern College of the Arts - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to Kathrine G. McGovern College of the Arts Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Kathrine G. McGovern College of the Arts About the College Welcome Communications from the Dean Administration Marketing and Communications News Faculty Policies and Procedures Interdisciplinary Cluster Hire Program Admissions University Admissions Art Admissions Dance Admissions Music Auditions Theatre Admissions Dean’s Artistic Excellence Scholarship TCCNS Academics Art Programs (Undergraduate) Art Programs (Graduate) Interdisciplinary Initiatives Music Programs Theatre Programs Dance Program Arts Leadership Master’s Theses, and Doctoral Documents and Essays Academic Affairs Schools & Centers School of Art Moores School of Music School of Theatre & Dance Arts & Technology Center Blaffer Art Museum Cynthia Woods Mitchell Center for the Arts Community News Events Tickets Commencement Healing Arts Houston Giving A College of the Arts for a City of the Arts Page contents: College of the Arts Facts & Figures Ready to Apply From the Dean Virtual Tour Features Explore the 2022-27 KGMCA Strategic Plan Creativity. Collaboration. Transformation. Welcome to the Kathrine G. McGovern College of the Arts at the University of Houston, a dynamic powerhouse of creativity and collaboration in one of America’s most culturally diverse cities. Bringing together the performing and visual arts entities at the University of Houston, the Kathrine G. McGovern College of the Arts firmly believes in the transformative power of the arts and their ability to positively shape the world. Our award-winning, internationally distinguished faculty provides top-quality instruction to the talented, emerging young artists and educators from our schools and programs. The Kathrine G. McGovern College of the Arts is working to enrich and empower our students, community and the world. Communications from the Dean... Facts & Figures 39,280Number of Tickets Issued (2018-2020) 1,942Total Number of Seats within the College Performance Venues 7Major Performing and Visual Arts Venues 150+Faculty Members Your Artistic Journey Begins Here Apply Admissions Info The Dean Welcomes You... All of us are aware of the importance of arts education in our modern, global society. The City of Houston — America’s modern, global city for the twenty-first century — is home to world-class institutions at the highest level of each of the visual and performing arts. These are institutions that make vital contributions to our thriving regional economy as well as, perhaps even more importantly, to the culture of our city and to the health of our democracy at large. more from the dean... Take a Virtual Tour College Events Moores Music in the City Launches with Holiday Concert in Third Ward Socially distanced outdoor performance hosted at historic church on December 11. ‘Mobius Houston’ to Transform University of Houston Arts District Large-Scale, Bi-Color Acrylic Installation Debuts UH System Temporary Public Art Program. The Top 30 College Dance Programs for 2019 – 2020 OnstageBlog spotlights UH School of Theatre & Dance for offering hands-on performance and production opportunities. Blaffer Art Museum Sparks Creativity with First Friday Studio Sessions The free on-campus monthly event features fun activities, guided tours available to all students. News UH MFA Candidates Launch G5 Collective to Give Back to the Houston Arts Community Liz Gates and Doug Welsh, two graduating UH MFA, Art students, launched the G5 Summer Intensive in 2021 to support graduate art students unable to obtain summer residencies due to the pandemic. Art History Professor Awarded Prestigious Fellowship for Upcoming Book Sandra Zalman, associate professor of art history, was awarded the 2022 Senior Fellowship from the Dedalus Foundation. The fellowship will support her upcoming book The Modern Remodeled: Museums of Modern Art at Mid-Century and the Construction of the Canon. Houston CityBook Magazine talks with Dean Davis about UH's first musical UH’s ‘Little Shop’ to Highlight School’s Broader New Curricula, Now Including American Musical Theater Alumni Spotlight: Demetria Thomas Alumni returns to lead the SOTD's return to live Theatre! Alumni Spotlight: Kaarin Phelps Accomplished film and television actor leads Moores Opera Center singer-actors in a masterclass. The Power of Art: Paving the Way for Social Justice Curriculum The Arts Leadership program wins a competitive grant to launch a new class: ARLD 4397/6395 - Arts and Social Justice. Music Business Mogul Mathew Knowles to Teach Master Class Knowles is now sharing his “secret sauce” for success with the masses in a virtual, 15-week master class at the University of Houston. Student Spotlight: ShaWanna Renee Goffney A Q&A with Kathrine G. McGovern College of the Arts, Arts Leadership Student, ShaWanna Renee Goffney. 3700 Cullen Blvd, Room E128 Houston, TX 77204-4039 713-743-3019 Contact Us Box Office KGMCA Box Office 713-743-3388 Schools & Centers Moores School of Music 713-743-3009 School of Art 713-743-3001 School of Theatre & Dance 713-743-3003 M.A. in Arts Leadership 713-743-4817 Community Arts Academy 713-743-3398 Blaffer Art Museum 713-743-9521 Cynthia Woods Mitchell Center for the Arts 713-743-7008 ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies