Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Search form Search Explore Brown University Search Global Navigation Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Cognitive, Linguistic & Psychological Sciences Home About People Diversity Research Academics Events CLPS Colloquium Series Cognition Seminar Developmental Brown Bag Speaker Series Ling Lang Lunch Perception Action Seminar Social Cognitive Science Seminar Speaker Series: "The Linguistic Expression of Racial and Ethnic Identity" Faculty Activities Visit Us Site Navigation Home About Internal Website People Regular Faculty Teaching Faculty Research Faculty Postdocs Emeritus Faculty Graduate Students Administrative Staff Diversity Statement on anti-racism Related Research DIAP Committee Research Focus Areas Centers & Initiatives Academics Undergraduates Behavioral Decision Sciences Cognitive Science Cognitive Neuroscience Linguistics Psychology DUGs Honors Requirements Resources Prospective Graduate Students Scholarships & Aid Graduate Students CLPS Graduate Handbook Events CLPS Colloquium Series Cognition Seminar Developmental Brown Bag Speaker Series Ling Lang Lunch Perception Action Seminar Social Cognitive Science Seminar Speaker Series: "The Linguistic Expression of Racial and Ethnic Identity" Faculty Activities Authors Journal Editors Presidents International Awards Visit Us CLPS Colloquium Series The CLPS department offers a large number of colloquium lectures throughout the academic year. These talks are open to all members of the Brown community. To learn of upcoming events, please refer to the live calendar to the right of this page, or subscribe to our event announcements email list. 2021-2022 Speakers 2021-2022 Michael S. Goodman '74 Memorial Colloquium Series Oct. 29, Jessica Grieser, The University of Tennessee, Knoxville: What we Talk About When We Talk About Gentrification 2020-2021 Speakers 2020 Richard B. Millward Colloquium Sept. 23, Nicholas Christakis, Yale: Social Network Interventions 2020-2021 Michael S. Goodman '74 Memorial Colloquium Series Oct. 7, Arif Hamid, Brown University: Striatal dopamine waves as a mechanism for spatiotemporal credit assignment Oct. 28, Mehrdad Jazayeri, MIT: A distal teacher for Bayesian sensorimotor learning in the frontal cortex Jan. 27, Rachel Elizabeth Weissler, University of Michigan: Toward A Cognitive Model of African American English: Sociolinguistic knowledge and its influence on processing Feb. 10, Steven Roberts, Stanford: Racism: A Developmental Story Feb. 24, Judith Fan, UCSD: Cognitive tools for making the invisible visible Mar. 10, Dan Jurafsky, Stanford: "Does This Vehicle Belong to You?": Extracting Social Meaning from Language by Computer Mar. 17, Jim Sidanius, Harvard: The Interactive Dynamics of Sexism and Racism and the Theory of Gendered Prejudice 2021 Harold Schlosberg Colloquium Mar. 31, Anna Papafragou, UPenn: Event representations in language and cognition 2019-2020 Speakers 2019 Friedman Family Fund Colloquium Sept. 18, Michelle "Mikki"Hebl, Rice University 2019 Richard B. Millward Colloquium Oct. 16, Wei Ji Ma, NYU 2019-2020 Michael S. Goodman '74 Memorial Colloquium Series Nov. 13, John Wixted, UCSD Jan. 29, Brian Nosek, Univ. of Virginia Apr. 8, Daniel Jurafsky, Stanford University 2020 Harold Schlosberg Colloquium Apr. 29, Anna Papafragou, Univ. of Delaware 2018-2019 Speakers 2018 Richard B. Millward Colloquium Sept. 5, Elizabeth Phillips, NYU: Mechanisms of Threat Control 2018-2019 Michael S. Goodman '74 Memorial Colloquium Series Oct. 3, Dana Carney, UC Berkeley: The Impact of Ordinary, Everyday Nonverbal Behaviors—Research and Theory Oct. 31 - Susan Goldin-Meadow, U. Chicago: What small data can tell us about the resilience of language that big data can't 2019 Harold Schlosberg Colloquium May 1, Jonathan Haidt, NYU: TBA Past Speakers 2016-2017 Richard B. Millward Colloquium Beatriz Luna, University of Pittsburgh: Exploratory Brain Processes Underlie the Transition from Adolescence to Adult Cognitive Control Michael S. Goodman '74 Memorial Lecture Series Valentine Hacquard, University of Maryland: Grasping at Factivity Rosalind Picard, MIT Gerry Altman, University of Connecticut Richard Heck, Brown University: Against Experimental Philosophy: A Case Study Leslie Ungerleider, NIMH Friedman Family Fund Diversity Lecture Anne Charity Hudley, College of William & Mary Harold Schlosberg Colloquium Jonathan Cohen, Princeton University: Capacity Constraints in Cognitive Control: Toward a Rational Explanation 2015-2016 Richard B. Millward Colloquium Boaz Keysar, University of Chicago: Living in a Foreign Tongue Michael S. Goodman '74 Memorial Lecture Series Edward Gibson, MIT: Information theoretic approaches to language universals Peter Todd, Indiana University: Seek and Find: How people forage for resources in space and in mind Mary Hayhoe, University of Texas at Austin: Control of Gaze in the Context of Behavior Evelina Fedorenko, MGH/HMS: The language network and its place within the broader architecture of the human mind and brain Robert Podesva, Stanford University: The Role of the Body in Structuring Sociophonetic Variation Jean E. Fox Tree, UC, Santa Cruz: The Usefulness of Useless Utterances: Why Um, Like, and Other Disparaged Phenomena are not Superfluous Tali Sharot, University College of London: Forming Beliefs: Information Seeking, Avoidance & Integration in the Human Brain Harold Schlosberg Colloquium Henry Wellman, University of Michigan: Learning a Theory of Mind 2014-2015 Richard B. Millward Colloquium Sharon Thompson-Schill, University of Pennsylvania: Costs and benefits of cognitive control Michael S. Goodman ’74 Memorial Lecture Series Gail Heyman, University of California, San Diego: Children’s Reasoning about People as Sources of Information Daniel McAdams, Northwestern University: The Redemptive Self: How Generative Adults Narrate Their Lives Robin Clark, University of Pennsylvania: The Emergence of Linguistic Diversity Alexandra Freund, University of Zurich: On Gains and Losses, Means and Ends: Motivational Changes across Adulthood Vishnu Murty, New York University: Motivated Memory: Mesolimbic-Hippocampal interactions during memory encoding Brice Kuhl, New York University: Decoding competitive remembering Jeremy Manning, Princeton University: A neural signature of mental time travel Jane Wang, Northwestern University: Toward a cognitive neuroscience of information-based decisions and modeling during learning Jessica Cohen, Kennedy Krieger Institute: Segregation and Integration of Functional Brain Networks in Health and Disease Amitai Shenhav, Princeton University Surviving in a World of Opportunities: The Cost of Choice and the Value of Control Travis Proulx, Tillburg University: Meaning Maintenance Model: Towards a unified account of violation-compensation behaviours Oriana Aragon Schenck, Yale University: Reasoning during Social Interactions Tage Rai, Northwestern University: Virtuous Violence: Hurting and killing to create, sustain, end, and honor social relationships Oriel FeldmanHall, NYU: Neurocognitive mechanisms of dynamic moral choice Harold Schlosberg Colloquium Gregory Hickok, University of California, Irvine: An Integrative Approach to Understanding the Neuroscience of Language Events CLPS Colloquium Series Cognition Seminar Developmental Brown Bag Speaker Series Ling Lang Lunch Perception Action Seminar Social Cognitive Science Seminar Speaker Series: "The Linguistic Expression of Racial and Ethnic Identity" Cognitive, Linguistic & Psychological Sciences Cognitive, Linguistic & Psychological Sciences Brown University Box 1821 Metcalf Research Building 190 Thayer Street Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-2727 Fax: 401-863-2255 Email [email protected] Brown University Giving to Brown Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA 401-863-1000 Contact Us Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility All Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top