Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Testing Center About Services Accommodations Visitor Information Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Services ACT Residual ACCUPLACER ALEKS CLEP DSST Educational Testing Service Miller Analogies Test Oral Proficiency Interview Para Pro Assessment Proctor Services TEAS Take Action Testing Locations Schedule an Exam Parking Information Contact Us Home Testing Center Services Miller Analogies Test (MAT) Miller Analogies Test (MAT) The Miller Analogies Test (MAT) is a computerized graduate admissions exam that is offered at both the University of Memphis Main Campus as well as the University of Memphis Lambuth Campus by appointment only. The Miller Analogies Test (MAT) is a high-stakes test of analytical ability that requires solving problems stated as analogies. The MAT consists of 120 partial analogies that you have 60 minutes to complete. The test measures your ability to recognize relationships between ideas, your fluency in the English language, and your general knowledge of the humanities, natural sciences, mathematics, and social sciences. Registration Information The administration cost for the MAT exam is $73 + service fee. Candidates may select an exam date and pay their registration fee through our secure payment link below. (Please note that you must schedule your exam 48 hours prior to your requested test date and cancel or reschedule your exam 24 hours before your scheduled exam). For detailed information regarding the MAT exam and to download preparation materials, please visit the Miller Analogies website by Clicking Here. An unofficial score report will be available to you at the conclusion of your exam. On Exam Day: Please arrive 10 minutes prior to your appointment time; arriving more than 15 minutes after your scheduled reporting time will forfeit your exam fee and your will be required to reschedule. A valid government issued photo ID with signature is required for testing plus a secondary ID (please click here for obtain information on secondary identification). Click below to schedule a Miller Analogies Test To schedule the MAT at the University of Memphis Main Campus (Memphis, TN): Click Here To schedule the MAT as the University of Memphis Lambuth Campus (Jackson, TN): Click Here Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 5/18/21 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.