Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Helen Hardin Honors College Join Honors Current Members Get Involved Opportunities Faculty News Contact Us Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Opportunities Undergraduate Research Summer Fellowship Washington Center Internships Scholarships Phi Kappa Phi Study Abroad Take Action Apply Online Opportunities National Student Exchange Contact Us Follow Honors Online InstagramFacebooktwitter Home Helen Hardin Honors College Opportunities Washington Center Internships Opportunities The Washington Center Internships The Washington Center (TWC) provides immersive internships and academic seminars to students from hundreds of colleges and universities and young professionals from across the U.S. and more than twenty-five countries. The University of Memphis has established a partnership with TWC for Internships and Academic Seminars that provides a unique opportunity for students to work and study in our nation's capital. Program Overview Transform your major into a career while living, working and learning with a Washington, D.C. internship. The Washington Center (TWC) will help you land a project based internship, in which you will gain the knowledge, skills and experience you need to meet your academic and professional goals. The Washington Center will provide the guidance and support you need to succeed. Best of all you'll share this amazing experience with a close-knit, vibrant community of fellow student interns from around the world. As the largest, most established program of its kind, the TWC has 90 dedicated, full-time staff and more than 600 higher education, corporate, government, foundation and internship host partners. The Washington Center is an independent, not-for-profit, and committed to providing transformative educational experiences. Internship Participants work full time Monday through Thursday at their internship, with goal of doing real meaningful work and as part of the team. The Washington Center (TWC) works with over 600 intern host partners and will assist partcipants in sorting through internship options and connect you with a placement that best fit your interests, skills and professional goals. Sample Internship Placements > Evening Course As part of the program, participants take an evening course. Students can choose their course from a wide range of options. All courses meet for three hours one night, Monday through Thursday. In many cases, they have a direct relationship to the work you're doing throughout the week and range from politics and business to international affairs and communications. TWC Course Guide > LEAD Colloquium Every Friday, participants attend the LEAD Colloquium. Through special activities, one-on-one advising with your LEAD instructor, and small group discussions with fellow TWC interns, participants will contextualize the knowledge and skills developed through the internship and apply it toward a successful plan for life after college. During LEAD Colloquium participants further develop your professional identity, make lasting connections and learn how to navigate the professional workplace. Portfolio Throughout the program, participants build a portfolio that showcases what they've learned and documents their professional journey. Academic Credit Participants are encouraged to work with their academic department to determine eligibility for academic credit. It is highly recommended that you communicate with your academic department/faculty internship coordinator before accepting an internship offer to ensure proper credit. For the Washington Center Program, an example of registration for the semester may look like (but not limited to) the following: Major Specific Internship Course or ELC 4000 (Community Internship) – 3 credits UNHP 4900 - Honors Special Project (Washington Center Course) – 3 credits POLS 3XXX (Special Topics) – 3 credits POLS 4XXX (Online Course) – 3 credits Program Costs Students are responsible for all related costs including, but not limited to, program, housing, travel, meals and incidentals. Fee Spring 2022 Summer 2022 Fall 2022 Application Fee $60 $60 $60 Program Fee $9,415 $7,100 $9,415 Housing Fee $6,570 $4,990 $6,570 Scholarships & Financial Aid University of Memphis Funding All UofM financial aid arrangements (Hope Scholarship, University scholarships, etc.) remain in effect while participating in the Washington Center Program (TWC). Tennessee State Scholarship The Tennessee Higher Education Commission (THEC) offers a scholarship of $7,500 towards the TWC program fee. All applicants who submit a complete program application by the deadline will automatically be considered for the THEC scholarship. The Washington Center Scholarships A housing scholarship of $1,000 from The Washington Center (TWC) is available for UofM students, contingent upon students staying in TWC housing. Additional scholarship opportunities are available to students from TWC and private donors. Here are a few details about TWC and private scholarships: If you meet the eligibility requirements for a competitive award, we will automatically consider you - no extra application necessary. Some of the awards are offered directly by TWC and others come from private donors. Eligibility requirements vary by award. If you receive an award that is privately funded, you may be asked to attend special events or take part in activities with the donor(s). Most scholarships are not cumulative, meaning you’ll receive the largest award for which you qualify. If you have questions about scholarships, or a particular need that you’d like to discuss, please contact us at info@twc.edu to be connected with your Admissions Counselor. Browse Scholarship Opportunities > Accomodations Students with the Washington Center are guarantee centrally located housing in Washington, D.C. at the Residential and Academic Facility (RAF) or one of a partner building nearby. <!-- intentionally non-empty iframe; for xsl --> The Residential & Academic Facility (RAF) Participants will likely live in a two-bedroom, two bathroom apartment with three other interns. Each participant will share a bedroom and a bathroom with one other student, along with your kitchen, living and dining area with your two other roommates. Apartments are fully furnished with a bed and dresser for each student, living room and dining room furnishings, washer/dryer and dishwasher in unit, and even pots, pans and cutlery already stocked in the kitchen cabinets. You’ll also find a vacuum cleaner, mop, iron and ironing board, and other daily essentials you might struggle to fit in your suitcase. If there’s something extra you may need, you’ll be walking distances from several grocery stores and a Wal-Mart. Within the RAF building, there is a full gym with cardio and weight-lifting equipment, a business center with computers and printers, and lounges available for studying, relaxing, or catching up with your fellow interns. The RAF is also TWC’s primary academic building where evening courses and LEAD programming is held. Program Dates Term Check-In Internship Period Check-Out Summer 2022 June 1 June 7 - August 5 August 6 Fall 2022 August 24 August 30 - December 2 December 3 Eligibility The Washington Center (TWC) internship is open to all current University of Memphis (UofM) students who meet the following criteria: Be at least 18 years old Be enrolled as an undergraduate student at the University of Memphis Graduate students are not eligible for this program Be a sophomore or above while participating in the program and have completed at least two semesters on campus by the start of our program Maintain a grade point average (GPA) of at least 2.75 Have approval from campus liaison Application Process The Washington Center (TWC) internship program is a two-step process: Review of application documents by the TWC Campus Liaison (Honors College) Submission of the official TWC online application and program admission by TWC Upon completion of application documents by the TWC Campus Liaison, you will be informed to complete the official TWC online application. TWC will then conduct their review of your materials and notify you of their decision. Priority Campus Deadlines Term Priority Campus Deadline Summer 2021 February 10, 2022 Fall 2022 April 1, 2022 Step One: Submit to Campus Liaison University of Memphis students must submit the following application materials to the online campus application before submitting the final application to The Washington Center. One-Page Professional Resume (self-generated): Include a one-page resume that outlines your educational background, honors or recognitions, work experience, leadership activities, special skills, travel interests, etc. Please be sure to include any computer-related expertise or foreign language skills, as well as prior internships and community service activities. Please have your resume reviewed by Career Services. If you do not have a current resume, please see resume resources and then have your resume reviewed by UofM Career Services. Unofficial Transcript: An unofficial copy of your transcript must be included with your application materials. You can obtain an unofficial transcript by printing it from your myMemphis account. Statement of Professional Interest (self-generated): In approximately 100 words, describe your preferred internship experience and how it relates to your career goals. Please do not specify the name(s) of any particular organization in this statement. Writing Sample (Issues Essay): Compose an essay or use an excerpt from a previous essay of approximately 500 words to be used as a writing sample. This provides you with an opportunity to reflect on a key issue you may wish to be engaged with during your internship and demonstrate your written communication skills to UofM, TWC and prospective internship site supervisors. Ensure that your essay is relevant to the professional field in which you wish to intern and includes your personal opinion on the issue discussed. Academic Advisor Feedback (optional): Work with your academic advisor to discuss relevant courses for the credits you will earn as a participant in TWC. Two Letters of Recommendation: When you submit your application to The Washington Center, you will only need to provide the name and contact information for two professional recommenders. TWC will contact these individuals via e-mail and ask them to provide letters of recommendation. At least one of these letters must be from a UofM faculty member, while the other may be from another professional recommender. TWC suggests that neither letter come from a family member or friend of a personal nature nor from a high school reference or earlier. Campus Application > Step Two: Official TWC Online Application to The Washington Center Following approval from the Campus Liaison, complete the official online TWC application. For that step, you will upload reviewed/approved documents reviewed above. Statement of Professional Interest Writing Sample (Issues Essay) Resumé Official Transcript Official transcripts can be uploaded or mailed. Before uploading your transcript, you must use “white-out” or correction tape (not a Sharpie) to conceal your social security number. The transcript should be scanned in color and needs to be official. TWC cannot accept an unofficial copy. If you prefer to mail, you will need to have an official transcript sent to The Washington Center: The Washington Center ATTN: Enrollment Services 1333 16th Street, NW Washington, D.C. 20036 Letters of Recommendation When you submit your application to The Washington Center, you will only need to provide the name and contact information for two professional recommenders. TWC will contact these individuals via e-mail and ask them to provide letters of recommendation. At least one of these letters must be from a UofM faculty member, while the other may be from another professional recommender. TWC suggests that neither letter come from a family member or friend of a personal nature nor from a high school reference or earlier. Application Fee Waiver Code Generally an application fee waiver code is available. Contact the Campus Liaison for details. Campus Liason For more information or to schedule an appointment about The Washington Center please contact a member of the Honors College Staff > Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 5/9/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.