Skip navigation Find: A to Z Index People Directory Learn More: About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Safety at Brown Brown About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory m.Brown.edu News Events Visit Campus Life Map Directory Brown Apps Sitemap About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Safety at Brown Personal Alarms (PALs) Safety at Brown Personal Alarms (PALs) Using a Personal Safety Alarm is a great way to bring attention to an unsafe or uncomfortable situation. Any student, faculty or staff member who is concerned about their personal safety may obtain a personal alarm device to carry and use for alerting individuals nearby that they are in danger. The personal alarm can be carried in a purse, pocket, or attached to a belt. It can be used in an emergency situation to call for help, draw attention to a situation, or to scare off an attacker. Simply pull the pin and the alarm will sound. To silence the alarm insert the pin back into the device. Personal Safety Alarms are available to students, staff, and faculty at no cost. DPS distributes personal safety alarms to all first-year students at the First-Year Orientation Fair. Brown University members can stop by the Department of Public Safety (75 Charlesfield Street) to pick-up an alarm. A Brown ID is all that is needed! Please call 863-2542 or 863-1438 with any questions. Availability Check description for hours of operation Check description for service area No registration required Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory Related Departments Department of Public Safety Office of Student Life Counseling and Psychological Services Transportation Office Institutional Diversity Health Services Environmental Health and Safety Stay Safe About Safety at Brown Brown Guardian onCall Shuttle Safewalk Personal Safety Alarm (PAL) Brown Ready Health Education Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U Google+ LinkedIn RSS Futurity