Skip to main content University of Nevada, Las Vegas Students Faculty/Staff Alumni Donors Community Audiences Students Faculty/Staff Alumni Donors Community Topics About Academics Admissions Athletics Diversity Research Menu U-N-L-V UNLV Magazine UNLV Magazine About Academics Admissions Athletics Diversity Research Find close UNLV Magazine menu UNLV Magazine UNLV Magazine Home About UNLV Magazine Back Issues Class Notes Subscribe Advertising in UNLV Magazine Submit an Obituary Contact the Editor close find region Find Search A-Z Index Directories Quick Links Bookstore Bookstore Calendar Calendar Campus Maps Campus Maps Degrees Degrees Libraries Libraries MyUNLV MyUNLV News Center News Center RebelCard RebelCard Rebelmail Rebelmail Social Media Social Media UNLV Mail UNLV Mail WebCampus WebCampus Loading Directories Home A-Z Index Colleges, Schools, and Departments Administrative Units Research Centers and Institutes Resources and Services Employee Directory Contact UNLV Social Media Directory UNLV Mobile Apps Spring 2022 The Stewards of a Broken Climate Confronted in our desert backyard by the inescapable effects of a deteriorating environment, these UNLV researchers, professors, and activists are fighting to mitigate the effects of climate change on scientific, legal, and sociological fronts. Read More Current Issue: Spring 2022 The Stewards of a Broken Climate The Stewards of a Broken Climate Confronted in our desert backyard by the inescapable effects of a deteriorating environment, these UNLV researchers, professors, and activists are fighting to mitigate the effects of climate change on scientific, legal, and sociological fronts. How Mermaids in the Desert Launched the Career of Bureau of Reclamation Commissioner How Mermaids in the Desert Launched the Career of Bureau of Reclamation Commissioner A journey over the Hoover Dam set the stage for alumna Camille Touton, now serving at the highest levels of government, to dedicate her life to protecting the nation’s waters. Alumnae Make Waves with Their Civil Engineering Degrees Alumnae Make Waves with Their Civil Engineering Degrees Doa Meade Ross and Colby Pellegrino are two grads tackling water issues in Nevada. Two Fish, Less Fish? Save the Pupfish! Two Fish, Less Fish? Save the Pupfish! A bottomless hole, a tiny fish, and an ongoing preservation legacy that took a UNLV professor all the way to the Supreme Court and created one of North America's most important conservation sites. Water as a Source of Life — and of Conflict Water as a Source of Life — and of Conflict Hydrophilanthropy, the practice of aiding those in water-scarce regions, can transform lives. But when done carelessly, it can lead to immeasurable harm. Rub A Dub Dub, Three Alums in the Suds Rub A Dub Dub, Three Alums in the Suds Hospitality grads Dave and Wyndee Forrest and Cameron Fisher are building CraftHaus into a staple of the Southern Nevada craft brewing scene. The Desert Contained in the Barrick Museum The Desert Contained in the Barrick Museum Artist Kim Stringfellow's Mojave Project connects small slices of desert history into a grand narrative. Opening reception March 25. Mentoring Future Water Experts Mentoring Future Water Experts Through research and advocacy for her students, engineering professor Jacimari Batista helps address Nevada's natural resources issues. Rowing Toward a Closer Community Rowing Toward a Closer Community Miles from the gleaming lights of the Las Vegas Strip, Rebels have found their crew within our desert’s water sport community. Envisioning the Future of UNLV: The New Maryland Parkway Campus Master Plan Envisioning the Future of UNLV: The New Maryland Parkway Campus Master Plan Development of physical spaces is critical to achieving Top-Tier 2.0 Initiatives. The Science Below the Surface The Science Below the Surface Kinesiology professor John Mercer turned a love of triathlons into a vector for research into wetsuit technology and underwater running. Concrete that Floats? UNLV Engineering Students Craft the Perfect Recipe Concrete that Floats? UNLV Engineering Students Craft the Perfect Recipe Regional competition challenges schools to engineer concrete canoes, test them at Lake Mead. A Quest to Cure Cancer: UNLV Student Wins Prestigious Pfizer Research Scholarship A Quest to Cure Cancer: UNLV Student Wins Prestigious Pfizer Research Scholarship Organic chemistry undergraduate Citlally Lopez strives to diversify science. Scientist Shares How Wastewater Surveillance Program Empowers Public Health Decision-Making Scientist Shares How Wastewater Surveillance Program Empowers Public Health Decision-Making Professor Edwin Oh finds valuable COVID information lurking in our sewers. Astronomers Discover Clues that Unveil the Mystery of Fast Radio Bursts Astronomers Discover Clues that Unveil the Mystery of Fast Radio Bursts UNLV astrophysicist Bing Zhang contributes to understanding the physical mechanisms of fast radio bursts in three papers published in Nature. UNLV Physicists Discover New Form of Ice UNLV Physicists Discover New Form of Ice Findings could have implications for our understanding of distant, water-rich planets. Four Olympics and Still Not Done Four Olympics and Still Not Done Kasia Wasick is chasing Olympic immortality for Poland while helping shape the future of UNLV swimming. Leading the Rebels in an Expanding Sports Town Leading the Rebels in an Expanding Sports Town Athletics Director Erick Harper is as excited about the Rebels' off-field success as he is about on-field accomplishments. Into the Rebel-verse Into the Rebel-verse A trio of alums have crafted artificial intelligence-powered avatars so anyone can interact with the likes of Deepak Chopra and UNLV's Keith E. Whitfield. Here's how that builds connections. Getting to Know the Digital President Getting to Know the Digital President From the presidential puppy to financial aid info, Digital President Whitfield shares stories along with useful information for students. She’s Got the Brain Power She’s Got the Brain Power Neuroscience Ph.D. student April Contreras is set to share her research on psychedelics and psychiatry at this year’s Inspiration, Innovation, Impact event Mealtime Matchmaker: A Kitchen Sharing App for Chefs Mealtime Matchmaker: A Kitchen Sharing App for Chefs Master’s student Shivangi Khurania launches business and continually adapts to serve unmet food and beverage industry needs. Dipping Through the Years Dipping Through the Years Las Vegas has always been hot, but here's how they cooled off in the yesteryear of triple-digit summers. Wellness Coronavirus Information Safety and Emergency University Statements and Compliance Web Accessibility Top Tier 2.0 Employment Visit Our Campus Campus Maps Parking Information News Center Contact UNLV University of Nevada, Las Vegas 4505 S. Maryland Pkwy. Las Vegas, NV 89154 Phone: 702-895-3011 Campus Notifications © 2022 UNLV Produced by UNLV Web & Digital Strategy UNLV.edu Privacy Statement Website Feedback Social Media at UNLV