Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Empower Learn Create at UC ELC right arrow down arrow About right arrow down arrow Accredidation Annual Giving Programs & Rates Academic Calendar Classrooms Waiting List Home » About UC » Empower Learn Create at UC » About Set Navigation title in component Accredidation Annual Giving About Program Philosophy The Empower Learn Create at UC program embraces the constructivist position. This position posits that children learn when they are engaged both physically and cognitively, with objects, people, and events. The program has a developmental focus which grants each child the opportunity to grow and learn at his or her own pace. The planned environments offer purposeful activities that support and encourage growth and exploration in math, science, literacy, music, art, as well as social skills, all of which provide a solid foundation for entering elementary school. The program design reflects the belief that quality early childhood education based on constructivist assumptions involves constant interaction between and among the environment, the child, the teacher and the family. Environments foster trust and free children to take charge of their play. Children are encouraged to refine skills in self-direction, self-regulation and problem solving within the context of a program carefully planned to balance freedom with direction that meets both group and individual needs. Teachers begin with the knowledge the child has and find ways to help the child figure out new thinking related to what the child understands, thus clarifying and moving toward an appropriate solution. Teachers are engaged in frequent one-on-one purposeful interactions and commentary to encourage language, scientific inquiry, and creative expression, while supporting social and emotional well-being. Materials and supplies are selected carefully to enrich play and work with music/movement, literature/literacy, math concepts, scientific inquiry, sensory and art media, and props for dramatic expression. Discipline Policy At Empower Learn Create at UC, the goals of discipline are to help the child develop inner controls, help the child verbalize instead of using physical actions, bring the child in touch with his/her feelings, and establish appropriate and constructive behavior. Committment to Diversity Empower Learn Create at UC is committed to serving a diverse population of children and families, and to providing a multi-cultural, integrated curriculum. In the classroom, pictures, books, puzzles, dolls and dramatic play materials reflect a diversity of racial and cultural backgrounds, gender roles, and special needs and abilities whenever possible. Only current, accurate images of children and families of diverse backgrounds doing real life things are portrayed. Art and music include materials, art work, songs and instruments from many cultures. Families are encouraged to share native customs, music, clothing, books, games, and foods with their child's group. Children with Disabilities Children with mental or physical disabilities have the opportunity to participate in all activities at the center. All children benefit when children with and without disabilities are served in the same setting. Children who do not have disabilities experience growth in social skills, increased tolerance of others, and decreased fear of human differences. Empower Learn Create at UC will make any reasonable modification in policies, practices and procedures in order to accommodate individuals with disabilities. The Charlotte R. Schmidlapp Child Care Center meets current ADA architectural requirements. Individualized Plans are used to meet the specific needs of children with disabilities while under our care and supervision. Non-Discrimination Policy Empower Learn Create at UC does not discriminate for reason of race, creed, color, gender, religion, disability, national and ethnic origin in its admissions, scholarship or educational programs and activities. Empower Learn Create at UC 3310 Ruther Ave Cincinnati, OH 45220 (513) 961-2825 (513) 281-7676 (fax) UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Empower Learn Create at UC 3310 Ruther Ave Cincinnati, OH 45220 (513) 961-2825 (513) 281-7676 (fax) © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top