Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Explore Brown University Search Global Navigation Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering John Nicholas Brown Center for Public Humanities and Cultural Heritage Home About Graduate Program Initiatives People Events Conferences Exhibitions Lectures J. Carter Brown Architecture Lectures Performances Workshops Blog Site Navigation Home About Land Acknowledgment Programs History Nightingale-Brown House Richard Neutra's "Windshield" House Model Nightingale-Brown House Digital Tour Black Labor at Nightingale-Brown House Brochure: Slave Labor and the Making of the Nightingale-Brown House Doing Public Humanities Diversity and Inclusion Action Plan DIAP Summary Update 2019-2020 Year in Review Graduate Program M.A. Program Requirements Courses Practicums Past practicums Master's Theses Fellowships and Funding Tuition Scholarship & Other Funding Public History of Slavery Fellowship Native American & Indigenous Studies Fellowship Curatorial Fellowships City Year (Americorps) Agreement Graduate Certificate 5th-year M.A. Contacts Public Humanities Students Handbook Graduate School Handbook Forms and Resources Initiatives Conferences Exhibitions Gallery Publications Partnerships Digital Projects Suffrage in Rhode Island: A Lippitt Family Perspective Nightingale-Brown House Digital Tour Public Work: A Public Humanities Podcast Rhode Tour Public Humanities Blog Day of Public Humanities Brown FACADES App Year of the City: The Providence Project People Faculty & Staff Faculty Advisory Board Public Humanities Fellows Current Students Alumni Alumni Directory Alumni Interviews Events Conferences Exhibitions Lectures J. Carter Brown Architecture Lectures Performances Workshops Blog Workshops Past Workshops Mar 23 2:00pm - 3:00pm How to Use Wikipedia As a Teaching Tool Nightingale-Brown House Many of us rely on Wikipedia, but how many of us have added or revised content on the online encyclopedia? How would you use Wikipedia with students in the classroom? What would you need to run an edit-a-thon with a cultural institution? What do aspiring Wikipedia editors need to know? In this workshop, Jami Mathewson from the Wiki Education Foundation will talk about why Wikipedia’s quality is so important and how students can improve academic topics through a classroom assignment. In contributing content to Wikipedia – one of the world’s largest digital public humanities initiatives – students gain skills in media literacy, fact-based writing, research, collaboration, and critical thinking. You’ll learn about best practices for using Wikipedia as a teaching tool and how Wiki Ed can support you and your students. Jami will also discuss the Wikipedia Year of Science and ways to participate in this initiative. This event will appeal to both teachers and students interested in the potential uses of Wikipedia in various educational contexts. About Jami: Jami Mathewson develops partnerships with academic associations to increase participation in Wiki Ed’s programs, bring content expertise into the organization, and improve the availability of information related to their disciplines on Wikipedia. She identifies ways to support partners who are looking to promote the use of Wikipedia as a teaching tool on a large scale — including help with publications, printed materials, conference presentations, training new participants, and documenting metrics and outcomes. This event is co-sponsored by the Brown University Library Center for Digital Scholarship, the Instructional Technology Group, and the Sheridan Center for Teaching and Learning. For more information, please email Jim McGrath ([email protected]). How to Use Wikipedia As a Teaching Tool JNBC Workshops Feb 23 6:00pm - 8:00pm Erotic Vision: A Poetry & Photography Workshop Nightingale-Brown House This workshop offers a comfortable and laid-back space, with mood light and music, for participants to engage freely with the capaciousness of the erotic, through poetry and photography, and using Audre Lorde’s writing as a starting point. The session will include a guided reading of Lorde, poetry prompts and freewriting, and the opportunity to take photos of the erotic self (which does *not* have to be an image of yourself). Photographs taken during the workshop will be printed on the spot and returned to participants so that they can write on, mark up, collage, or otherwise augment the images however they choose. We will provide various crafting materials, props, and supplies. The aim of this workshop is to provide a playful and open-ended setting for participants to reflect on the empowering potentials of erotics. Participants’ creations will be displayed, with consent, in a subsequent exhibition that will be on display for two weeks in the Garage Gallery where this workshop will take place. After the exhibition concludes, we will work to facilitate the return of exhibition pieces to their creators. Erotic Vision: A Poetry & Photography Workshop JNBC Exhibitions, JNBC Workshops Mar 15 12:30pm Public Humanities Lab / Oral History Crash Course Nightingale-Brown House Come learn the basics of how to run an oral history interview! Participants will have the opportunity to take their own oral histories after training and exchange ideas on incorporating oral history into future projects. Curators: Alyssa Trejo and Elizabeth Mathews, with Dr. Lauren Yapp. Register here if you plan to attend. This series is a part of the Public Humanities Lab at the Center for Public Humanities, where Public Humanities graduate students curate exhibitions and public programs that probe questions about art, memory, heritage, culture and sensation. Public Humanities Lab / Oral History Crash Course JNBC Exhibitions, JNBC Workshops Mar 16 6:30pm Public Humanities Lab / Oral History Crash Course Nightingale-Brown House Come learn the basics of how to run an oral history interview! Participants will have the opportunity to take their own oral histories after training and exchange ideas on incorporating oral history into future projects. Curators: Alyssa Trejo and Elizabeth Mathews, with Dr. Lauren Yapp. Register here if you plan to attend. This series is a part of the Public Humanities Lab at the Center for Public Humanities, where Public Humanities graduate students curate exhibitions and public programs that probe questions about art, memory, heritage, culture and sensation. Public Humanities Lab / Oral History Crash Course JNBC Exhibitions, JNBC Workshops Apr 6 5:30pm - 6:30pm Q&A with Amy Starecheski (Oral History MA Program, Columbia University) Nightingale-Brown House Students: Come learn about the Columbia University’s Oral History MA program with the program’s director Amy Starecheski. Columbia University’s Oral History Master of Arts Program is the first program of its kind in the United States: a one-year interdisciplinary MA degree training students in oral history method and theory. Through the creation, archiving and analysis of individual, community and institutional histories, they amplify the critical first-person narratives that constitute memory for generations to come. Light refreshments will be provided. Q&A with Amy Starecheski (Oral History MA Program, Columbia University) JNBC Workshops Upcoming Workshops Check back soon for new events. Events Conferences Exhibitions Lectures J. Carter Brown Architecture Lectures Performances Workshops John Nicholas Brown Center for Public Humanities and Cultural Heritage John Nicholas Brown Center for Public Humanities and Cultural Heritage Brown University Box 1880 Nightingale Brown House 357 Benefit Street Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-1177 Fax: 401-863-7777 Email [email protected] Twitter Twitter Facebook Facebook Instagram Instagram Brown University Giving to Brown Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA 401-863-1000 Contact Us Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility All Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top