Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Music Therapy MMT You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Music Therapy MMT Apply Request More Info Music Therapy MMT Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Ensembles & Performance Master's Audition Requirements Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Master of Music Therapy Integrate personal and professional development through an examination of self, your clinical practice, coursework, and immersion in various research paradigms in the Master of Music Therapy (MMT) at Temple's Boyer College of Music and Dance. This 36-credit graduate program guides you in understanding the impact of your approaches to therapy, your use of music and the therapeutic process. Coursework emphasizes theory, research, ethics and supervision to provide in-depth, experiential knowledge of music therapy methodologies and applications. The curriculum focuses on didactic and experiential training in two areas of clinical study: Music Medicine and Music Psychotherapy. Music Medicine explores how music and the client-therapist relationship are used to facilitate mind-body communication and health. Music Psychotherapy investigates how music and the client-therapist relationship are used to promote emotional and interpersonal growth. Electives are offered in hospice care, music psychotherapy, and both state licensure and PhD preparation. Students interested in the Licensed Professional Counselor Program can take an additional 12 credit hours in the counseling program to satisfy Pennsylvania state requirements for licensure. Culminating events in the MMT program include a comprehensive exam and a final project. Master of Music Therapy / Combined Master’s Equivalency Applicants who hold a bachelor’s degree in another area of music (e.g., performance or music education) but who are not certified in music therapy can apply to the combined master’s equivalency program. This program integrates the undergraduate core courses in music therapy required for entry-level certification with the master’s program. Learn more about the Master of Music Therapy / Combined Master’s Equivalency program requirements. Explore Boyer Faculty Faculty Discover music therapy faculty in the Boyer College of Music and Dance. Explore Boyer Faculty See faculty members in Boyer music therapy degree programs. Classes & Curriculum The coursework in this 36-credit program includes Advanced Clinical Training, Modes of Clinical Supervision, Multicultural Music Therapy, Music in Medicine, Music Therapy Ethics, Qualitative Research in Music Therapy and Quantitative Research in Music Therapy. Learn more about the Master of Music Therapy coursework. Related Graduate Degrees Composition MM Music History MM Music Theory MM Music MA Music MS Music Education MM Music Performance MM Jazz Studies MM Music Therapy PhD Music PhD Intensive Learning Retreats & Online Instruction Music Therapy courses are offered through various combinations of intensive learning retreats and online instruction via the Canvas program. The amount of time spent in class versus online varies according to the content and objectives of each course. Some courses require the full 12 to 13 hours per credit in class time, while others require less in-class time with more instructional time online. Two intensive retreats are offered each semester. Each retreat lasts from eight to 10 days, but you will only attend those days on which your classes meet. Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Master of Music Therapy offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $1,095.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,458.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Student Clubs & Organizations Participating in student groups provides peer support and future professional contacts. There are more than 200 student organizations at Temple University. Music Therapy Club raises money for charity organizations and performs community service projects. The club also raises funds to send students to the American Music Therapy Association Mid-Atlantic Conference. National Association for Music Education is a conservatory chapter of the national organization of music educators. Semester activities include creating projects, presenting guest speakers and workshops, attending the PMEA All-State conference, participating in outreach activities, and learning to use various online music education resources. OwlCappella is a coed a cappella group—one of seven student-run a cappella ensembles on campus—that provides a musical outlet for non-music and music majors alike. Learn more about clubs and organizations. Our Advisors Faculty advisors can help you navigate your program and discuss research opportunities, teaching assistantships and more. Learn more about Boyer College of Music and Dance faculty. Program Contact Wendy Magee is the program coordinator for the Master of Music Therapy. Phone: 215-204-8314 Email: wmagee@temple.edu Accreditation The Boyer College of Music and Dance is accredited by the American Music Therapy Association, National Association of Schools of Music, National Association of Schools of Dance and Pennsylvania Department of Education. BC-MTHE-MMT Additional Program Information School/College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Music Therapy MMT Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Ensembles & Performance Master's Audition Requirements Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info