Search | Directories | Reference Tools UW Home > Discover UW > Student Guide UW Bothell Course Descriptions UW Tacoma Course Descriptions Glossary THE INFORMATION SCHOOL THE INFORMATION SCHOOL INFORMATICS Detailed course offerings (Time Schedule) are available for Spring Quarter 2022 Summer Quarter 2022 Autumn Quarter 2022 INFO 101 Social Networking Technologies (5) I&S/NW Explores today's most popular social networks, gaming applications, and messaging applications. Examines technologies, social implications, and information structure. Focuses on logic, databases, networked delivery, identity, access, privacy, ecommerce, organization, and retrieval. View course details in MyPlan: INFO 101 INFO 102 Gender and Information Technology (5) I&S, DIV Explores the social construction of gender in relation to the history and contemporary development of information technologies. Considers the importance of diversity and difference in the design and construction of innovative information technology solutions. Challenges prevailing viewpoints about who can and does work in the information technology field. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: INFO 102 INFO 180 Introduction to Data Science (4) QSR Survey course introducing the essential elements of data science: data collection, management, curation, and cleaning; summarizing and visualizing data; basic ideas of statistical inference, machine learning. Students will gain hands-on experience through computing labs. View course details in MyPlan: INFO 180 INFO 198 Exploring Informatics (1-5, max. 15) Introduces a variety of Informatics and Information Science topics to pre-Informatics and non-Informatics students. View course details in MyPlan: INFO 198 INFO 200 Intellectual Foundations of Informatics (5) I&S Introduces the intellectual foundations of information, including what it is; how people create, categorize, find, interpret, manipulate and use information; how human values shape the design of information, information technology, and information systems; and how these systems shape people, organizations, and society. Includes analytic, design, empirical, and technical skill development. View course details in MyPlan: INFO 200 INFO 201 Foundational Skills for Data Science (5) QSR Introduces fundamental tools, technologies, and skills necessary to transform data into knowledge, including data manipulation, analysis, and visualization, as well as version control and programming languages used in data programming. Students learn to work with real data, and reflect on the power and perils of using data to inform. View course details in MyPlan: INFO 201 INFO 270 Data Reasoning in a Digital World (4) I&S Our world is rife with misinformation. This is a course about "calling b***s*** on" - spotting, dissecting, and publicly refuting - false claims and inferences based on quantitative, statistical, and computational analysis of data. Spotting misinformation; causal fallacies; statistical traps; data visualization; big data; interpreting scientific claims; fake news and social media; refutation techniques. Prior math/stat background unnecessary. View course details in MyPlan: INFO 270 INFO 290 Orientation to Informatics (1) Provides newly admitted Informatics students with background necessary for success in the major. Includes discussion of iSchool/Informatics mission, culture, values, expectations, resources, degree and career options. Addresses effective classroom performance including teamwork and leadership, and focuses on resume, LinkedIn profile, portfolio, interview and career fair preparation. View course details in MyPlan: INFO 290 INFO 300 Research Methods (5) Introduces research methods used to understand people's interactions with information, information technology, and information systems. Topics include epistemology, science, theory, research ethics, and a selection of qualitative, quantitative, and design methods for answering questions in both research and practical settings. View course details in MyPlan: INFO 300 INFO 310 Information Assurance and Cybersecurity (5) I&S, QSR Provides a theoretical and practical introduction to information assurance and cyber-security (IAC). Includes methods and practices for securing information and information systems. Covers how vulnerabilities arise, recognizing evolving threats, and mitigating them. Explores the role of risk analysis, information privacy, accountability, and policy. View course details in MyPlan: INFO 310 INFO 312 Enterprise Risk Management (4) Examines the risk inherent in use of technology, and how to manage risk to information, data, and technology in organizations. Topics include risk management frameworks, risk tolerance, key risk indicators, the legislative and regulatory environment, compliance, and new avenues of risk such as social media and mobile. View course details in MyPlan: INFO 312 INFO 314 Computer Networks and Distributed Applications (5) NW Basic concepts of local and wide-area computer networking including an overview of services provided by networks, network topologies and hardware, packet switching, client/server architectures, network protocols, and network servers and applications. Also addresses management, security, authentication, and policy issues associated with distributed systems. Prerequisite: CSE 142 or CSE 143. View course details in MyPlan: INFO 314 INFO 330 Databases and Data Modeling (5) QSR Introduction to database systems, focused on relational models, languages, and systems and the application of conceptual, logical, and physical database design. Key topics include the relational model, SQL, entity-relationship modeling, three-tier architectures, implementation of database applications, and non-relational databases. Links data modeling decisions to social justice outcomes. View course details in MyPlan: INFO 330 INFO 331 Introduction to Information Architecture (5) Introduction to Information Architecture (IA) methodologies and tools used to design and build information spaces. Discusses IA core concepts of navigation, labeling, data modeling, taxonomy and information personas. Also discusses wireframes, sitemaps, information design and integrating IA work with a UX strategy. View course details in MyPlan: INFO 331 INFO 340 Client-Side Development (5) QSR Introduction to client-side development on the internet, including markup, programming languages, protocols, libraries, and frameworks for creating and maintaining usable and accessible, interactive applications. Prerequisite: either CSE 143, CSE 154, or CSE 163; and INFO 201. View course details in MyPlan: INFO 340 INFO 350 Information Ethics and Policy (5) I&S Provides a framework for analyzing the ethical, legal, economic, and socio-political issues surrounding information, information technologies, and the information industries. Explores policy and ethical issues of information access and control including; intellectual property, file sharing, free speech, privacy, and national security. View course details in MyPlan: INFO 350 INFO 360 Design Methods (4) VLPA/I&S, DIV Introduces design paradigms and methods for envisioning information systems that meet the needs of people, organizations, and society. Topics include design thinking, creativity, and the sketching, prototyping, evaluating, and specifying of information experiences. Engages questions of design justice, examining who is and is not served by design. View course details in MyPlan: INFO 360 INFO 362 Visual Information Design (5) VLPA Build fluency in expressing information visually as diagrams, charts, maps, and icons. Learn to solve design problems, give and receive critique, follow an iterative process of design refinement, and learn technical skills. Understand the nature of visual potential, visual design principles, and the impact of color and typography. View course details in MyPlan: INFO 362 INFO 365 Mobile Application Design (5) Fundamentals of mobile UX & UI design through the lens of creating your own mobile OS and core mobile apps in a design studio setting. Includes creating a mobile design language and mobile patterns, app review by professional designers, and how design for mobile is unique from other mediums. Recommended: INFO 360 View course details in MyPlan: INFO 365 INFO 370 Core Methods in Data Science (5) QSR Surveys the major topics within data science, including data ingestion, cloud computing, statistical inference, machine learning, information visualization, and data ethics. Includes programming in R and Python. Prerequisite: INFO 201; either CSE 142, CSE 143, CSE 160, or CSE 163; and either STAT 220, STAT 221/CS&SS 221/SOC 221, STAT 290, STAT 311, STAT 390, QMETH 201, or Q SCI 381. View course details in MyPlan: INFO 370 INFO 371 Advanced Methods in Data Science (5) QSR Introduces modern methods in applied data science. Emphasizes practical applications and analysis of real-world data through a survey of common techniques in supervised and unsupervised machine learning, and methods for experimental design and causal inference. Students learn functional, procedural, and statistical programming techniques for working with data. Prerequisite: INFO 370. View course details in MyPlan: INFO 371 INFO 380 Information Systems Analysis and Design (5) Provides students with the skills to design information systems and software. Students learn how to identify and analyze system needs in terms of organizational and stakeholder goals, system functionality, and the constraints in which it must operate. Students learn analysis and design methods to gather, model, and define system requirements. View course details in MyPlan: INFO 380 INFO 386 Professionalism in Informatics (4) Examines professionalism, communication, teamwork, leadership, and interpersonal networking to strengthen students as they seek to excel professionally. Covers developing and presenting business cases and project plans, personal branding, conducting informational interviews, and effective written and oral communication. View course details in MyPlan: INFO 386 INFO 402 Gender, Race, and Information Technology (4) I&S, DIV Explores Information Technology from a feminist standpoint. Considers the intersection of difference - gender, race, class, sexuality, and ability - in technology studies and work. There is a historical overview of women in technology, an introduction to technology education, and discussion about women in the IT workforce. View course details in MyPlan: INFO 402 INFO 415 Emerging Topics in Information Assurance and Cybersecurity (1-5, max. 15) Explores emerging topics and unique subjects in information assurance and cybersecurity (IAC) not otherwise covered in the IAC curriculum. View course details in MyPlan: INFO 415 INFO 430 Database Design and Management (5) Perspectives on DBMS theory, architecture, and implementation. Conceptual, logical, physical modeling. Index structures, query optimization and performance tuning, relational algebra, transaction processing, and concurrency control. Operational databases, decision support systems, and data warehousing. Projects in database implementation and integration. Social implications of large distributed database systems. Prerequisite: INFO 330. View course details in MyPlan: INFO 430 INFO 431 Metadata Design (3) Explores principles of metadata schema and application profile design and implementation using XML technologies. Examines syntactic and semantic interoperability among diverse schemas and application profiles. Prerequisite: INFO 330; INFO 331. View course details in MyPlan: INFO 431 INFO 433 Content Strategy in Information Architecture (4) I&S Introduces key concepts in understanding the content lifecycle in context of an organization's web, mobile, and other communication channels. Provides knowledge of key theories and principles in information architecture and practical application of skills including user research; information collection and analysis; and information organization and presentation. View course details in MyPlan: INFO 433 INFO 441 Server-Side Development (5) Introduces server-side web development programming, services, tools, protocols, best practices and techniques for implementing data-driven and scalable web applications. Connects topics from human-centered design, information architecture, databases, data analytics and security to build a solution. Prerequisite: either CSE 143 or CSE 163; either INFO 340 or CSE 154; and INFO 330. View course details in MyPlan: INFO 441 INFO 442 Cooperative Software Development (5) Introduces the theory and practice of cooperative user-centered software development, applying fundamental theories and techniques from social psychology, computer-supported collaborative work, and software engineering. Prerequisite: INFO 360; and INFO 340 or CSE 154. View course details in MyPlan: INFO 442 INFO 443 Software Architecture for Interactive Systems (5) Introduction to architectural patterns and abstractions used in design of software systems. Principles and practices for structuring software. Analysis and application of object-oriented and module-level design patterns. Practices for documenting and reviewing code. Identification and evaluation of architecture in existing applications, libraries, and frameworks. Concepts applied through programming interactive applications. Prerequisite: either CSE 143 or CSE 163; and INFO 340. View course details in MyPlan: INFO 443 INFO 448 Mobile Development: Android (5) Application development for Android devices. Covers implementation of mobile apps, including build tools, programming languages and libraries, user interfaces, application architecture, and industry practices. Focuses on harnessing communication systems and sensors specific to mobile platforms, to create interactive, user-focused systems. programming in Java and XML. Prerequisite: CSE 143; and INFO 340 or CSE 154. View course details in MyPlan: INFO 448 INFO 449 Mobile Development: IOS (5) Application development for iOS devices. Covers implementation of mobile apps, including build tools, programming languages and libraries, user interfaces, application architecture, and industry practices. Focuses on harnessing communication systems and sensors specific to mobile platforms, to create interactive, user-focused systems. Programming in Swift and XML. Prerequisite: CSE 143; and either INFO 340, INFO 343, or CSE 154. View course details in MyPlan: INFO 449 INFO 463 Input and Interaction (5) Introduces input and interaction techniques for desktop, mobile, and other computing environments. Combines motor and perceptual psychology, interaction design, and input devices and software in the study of human-computer systems. Emphasizes using human performance models inform the design of new interaction techniques. Prerequisite: INFO 360. View course details in MyPlan: INFO 463 INFO 464 Value Sensitive Design (5) VLPA Introduction to value sensitive design (VSD), information system design that accounts for human values in a principled and comprehensive manner. Examination of existing systems from a VSD perspective. Explores VSD research methods including conceptual, technical, empirical investigations. Key values include accountability, autonomy, consent, privacy, property, trust, sustainability. Prerequisite: either INFO 360, DESIGN 383, CSE 440, or HCDE 419. View course details in MyPlan: INFO 464 INFO 465 Technology, Time and Design (4) Explores relationship between information technology and time. From issues of shortened attention span, internet addiction, and longer-term perspectives on data curation and cultural heritage, considers time as a crucial element in how human beings experience life. Includes the critical role technology plays in that experience. Prerequisite: INFO 360. View course details in MyPlan: INFO 465 INFO 466 Moral Reasoning and Interaction Design (4) What does it mean for a technology to be good or evil? Students learn about and critique existing design patterns, features, and products through a diverse set of ethical theories, and they design new technologies grounded in systematic principles of moral reasoning. Mix of studio and seminar. Prerequisite: INFO 350; and either INFO 360 or HCDE 210. View course details in MyPlan: INFO 466 INFO 468 Designing for Personal Health and Wellness (5) I&S Focuses on human-centered design of technologies for personal health and wellness. Students will learn how to understand people's health and wellness needs, consider ethical implications, assess existing tools, and design new health and wellness technologies. Students will learn theoretical and empirical approaches to evaluating these technologies. Prerequisite: either INFO 200, HCDE 210, HCDE 310, HCDE 318, or DESIGN 206. View course details in MyPlan: INFO 468 INFO 474 Interactive Information Visualization (5) VLPA, QSR Techniques and theory for visualizing, analyzing, and supporting interaction with structured data like numbers, text, and relations. Provides practical experience designing and building interactive visualizations for the web. Exposes students to cognitive science, statistics, and perceptual psychology. An empirical approach will be used to design and evaluate visualizations. Prerequisite: INFO 340 or CSE 154; CSE 143 or CSE 163; and either QMETH 201, Q SCI 381, STAT 220, STAT 221/CS&SS 221/SOC 221, STAT 290, STAT 311, or STAT 390. View course details in MyPlan: INFO 474 INFO 478 Population Health Informatics (5) I&S, QSR Introduces applications of Informatics skills to evaluating public health. Students will learn how to leverage their programming and data competencies towards measuring and describing the health of a population. Students will learn about and compute metrics of population health, and leverage visualization to communicate statistical insights to broad audiences. Prerequisite: INFO 201. View course details in MyPlan: INFO 478 INFO 481 Project Management in Informatics (4) Introduces project management principles within the context of Informatics. Provides knowledge that managers need to implement information systems on time and within budget. Concentrates on methods and issues in organizing, planning, and controlling projects, and the use of computer-based project management tools. View course details in MyPlan: INFO 481 INFO 490 Project Capstone I (4) Student-driven team project including definition of an information problem, a method of investigation, creation of a project proposal, and completion of project deliverables. Must be completed in consecutive quarters with INFO 491. Prerequisite: INFO 300 and INFO 360. View course details in MyPlan: INFO 490 INFO 491 Project Capstone II (4) A student-driven team project that includes definition of an information problem, a method of investigation, creation of a project proposal, and completion of project deliverables (which may range from research reports, to design prototypes, to functional implementations of information systems. Must be completed in consecutive quarters after INFO 490. Prerequisite: INFO 490. View course details in MyPlan: INFO 491 INFO 495 Internship in Informatics (1-5, max. 12) Internship in the private or public sector, as approved by faculty member. Work jointly supervised by faculty member (or approved academic sponsor) and an on-site work supervisor. View course details in MyPlan: INFO 495 INFO 496 Service Learning in Informatics (1-5, max. 12) Utilization of skills in service of the community, as approved by faculty member. Work to be jointly supervised by faculty member (or approved academic sponsor) and on-site service supervisor. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: INFO 496 INFO 497 Informatics Study Abroad (1-8, max. 18) International seminar, led by Information School faculty or researchers. Addresses a specialized area of informatics. Topics vary. May require language proficiency. View course details in MyPlan: INFO 497 INFO 498 Special Topics in Informatics (1-5, max. 15) Various topics in informatics. View course details in MyPlan: INFO 498 INFO 499 Independent Study (1-5, max. 15) Readings, design projects, or research under faculty supervision. View course details in MyPlan: INFO 499 Office of the University Registrar registrar@uw.edu Modified: May 30, 2022