Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Contact Us Contact Us Follow Us Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Google+ Follow Us Twitter Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us Tumblr Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Instagram Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content CIQ About Resources News News Poolside Musings Quick Tips for creating a culturally intelligent classroom for your international students What Yale tells us about race on college campuses ☰ The Cultural Intelligence Initiative@SMU About the Office of Diversity & Inclusion The Cultural Intelligence Initiative at SMU News News This space is for you. Got something on your mind about Cultural Intelligence? Want to share your conversations about gender, race, sexuality, religion, or other topics that will help create greater understanding of your cultural language? Let us know. We would love to have you be our featured blogger for the month. Reach out to us. Share your story. This space is for you. News Poolside Musings Quick Tips for creating a culturally intelligent classroom for your international students What Yale tells us about race on college campuses Apply Visit School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series (214) 768-3393 Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © The SMU Cultural Intelligence Initiative The Office of the Provost 6425 Boaz Lane Dallas, TX 75205, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter