Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site OVPRS Websites Research and Scholarship Home Research Development and Evaluation Research Capacity and Operations Research Administration Regulatory Affairs and Assessment Research Navigator Research Lifecycle 1. Get Started 2. Identify Funding Opportunities 3. Write Proposal 4. Submit Proposal 5. Conduct Research 6. Commercialize Work Learners Key Partners About Vice Provost for Research and Scholarship Leadership Administrative Areas Centers and Institutes Core Facilities and Shared Resources Sign up for a Listserv Events Calendar Contact Us Research Lifecycle Learners Key Partners About Site Feedback Search Research Lifecycle 1. Get Started 2. Identify Funding Opportunities 3. Write Proposal 4. Submit Proposal 5. Conduct Research 6. Commercialize Work Learners Key Partners About Vice Provost for Research and Scholarship Leadership Administrative Areas Centers and Institutes Core Facilities and Shared Resources Sign up for a Listserv Events Calendar Contact Us Site Feedback OVPRS Websites Research and Scholarship Home Research Development and Evaluation Research Capacity and Operations Research Administration Regulatory Affairs and Assessment Research Navigator Get Started Identify Funding Opportunities Write Proposal Submit proposal Conduct Your Research Commercialize Your Research $sLabel Home Research Lifecycle Submit Proposal AAA Submit Proposal Get Started Identify Opportunities Write Proposal Submit Proposal Conduct Research Commercialize Partners for successful submissions. The Research Administration team under the Office of the Vice Provost for Research includes professionals with vast combined experience in submitting successful award applications. The teams include specialists grouped by academic discipline and expertise. Review our proposal basics, preparing a proposal and find your contact person to get started. Ibis Research Grants and Sponsored Agreements management system used to develop, route and submit proposals, set up awards, request modifications, initiate and route ancillary reviews, create, negotiate and track agreements and create and track subawards. Research Administration Forms A comprehensive listing of all the components necessary for submission, including pre-award, clinical research, research information systems and export control compliance. Contracts Connect with the team that creates, reviews, negotiates and executes contracts and subawards. Human Subjects Research Office/ Institutional Review Board Determine whether your project meets the regulatory definition of research involving human subjects, whether the University’s IRB and/or an ancillary committee needs to review your project, and submit for approval. University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 305-284-2211 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices