Tuck COVID-19 Information and Campus Updates Tuck School of Business at Dartmouth Loading... Menu Search Tuck About Why Tuck? Mission, Vision, & Strategy Tuck Leadership Meet the Dean Facts & Figures See Our Campus (Map) Accessibility Staff Directory Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Dartmouth Collaborations MBA Admissions Student Stories Alumni Stories Tuck 360: MBA Blog Academic Experience Life at Tuck Housing Options Partners and Families Clubs and Activities Tuck Student Board Centers Career Services Finance Your Degree Business Bridge Executive Education Faculty & Research How We Teach Faculty Directory Academic Groups Faculty Recruiting Research & Insights Faculty in the News Research Highlights News All News School News Research & Insights In the Media Events MBA Program Rankings Social Media For Journalists Recruiting Executive Education myTUCK Master of Health Care Delivery Science About Why Tuck? Mission, Vision, & Strategy Tuck Leadership Board of Advisors Tuck Asia Pacific Council Tuck Latin America and Caribbean Council Tuck Europe, Middle East, and Africa (EMEA) Council TAG Executive Committee MBA Council Meet the Dean Meet Matthew J. Slaughter: Videos Bio & CV Contact the Dean's Office Facts & Figures History See Our Campus (Map) Accessibility Staff Directory Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Dartmouth Collaborations Master of Engineering Management Program Master of Health Care Delivery Science TuckLAB Undergraduate Business Training Join the Tuck Community Apply Today Connect With Us MBA Student Stories Alumni Stories Tuck 360: MBA Blog Academic Experience Required Curriculum Elective Curriculum Management Science and Quantitative Methods Option First-Year Project Leadership Development TuckGO Centers Academic Calendar Life at Tuck Dartmouth College Diversity Military Veterans Hanover and the Upper Valley Admissions Applying to Tuck Class Profile Admissions Criteria Important Dates Visit and Interview Accessibility Attend an Event Admissions FAQs Connect with Our Community Housing Options Partners and Families Clubs and Activities Tuck Student Board Career Services Employment Statistics Meet Our Career Advisers Top Hiring Companies Recruit a Tuck Student Finance Your Degree Tuition and Costs Scholarships, Fellowships, and Sponsorships Loan Programs Online Resources Financial Aid Applications Financial Aid FAQs Join the Tuck Community Apply Today Connect With Us Business Bridge Executive Education Advanced Management Program Diversity Business Programs Global Leadership Next Step Leadership and Strategic Impact Join the Tuck Community Apply Today Connect With Us Faculty & Research How We Teach Faculty Directory Faculty Recruiting Research Groups Emeriti Faculty in the News Research & Insights Join the Tuck Community Apply Today Connect With Us News All News School News Research & Insights In the Media Events MBA Program Rankings Social Media For Journalists Join the Tuck Community Apply Today Connect With Us Search Search Tuck Cancel Meet Our Career Advisers Tuck's career advisers bring a wealth of industry expertise to help you develop your post-MBA career. Stephen Pidgeon T’07 Executive Director, Career Services Email: stephen.james.pidgeon@tuck.dartmouth.edu Phone: 603-646-9615 Before attending Tuck, Stephen directed and produced multiple television series and a movie. Post-MBA, he worked as an engagement manager at McKinsey in London, focusing on health care consulting with a functional specialty in organizational design. Stephen joined Tuck Career Services in 2010. He is the author of the bestselling books “How To Get A Job In Consulting” and “Case Interviews for Beginners.” Education: University of Westminster, Tuck MBA Focus: Media & Entertainment Marc Aquila T'07 Director, Business Development Email: marc.l.aquila@tuck.dartmouth.edu Phone: 603-646-8828 Marc has held marketing, operations and general management roles across multiple industries and in higher education at both Columbia and Dartmouth. After his Tuck degree he was in a global leadership development program at John Deere and a Director at RSG doing strategic product marketing consulting. Education: Columbia University, Tuck MBA Sector Focus: General Management, Health Care Caroline Cannon T'98 Career Advisor Email: caroline.c.cannon@tuck.dartmouth.edu Phone: 603-646-9223 Caroline Cannon is the founder of the Academic Venture Lab and a consultant in business start-up and turn-around. As a consultant, Caroline has helped private and non-profit start-ups and mature businesses pivot, launch, and grow in education, sustainability, digital health and agriculture. Her past experience includes management consulting with Renaissance Consulting (now the Balanced Scorecard Collaborative and CEO or President roles at several niche businesses in Chicago and the Upper Valley. Education: UNC-Chapel Hill, Tuck MBA Sector Focus: Social impact, Entrepreneurship, Marketing Sarah DiGiacomo Associate Director Email: sarah.l.digiacomo@tuck.dartmouth.edu Phone: 603-646-8986 Prior to Tuck, Sarah worked in Career Services at Thayer and Dartmouth, coaching both undergraduate and graduate students. She was also a career adviser and admissions interviewer at St. Lawrence University. Education: SUNY Potsdam, St. Lawrence University (M. Ed.) Focus: Targeted job search, Energy Andrew Kaestle T'17 Associate Director Email: andrew.j.kaestle@tuck.dartmouth.edu Phone: 603-646-9361 Prior to pursuing his MBA, Andy worked in transaction diligence as a CPA in both the US and Europe. Upon graduating from Tuck in 2017, Andy joined Bain, where he spent four years serving clients focused on consumer products, agile innovation, and commercial diligence. Education: University of San Diego, Tuck MBA Focus: Consulting Mathias Machado T’09 Director, Career Services and Resources Email: mathias.a.machado@tuck.dartmouth.edu Phone: 603-646-0875 Bringing a unique global perspective to Tuck Career Services, Mathias worked with the Volkswagen Group, Siemens, Booz & Co. (now Strategy&), and TomTom. He specialized for five years in B2B sales in IT services and telecom before Tuck and worked as a product manager in tech post-MBA. Education: Instituto Tecnologico de Buenos Aires, Tuck MBA Focus: International Students Laura Mogilner T’08 Associate Director, Career Services Email: laura.mogilner@tuck.dartmouth.edu Phone: 415-359-4642 Laura brings fifteen years of leadership experience in product management and business strategy & operations across the technology, fintech and clean tech industries, including Google and two Silicon Valley startups. She resides in the Bay Area and is focused on the technology sector. Education: University of Illinois, Tuck MBA Focus: Technology, West Coast Deirdre O’Donnell Director, Career Services and Advising Email: deirdre.c.o'donnell@tuck.dartmouth.edu Phone: 603-646-8185 Deirdre joined Tuck Career Services in 2008 after a 24-year career at Lehman Brothers in their fixed income division. While at Lehman, Deirdre also took an active role in recruiting as head of Lehman’s core recruiting team for sales and trading and ultimately became global head of diversity recruiting for the firm. Education: St. Lawrence University Focus: Finance (all aspects, including real estate) Careers Home Employment Statistics Industry Treks Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn YouTube 100 Tuck Hall Hanover, NH 03755 USA Center for Business, Government & Society Center for Digital Strategies Center for Entrepreneurship Center for Health Care Center for Private Equity and Venture Capital Revers Center for Energy, Sustainability and Innovation Apply Admissions Financial Aid Application Deadlines Admissions FAQs Contact Directions Campus Map Accessibility Area Lodging Give to Tuck MyTuck for Alumni TuckStuff Store TuckConnect Intranet Employment For Recruiters For Journalists Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn YouTube Back to Top © , The Trustees of Dartmouth College. All rights reserved. | Privacy