Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Office of Nationally Competitive Awards NCA right arrow down arrow About NCA right arrow down arrow Programs and Events Understanding Fellowships Frequently Asked Questions Contact Us News Awards right arrow down arrow Core Awards right arrow down arrow Fulbright U.S. Student Program Gaither Junior Fellows Program right arrow down arrow Gaither Info Session Goldwater Scholarship right arrow down arrow Goldwater Info Session Marshall Scholarship right arrow down arrow UK Awards Info Sessions Mitchell Scholarship right arrow down arrow UK Awards Info Sessions Rhodes Scholarship right arrow down arrow UK Awards Info Sessions Truman Scholarship right arrow down arrow Truman Info Session Udall Scholarship right arrow down arrow Udall Info Session Priority Awards right arrow down arrow Boren Awards right arrow down arrow Boren Info Session Critical Language Scholarship right arrow down arrow CLS Info Session Fulbright UK Summer Institutes right arrow down arrow Fulbright UKSI Session Gates Cambridge Scholarship right arrow down arrow UK Awards Info Sessions Knight-Hennessy Scholarship National Science Foundation Graduate Research Fellowship Paul & Daisy Soros Fellowships for New Americans Schwarzman Scholarship right arrow down arrow Schwarzman Scholarship Info Session Other Awards right arrow down arrow International Studies International Students Underrepresented and Minority Students Specific Interests or Disciplines Applying right arrow down arrow Deciding to Apply Preparing Your Application right arrow down arrow Recommendation Letters Essay Strategies Developing as a Candidate The Leadership Essay Student Spotlight right arrow down arrow 2021–22 Award Winners 2020–21 Award Winners 2019–20 Award Winners 2018–19 Award Winners NCA Ambassadors Fulbright@UC right arrow down arrow Info Session Recordings UC Fulbright Winners Fulbright Boot Camp Aspire Scholars For Faculty Home » Campus Life » Office of Nationally Competitive Awards » Awards » Core Awards » Udall Scholarship Set Navigation title in component Core Awards Fulbright U.S. Student Program Gaither Junior Fellows Program Gaither Info Session Goldwater Scholarship Goldwater Info Session Marshall Scholarship UK Awards Info Sessions Mitchell Scholarship UK Awards Info Sessions Rhodes Scholarship UK Awards Info Sessions Truman Scholarship Truman Info Session Udall Scholarship Udall Info Session Priority Awards Boren Awards Boren Info Session Critical Language Scholarship CLS Info Session Fulbright UK Summer Institutes Fulbright UKSI Session Gates Cambridge Scholarship UK Awards Info Sessions Knight-Hennessy Scholarship National Science Foundation Graduate Research Fellowship Paul & Daisy Soros Fellowships for New Americans Schwarzman Scholarship Schwarzman Scholarship Info Session Other Awards International Studies International Students Underrepresented and Minority Students Specific Interests or Disciplines Udall Scholarship Honoring the legacy of U.S. Representative Morris Udall and Secretary of the Interior Stewart Udall, the Udall Foundation awards up to $7,000 to 50 college sophomores and juniors for leadership, public service, and commitment to issues related to American Indian nations or to the environment. Udall Scholars attend a 5-day orientation in Tucson, Arizona and gain access to the Udall Alumni Network, an association of environmental and tribal leaders sharing innovative ideas, professional advice, and job and internship opportunities. Undergraduates may apply in one of three areas: environment, tribal policy, and native health care. In order to apply, you must contact NCA by the Intent to Apply Deadline. Deadlines Application Opens: September 2022 Campus Deadline: February 2023 National Deadline: March 2023 Award Details right arrow down arrow In 2022, the Udall Foundation anticipates awarding 55 scholarships of up to $7,000 each. The Udall scholarship honors the legacies of Morris Udall and Stewart Udall, whose careers had a significant impact on Native American self-governance, health care, and the stewardship of public lands and natural resources. The Udall Scholarship provides Access to the Udall Alumni Network: an association of change-makers, working in Indian country and environmental fields, sharing innovative ideas, professional advice, and job and internship opportunities. Five days in Tucson, Arizona, at Scholar Orientation: extending your professional network, meeting other scholars and alumni, and learning new skills. Up to $7,000 for eligible academic expenses. Undergraduates may apply in one of three areas: environment, tribal policy, and native health care. Environment This area is for sophomores and juniors interested in conservation, environmental stewardship, or environmental policy, with a demonstrated commitment to the environment through participation in campus activities or service to your community. Ideal candidates are working towards a career that will enable them to address environmental issues on a local, national, or global scale. Tribal Policy This area is for Native American or Alaska Native college students currently in their sophomore or junior year who have demonstrated their commitment to Indian country through participation in cultural activities and service to their community. Ideal candidates are working towards a career that will enable them to make a difference for their tribe or for Native Americans and Alaska Natives. Native Health Care This area is for Native American or Alaska Native college students currently in their sophomore or junior year who are interested in improving health care practice and delivery in Indian country or contributing to health care policy and research. Ideal candidates have demonstrated their commitment to Indian country through participation in cultural activities and service to their community and are working towards a career that will enable them to impact health care for your tribe or for Native Americans and Alaska Natives. Who Should Apply right arrow down arrow Eligibility Criteria 2nd, 3rd, or 4th year students (need 1+ year(s) left of school) U.S. citizens or permanent residents who are members of First Nations of Canada, Applicants for the tribal policy or healthcare scholarships must be of native heritage. Commitment to a career related to the environment, tribal public policy, or American Indian healthcare. Selection Criteria Students shows that they are working towards positive solutions to environmental challenges or to issues impacting Indian country Student demonstrates their commitment to one of these areas through public service and inspires and motivates others to take action. Students shows commitment to making a difference through civility and consensus building Please refer to the Udall website for a detailed list of the selection criteria. Application Components right arrow down arrow Background information Short answer essays Essay: The public service careers of Congressman Morris K. Udall and Secretary of Interior Stewart L. Udall were guided by the core values of civility, integrity, and consensus. Discuss how these three characteristics resonate with you today and how you exemplify at least one of these values in your personal and professional life. Letters of Recommendation (3) How to Apply right arrow down arrow In the fall, attend an NCA Learning Series session on the Udall Scholarship. Schedule an advising appointment with Dr. Jenny Hyest through My Bearcat Network. In advance of that appointment, please: Complete two NCA forms: Intake form Records Release Form and submit to nca@uc.edu Confirm your intent to apply with NCA. Submit your application by the Campus Deadline: February 2023 Those selected for campus interviews will meet with the committee in early February. Endorsed candidates submit revised application by National Deadline: March 2023 Helpful Links, Tips, and Reminders right arrow down arrow Information on this page is intended to supplement, not supplant, your own careful review of the official Udall website. If you find any discrepancy between the two, the Udall website takes precedence. UC’s Student Code of Conduct applies to this application process. Office of Nationally Competitive Awards 707A Swift Hall 513-556-1003 nca@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Office of Nationally Competitive Awards 707A Swift Hall 513-556-1003 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top