You may be trying to access this site from a secured browser on the server. Please enable scripts and reload this page. Skip to main content Attend Campuses Degrees, Certificates & Credentials Admissions Paying for College Freshman Transfer Graduate International Student Services Counselor Resources Impact of the CSU Diversity Student Success Teacher and Educator Preparation Research Business & Economy Sustainability Technology Alumni Government Community The CSU System About the CSU Graduation Initiative 2025 Why the CSU Matters Leadership Faculty & Staff Administration Auxiliary Organizations CSU Budget Data Insights Doing Business with the CSU Transparency & Accountability Resource Center Apply Donate News Careers Contact Apply Donate News Careers Contact Cal State Apply Home / Apply PC3 PCW Cal State Apply PTOC The Cal State Apply application is temporarily unavailable. Our team is currently working on restoring access. Please try back again later. If you have a question about your application, contact us via chat and a representative will be with your as soon as possible. Find your future at the California State University. With 23 campuses and thousands of degree choices, the CSU is a great place to start your journey. Explore your options below, and start your application today. The California State University is committed to helping high school and community college students overcome college admissions challenges caused by COVID-19. The CSU has taken steps to ensure students are not adversely impacted by these disruptions and can achieve their CSU education as scheduled. To learn more about the temporary changes the CSU has made to undergraduate admissions, please select a link below. Admission Guidance: Incoming Transfers First-Time Freshman The University has implemented a COVID-19 vaccination requirement for all students and employees. Learn more about the CSU COVID-19 Vaccination Policy See Application Dates & Deadlines To determine the exact deadline for your desired program, please visit the Application Dates & Deadlines page. Refer to the Applicant Help Center for additional information and answers to your application questions. January 15, 2021 7:00 A.M. PT The application site is available. Thank you for your patience. Select a Term to Apply ForWinter 2022Summer 2022Fall 2022Spring 2023 Apply For fall 2022 undergraduate admissions, some campuses have extended their deadlines for Cal State Apply applications to December 15, 2021 at 11:59 p.m. PST. See Priority Application Deadlines. Choose the type of student you are to learn more about how to apply to the CSU: Freshman Transfer Graduate International Teaching Credential Choosing a Campus Compare all 23 schools by size, location, activities and other criteria to find the campus that's the perfect fit for you. Explore Campuses Choosing a Degree The CSU offers more than 4,100 undergraduate and graduate degrees through classroom and online instruction. Explore Degrees Getting into the CSU Wondering about admission requirements and the tests, grades and test scores you'll need to be admitted? Explore Admission Paying for College Find out how affordable the CSU can be, and how to apply for a variety of financial aid, including grants and loans. See Your Options PTWCO Preparing for College The path to a college degree starts early. Here's what you need to know, starting as soon as sixth grade. Middle School Students High School Students Create an account at CaliforniaColleges.edu to track your classes and then transfer your planner to your CSU application. Publishing Top Two Column 2 Impaction at the CSU A campus or major is considered to be “impacted” when there are more qualiﬁed applicants than available spaces to accommodate them. See which campuses and degree programs are impacted before you finalize your plans to attend the CSU. Learn More About Impaction Publishing Top Two Column 3 Publishing Top Two Column 4 Publishing Top Three Column 1 Publishing Top Three Column 2 PTTCT Publishing Middle One Column Resources FAQContact a CampusStudent ServicesCounselor Resources Publishing Middle Two Column 1 Publishing Middle Two Column 2 Publishing Middle Two Column 3 Publishing Middle Two Column 4 Publishing Middle Three Column 1 Publishing Middle Three Column 2 Publishing Middle Three Column 3 Publishing Bottom One Column {{SpotlightTitle}} {{item.Title}} {{item.NewsTopic}} {{item.Title}} {{item.NewsTopic}} See All News Publishing Bottom Two Column 1 Publishing Bottom Two Column 2 Publishing Bottom Two Column 3 Publishing Bottom Two Column 4 PBTCO PBTCW PBTCT Attend Campuses Degrees, Certificates & Credentials Admissions Paying for College Freshman Transfer Graduate International Student Services Counselor Resources Impact of the CSU Diversity Student Success Teacher and Educator Preparation Research Business & Economy Sustainability Technology Alumni Government Community The CSU System About the CSU Graduation Initiative 2025 Why the CSU Matters Leadership Faculty & Staff Administration Auxiliary Organizations CSU Budget Data Insights Doing Business with the CSU Transparency & Accountability Resource Center Apply Donate News Careers Contact Having technical problems applying to the CSU? Contact Liaison's Cal State Apply Applicant Help Center for help. For other questions about applying to the CSU and the admissions process, read the Cal State Apply FAQ or Contact us. Privacy Notice x ‹ › Close Map