Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Department of Sociology About Us People Research Undergraduate Graduate Resources Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact You can find us in Clement Hall on the west side of campus across from the University Center This is your DREAM... Let our award winning faculty help make it come true Programs Offered Students are exposed to a full range of sociological specialties and a wide selection of classes. Learn more about the programs in sociology. PreviousNext Take Action Community Out of Chaos Online B.A. Contact Us Follow Us Online Facebook Nationally Ranked # 11 GreatValueColleges.net Online Bachelor's in Sociology View All Rankings Home Sociology Department of Sociology Sociology is the study of social relations in groups, institutions and organizations, communities, and entire societies. The Department of Sociology at The University of Memphis offers a broad range of courses at the undergraduate and graduate levels. We are committed to being a dynamic, learning-centered department that promotes greater understanding and analysis of social relations in groups, institutions and organizations, communities, and entire societies. Our contribution is made through cutting-edge research, excellent undergraduate and graduate teaching, exciting applied opportunities, vital service and community outreach, and preparation of students for a wide range of jobs. Why Study Sociology? Award Winning Faculty Faculty in the Department of Sociology have won a number of university awards for teaching and academic advising. Sociology students take classes with these outstanding teachers and graduate well prepared to tackle the demands of working in a diverse, global marketplace. The following faculty have won teaching and advising awards during their time at the University of Memphis: Melissa Bamford - 2019 Alumni Association Distinguished Teaching Award Graves Enck - 1996 University College Distinguished Faculty Award; 1994 W. Russell Smith Award for Teaching Excellence; 1991 Memphis State University Distinguished Teaching Service Award; 1980 Memphis State University Distinguished Teaching Service Award Wesley James - 2013 W. Russell Smith Award for Teaching Excellence Kendra Murphy - 2017 W. Russell Smith Award for Teaching Excellence; 2016 Dean's Award for Advising Excellence; 2014 Alumni Association Distinguished Teaching Award; 2013 College of Arts and Sciences Award for Excellence in Teaching Carol Rambo - 2018 Alumni Association Distinguished Teaching Award; 2005 W. Russell Smith Award for Teaching Excellence Cynthia Stockton - 2019 W. Russell and Audrey E. Nesossi-Smith Award for Teaching Excellence Careers in Sociology One question that students in every field get asked is "What are you going to do with your degree?" For Sociology students, there are so many possible answers to this question. Sociology prepares you for a wide variety of careers and the key is to recognize that sociology provides you with the tools to be successful in any career. With the focus on critical thinking, creativity, problem solving, and research skills, sociology students find themselves well prepared for the workforce. If you would like to know more about careers in sociology, the American Sociological Association provides numerous career resources available online. Here are just a few: 10 Jobs You Can Get With a Sociology Degree | The Muse (article) What are they Doing with a Bachelor's Degree in Sociology? (research report from a 2005 survey of Sociology majors) Careers with an Undergraduate Degree in Sociology (profiles of professionals with Sociology degrees) Emily Larson - Senior Analyst, Government Accountability Office Marcus Pruitt - County Employee Steve Ressler - Founder and CEO, GovLoop.com Linsay Riddle - High School Teacher Sushama Tilakaratne - Research Associate Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 12/24/21 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.