Skip to main content The Magazine of the University of Central Florida | Archives In This Issue Spring 2022 Powering Potential UCF’s new Microgrid Control Lab simulates a modern grid control room and will serve as a hands-on learning and research facility. Artistic Celebration Flying Horse Editions celebrates 30 years of supporting artistic works and research with an exhibit featured in UCF’s Art Gallery. Elevating Expression Shawn Welcome ’17 reflects on the power of poetry in a community as he begins his term as Orlando’s poet laureate. Quite a Catch UCF researchers receive a new, custom boat to continue studying sea turtles. Making Waves Thanks to NASA-developed technology, this UCF alum’s company is working to achieve clean water globally. Why I Believe in Medical City After graduating from UCF’s first class of medical school graduates, Elona Rrapo Kaso ’13MD ﻿has returned to Lake Nona to work and help train students at the Orlando VA Medical Center. She shares what it’s like to see the development of Medical City and UCF’s College of Medicine. Ingenuity at Work Developments from UCF faculty advance their fields while making societal impacts. Relationship Goals If you aren’t taking these six actions, you should be, according to experts at UCF’s Marriage and Family Research Institute. More Than Words UCF’s Communication Disorders Clinic provides essential training for its graduate students and critical services to the local community. On Campus — Spring 2022 From new winter celebrations to new campus murals and learning technology, there’s plenty of ways Knights are staying engaged at UCF. We’re Here to End This These UCF researchers shine a light on what it takes to end domestic violence, and they have a question for everyone: Who’s willing to help break the cycle? Not Your Average Students Education is a lifelong endeavor, as evidenced by this comparison of two of UCF’s oldest and youngest students. Together Again For the first time since the start of the pandemic, UCF’s Gather Luncheon returned to campus to promote community building and healthy eating. A Generational Effort For two decades, the UCF Business Incubation Program has supported the growth of hundreds of local small businesses to diversify the Central Florida economy. Now, the program is positioning itself for a new generation of success. Pegasus The Magazine of the University of Central Florida In This Issue Archives Not Your Average Students Education is a lifelong endeavor, as evidenced by this comparison of two of UCF’s oldest and youngest students. When it comes to following your dreams, it’s never too early or too late to accomplish them. Achieving a college degree is the goal of many. It paves the way to opportunity, a better future and embraces a growth mindset. Meet two students who have embraced the adage that learning happens at any age. And while they’re decades apart, they share the same ambition: completing a degree. One is a future cosmetic surgeon who finished high school before she could even get a driver’s license; the other is working toward completing her third UCF degree this May and is passionate about exploring new subjects. Get a glimpse into their lives, their college experiences and what comes next. Jamie Gunera Amador AGE: 15 MAJOR: Biotechnology with a minor in biology ANTICIPATED GRADUATION: 2025 COURSE MODALITY: On campus. I like seeing the campus — it’s really pretty. Plus, I prefer being in a classroom setting. I tend to learn better that way. WHY UCF: Growing up, I had always heard of UCF — especially from teachers who were alumni. They would talk about the university and the opportunities available, like the different programs, the faculty and campus life. FAVORITE CLASS AND PROFESSOR: Biology with (assistant research scientist) Melinda Donnelly. She’s a great teacher. WHAT’S IT LIKE BEING A YOUNGER STUDENT?: I’ve been taking college classes since eighth grade, so I’ve learned to adapt. But the pandemic has helped me acclimate myself to UCF, especially by wearing a mask. No one can see how young I am, so that really helps. FUN FACT: Since first grade, I told my older sister that I was going to graduate high school with her — she’s three years older than me. I started doing high school classes in second grade. Then I saw my sister start dual enrollment. I thought it would be fun, so I followed in her footsteps and enrolled in classes at Valencia College. In May 2020, both my sister and I graduated high school, and now we’re at UCF together. PIECE OF ADVICE: Check out campus and RateMyProfessor.com before signing up for classes. Also, while education is important, there’s more to life than just studying. Try to balance out your personal life with your studies. WHAT’S NEXT?: Medical school. I’ve always wanted to be a doctor. And now that I’ve had some time to explore the different professions, I decided on becoming a plastic surgeon. I’d also love to stay around the area and be close to family. Mary Franke ’12 ’17MBA AGE: 75 MAJOR: Psychology ANTICIPATED GRADUATION: May 2022 COURSE MODALITY: I prefer being around the other students and faculty. But since the pandemic, I’ve been primarily taking classes online. And while it’s been great, I’m looking forward to the day I can go back to campus. WHY UCF: After completing my associate of applied science in paralegal studies from Valencia College, I wanted to finish my bachelor’s degree to complement my work as a paralegal. Several years later, I came back and earned my MBA. Achieving a master’s degree was an opportunity to prove to myself that I could do it. My current program, psychology, is something I’ve been interested in, and I thought, “Why not?” FAVORITE CLASS AND PROFESSOR: Every time I have a class, I think it’s my favorite — so I’d say I just really like them all. I like learning a little bit about everything. My favorite professor is someone I never had class with — retired Accounting Professor Marcye Hampton. We just started talking one day, and we became friends. WHAT’S IT LIKE BEING AN OLDER STUDENT?: I like interacting with younger students — it keeps me young. I enjoy the opportunity to be in study groups with students of all ages and hear their side of things — why they’re going to school and getting a degree in a certain field. I’ve met so many people during my time here. FUN FACT: My family is full of Knights. My brother went to school when it was Florida Technological University. My daughter has a master’s degree in computer science from UCF, and her husband is also a UCF grad. Hopefully my grandson will become a Knight soon, too. PIECE OF ADVICE: Appreciate what you’re learning. College is more than just getting through the class to move on to the next thing. Enjoy the journey, and take the time to grasp what you’re taught — and use it through life. WHAT’S NEXT?: I’m already plotting my next degree. My daughter says to go into the computer field, but I’m not sure about that. By Carol Stinnett ’08 Spring 2022 Share this content on Facebook Tweet this content Related Stories Making Waves Elevating Expression Why I Still Believe in Magic More from the Spring 2022 Issue Why I Believe in Medical City After graduating from UCF’s first class of medical school graduates, Elona Rrapo Kaso ’13MD ﻿has returned to Lake Nona to work and help train students at the Orlando VA Medical Center. She shares what it’s like to see the development of Medical City and UCF’s College of Medicine. Elevating Expression Shawn Welcome ’17 reflects on the power of poetry in a community as he begins his term as Orlando’s poet laureate. Together Again For the first time since the start of the pandemic, UCF’s Gather Luncheon returned to campus to promote community building and healthy eating. Powering Potential UCF’s new Microgrid Control Lab simulates a modern grid control room and will serve as a hands-on learning and research facility. Ingenuity at Work Developments from UCF faculty advance their fields while making societal impacts. Making Waves Thanks to NASA-developed technology, this UCF alum’s company is working to achieve clean water globally. Quite a Catch UCF researchers receive a new, custom boat to continue studying sea turtles. Relationship Goals If you aren’t taking these six actions, you should be, according to experts at UCF’s Marriage and Family Research Institute. On Campus — Spring 2022 From new winter celebrations to new campus murals and learning technology, there’s plenty of ways Knights are staying engaged at UCF. More Than Words UCF’s Communication Disorders Clinic provides essential training for its graduate students and critical services to the local community. We’re Here to End This These UCF researchers shine a light on what it takes to end domestic violence, and they have a question for everyone: Who’s willing to help break the cycle? A Generational Effort For two decades, the UCF Business Incubation Program has supported the growth of hundreds of local small businesses to diversify the Central Florida economy. Now, the program is positioning itself for a new generation of success. Artistic Celebration Flying Horse Editions celebrates 30 years of supporting artistic works and research with an exhibit featured in UCF’s Art Gallery. Like us on Facebook Follow us on Twitter Find us on Instagram Follow us on YouTube Pegasus Magazine Suggest a Story Tell Us What You Think Update Your Address © University of Central Florida 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, FL 32816