Kansas State University search Search K-State web, people, directories Browse A-Z Sign in Canvas OrgCentral Navigate MyLibrary KSIS HRIS Webmail Status of ITS resources Sign in to Connect K-State home »One Stop »Find Help Student Guide to Help and Resources: One Stop Shop Home Academics Majors and Programs Academic Support See all of Academics Paying for College Financial Resources Jobs See all of Paying for College Student Life Get Involved Living Options Sports and Recreation Arts and Culture Diversity and Multicultural Student Affairs K-State Student Union Events Graduation and Beyond See all of Student Life Health and Safety Health Safety See all of Health and Safety Technology Designated Access See all of Technology One Stop Home Find Help Vice President for Student Life Vice President for Student Life Kansas State University 122 Anderson Hall Manhattan, KS 66506-0102 785-532-6237 vpsl@k-state.edu Find help Resources One Stop Shop is a centralized location providing students with information about important programs and services for their success at K-State. Explore the website to access helpful information and resources. If you can't find what you're looking for, don't hesitate to contact us so that we can get you to the right place. Emergencies In case of an immediate emergency, please call 911. You may also contact the K-State Police Department at 785-532-6412. Unsure who to call? Need to consult? The Office of Student Life at K-State provides services to help students respond to serious situations. To access these services, students should visit the Office of Student Life in 201 Holton Hall or call the office at 785-532-6432. This phone number is also answered after office hours and can provide help and information to students, faculty, staff, parents and the public. Create your free You@KSU account today by clicking the button above and find tips and tools for everything from your mental and physical health, to friendships and finding balance. It's all here at Kansas State University. Contact us Emergency Statements and disclosures Accessibility Kansas State University Manhattan, KS 66506 785-532-6011 © Kansas State University Updated: 10/20/21