Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Explore Brown University Search Global Navigation Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Hassenfeld Child Health Innovation Institute Home About Mission & History Partners People Executive Committee Core Research and Evaluation Unit Faculty Scholars Data Core Survey Research Team Administrative Staff In the Spotlight Initiative Teams Scientific Committees Advisory Council Financial Team List of Faculty Our Work Resources For Families Community of Learners Events Get Involved Site Navigation Home For Participants About the Hassenfeld Study Hassenfeld Study: Leadership Hassenfeld Study: Research Assistants About Mission & History Partners People Executive Committee Core Research and Evaluation Unit Faculty Scholars Data Core Survey Research Team Administrative Staff In the Spotlight Initiative Teams Scientific Committees Advisory Council Financial Team List of Faculty Our Work Asthma ABC Study Project CARE RI AIR Hotspot Analysis Home Asthma Response Program Neighborhood Risk Autism Genetics PHOEBE Study Prospective Infant Behavioral Study Play and Autism RI-CART Healthy Weight Summer Weight Gain Pregnancy and Early Childhood Expanding Scope of Treatment Measuring Overweight and Obesity The Hassenfeld Study Postpartum Cohort Prenatal Cohort Injury and Poisoning Neighborhood Disparities in Lead Poisoning Lead & Prematurity Fall-related Injuries Liquor Stores & Teen ED Use Frequent ED Use ED Use & Insurance Coverage Traumatic Brain Injury Burns Resources For Families English Español Community of Learners Summer Scholars 2021 Summer Scholars 2020 Summer Scholars 2019 Summer Scholars 2018 Summer Scholars 2017 Summer Scholars 2016 Summer Scholars Research Scholars Events Hassenfeld Institute Child Health Seminar Series Past events and webinars Get Involved Give to the Institute Hassenfeld Child Health Innovation Awards Partners The Autism Project The Autism Project is a unique collaboration of parents, professionals and community members who provide quality support, training, and programming that is accessible to all for children and adults with an Autism Spectrum Disorder, their families and those who work with them. Learn More Bradley Hospital Founded in 1931, Bradley Hospital, located in East Providence, RI, was the nation’s first psychiatric hospital devoted exclusively for children and adolescents. It remains a nationally recognized center for children’s mental health care, training and research, bringing in $11.4 million in external research funding annually, through its Bradley Hasbro Children’s Research Center. Additionally, Bradley Schools (part of Lifespan School Solutions, Inc.) operates several special education sites throughout Rhode Island and Connecticut serving more than 400 students daily. Learn More Brown University Located in historic Providence, Rhode Island and founded in 1764, Brown University is the seventh-oldest college in the United States. Brown is an independent, coeducational Ivy League institution comprising undergraduate and graduate programs, plus the Alpert Medical School, School of Public Health, School of Engineering, and the School of Professional Studies. Learn More Brown Center for Biomedical Informatics The Brown Center for Biomedical Informatics (BCBI) was founded in July 2015 to lead the development and application of informatics approaches in biomedicine and health care. The three-fold mission of BCBI is to: (1) Innovate how electronic biomedical and health data are used, (2) Implement solutions for improving biomedical research and healthcare delivery, and (3) Inspire the next generation of biomedical researchers and clinicians in partnership with collaborators in existing areas of excellence at Brown, its hospital affiliates, and statewide healthcare organizations. Learn More The Brown Center for the Study of Children at Risk The Brown Center for the Study of Children at Risk was established at the Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University and Women & Infants Hospital in 2005. The mission of the Center is to stimulate outstanding interdisciplinary research, education and clinical services on the biological and social factors that determine the developmental outcome of at-risk children. Learn More Brown University School of Public Health The Brown University School of Public Health was established in July of 2013. The School is the natural evolution of over 30 years of growth in research and education, with more than 200 faculty and 275 undergraduate and graduate students, and over $50 million in annual external research funding. Learn More Care New England Care New England Health System is a trusted organization that fuels the latest advances in medical research, attracts the nation’s top specialty-trained doctors, hones renowned services and innovative programs, and engages in the important discussions people need to have about their health and end-of-life wishes. Care New England is helping to transform the future of health care, providing a leading voice in the ongoing effort to ensure the health of the individuals and communities we serve. LEARN MORE Fashion Institute of Technology FIT prepares students for professional excellence in design and business through rigorous and adaptable academic programs, experiential learning, and innovative partnerships. A premier public institution in New York City, FIT fosters creativity, career focus, and a global perspective and educates its students to embrace inclusiveness, sustainability, and a sense of community. Learn More Hasbro Children's Hospital - Pediatric Division of Rhode Island Hospital Hasbro Children’s Hospital in Providence, RI, a part of the Lifespan health care system, is the premier pediatric facility for clinical care, research and education for Rhode Island and surrounding southeastern New England. Hasbro Children’s Hospital is designated as a Level 1 Pediatric Trauma Center by the American College of Surgeons. The hospital’s “All for One” commitment devotes all of its knowledge, experience, and passion for healing to each child in its care. LEARN MORE Lifespan Lifespan is a five-partner not-for-profit health system based in Providence, RI that serves residents from across southern New England. Formed in 1994, Lifespan includes three teaching hospitals of The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University: Rhode Island Hospital and its Hasbro Children’s Hospital; The Miriam Hospital; and Bradley Hospital, the nation’s first psychiatric hospital for children. It also includes Newport Hospital, a community hospital offering a broad range of health services, and Gateway Healthcare, the state’s largest provider of community behavioral health care. The National Institutes of Health supports Lifespan’s teaching hospitals with an average of more than $80 million in research funding each year, making Lifespan among the top recipients in the country. LEARN MORE Rhode Island Department of Health The Rhode Island Department of Health focuses on preventing disease and protecting and promoting the health and safety of the people of Rhode Island. The organizations's leading priorities include addressing the socioeconomic and environmental determinants of health, eliminating health disparities, promoting health equity and ensuring access to quality health services for all Rhode Islanders, including the state's vulnerable populations. It gained Public Health Accreditation in November 2015. LEARN MORE Rhode Island Kids Count The mission of Rhode Island KIDS COUNT is to improve the health, safety, education, economic well-being, and development of Rhode Island's children. Founded in 1994, Rhode Island KIDS COUNT is an outgrowth and expansion of the Rhode Island KIDS COUNT Project, initiated by the Annie E. Casey Foundation and the Rhode Island Foundation. Rhode Island KIDS COUNT was a program of the Rhode Island Foundation from 1994 to 1997, and became an independent nonprofit organization in 1997. The Rhode Island Foundation and the United Way of Rhode Island provide generous funding support to Rhode Island KIDS COUNT and work in close partnership with the organization on a wide variety of issues. Learn More Women & Infants Hospital of Rhode Island Women & Infants Hospital of Rhode Island, a Care New England hospital, is one of the nation’s leading specialty hospitals for women and newborns. Women & Infants is the 12th largest stand-alone obstetrical service in the country and the largest in New England with approximately 8,500 deliveries per year. A Designated Baby-Friendly® USA hospital, U.S.News & World Report 2014-15 Best Children’s Hospital in Neonatology, and a 2014 Leapfrog Top Hospital, in 2009 Women & Infants opened what was at the time the country’s largest, single-family room neonatal intensive care unit. LEARN MORE Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University Since granting its first Doctor of Medicine degrees in 1975, the Warren Alpert Medical School has become a national leader in medical education and biomedical research. By attracting first-class physicians and researchers to Rhode Island over the past four decades, the Medical School and its 7 affiliated teaching hospitals have radically improved the State's health care environment, from health care policy to patient care. LEARN MORE About Mission & History Partners People Executive Committee Core Research and Evaluation Unit Faculty Scholars Data Core Survey Research Team Administrative Staff In the Spotlight Initiative Teams Scientific Committees Advisory Council Financial Team List of Faculty Hassenfeld Child Health Innovation Institute Hassenfeld Child Health Innovation Institute Brown University Box G S 121-4 121 South Main Street, Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-3855 Email [email protected] Twitter Twitter Facebook Facebook Instagram Instagram Info for study participants Subscribe to our monthly newsletter Brown University Giving to Brown Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA 401-863-1000 Contact Us Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility All Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top