Skip to main content Skip to site menu Skip to Brown menu Skip to site search Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Enter search keyword About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Modern Greek Studies Modern Greek Studies The Modern Greek Studies Program is committed to offering instruction in four basic areas: Greek language, literature, history, and anthropology from the age of the Enlightenment to the present. Its aim is to present modern Greek civilization in the context of European history and culture, and more generally that of the modern world. The program aims to integrate Greek culture into several subject areas and make it accessible to students of diverse backgrounds and interests. This goal is furthered by a comparative perspective, that characterizes many of the program's courses, and by interdisciplinary lectures and symposia, which promote a more profound understanding of Greek culture. Courses in modern Greek language were first offered in the early 1970s at Brown. In its present form, the program was launched in 1995 through a generous bequest from the estate of Mrs. Ethel Goltsos, a prominent Greek-American from Rhode Island. This bequest, with the additional support of a number of Brown donors, led to the establishment of an endowment for instruction in Modern Greek subject areas. In 2002, the Goltsos Lectureship in Modern Greek language was officially created. Instruction in anthropology, history, and literature is offered in the relevant departments. In 2016, the Modern Greek Studies program at Brown received generous support from the Stavros S Niarchos Foundation USA, for a position in Modern Greek literature. Subscribe to our Lecture & Events emails! Home About People Courses News and Events Friends of Modern Greek Studies Electronic Resources for Students and the Public Print this Page Share this Page Program in Modern Greek Studies Brown University Box 1856 Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401-863-1267 [email protected] Calendar Jun 2 All Day Registration period for Summer courses for Brown undergraduates re-opens at 9:00 a.m.EDT and remains open until Wednesday June 22 at 5:00 p.m. EDT Jun 19 All Day Residence halls open. Jun 20 All Day Juneteenth Holiday observed. No University exercises. Jun 20 All Day Summer Session opens. Jun 21 All Day Summer Session classes begin. View full calendar > Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory Learn More Modern Greek Studies Association Journal of Modern Greek Studies European Society of Modern Greek Studies Portal for the Greek Language