Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Public Safety Public Safety right arrow down arrow About right arrow down arrow Contact Us FAQ Executive Team Newsroom right arrow down arrow Blog Posts Safety and Reform News Media Department Policies Safety Services right arrow down arrow Access Control & Physical Security Automated External Defibrillators Background Checks / Finger Prints right arrow down arrow FAQ Bicycle Registration Bearcat Guardian Crime Prevention right arrow down arrow Preventing theft from auto and auto theft Preventing theft and burglary Online and phone scams Housing Rental Scams Keys & Badges Lost & Found Mind What Matters NightRide Special Events right arrow down arrow Event Security Cost Estimate Special Events FAQ Be A Good Neighbor Police right arrow down arrow 911 Communications Leadership Community Engagement Team Crime Statistics Job Shadowing Mission, Vision and Values Bias Free Policing and Contact Cards Records and Reports Recruitment Victim Services right arrow down arrow What Are My Options? Harassment, Stalking and Dating Violence Sex Crimes K-9 Unit Request for Investigation University Threat Assessment Group Reform right arrow down arrow Board of Trustees' Resolution Community Compliance Council right arrow down arrow Meetings, Minutes and Materials Guiding Principles Values Members Resources External Reports and Voluntary Monitorship Clery Act right arrow down arrow Clery Notices Daily Crime Log Campus Security Authorities Annual Security Report Fire Prevention and Protection Units right arrow down arrow Fire Extinguisher Training Fire Drills and Smoke Detectors Areas of Rescue Assistance Fire Log Fire Alarm Construction Standards Emergency Management right arrow down arrow Emergency Procedures Safety Notifications Emergency Plans Bearcat Notifications Home » About UC » Public Safety » Safety Services » Special Events » Special Events FAQ Set Navigation title in component Access Control & Physical Security Automated External Defibrillators Background Checks / Finger Prints FAQ Bicycle Registration Bearcat Guardian Crime Prevention Preventing theft from auto and auto theft Preventing theft and burglary Online and phone scams Housing Rental Scams Keys & Badges Lost & Found Mind What Matters NightRide Special Events Event Security Cost Estimate Special Events FAQ Be A Good Neighbor Special Events FAQ What is a "special event?" A special event can be defined as a comedy show, a concert, a dance, a football game, a picnic, etc. In other words, a special event can be considered as any type of function on campus that is not considered part of the academic programs. I would like to have a special event. Where do I start? The first step is to contact Conference & Event Services at 513-558-1810 to reserve the room or area in which you want to have your event. If you wish to hold an event in Kresge Auditorium, call 513-558-4186. Who decides if security is needed for an event? Guidelines for security were developed by the Use of Facility Committee with representation from areas of Campus Life. However, the final decision resides with Public Safety based upon the type of event being planned. What determines if security is needed? The criteria most frequently used are: Type of event Size of audience Is the event open to the public? Will alcohol be present? Will money be collected/items sold? Is the event/speaker controversial? Have any threats been received? There may be other factors that determine if security is needed. These questions also help determine if police officers, security officers or a combination of officers is required. If I am planning a budget, could I get an estimated cost for security? An estimate can be calculated for you based on the answers to the questions regarding the type of event and time frame in which the event will be held. Please use our online Cost Estimate Form. If I must cancel an event, what should I do? Contact Conference & Event Services as soon as you know your event will be cancelled. If notice is received less than 24 hours before the event is scheduled, some security costs may be incurred. Are there other departments that I need to contact when planning an event? There may be other departments that need contacting. However, Conference & Event Services personnel will assist you with electrical, grounds, housekeeping, fire safety and equipment needs. If you are unsure of what you need, contact Conference & Event Services or the Public Safety Special Events Coordinator (513-556-4923). One of these resources should be able to direct you. Why is police or security necessary? The police and security officers are assigned to events for reasons including the following: To enforce the rules and regulations of the University of Cincinnati; To enforce the laws of the state of Ohio; To insure that your event is not interrupted or disrupted by outside groups or persons; To assist with any needs you may have to make your event successful; To provide immediate assistance in case of any emergency. Many items are banned from entering arenas, etc. Is it the same at UC events? Yes, many items are banned from events. We perform package checking when entering Nippert Stadium, Fifth Third Arena or other facilities on campus. Items such as coolers, backpacks and canned gases will not be permitted into the venues. A comprehensive list of prohibited items can be provided if needed. Department of Public Safety 51 West Corry Boulevard Cincinnati, OH 45221-0215 Main Number: 513-556-4900 Background Checks, Keys and IDs: 513-556-4925 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Department of Public Safety 51 West Corry Boulevard Cincinnati, OH 45221-0215 Main Number: 513-556-4900 Background Checks, Keys and IDs: 513-556-4925 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top