Skip to content Clemson University Clemson University Search Menu Close Sorry, your browser does not support inline SVG. Sorry, your browser does not support inline SVG. Apply Giving News Resources for Students Faculty & Staff Parents Alumni Clemson University Academics Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Academics Home Employment Opportunities Apply for Admission Colleges College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business College of Education College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences College of Science Graduate School Academic Resources Academic Calendar Registrar Division of Undergraduate Studies Center for Career and Professional Development Academic Success Center GRAD 360° Libraries Outside the Classroom PEER/WISE Call Me MISTER® Creative Inquiry and Undergraduate Research Cooperative Education University Professional Internship and Co-op Program (UPIC) Study Abroad Admissions Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Admissions Home Schedule a Tour Apply for Admission Applying to Clemson First-Year Undergraduate Transfer Undergraduate International Undergraduate Graduate Students Academic Opportunities Majors Graduate Programs Online Graduate Programs Scholar Programs Paths to Graduate School Honors College Experiential Learning Financial Aid Tuition and Fee Calculator Undergraduate Financial Aid Graduate Fellowships and Awards Residency Requirements Campus Life Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Campus Life Home Club Sports Brooks Center for the Performing Arts Join Your Clemson Family Finding Your Community Living-Learning Communities Student Veterans Multicultural Programs FIRST Army ROTC Air Force ROTC Services On Campus Housing & Dining Campus Recreation Parking and Transportation Student Health Services TigerOne Card Services Clemson Athletics Get Involved Clubs and Organizations Fraternity and Sorority Life Orientation Ambassadors Tiger Media Graduate Student Government Undergraduate Student Government Research Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Research Home Clemson University Research Foundation (CURF) Division of Research Research Opportunities Student Research at Clemson Creative Inquiry Research Facilities Postdoctoral Affairs Serving South Carolina Through Research School of Health Research Public Service and Agriculture Clemson Experimental Forest Clemson Extension Clemson Research and Education Centers Public Service and Agriculture Research Farm Services Innovation and Economic Development Corporate Partnerships and Strategic Initiatives Clemson University International Center for Automotive Research (CU-ICAR) Clemson University Restoration Institute (CURI) Clemson University Biomedical Engineering Innovation Campus (CUBEInC) Center for Human Genetics Innovation Campus and Technology Park About Clemson Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back About Clemson Home Clemson News Clemson Athletics For Tigers Applying to Clemson Working at Clemson Traditions Military Heritage Things To Do in Clemson Visit Clemson Campus Resources Employment Opportunities Home and Garden Information Center Brand Guidelines CCIT Academic Calendar Training ClemsonForward Campus Leadership Board of Trustees President Academic Affairs and Provost Inclusion and Equity Student Affairs Faculty Senate Staff Senate Search Resources for Current Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Communication Degrees Forward Arrow Degrees Communication, B.A. Sports Communication, B.A. Communication, M.A. Back Arrow Back Students Forward Arrow Students Student Awards Student Opportunities Back Arrow Back Research Centers Forward Arrow Centers Social Media Listening Center Communication Center Back Arrow Back Alumni & Friends Apply Giving News Sikes Hall Icon Main Menu Forward Arrow Icon Back Arrow Icon Back Clemson University Academics Academics Home Employment Opportunities Apply for Admission Colleges College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business College of Education College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences College of Science Graduate School Academic Resources Academic Calendar Registrar Division of Undergraduate Studies Center for Career and Professional Development Academic Success Center GRAD 360° Libraries Outside the Classroom PEER/WISE Call Me MISTER® Creative Inquiry and Undergraduate Research Cooperative Education University Professional Internship and Co-op Program (UPIC) Study Abroad Admissions Admissions Home Schedule a Tour Apply for Admission Applying to Clemson First-Year Undergraduate Transfer Undergraduate International Undergraduate Graduate Students Academic Opportunities Majors Graduate Programs Online Graduate Programs Scholar Programs Paths to Graduate School Honors College Experiential Learning Financial Aid Tuition and Fee Calculator Undergraduate Financial Aid Graduate Fellowships and Awards Residency Requirements Campus Life Campus Life Home Club Sports Brooks Center for the Performing Arts Join Your Clemson Family Finding Your Community Living-Learning Communities Student Veterans Multicultural Programs FIRST Army ROTC Air Force ROTC Services On Campus Housing & Dining Campus Recreation Parking and Transportation Student Health Services TigerOne Card Services Clemson Athletics Get Involved Clubs and Organizations Fraternity and Sorority Life Orientation Ambassadors Tiger Media Graduate Student Government Undergraduate Student Government Research Research Home Clemson University Research Foundation (CURF) Division of Research Research Opportunities Student Research at Clemson Creative Inquiry Research Facilities Postdoctoral Affairs Serving South Carolina Through Research School of Health Research Public Service and Agriculture Clemson Experimental Forest Clemson Extension Clemson Research and Education Centers Public Service and Agriculture Research Farm Services Innovation and Economic Development Corporate Partnerships and Strategic Initiatives Clemson University International Center for Automotive Research (CU-ICAR) Clemson University Restoration Institute (CURI) Clemson University Biomedical Engineering Innovation Campus (CUBEInC) Center for Human Genetics Innovation Campus and Technology Park About Clemson About Clemson Home Clemson News Clemson Athletics For Tigers Applying to Clemson Working at Clemson Traditions Military Heritage Things To Do in Clemson Visit Clemson Campus Resources Employment Opportunities Home and Garden Information Center Brand Guidelines CCIT Academic Calendar Training ClemsonForward Campus Leadership Board of Trustees President Academic Affairs and Provost Inclusion and Equity Student Affairs Faculty Senate Staff Senate Search close Communication Degrees show submenu for Degrees Communication, B.A. Sports Communication, B.A. Communication, M.A. Students show submenu for Students Student Awards Student Opportunities Research Centers show submenu for Centers Social Media Listening Center Communication Center Alumni & Friends Clemson Home College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Academics Communication Current: Research Communication Research Research Hub The Research Hub supports the research activities of faculty and students in the Department of Communication. The hub provides physical and digital resources for the production of high-quality, relevant research that advances communication scholarship and positively impacts our communities. The Research Hub engages students in the research process by creating dynamic opportunities for involvement. Students are able to participate in studies, collaborate and assist faculty with research, and learn about department-supported projects and publications. To inquire about using an existing resource or request an additional resource, please contact Alyssa Davis, Director of the Communication Center, at alyssa8@clemson.edu. Participation Opportunities Students looking for active studies to fulfill research participation requirements for their course(s) can visit the communication research participation portal. Research Resources Software & Digital Licenses Qualtrics NVivo SPSS & AMOS SONA Hardware Laptops Noise-canceling headphones Computer station partitions VR headset Space Recording studio Focus group room Space for other data collection in the Watt Center Research Initiatives Media and Technology Studies The Department of Communication’s emphasis in Media and Technology Studies incorporates a wide array of research methods and approaches for understanding the role media and technology – from film, television, and journalism to social media and mobile technology – play in shaping the communication process. Our Department houses and advises the university’s undergraduate student media units, collectively called Tiger Media. Our Social Media Listening Center is a cutting-edge laboratory that seeks to monitor, measure, and engage in social media conversations from across the web. We use social analytics software to provide opportunities in learning, teaching, and research to students, faculty, and clients. Our faculty who actively research, publish, and teach in media and technology studies include: Erin Ash, Brandon C. Boatwright, James N. Gilmore, Darren L. Linvill, D. Travers Scott, and V. Skye Wingate. Health Communication The Department of Communication’s emphasis in Health Communication interfaces with other departments and programs in the College of Behavioral, Social, and Health Sciences to conduct research and train students in the important interrelationships between human health and communication strategies. Our Health Communication Certificate for graduate students focuses on doctor-patient interaction and public health campaigns for individuals, families, caregivers, and relationships. Our faculty who actively research, publish, and teach in health communication include: Bryan E. Denham, Kristen Okamoto, D. Travers Scott, and V. Skye Wingate. Strategic Communication The Department of Communication’s emphasis in Strategic Communication explores public relations strategies to train students how to effectively and responsibility craft messages. Our applied research considers both “best practices” for a variety of circumstances, as well as ethical communication skills. Our faculty advise Clemson’s chapter of the Public Relations Student Society of America, which focuses on networking, professional development, cultivating skills for PR practice, opportunities to do applied PR work. Our faculty who actively research, publish, and teach in strategic communication include: Brandon C. Boatwright, Bryan E. Denham, Virginia S. Harrison, Jordan Morehouse, and Andrew S. Pyle. Sports Communication The Department of Communication’s emphasis in Sports Communication explores sports communication through a variety of frames—including social media, public relations, organizational communication, and interpersonal communication—to understand the important role communication plays in sport and the operations of the sports industries. Our undergraduate Sports Communication major is a stand-alone sports communication program—one of the first in the country. This program offers students opportunities to create content, interact with sports industry professionals, and build strong theoretical foundations for understanding how to optimize communication in the sports context. Our department sponsors Clemson’s chapter of AWSM—the Association for Women in Sports Media. S. Pyle. Our faculty who actively research, publish, and teach in sport communication include: Erin Ash, Brandon C. Boatwright, Gregory Cranmer, Bryan E. Denham, and Virginia S. Harrison. Department of Communication Copyright © Clemson University Department of Communication | 408 Strode Tower 864-656-1567 | Email Us | Website Updates intro-arrow Engage With Us Through Facebook Twitter Clemson University Facebook Instagram Twitter Linkedin Youtube Tiktok Policy/Terms of Use Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Copyright © 2022 Clemson University • Clemson, South Carolina 29634 Clemson University Facebook Instagram Twitter Linkedin Youtube Tiktok Resources A-Z Index Campus Map CU Safety Directory Webcams Apply to Clemson