Search | Directories | Reference Tools UW Home > Discover UW > Student Guide UW Bothell Course Descriptions UW Tacoma Course Descriptions Glossary FOSTER SCHOOL OF BUSINESS BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT Detailed course offerings (Time Schedule) are available for Spring Quarter 2022 Summer Quarter 2022 Autumn Quarter 2022 SCM 500 Finance and Accounting for Supply Chain Management (3) Covers concepts and tools needed to understand, apply, and explain finance and accounting information for managerial decisions and performance evaluation. Offered: S. View course details in MyPlan: SCM 500 SCM 501 Probability and Statistics (3) Covers statistical tools, techniques, and models for aiding management decisions. Use of spreadsheets in basic business problems. Frequency and probability distributions, random sampling and standard errors, testing hypotheses, ANOVA, multiple regression models, and logistic regression models. Offered: S. View course details in MyPlan: SCM 501 SCM 502 Negotiations for Supply Chain Management (2) Develops negotiation techniques and skills applicable to solving supply chain problems. Offered: S. View course details in MyPlan: SCM 502 SCM 503 Leadership for Supply Chain Managers (2) Assesses and develops written and oral communication, interpersonal and leadership skills needed to succeed in the cross-functional and cross-cultural team environment common in a global supply chain environment. Offered: S. View course details in MyPlan: SCM 503 SCM 504 Building Effective Teams (0.5-2, max. 4) Tools to establish strong, shared commitment to a compelling team purpose; bring about collective buy-in to concrete performance objectives; promote team-member adherence to a set of suitable work rules and roles; and foster interpersonal trust and respect crucial to mutual team-member support and extraordinary team performance. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: SCM 504 SCM 510 Marketing Strategy and Channel Management (3) Covers analysis and decision-making in management of exchange processes with customers. Analysis of market forces and choice of marketing strategy, objectives, and marketing mix variables. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: SCM 510 SCM 511 Strategic Sourcing and Procurement (2) Discusses strategic sourcing and procurement in supply chains. Covers topics such as total cost of ownership, outsourcing, E-Sourcing/auctions, spend analytics, supply contracts and supplier scorecard. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: SCM 511 SCM 512 Spreadsheet Modeling for Business Enterprise (2) M. HILLIER Introduces formulation and modeling of business problems in a spreadsheet environment. Includes linear programming, integer programming, sensitivity analysis, decision analysis, and Monte Carlo simulation. Prerequisite: SCM 501 or equivalent. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: SCM 512 SCM 513 Operations Management and Process Analysis (2) Introduces operations management, which focuses on efficient operations and on time delivery of goods and services. Covers topics such as process management and analysis, process flow charting, bottleneck identification, flow balancing, push vs. pull systems, theory of constraints, queue psychology and queue layout and queue analysis. Prerequisite: SCM 501. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: SCM 513 SCM 520 Forecasting, Inventory Management, and Supply Chain Analytics (3) Introduces forecasting methods, deterministic and stochastic inventory models, lot-sizing and MRP, JIT, design for logistics, bull-whip effect and other contemporary topics in supply chain. Prerequisite: SCM 511; SFM 512; SCM 513. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: SCM 520 SCM 521 Managing Supply Chain Projects (3) Examines the management of complex projects. Specific topics include project teams, project selection, scheduling and budgeting, risk management, and monitoring and control. Also discusses PM software products, and relationships between these products and the requirements of managing risky projects in today's economic environment. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: SCM 521 SCM 522 Lean Management, Total Quality, and Six Sigma (2) Describes the basic principles, tools, and methods of Lean and Six Stigma. Discusses their implementation in variety of settings and shows how to apply them in real supply chains. Topics include seven wastes, value stream mapping, DMAIC, and reengineering. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: SCM 522 SCM 523 Competitive Strategy (2) Develops student's ability to think as practicing executives; and provides practice in analyzing, evaluating, and modifying organizations' strategies in light of changing macro-economic conditions. Emphasizes highlighting the interplay between competitive strategy and supply chain management concepts. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: SCM 523 SCM 530 Managing and Mining Big Data (3) Explores issues related to managing and mining business big data. Topics include data storage, visualization, clustering analysis, supervised learning techniques, text and web mining, and mining networked data. Real-world applications in supply chain management. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: SCM 530 SCM 531 Enterprise Systems and Integration (2) Provides an overall understanding of the complex role of information systems in transforming organizational processes and integrating them as part of an enterprise system. Topics include the concept of process-enabling information technologies and enterprise resource planning systems that support chain management processes. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: SCM 531 SCM 532 Global Supply Chain Logistics (3) Examines the designing and managing complex global supply chains. Specific topics include global SC design, logistics and sourcing, supply chain inventory models, postponement, supply integration, and contracts. Discusses the interrelation between supply chain management and product design. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: SCM 532 SCM 533 Special Topics in Supply Chain Management (1-3, max. 6) Reviews current topics and emerging trends in supply chain management. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: SCM 533 SCM 599 Supply Chain Leaders Series and Practicum (1-2, max. 5) Provides the capstone learning experience. Includes seminars given by supply chain leaders, a final quarter student report and student presentations. Provides students the opportunity to complement their in-class learning experience with related practical experience by working on a project. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: SCM 599 Office of the University Registrar registrar@uw.edu Modified: May 30, 2022