COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW National Institute for Aviation Research Section Menu NIAR Home About Accreditation/Memberships Careers Centers Contact Events Laboratories News NCAMP Partners Visit Training Work with Us Portal (Internal) Stop Video National Institute for Aviation ResearchLearn More Our mission is to strengthen university research capabilities; provide applied learning opportunities for students; and support the aviation and manufacturing industries – while driving innovation and prosperity for the community, region and state. About Us Labs Careers NIAR Labs Your designs need validation. That’s where we come in. Whether it’s a material, component, system or full airframe – we'll test it, blast it, crash it and take it to its limits. We can even scan it, digitize it and print it. We work with certification agencies to prove compliance and help when design issues arise. Our experience with countless unique projects brings in a fresh perspective, and our capabilities, technology, and expertise are unlike that of any other test lab. Bring us your test plans – you’ll get results. Learn more about what NIAR has to offer NIAR Training NIAR offers a wide range of training opportunities. Check out what we have to offer. Learn more Research Centers NIAR’s centers promote the safety, research, manufacturing and design elements of today’s aviation industry. They strengthen airworthiness assurance in the short and long term. They make the concerns of the general aviation industry their own. And they make dreams of composite-made airplanes reality. This happens not only through NIAR’s own research, but through the exchange of knowledge with researchers in other centers. Learn more News Follow Us! Stay connected with the National Institute for Aviation Research through our official social media channels. Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Subscribe to NIAR E-News Contact Us National Institute for Aviation Research, Wichita State University 1845 Fairmount St., Wichita, KS 67260-0093 Ph: (316) 978-6427 Ph Toll-Free: 1 (800) NIAR WSU F: (316) 978-3175 Find Us on Campus 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©