Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Water on Wheels About Request Volunteer Teacher Resources Donate Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Request a Visit from Water on Wheels And explore our other educational opportunities Connect Your Classroom Download lesson plans and additional resources Seeking Educational Volunteers! Help education our future leaders about water. - No experience necessary! PreviousNext Take Action Request About Volunteer Donate Follow CAESER on Social FacebooktwitterYoutube Home Water on Wheels What is Water on Wheels? Water on Wheels (WOW) is a mobile learning experience focused on the science of water. Why water? Because water is essential for life. The WOW is a teaching tool that allows schools to increase student knowledge about the water cycle and its impact on daily life. Instead of taking an off-site field trip, the WOW is a field trip that comes to your school at a fraction of the cost and time, in the form of a 24' trailer that is a mini-museum. WOW is an education and outreach program about water from the Center for Applied Earth Science and Engineering Research (CAESER) at the University of Memphis, a research center that is a part of the Herff College of Engineering. CAESER strengthens communities by improving their social and environmental conditions through research and collaboration. The center is home to regional groundwater hydrology experts from numerous disciplines. What is inside the Water on Wheels? Inside the WOW, educational displays are colorful, interactive, and visually appealing. Because the source of tap water for the Mid-South is groundwater, one important display in the WOW spotlights the Memphis aquifer system, a vast underground resource with some of the cleanest water on Earth. The WOW is available for viewing at schools and public events around Memphis, Shelby County, and the Mid-South. Its goal is to educate our community about the source of our tap water, the Memphis aquifer, and the importance of preserving and protecting the aquifer and its water. Water on Wheels in the News Read about Water on Wheels in the Tennessee Department of Environment and Conservation's "Tennessee Conservationist," the Groundwater Foundation's "The Aquifer," and the Memphis Commercial Appeal HERE. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 5/27/21 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.