Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index Community, Family, and Addiction Sciences Menu Search TTU Human Sciences Community, Family, and Addiction Sciences Counseling and Addiction Recovery Sciences Request Info Visit Apply Program Overview Degree & Course Details Bachelor of Science in Counseling and Addiction Recovery Sciences The Counseling and Addiction Recovery Sciences (CARS) degree at Texas Tech University prepares you for a career in Human Services and serves as a strong foundation for graduate coursework in counseling, couple, marriage, and family therapy, addiction counseling, and other helping fields. You may choose to complete an optional concentration in Applied Relational Counseling or Addictive Disorders and Recovery Studies. Pre-professional health career options are also available. As a national leader in the study of addiction and recovery as well as couple, marriage, and family therapy, Texas Tech University offers a well-rounded curriculum introducing counseling and human services skills that prepare students for graduate study or related careers. Choose Your Own Path in Our Counseling and Addiction Recovery Sciences Undergraduate Degree Texas Tech's Counseling and Addiction Recovery Sciences program offers two (optional) specialized concentrations: Applied Relational Counseling. This concentration provides a focused study of relationships for students interested in pursuing careers in Counseling, Marriage and Family Therapy, or other helping fields. Students may choose to complete a concentration in Applied Relational Counseling by completing CARS 3325, CARS 4314, and CARS 4331, then HDFS 2322 and HDFS 3324 as guided electives. Addictive Disorders and Recovery Studies. The ADRS concentration was designed for students wishing to pursue a career in Addictions Counseling or Prevention. Courses focus on assessment and treatment of addictive disorders, understanding family dynamics of addiction, and eating disorders. Along with the completed major, this concentration provides the educational requirements to begin accruing supervised hours towards the Texas Licensed Chemical Dependency Counselor designation. The concentration requires ADRS 3327, ADRS 3329, ADRS 4324, ADRS 4325, and ADRS 4329. Choosing a concentration does not add hours or time to completing the degree plan, and are only available to CARS majors. All concentration courses must be completed with a grade of “C” or higher. Make a difference in the lives of others with a Counseling and Addiction Recovery Sciences degree. Our counseling and addiction recovery sciences degree helps you develop practical skills to make a positive impact on other peoples' lives while building the foundation for a rewarding career or graduate study. You will develop a holistic perspective preparing you for the professional challenges involved in counseling, administration, advocacy, addiction and recovery, family therapy, and family studies. You will learn in a progressive environment with groundbreaking service programs and research initiatives in fields such as social work, addiction counseling, family therapy, and human services. Students have the unique opportunity to participate in innovative undergraduate research studies. Texas Tech's Counseling and Addiction Recovery Sciences bachelor's degree enables you to: Gain career experience. The program features an intensive 150-hour practicum allowing you to gain first-hand experience in a community agency. You'll have the opportunity to research and choose a practicum site that is unique to your interests and matches your career goals. Prepare for a career in counseling or an advanced degree.You will gain expertise in counseling and human services, professional communication and leadership, addictive disorders and addiction recovery, and the skills needed to work effectively with diverse populations. These areas of study further prepare Texas Tech graduates for careers in counseling, marriage and family therapy, clinical mental health counseling, social work, and the public health sector as well as for continued study in graduate school. Learn from faculty who are also practitioners. Texas Tech Community, Family, and Addiction Sciences faculty members are not only well-versed in academia, they are also well-trained, professional practitioners. Courses in the program are taught by faculty licensed in marriage and family therapy and psychology. Get involved in Texas Tech's pioneering programs. You will have opportunities for first-hand participation in student organizations and undergraduate research conferences that allow you to apply classroom knowledge to real-world problems. Our Collegiate Recovery Community is a nationwide model for the prevention of substance abuse on college campuses and students are encouraged to participate in undergraduate research projects. Build strong relationships with faculty and classmates. · Texas Tech fosters a supportive culture that promotes personal and career development. You will become part of a tight-knit community uniting faculty, graduate students, undergraduates, and professionals in counseling and addiction recovery sciences. Gain a Broad, Interdisciplinary Perspective on Counseling, Addiction, Family Dynamics, and Human Development The Counseling and Addiction Recovery Sciences program includes coursework from a wide variety of departments. You will gain comprehensive knowledge of human growth, behavior, addiction, organizational management and more, taking courses in subjects such as: Addictive behavior General psychology Program development and evaluation Leadership training Intimate relationships Families in crisis Family therapy Substance abuse prevention and treatment Eating disorders Human sexuality Parenting Understanding diversity Career Opportunities and Graduate Study in Counseling and Addiction Recovery Sciences The bachelor's degree in Counseling and Addiction Recovery Sciences prepares you for a successful experience in graduate school. Many CARS majors go on to complete graduate degrees in counseling, marriage and family therapy, or clinical mental health services. CARS majors have also successfully pursued graduate degrees in law, social work, public health, and public administration. Students who do not wish to pursue a graduate degree have successfully secured positions in: Human services administration and service delivery Substance abuse prevention and counseling Nonprofit leadership and program development Case management The CARS major gives you multiple avenues for turning your desire to help others into a lifelong career. Join us as we strive to make a positive difference in the lives of others. For more information about the Counseling and Addiction Recovery Sciences bachelor's degree Request Information Online Request Info Contact the Office of Recruitment and Visitor's Center Phone: (806) 742-1941 Community, Family, and Addiction Sciences Like Community, Family, and Addiction Sciences on FacebookLike Community, Family, and Addiction Sciences on Facebook Follow Community, Family, and Addiction Sciences on twitterFollow Community, Family, and Addiction Sciences on twitter Address College of Human Sciences Texas Tech University, P.O. Box 41250, Lubbock, TX 79409-1250 Phone 806.742.3060 Email hs.webmaster@ttu.edu Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock, Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversityFeb 1, 2022 12:31 PM Community, Family, and Addiction Sciences Academics & Majors Community, Family, and Addiction Sciences Academics & Majors Back Undergraduate Program Community, Family, and Addiction Sciences Academics & Majors Undergraduate Program Back Request Information B.S. in Counseling and Addiction Recovery Sciences Degree Plan Graduate Programs Community, Family, and Addiction Sciences Academics & Majors Graduate Programs Back Request Information - ADRS Ph.D. Request Information - CMFT Ph.D. in Addictive Disorders and Recovery Studies M.S. in Couple, Marriage, & Family Therapy Ph.D. in Couple, Marriage, & Family Therapy Certificates & Minors Community, Family, and Addiction Sciences Academics & Majors Certificates & Minors Back Addictive Disorders and Recovery Studies Undergraduate Minor Community, Family, & Addiction Sciences Undergraduate Minor Students Community, Family, and Addiction Sciences Students Back Undergraduate Community, Family, and Addiction Sciences Students Undergraduate Back Request Information Advising Service Learning Practicum Sites Practicum Objectives Practicum Application Form Graduate Community, Family, and Addiction Sciences Students Graduate Back Request Information - ADRS Ph.D. Request Information - CMFT Admissions Graduate Curriculum Financial Aid Research Training Experiential Learning Community, Family, and Addiction Sciences Students Experiential Learning Back Service Learning - CFAS 4314 Study Abroad Scholarships Community, Family, and Addiction Sciences Students Scholarships Back Undergraduate Graduate Statement of Support and Inclusion Faculty & Staff Research Community, Family, and Addiction Sciences Research Back Centers Community, Family, and Addiction Sciences Research Centers Back Center for Family Systems Research & Intervention Center for Collegiate Recovery Communities Center for Addiction Recovery Research Outreach & Engagement Community, Family, and Addiction Sciences Outreach & Engagement Back Revise & Resubmit Podcast Contact Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index