<form runat="server"></form>
<WebPartPages:SPWebPartManager runat="server"/>
 Skip to Main Content HBS Home About Academic Programs Alumni Faculty & Research Baker Library Giving Harvard Business Review Initiatives News Recruit Map / Directions Case Method Project Introductory Video ShareVault About Curriculum Partners Contact Us News & Videos …→ Harvard Business School→ Case Method Project→ Bringing case method teaching to high schools & colleges: U.S. History, Government, Civics & Democracy About the Project Welcome to the Case Method Project at Harvard Business School! The Case Method Project is an initiative formed to achieve two goals: Bring case method teaching to high schools and colleges Use this methodology to deepen students’ understanding of American democracy Based on the highly successful experience of Harvard Business School and other graduate and professional programs that use case-based teaching, we believe the case method can be employed to strengthen high school and college education as well, ensuring a more exciting, relevant, and effective experience for students and teachers across a range of subjects. We also believe the case method can be especially effective at engaging students with topics in history and democracy and that it presents a unique opportunity to help reverse the broad decline in civic education – and civic engagement – in the United States. Curriculum From the Constitutional Convention to Civil Rights and beyond, each of our 22 cases explores a key decision point in the history of American democracy. For Current Partners Already working with the Case Method Project? Connect to other educators in our network and download case materials via ShareVault. For Prospective Partners Interested in learning more about the Case Method Project? Find out how to bring the case method to your school. Video Embed Eleanor Cannon Houston, TXEleanor Cannon Houston, TX Eleanor Cannon describes her students’ reactions to the case method. Video Embed Maureen O’Hern Dorchester, MAMaureen O’Hern Dorchester, MA Maureen O’Hern describes how the case method transformed her classroom. Video Embed Michael Gordon Munster, INMichael Gordon Munster, IN Michael Gordon describes why he would recommend the case method to other teachers. “I have had few weeks in teaching that I enjoyed as much as doing this case....My biggest dilemma now is how many cases I want to fit into the year.” Rhonda Feder Teacher Philadelphia, PA Teacher Profiles “I have had few weeks in teaching that I enjoyed as much as doing this case....My biggest dilemma now is how many cases I want to fit into the year.” Rhonda Feder Teacher Philadelphia, PA Teacher Profiles In the News A Better Way to Teach History 8 Feb 2016 | The Atlantic One professor is borrowing a method from Harvard Business School to engage students and inspire better decision-making skills. Rewriting History 2 Mar 2016 | HBS Alumni Bulletin Can one HBS professor change how American history is taught in high schools? All Hail Partisan Politics 9 Feb 2017 | Harvard Gazette David Moss spoke with the Gazette about the book and about a new initiative to bring his case studies into dozens of high school classrooms, where they're used as an . . . interactive teaching tool. How to Teach Civics in School 6 Jul 2017 | The Economist Inspired by his years using the “case method" developed by Harvard Business School, David Moss has adapted the approach to the study of American democracy. ǁ High School Case Method Project Harvard Business School 8 Story Street Suite 100 Cambridge, MA 02138 Phone: 1.617.495.0458 Email: civics@hbs.edu →Map & Directions →More Contact Information Make a Gift Site Map Jobs Harvard University Trademarks Policies Digital Accessibility Copyright © President & Fellows of Harvard College