Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Musical Theater Major You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Musical Theater Major Apply Request More Info Musical Theater Major Admissions Audition Requirements Careers, Internships & Opportunities Productions & Facilities Required Courses Scholarships & Financial Aid Bachelor of Fine Arts in Musical Theater Become a versatile and well-rounded theater professional with expertise in acting, singing, and dancing through the Bachelor of Fine Arts in Musical Theater in Temple’s School of Theater, Film and Media Arts. This rigorous 124-credit undergraduate degree prepares you for a career in musical productions. Graduates go on to work in professional theaters around the world. Through intensive hands-on coursework and performance opportunities, you’ll gain strong technical skills and knowledge in the genre and history of musical theater. This program is interdisciplinary: along with studies in the Theater Department, you’ll refine your musicianship through courses in the Boyer College of Music and Dance. Put the skills and concepts you learn into practice by participating in one of the numerous productions in the Center for Performing and Cinematic Arts, which include musicals, student-directed productions, dramas and showcases. Students can also exercise their artistic abilities in singing ensembles, dance performances and workshops conducted by visiting artists. Recent on-campus productions include Chicago, Guys and Dolls, Our Town, and Romeo and Juliet. The close-knit quality of the degree program encourages personal and artistic growth. Faculty mentor students artistically and academically on an individual basis. Undergraduate students also have the opportunity to collaborate with MFA students in the Musical Theater Collaboration graduate program. After graduation, Musical Theater BFA alumni have appeared in productions on Broadway, on national tours, and at major theaters in and around Philadelphia including the Arden Theater Company, Paper Mill Playhouse and Walnut Street Theatre. Classes & Curriculum General theater courses will give you a broad foundation in theater education, while more specialized offerings will teach you technical skills in singing, acting and dancing. Students take a core group of courses in both theater and music divisions. Some of the courses you may take include Ballet I, II and III for Musical Theater; Musical Theater Voice Acting; Senior Cabaret Workshop; and Theater as a Profession. Learn more about Musical Theater BFA courses. Related Graduate Degrees Musical Theater Collaboration MFA Musical Theater Studies MA Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, the Bachelor of Fine Arts offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. Learn more about our tuition and fees. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $18,168.00 per year Out-of-state: $31,440.00 per year Our Academic Advisors The School of Theater, Film and Media Arts academic advisors will help you chart your course through your academic program. They guide you in choosing electives, as well as navigating policies and procedures regarding changes of major, leaves of absence and withdrawals, and registration. Contact Sachiko Nakazato is the academic advisor for the undergraduate degree in Musical Theater. Phone: 215-204-3437 Email: sachiko.nakazato@temple.edu Leanna Arnold is the senior academic advisor for the Center for the Performing and Cinematic Arts. Phone: 215-204-2227 Email: leanna.arnold@temple.edu Program Contact Peter Reynolds is the faculty contact and head of Musical Theater. Phone: 215-204-8628 Email: peterr@temple.edu Student Clubs & Organizations Student clubs and organizations give you the opportunity to gain stage performance or production experience, express yourself without classroom restrictions, and network with other theater professionals. In addition, you can make friends and enhance your social life. Consider joining one or more of the following clubs. Alpha Psi Omega is a nationally recognized honorary theater fraternity that elects Theater majors for membership as reward for their participation in university theater activities. Babel Poetry Collective is a group comprised of MCs, musicians and singers. Babel has off-campus events, open mics, two regular shows per semester and workshops to promote the popularity of poetry. The Musical Theater Cooperative provides students with opportunities such as masterclasses, trips to New York City to see productions and workshops with musical theater professionals, as well as planned performances including cabarets, concerts and readings. “Temple SMASH” is Temple University's first and only televised variety show, produced for students by students. Taped in front of a live studio audience in TV Studio 1 of Annenberg Hall in Klein College of Media and Communication, the show features an array of talent acts including dancers, musical groups, original sketch comedy, short films, stand-up comics and more. Temple Theaters’ Sidestage Season is a group that facilitates Theater students’ professional growth by providing space, producers, marketing and publicity support for student productions. Learn more about clubs and organizations. Study Away Spend a semester in the land of Shakespeare with the London Study Away Program. Live in the heart of London while studying theater. Supplement your coursework with free attendance at nine theatrical productions, courtesy of the American Institute for Foreign Study. You can also take advantage of internship opportunities to work with local English theaters as a box office attendant, clerical assistant, representative production assistant or another position. In addition, you can broaden your education by spending a semester or summer in Los Angeles studying the film industry as part of the Los Angeles Study Away Program. Explore the various facets of filmmaking through meetings with artists and industry professionals, lectures and on-site events, and special programs. Learn more about Temple’s other study away options. Accreditation The Theater Department is accredited by the National Association of Schools of Theatre as well as a member of the University Resident Theatre Association. CA-MUST-BFA Additional Program Information Visit School Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Musical Theater Major Admissions Audition Requirements Careers, Internships & Opportunities Productions & Facilities Required Courses Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info