Skip to content HOWDY Portal Home About Giving HOWDY Portal Current Students Former Students Visitors Veterans Directions Phonebook Campus Calendar A-Z List Giving to TAMUG Giving to TAMUG MENU Development Office The Impact Of A Gift How to GiveMENU for Ways to Give Donate Online Current Gifts Matching Gifts Honorary and Memorial Planned Gifts Corporate and Foundation Gifts How To Buy A Brick Real Estate Gifts Endowed ScholarshipsMENU for Endowed Scholarships List of scholarships, awards, and grants NewsletterMENU for Newsletter Fall 2018 Summer 2018 Summer 2017 Spring 2017 Fall 2016 Summer 2016 Spring 2016 Fall 2015 Development Office The Impact Of A Gift How to Give Donate Online Current Gifts Matching Gifts Honorary and Memorial Planned Gifts Corporate and Foundation Gifts How To Buy A Brick Real Estate Gifts Endowed Scholarships List of scholarships, awards, and grants Newsletter Fall 2018 Summer 2018 Summer 2017 Spring 2017 Fall 2016 Summer 2016 Spring 2016 Fall 2015 ‹ Carousel Control LeftCarousel Control Right › The Impact Of A Gift Our campus really is a window to the sea. Texas A&M University at Galveston is of, for and by the sea. Our island campus is the perfect setting to study both the nature and business of the sea and adjacent coastline. By supporting the campus you ensure that we continue to grow and evolve to meet the physical and technological needs of our students. Gifts from former students, corporations, foundations, parents and other friends of TAMUG in large part determine the future of this great university. We invite you to choose exactly how your gifts will advance Texas A&M University at Galveston. STUDENT IMPACT Our students are the lifeblood of this campus. You can help shape their futures by providing scholarship funding. More than half of our students need financial assistance. A scholarship enables them to concentrate on the most important part of the college experience – learning. Scholarships are the best way to directly impact the life of a student or students. Scholarships and fellowships help attract students with proven academic credentials, leadership and potential. Endowed scholarships ensure that your generosity continues in perpetuity. While most donors choose to create an endowed gift, you may also choose to fund an annual scholarship. FACULTY IMPACT The best and brightest faculty members promote success. When you invest in our faculty, you are providing the extra resources needed to ensure that we recruit, support, and retain leading faculty members. Private support affords them greater opportunities, which ultimately allows them the best opportunity to impart their knowledge. Your support for our faculty can take many forms, including Endowed Chairs and Endowed Professorships. Your contribution ensures that the faculty of Texas A&M University at Galveston is among the very best. PROGRAM IMPACT You could choose to restrict your gift to a specific program or department. This allows a department to use the funds for specific program priorities. Exceptional programs attract and retain exceptional faculty, who, in turn, attract the best graduate and undergraduate students. FACILITY IMPACT Support for the campus may come in the form of a contribution to the construction of a new facility, the outfitting of a laboratory, the donation of a boat, or even the addition of a collection of works to the library. Capital support to improve the learning and living environment for our Sea Aggies through the building of new facilities and the maintenance and renovation of existing buildings is vital to our future. How To Give The George P. Mitchell Society Texas A&M Maritime Academy Hall Texas A&M University at Galveston Academic Complex Donate Online Contact the Development Office "Texas A&M at Galveston" Video An outstanding television and movie theater spot was released recently. It will make you proud to be a member of this “Sea Aggie” family. "50 Years of Sea Aggies" First viewed at the 2012 Aggie Muster in Galveston, this video is a slideshow of TAMUG photos going back 50 years. Created by William Quillen '11. Tell Somebody | Emergency Procedures & Sea Aggie Alert | Marketing and Communications Texas A&M University at Galveston P.O. Box 1675 Galveston, Texas 77553 Accessibility Equal Opportunity/Title IX Privacy and Security Legal Notices State Link Policy Annual Security Report Annual Fire Safety Report Campus Security Authority Form Contact us State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Statewide Search Texas Veterans Portal Open Records Texas CREW Risk, Fraud & Misconduct Hotline Texas Veterans Commission Contact Webmaster © 2022 all rights reserved. Texas A&M University at Galveston is a member of The Texas A&M University System