Kansas State University search Search K-State web, people, directories Browse A-Z Sign in Canvas OrgCentral Navigate MyLibrary KSIS HRIS Webmail Status of ITS resources Sign in to Connect K-State home »DCM »K-State News »News »Former K-State quarterback Skylar Thompson rallies support for university's cancer research K-State News Home News K-State Today K-State in the news Seek research magazine Graduation/honor lists See all of News For Media Media Guide Experts Achievements Broadcast-ready news Photo and video guidelines Stock photos See all of For Media Resources Safety Parking Campus map See all of Resources Social Media Directory Guidelines See all of Social Media Contact Staff Share your news See all of Contact News home Archives K-State Today K-State in the news Archives Seek research magazine Graduation/honors lists K-State News Kansas State University 128 Dole Hall 1525 Mid-Campus Dr North Manhattan, KS 66506 785-532-2535 media@k-state.edu Former K-State quarterback Skylar Thompson rallies support for university's cancer research Wednesday, May 25, 2022 Fundraising efforts by former Kansas State University quarterback Skylar Thompson have raised more than $30,000 to support K-State's Johnson Cancer Research Center. | Download this photo. MANHATTAN — Miami Dolphins quarterback Skylar Thompson's goal for his last year at Kansas State University was to finish on a high note — and not just in football. He wanted to positively impact people by supporting cancer research at the university he loves. In October 2021, Thompson and his family established the Thompson Family Cancer Research Fund for the university's Johnson Cancer Research Center in memory of his mother, Teresa Lynn Thompson, and grandfather, John Walter Thompson. Thompson's mother died of breast cancer when he was 6 years old. Seven months later, his grandfather died of pancreatic cancer. The losses affected Thompson. "They were two of the most influential and meaningful people in my life, and I had a really hard time wrapping my mind around those losses," Thompson said. "I now believe a big reason I've faced these challenges is so I can have the ability to impact others while honoring my mom and grandfather." Thompson donated proceeds from the October sales of his "Stronger Together" apparel in recognition of Breast Cancer Awareness Month. He also used a personal email message and social media to invite K-State supporters to donate to the fund. "I have a deep love and passion for K-State," Thompson said. "To be able to support a cancer research center at my university is very special to me. It means a lot to work with those so passionate about this cause." Thompson is grateful for the extraordinary response from supporters. By January, donations to the fund totaled $21,590. Every donor received a thank-you video from Thompson and a letter from the center. In April, the Thompsons and former teammate Denzel Goolsby raised nearly $10,000 more with their fundraiser, A Night with Skylar Thompson. "Thank you for your support, both throughout my years as a Wildcat on the football field and in this aspect of my life that means so much to me," Thompson said. "I have a great feeling that if my mom and grandfather knew what we are doing, they'd be very proud." The funds allowed the center to offer two Skylar Thompson Family Cancer Research Awards in the spring to undergraduate and graduate students doing breast cancer research in the chemistry and kinesiology departments. Thompson says that even though his time at K-State is over, he plans to continue supporting cancer research at the Johnson Cancer Research Center. A part of the College of Arts and Sciences, the center supports and advances cancer research and education at K-State. To donate to the Thompson Family Cancer Research Fund, go to givecampus.com/campaigns/23825/donations/new. Source Johnson Cancer Research Center 785-532-6705 cancerresearch@k-state.edu Website Johnson Cancer Research Center Written by Marcia Locke 785-532-6705 marcia@k-state.edu Contact us Emergency Statements and disclosures Accessibility Kansas State University Manhattan, KS 66506 785-532-6011 © Kansas State University Updated: 5/25/22