skip to Main Navigation skip to Main Content skip to Footer Accessibility feedback NC State Home COVID-19 Updates Resources Campus Directory MyPack Portal Campus Map Libraries Campus Resources University Housing NC State Dining Bookstores Wolfline Buses Calendar Diversity Academic Resources Undergraduate Admissions Academic Departments WolfWare/Moodle Global Engagement Distance Education Academic Calendar Other Resources Student Services Center Cashier's Office Registration and Records Scholarships and Financial Aid Career Development Center NC State Help Desk Outreach and Engagement Giving NC State News Graduate School Gmail Access NC State Social Media NC State University Libraries Logo Navigation Search Find & Borrow Search Books & Media Articles Databases Journals Theses and Dissertations NC State Publications Special Collections Our Website Find Course Reserves Newspapers Patents & Trademarks Standards Tests & Measurements Textbooks Ebooks Government Information Borrow & Request Borrowing & Access Privileges Tripsaver Technology Lending Suggest a Purchase Distance Services Help Ask Us Request a Research Consultation Request a Technology Consultation Get Data Science Help Study & Learn Assignment Help Choose a Topic Cite Sources Evaluate Sources Find Articles Find a Book Ask Us All Assignment Help Workshops Data and Visualization Digital Media Digital Scholarship Makerspace Research Strategy Virtual & Augmented Reality All Workshops Spaces Reserve a Room Academic Success Center Quiet Study Graduate Student Spaces Explore Spaces Sensory Friendly Maps How Busy is the Hill Library? Technology Technology Lending Software Print & Copy Scanning Wireless Access Working off campus Help Ask Us Request a Research Consultation Request a Technology Consultation Get Data Science Help Research & Teaching Research Support Citation Management Grants & Funding Research Impact & Metrics Publishing and Copyright Data Management Open Research Faculty Spaces All Research Support Teaching Support Request an Instruction Session Copyright in the Classroom Course Reserves Library Instruction Programs Open Education Videos and Tutorials All Teaching Support Workshops Digital Scholarship Research Strategy Data and Visualization Peer Scholars All Workshops Help Ask Us Request a Research Consultation Request a Technology Consultation Get Data Science Help Media & Making Digital Media Music & Audio Video Gaming Photography Scanning Virtual & Augmented Reality All Digital Media Makerspace 3D Printing 3D Scanning Cutting & Milling Electronics Textiles All Makerspace Workshops 3D Scanning Studio Orientation Digital Media Orientation Makerspace Orientation VR Studio Orientation All Digital Media Workshops All Makerspace Workshops All Virtual & Augmented Reality Workshops Spaces Hill Library Makerspace Innovation Studio VR Studio Digital Media Lab All Media & Making Spaces Help Ask Us Request a Technology Consultation Drop-In Help for Digital Media Data & Visualization Data & Visualization Finding Data Wrangling Data Analyzing Data Visualization Geographic Information Systems (GIS) Data Management Text & Data Mining All Data & Visualization Workshops Data & Visualization Workshops Digital Scholarship Workshops Research Strategy Workshops All Workshops Spaces Data Experience Lab (DXL) Dataspace Teaching & Visualization Lab Visualization Studio iPearl Immersion Theater Game Lab All Data & Visualization Spaces Help Get Data Science Help Data & Visualization Instruction Support About Contact Ask Us Staff Directory Subject Specialists Jobs Fellows Program Collections About the Collections Special Collections Chancellor's Faculty Excellence Program Memberships & Consortia Our Organization Mission & Vision Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion Service Philosophy Fact Sheet Rules & Guidelines Annual Reports & Strategic Plans Performance Measures Honors & Awards News & Events News Events Exhibits Workshops Videos from the Libraries Visit Hours Visit the Libraries Hunt Library Map Hill Library Map How Busy is the Hill Library? Directions & Parking Libraries D. H. Hill Jr. Library James B. Hunt Jr. Library Design Library Natural Resources Library Veterinary Medicine Library Campus Information Centers Get Involved Giving to the Libraries Friends of the Libraries Student Advisory Forum University Library Committee Academic Departmental Library Representatives Help Ask Us Request a Research Consultation Request a Technology Consultation Get Data Science Help FAQ Search Today's Hours Hours My Account Log Out Ask Us Chat Link Accessibility Services Menu Accessibility at the Libraries Accessibility at the Libraries Parking and Building Access Resources, Technology, and Facilities Emergency Evacuation Feedback Accessible Resources, Technology, and Facilities The NC State University Libraries is committed to providing access to all library collections, services, and spaces for all library users. For library resources that are not available in an accessible format, the Libraries will work to identify reasonable accommodations and timely access for users with disabilities. Jump to: D. H. Hill Jr. Library James B. Hunt Jr. Library Harrye B. Lyons Design Library Natural Resources Library Veterinary Medicine Library Assistive technologies you can borrow D. H. Hill Jr. Library Available technologies Accessible technologies in the D. H. Hill Jr. Library are available in the Assistive Technologies Center (ATC). The center provides technologies to facilitate library research and alternate format access to library materials for users with a variety of vision, hearing, and/or mobility-related disabilities.The ATC is available whenever the Library is open (Hill Library hours). No appointment is necessary, but patrons can request an orientation to the ATC by scheduling an appointment with a library staff member by calling (919) 515-3364. Technologies include: Screen reading software: JAWS, Read&Write, ZoomText Magnification equipment: Enhanced Vision DaVinci Magnifier (video magnifier with text-to-speech) Scanning equipment: HP Scanjet Pro 3500 flatbed scanner Braille technology: VP SpotDot Braille Embosser Speech recognition software Height-adjustable tables Available in: Assistive Technologies Center, Room 1209, First Floor, North Tower ADA-accessible restrooms All public restrooms on the first, second, and third floors of the Hill Library are ADA-accessible. Sensory maps Our sensory maps of the Hill Library are designed for users with sensory sensitivities who are looking for study spaces that fit their needs. They highlight spaces that have natural or warm lighting, tend to be quiet, or tend to be uncrowded. Back to top James B. Hunt Jr. Library Available technologies Accessible technologies in the James B. Hunt Jr. Library are available from Ask Us, located on the second floor. The technologies are available whenever the Hunt Library is open (Hunt Library hours). No appointment is necessary, but patrons can request an orientation to the technology by scheduling an appointment with a library staff member by calling (919) 515-7110. Technologies include: Enhanced Vision DaVinci Magnifier (video magnifier with text-to-speech) iOS devices with full access to accessibility features Height-adjustable tables Available in Group Study Rooms 2306, 3243, and 4512 (view reservation availability). ADA-accessible restrooms All public restrooms throughout the building are ADA-accessible. Sensory maps Our sensory maps of the Hunt Library are designed for users with sensory sensitivities who are looking for study spaces that fit their needs. They highlight spaces that have natural or warm lighting, tend to be quiet, or tend to be uncrowded. Back to top Harrye B. Lyons Design Library Assistive Technology The computers in the Design Library have screen-reading software installed. Services Staff will assist getting materials from the shelves. Request books and media ahead of time by emailing design_library@ncsu.edu or ask at the service desk. NC State University Libraries patrons can also place holds in the catalog and have materials held at the desk. ADA-accessible restrooms An accessible women’s restroom is located at the north end of the second floor of Brooks Hall, on the same floor as the library. An accessible men’s restroom is located at the north end of the first floor of Brooks Hall. An accessible, unisex, single-occupancy restroom is located at the south end of the second floor of Brooks Hall, on the same floor as the library. Back to top Natural Resources Library If you have questions or comments about the accessibility of the Natural Resources Library, please contact the staff by emailing nrl_library@ncsu.edu or calling (919) 515-2306. We welcome any feedback. Assistive Technology JAWS, a screen reading software, is installed on all of our Windows desktops. There is also a basic magnification device in the northwest corner of the library. Book Retrieval Staff are happy to retrieve materials directly from the shelves. Request books ahead of time by emailing nrl_library@ncsu.edu or ask at the service desk, and we will retrieve them within five minutes. ADA-accessible restrooms There are ADA-accessible men’s and women’s restrooms near the library on the first floor of Jordan Hall. The closest gender-inclusive, single-occupant, accessible restroom is next door on the first floor of Biltmore Hall, room 1011. Back to top Veterinary Medicine Library ADA-accessible restrooms Accessible restrooms are located just outside the VML's front door, to the left as you exit. You are also welcome to request to use the single-user, gender-inclusive restroom in the VML Staff Room — just ask at the Service Desk. There is another one in CVM Main Building Room C251. Back to top Assistive technologies you can borrow The Libraries is expanding the technology lending program to include some assistive devices, such as the C-Pen Reader. See all Student Wellness devices Suggest a device Back to top Top of page Contact D. H. Hill Jr. Library 2 Broughton Drive Campus Box 7111 Raleigh, NC 27695-7111 (919) 515-3364 James B. Hunt Jr. Library 1070 Partners Way Campus Box 7132 Raleigh, NC 27606-7132 (919) 515-7110 Libraries Administration (919) 515-7188 NC State University Libraries D. H. Hill Jr. Library James B. Hunt Jr. Library Design Library Natural Resources Library Veterinary Medicine Library Copyright Privacy Statement Accessibility at the Libraries Accessibility at NC State University Staff Confluence Login Staff Drupal Login Follow the Libraries Facebook Instagram Twitter Snapchat LinkedIn Vimeo YouTube Twitch Flickr Libraries' news ×