Georgetown University Open Search Form Who We Are The Whole Person Our Catholic & Jesuit Heritage Our History Student Stories Faculty Stories Alumni Stories Campus & City Living in DC Opportunities Getting Around Service & Action Campus Life Housing On-Campus Dining Clubs & Organizations Arts & Culture Community & Diversity Student Life Blog Wellness & Safety Sports & Fitness Health Center Safety & Emergency Preparedness Athletics External Link Academic Life Restless Inquiry Our Schools Areas of Study Study Abroad Research Centers and Programs Global Initiatives External Link Library System Admissions & Aid Undergraduate Admissions External Link Graduate Admissions Financial Aid External Link Commitment to Access News Events Giving Alumni Info For Students Faculty Staff/AAP Alumni Parents Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Content Skip to Footer News Events Giving Alumni Info For Students Faculty Staff/AAP Alumni Parents Georgetown University Who We Are The Whole Person Our Catholic & Jesuit Heritage Our History Student Stories Faculty Stories Alumni Stories Campus & City Living in DC Opportunities Getting Around Service & Action Campus Life Housing On-Campus Dining Clubs & Organizations Arts & Culture Community & Diversity Student Life Blog Wellness & Safety Sports & Fitness Health Center Safety & Emergency Preparedness Athletics External Link Academic Life Restless Inquiry Our Schools Areas of Study Study Abroad Research Centers and Programs Global Initiatives External Link Library System Admissions & Aid Undergraduate Admissions External Link Graduate Admissions Financial Aid External Link Commitment to Access Open Search Form Georgetown University Every Hoya Cares About Mental Well-being Pause Home Every Hoya Cares Every Hoya Cares Learn more about resources that support your mental and emotional well-being and connect our community. We all have our own lives and circumstances — but as students, faculty and staff, we are all Hoyas. Explore More I need immediate help for myself or someone else at Georgetown. Would talking to someone help me? How do I start my journey to mental well-being? Quick Links All Georgetown Mental Well-Being Resources Counseling and Psychiatric Service for Students HoyaWell Virtual Counseling for Students Faculty & Staff Assistance Program Mindset for Faculty & Staff Play Youtube Video Every Hoya Cares About Mental Well-Being Every Hoya Everywhere has their own experiences, and we all carry our own set of challenges and feelings. Remember it’s okay not to be okay, but that doesn’t mean you have to face these challenges alone. Play Youtube Video No Issue Too Big or Too Small Whether it’s a counseling session with CAPS, our faculty staff assistance program or HoyaWell, a phone call with campus ministry or a class at Yates to get your body moving, our Georgetown community is here to help. Community Members Talk Mental Well-Being More Community Reflections “I got to witness not only the undeniable fear and anxiety, but also togetherness, strength and hope. Although this pandemic seems to bring up a sense of suspicion and mistrust amongst the people, it also highlights the best of people.” More From Clarisza Runtung (G’21) “Mental health resources are important because they allow an individual to access spaces where they can open up and express themselves. Whether it may be expressing how they feel in person, through technology or participating in a certain action, mental health resources can help reduce the levels of stress and raise the level of well-being.” More From Albert Grandy III (NHS’23) “Taking time to connect authentically to my peers and colleagues and have honest caring conversations about how we are and what we need has given me hope and anchored my well-being.” More From CAPS’s Engin Ontiveros Previous Story Next Story 1 of 1 Previous Slide Next Slide Help Promote Mental Well-Being We’re making it easy for you to promote mental well-being. We’ve made these signs and graphics available for you to download, print, and share. Printables and Social Cards Play Youtube Video President DeGioia Addresses the Importance of Mental Well-Being “Every Hoya Cares — to talk, to listen, to support. Caring for our mental well-being is the foundation for our individual and collective flourishing. It is important for each one of us to take time to care for ourselves and to care for one another. This is an invitation—to all of us—to seek support and to support one another.” – Georgetown University President John J. DeGioia See the President’s video message News Mental Well-Being News Georgetown Expands Commitment to Mental Health Services for University Community Meet Leon ‘Lee’ Jones, Georgetown’s New Dean for Medical Education A board-certified psychiatrist and nationally recognized expert in enhancing the learning environment for medical students, Jones joins Georgetown as dean for medical education and professor of psychiatry. How to Cope in the Time of COVID-19: Psychologists Provide Crucial Tips Georgetown psychologists Abigail Marsh and Andrea Bonior share strategies for coping with stress, based on their research and uncertainty surrounding the COVID-19 pandemic. Contact Us Directory Visit Maps About Academic Calendar Careers Media Resources FacebookFacebook TwitterTwitter InstagramInstagram LinkedInLinkedIn YouTubeYouTube Georgetown University 37th and O Streets, N.W. Washington, D.C. 20057 P. 202-687-0100 Georgetown University Privacy Policy Copyright Web Accessibility Notice of Non-Discrimination © 2022 Georgetown University Search Georgetown Search Close the Search Dialog