Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index University Career Center Menu Search TTU University Career Center What to Expect What to Expect of the UCC Career planning can be an overwhelming process, complicated by many factors including self-perceptions, others' expectations, and the economy. The Career Center staff is available to help you through a variety of career-related services. Staff are trained to listen to you, help formulate goals based on your needs, and assist you in finding the best resources to meet those needs. A Career Center staff member can help you: Discover your values, interests, skills and strengths Develop decision-making, job-search, and interviewing skills Explore majors and/or careers that might be a good fit Write a resume or application documents Understand obstacles which might hinder your career choices Research specific career-related questions and find answers Before meeting with a Career Center staff member, take a few moments to consider the following questions. This will enable you to start thinking about what you would like to accomplish during your sessions. Your counselor can better assist you if you can articulate your career needs. What made you decide to visit the Career Center? What do you hope to accomplish during your first visit? Mandatory Reporting The information discussed during your appointment will remain confidential between you and the career center staff member. Exceptions to this confidentiality may be made only under the following circumstances: 1) you've experienced something that violates Title IX (sexual assault, harassment, domestic violence, stalking); 2) you disclose child or elder abuse. The University Career Center is able to confirm attendance of an appointment for class assignments with the expressed permission of the student. Information discussed during the appointment will not be shared when confirming attendance. Preparing for an Appointment Appointments are 30 - 60 minutes long. Notify the Career Center staff member if the appointment is a class assignment. The Career Center staff member is NOT your academic advisor and will not assist with course selection. Be ready to discuss your current major/career status and your thoughts/feelings about that status as well as your interests, experiences, and goals for the future. Be open to questions, feedback, and suggestions. The counselor will NOT tell you what job/major is best for you, but will give you more information to help you decide on your own. If working on a document in a face-to-face appointment, bring a printed or digital copy (on a flash drive/on your laptop computer). If your appointment is virtual, email your document to your counselor prior to your appointment. You can get the counselor's email address through Hire Red Raiders or by calling our front desk at (806) 742-2210. If possible, bring a copy of supporting information, such as a job description, internship posting, or essay prompts and guidelines. If you are scheduled for a virtual appointment, please avoid driving or participating in other activities that would distract from your conversation during your scheduled appointment time. The University Career Center is committed to serving all students and alumni with their career needs. However, if an individual is determined to be misusing services or found to be misrepresenting themselves in the job search, appropriate action will be taken. Login to your Hire Red Raiders account and schedule an appointment online. If you have any questions navigating the site, please call our office at (806) 742-2210. Hours of Operation: Monday - Friday 8 a.m. - 5 p.m. View Map Meet the Staff The University Career Center encourages persons with disabilities to participate in our programs and activities. If you anticipate needing any type of accommodation or have questions about accessibility, please call 806-742-2210 in advance of your participation or visit. Are you starting a full-time job? Have you been accepted into graduate school? Are you still deciding? The University Career Center (UCC) wants to know your post-grad plans! Report your Outcome! Hire Red Raiders Get connected on Hire Red Raiders! Schedule an appointment Register for events and career fairs Search for jobs and internships View our resource library UCC Contact Info Phone: (806) 742-2210 Email: careercenter@ttu.edu Meet the Staff Connect with Us! @TTUCareers Texas Tech University Career Center @TTUCareers Texas Tech University Career Center University Career Center Like University Career Center on FacebookLike University Career Center on Facebook Follow University Career Center on twitterFollow University Career Center on twitter Subscribe to University Career Center on YouTubeSubscribe to University Career Center on YouTube Follow University Career Center on InstagramFollow University Career Center on Instagram Connect with University Career Center on LinkedInConnect with University Career Center on LinkedIn Address Texas Tech University Career Center, Wiggins Complex - Box 45006, Lubbock, Texas 79409 Phone 806.742.2210 Email careercenter@ttu.edu Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock, Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversitySep 22, 2021 10:15 AM University Career Center Students & Alumni University Career Center Back What We Do What to Expect Design Your Life Develop Your Job Search Skills Search for Jobs Additional Resources University Career Center Back Techsan Connection Network COVID-19 Career Resources TTU Wellbeing | Beyond Okay Employers University Career Center Back Recruiting & Engagement Employer Event Calendar Hire Red Raiders Parker Dewey: Mirco-Internships Employer Brochure Faculty/Staff University Career Center Back Request a Presentation Career Assessments Frequently Asked Questions Families University Career Center Back Career Development Checklist Assessments for Your Student What Can I Do With This Major? Parent & Family Relations Events University Career Center Back All Events Career Fairs Career Development Events Virtual Events Webinars Employer & Graduate School Information Sessions Hire Red Raiders University Career Center Back HRR Homepage Students Employers Alumni Report Your Outcome Meet the Staff Admin Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index