SMU Cox Display Navigation and Site Search SMU Cox School of Business SMU Cox Utility Navigation Students Companies Alumni Apply Contact Us smu.edu Display Navigation Display Search Search SMU SMU Cox Main Navigation At SMU Cox Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu An exceptional school in the heart of a vibrant, global, business-friendly city. Collins Center Cox News Cox Events Graduate Outcomes CoxToday Magazine Academic Departments Career Growth Global Programs Degrees & Programs Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu Rigorous programs within a truly customized academic experience. Master of Science MS in Accounting MS in Business Analytics MS in Finance MS in Management MS Health Promotion Management MS in Sport Management MBA Full-Time Two-Year MBA Full-Time One-Year MBA MBA Direct Professional MBA Online MBA Executive MBA Joint Degrees JD/MBA MA / MBA MS Engineering / MBA Undergraduate Bachelor of Business Administration Non-Degree Executive Education Summer Business Institute Diversity & Inclusion Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu Shaping Leaders for a Changing World. Diversity at Cox Latino Leadership Initiative I Am Latino in America Subiendo Academy at SMU Cox School Dean’s Message Executive Education Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu Meet your career challenges head-on by mining the expertise of the nation's top business leaders. Programs for Individuals Custom Solutions Latino Leadership Initiative HR Roundtable Graduate Certificates Collins Center Learning Culture Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu An innovative learning culture influences the way the world does business. Centers and Institutes Academic Departments Research Business Library NextGen Cox Curriculum People & Community Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu A community where professors know students by name and help them create powerful networks. Students Alumni Faculty Companies Cox Executive Board Cox100 Press Releases Display Search Utility Navigation Students Companies Alumni Apply Contact Us smu.edu Custom Learning Solutions Custom Learning Solutions Overview Custom Topics Program Search Overview Custom Topics Program Search Jump To A Section Innovation Collaboration World-Class Faculty University Setting Transformative Topics Request More Information Search Custom Programs search courses for individuals Innovation As organizations and people, how do we serve, lead and thrive in an era of unprecedented complexity? At SMU Cox, we've delved deeply into how business leaders should prepare to navigate today's changing realities. We're delivering exciting new content in innovative ways while meeting rigorous standards for quality, and we have partnered with many forward-thinking businesses to bridge the knowledge and experience gap. Our approach is collaborative from start to finish, and our executive education specialists will work with you closely to co-create programs and solutions that are right for your business and your people. Whether it is a class for eight, a program for eighty, or a program for eight hundred, we will work with you to discover, develop, deliver and assess the program that is right for you. Together, we'll empower your leaders with transformational skills to make immediate change and achieve lasting results. Collaboration Our approach is collaborative from start to finish. Our executive education specialists will work with you closely to co-create programs and solutions that are right for your business and your people. Discovery. We work closely with you and your leadership team to learn about and analyze your specific organizational realities, needs and business challenges. Together, we zero in on specific pain points and strategic goals. Development. With your input, we design and fine-tune a targeted solution that's optimized for the size and level of your group and responsive to any cultural sensitivities. Delivery. We deliver learning experiences in the format that works best for you — from standalone seminars to modules spaced over time—on campus or onsite. Assessment. We work with you in the early phase to chart measures of success. Then we collect program evaluation data and monitor the application of learning. Rigorous assessment means we can fine-tune your program as needed for future iterations. Download the Custom Learning Solutions brochure World-Class Faculty Our secret weapon: the SMU Cox faculty. The professors who'll craft and deliver learning experiences for your organization are proven experts. They're masters of business theory who publish groundbreaking research in leading journals. They're top practitioners with years of experience solving tough business problems for leading corporations nationwide. And they're passionate teachers—dynamic, committed mentors whose enthusiasm is contagious. Meet the SMU Cox faculty University Setting While you always have the option to host programs at your own facility, our clients agree that bringing team members to SMU’s beautiful 210-acre campus sets the stage for the highest level of focus and interaction. The headquarters for your on-campus experience is the state-of-the-art James M. Collins Executive Education Center. Beyond the center, your team can use the rich resources of the entire university and interact with intellectual powerhouses from across the schools of SMU. Highlight: Collins Center The James M. Collins Executive Education Center was built in 2005 as a cutting-edge facility devoted to professional development for business leaders. It's a stunningly elegant building that incorporates the latest technology and design. Flexible, tiered classrooms, conference rooms, boardroom and business center are fully tech supported. Seminar rooms promote teamwork and interaction. An executive lounge, dining room, elegant outdoor plaza and rooftop terrace set the stage for relaxed networking. A truly sophisticated environment, the Collins Center is one of the highlights of executive education at SMU Cox. Read more about the Collins Center Transformative Topics As experts in business education for professionals, we know from experience that the most successful leadership programs integrate skills training across four areas: Individual, interpersonal, managerial and organizational. Our flexible menu of transformational content enables us to create a customized curriculum that fits your organization's culture and priorities. Coaching and mentoring Organizational trust The multicultural and multigenerational workplace Budgeting Consultative selling Financial analysis and planning Authentic influence Emotional intelligence Difficult conversations Exemplary leadership Capital acquisition Managing performance Human-centered design Master negotiation High-performance teams Financial statements Creativity, innovation and risk Leading change Executive presence Decision-making Unconscious bias Business strategy Leadership resilience Hiring, engaging and retaining the best Communications style Influence without authority Creating organizational value Let's create unique learning experiences that strengthen and future-proof your organization. Call us at 800.768.6699 or 214.768.3335 today to arrange a consultation with an executive education specialist. Next Steps - Questions? Not sure which program fits your needs? Reach out to our team. Contact Us Request More Information SMU Cox Footer Utility Nav Give Contact Us Apply © Cox School of Business Southern Methodist University PO Box 750333 Dallas, Texas 75275-0333 214-768-2000 SMU Cox Legal Home SMU Cox on Social Media Facebook Instagram Twitter