Directory | Teachers College Columbia University Skip to content Skip to main navigation TC Menu Search for people, news & websites Go Resource Links Prospective Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links Columbia Library myTC Directory Apply Now Request Info Search Bar Primary Navigation About Academics Admission & Aid Faculty & Research News Give to TC Skip to content Menu Skip to content Directory People Search First Name: Last Name: Title: Location: Phone/Extension: Department: E-mail: Advanced Search How to use this search How to update your listing × How to Update Your Listing Only employees can change their personal listing in the TC Directory. The changes will appear in the TC Web online directory and in the next printed directory. These instructions can also be found on the inside cover of the printed directory. Changes to Name, Title, or Department/Office: These changes must be made through Human Resources. Send an e-mail to Human Resources (hr@tc.edu) for further instructions. Changes to Room, Box Number, Telephone Extension, or E-Mail Address: These changes should be made through the online Info section of TC Web. Go to either of the following: On the TC home page, click on the myTC link on the upper right and log into the myTC portal. Click on the Tab "TC Services" and look in the middle column for the block titled "Personal Information." Click on "Update Addresses and Phone" to make your changes. Please make these changes yourself rather than asking HR or a co-worker to make them for you. Adding or Deleting an Individual: Human Resources will make these changes when the appropriate new hire/termination paperwork has been received. Once changes to Banner have been made, they will show up in the TC Web online directory the next day and in the next printed directory. × How to Use this Search Search for a faculty member, staff member or student. Enter a last name, first name or both. Use double quotes (") around exact wording. You may also enter a partial name with a wildcard character (%). Under Advanced People Search, you may also search by Title, Location, Phone/Extension, Department, and E-mail. Searching for an Office or Department? Do you need to look up the location and phone number for a department or program at Teachers College? View All Departments and Programs View Administrative Office A-Z Contact Us Teachers College, Columbia University 525 West 120th Street New York, NY 10027 Tel: +1 (212) 678-3000 Map & Directions Directory Ask a Question Resources Admission & Aid Student Life Courses Academic Calendar Office of the Registrar Office of Teacher Education TC NEXT Employment Legal Consumer Information / Student Right to Know Legal Notices Policy Library Non-Discrimination Title IX Compliance Ethics Reporting Public Safety GDPR Notice Make a Gift to TC Diversity Work at TC Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Linkedin © 2022, Teachers College, Columbia University, New York, NY 10027.