Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Apply Visit Give Information For Current Students Faculty Search BC.edu Links Menu Main Nav Back Back Close About Overview Dean's Message Why the Morrissey College? Contact Open Positions Visit Us Related Links Boston College Mission Office for Institutional Diversity Core Curriculum Majors and Minors BC Veterans Undergraduate Overview The Liberal Arts Advantage Core Curriculum Core Requirements & Courses Jesuit Philosophy The History of Core Renewal Renewed Core Course Goals Complex Problems & Enduring Questions Reflection Sessions CP&EQ Call for Proposals Founding Documents Assessment and Governance Faculty Resources Contacts Core Fellows Majors Minors Cornerstone Seminar Programs The Academic Advising Center Degree Requirements The Advising Process Major & Minor Requirements Pre-Health Program Academic Preparation Exploring Health Professions Preparing for Health Professions Graduate School Undergraduate Fellows Academic Policies Contact Related Links Find Your Program Campus Life Research Opportunities Undergraduate Admission Internship Approval Graduate Overview Admission Financial Support Admitted Students Academic Programs Current Graduate Students New Hire Information Registration & Forms Conference Reimbursement Policies and Procedures Research Funding Thesis Checklist Dissertation Guidelines and Checklist Commencement The Versatile Ph.D. Emergency Fund Application Contact Giving Related Links Graduate Student Life Policies & Procedures Graduate Student Association Graduate Student Emergency Relief Fund Faculty & Research Departments Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Morrissey College Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Current Students Faculty BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Home Graduate Graduate Admission Academic Programs Current Graduate Students Contact Giving Graduate Scholars for the Common Good Research. Teaching. Community. Success. The Morrissey College Graduate School (MCGS) is home to a broad range of Ph.D., M.A., and M.S. degree programs in the humanities, social sciences, and natural sciences. As a leading R1 research university, Boston College offers state-of-the-art lab and library facilities and robust resources dedicated to graduate student research, collaboration, and conference attendance. As a graduate student here, you will work alongside faculty who are leaders in their fields and dedicated mentors. MCGS is a diverse and thriving intellectual community committed to excellence—small enough to know you as a person, but large enough to prepare you for a rewarding life and a career as a leader in your field. Get Started Apply Request Info Find Your Program Find the master's or Ph.D. program that's right for you. Research at Boston College $63.3M in sponsored research grants at Boston College $28M Morrissey College expenditures for research and sponsored activities >35 research centers and institutes Student Voices Meet the students who make Morrissey College Graduate School a distinct community dedicated to collaboration, inclusiveness, and the common good. Financial Support The Graduate School of the Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences offers a number of funding options, reflecting our commitment to academically qualified students (both domestic and international) as they advance their scholarship and research. More About Financial Support Student Life in Boston Home to more than 35 colleges and universities, Boston is an intellectual hub unlike any other. Whether you live in the leafy neighborhoods near campus or downtown, you’ll benefit from rich internship and career opportunities in research, education, tech, nonprofits, and finance, as well as the wealth of academic talks and gatherings hosted on the city’s many campuses. Explore Our Campus Gasson Hall in the spring Gasson Quad in the fall Studying on the main campus Class in the new 245 Beacon The Robsham Theater Arts Center The McMullen Museum of Art Statue of St. Ignatius Loyola outside Higgins Hall BC Dining, ranked among the nation's best Gargan Hall in the Bapst Library News Newcombe Fellow Doctoral candidate in philosophy Magnus Ferguson has been awarded a 2022 Charlotte W. Newcombe Doctoral Dissertation Fellowship. Studying "resource deserts" Lacee Satcher, assistant professor of sociology and environmental studies, explores the intersection of inequality, environment, and health. Predicting the future of COVID Boston College biologists develop a computational model to detect emerging Coronavirus strains. Back To Top Back To Top Graduate School of the Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences Gasson Hall 108 617-552-3265 gsasinfo@bc.edu About Undergraduate Graduate Faculty & Research Departments Contact Departments Art, Art History, and Film Biology Chemistry Classical Studies Communication Computer Science Earth and Environmental Sciences Economics Engineering English German Studies History Mathematics Music Philosophy Physics Political Science Psychology Romance Languages and Literatures Slavic & Eastern Languages and Literatures Sociology Theatre Theology Apply Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College