Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links Vice Provost for Research Menu Main Nav Vice Provost for Research Vice Provost for Research Contact Back Back Close About Overview Research Facilities Animal Care Facility Clean Room Electron Microscopy Flow Cytometry BD FACSAria Cell Sorter Imaging Facility Isotope Geochemistry Magnetic Resonance Mass Spectrometry Scientific Instrumentation & Machining Services Transmission Electron Microscope X-ray Crystallography Materials Characterization Training News Contact Policies Related Links Research Policies at Boston College VPR Organization Chart (PDF) Internal Grant Opportunities Sponsored Programs Overview Coronavirus Updates BC Research Policies & Federal Regulations University Research and Projects Policy Funding Assistance Documentation & Forms Institutional Profile PeopleSoft Financials Technology Transfer Overview Invention Disclosure Guidance and Education Faculty and Staff Students Partners and Industry Documents Frequently Asked Questions Research Security, Integrity and Compliance Overview Research Security Research Integrity Research Misconduct Export Controls Research Protections Overview Policies & Procedures Forms & Templates Protocol Submission Authorization Agreements Training International Research Animal Welfare Contact Postdoctoral Affairs ResearchMatch Related Links ORP Standard Operating Procedures document Policy for the Protection of Human Research Participants IRB Committee Bylaws Human Subjects Payment Policy Gift Card Distribution Log Close Contact Directory A to Z Listing Search Classics Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Home About Research Facilities X-ray Crystallography Research Facilities Animal Care Facility Clean Room Electron Microscopy Flow Cytometry Imaging Facility Isotope Geochemistry Magnetic Resonance Mass Spectrometry Scientific Instrumentation & Machining Services Transmission Electron Microscope X-ray Crystallography Materials Characterization X-ray Crystallography Center iLab Login The X-ray Crystallography Center was fully renovated in November 2007 and houses two single-crystal X-ray diffraction systems, a brand-new Bruker Kappa APEX DUO diffractometer and a Rigaku HighFlux Homelab diffractometer, providing X-ray diffraction tools for structural characterization of both small molecules (organic, inorganic and organometallic) and macromolecules. X-ray structure analysis of small-molecule are conducted primarily on single crystals submitted by researchers in the department. As an extension service, the facility also accepts sample submissions from other departments within the university and from research organizations outside the university. Students are encouraged to learn to operate the instrumentation, collect data themselves, and solve their own structures. Practical training, supervision, advice, and assistance are provided by the facility director. The art and science of X-ray crystallography are introduced as a graduate/undergraduate course. Graduate students and post-docs who have completed in-house training may work independently. Undergraduate students generally work directly with the facility director. Complete X-Ray Crystallography Center Description 1. Small Molecule Diffractometer The facility maintains a state-of-the-art Bruker Kappa Apex Duo fully automated single crystal diffractometer, duo wavelength system with sealed molybdenum tube and high brightness copper source, first of its kind in New England area. This system can obtain charge density quality data with Mo radiation and exploit all the advantages of Cu wavelength for absolute structure determination and diffraction experiments on ever smaller organic crystals. Low temperature device used is an Oxford 700 series Cryostream system with temperature range of 80-400 K. An Olympus SZ1145 stereo zoom microscope is used to view and mount crystals. The X-ray Crystallographic Facility also includes a Crystal Growth Laboratory, equipped to aid students in obtaining crystals suitable for structure determination. 2. X-ray Photoelectron Spectrometer An X-ray Photoelectron Spectrometer (XPS) has recently been added to the lab, providing an analyzing tool for surface chemistry. Based upon the photoelectric effect, XPS can measure elemental composition, empirical formula, chemical state, and electronic states of elements. This spectrometer contains a monochromatic aluminum X-ray source with variable spot sizes, a hemispherical analyzer, ion gun, flood gun, high definition camera, and a vacuum system equipped with two turbo pumps and a scroll pump. The facility has two Dell Precision workstations for data collection, structure solution and refinement. Software packages include APEX2, TWINABS, CELL_NOW, ROTAX, PLATON, WINGX, and a license for the Cambridge Structural Database™ (CSD). Service The X-Ray Crystallography Center operates on a 24/7 schedule. Service is provided for all aspects of small molecule crystallography: Crystallization Sample examination and evaluation (optical and diffraction) Data collection and reduction Structure solution and refinement Presentation graphics preparation Preparation of tables and cif files for publication File submission to the Cambridge Structural Database™ Turn around time is highly dependent on crystal quality and size. Key Outputs and Achievements Boknevitz, K.; Italia, J. S.; Li, B.; Chatterjee, A.; Liu, S.-Y. "Synthesis and Characterization of an Unnatural Boron and Nitrogen-containing Tryptophan Analogue and its Incorporation into Proteins" Chem. Sci. 2019, 10, 4994-4998. Crockett, M. P.; Tyrol, C. C.; Wong, A. S.; Li, B.; Byers, J. A. "Iron-Catalyzed Suzuki–Miyaura Cross-Coupling Reactions between Alkyl Halides and Unactivated Arylboronic Esters" Org. Lett. 2018, 20, 5233-5237. Liu, Z.; Ishibashi, J. S. A.; Darrigan, C.; Dargelos, A.; Chrostowska, A.; Li, B.; Vasiliu, M.; Dixon, D. A.; Liu, S.-Y. “The Least Stable Isomer of BN Naphthalene: Toward Predictive Trends for the Optoelectronic Properties of BN Acenes" J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2017, 139, 6082-6085. Mikus, M. S.; Torker, S.; Xu, C.; Li, B.; Hoveyda, A. H. " Pentacoordinate Ruthenium(ll) Catecholthiolate and Mercaptophenolate Catalysts for Olefin Metathesis: Anionic Ligand Exchange and Ease of Initiation " Organometallics 2016, 35, 3878-3892. Documents, Manuals, Notes, and Useful Links Standard Operation for Beginners X-ray Safety Information Boston College Radiation Safety Request form for crystal structure determination Smart Apex User Manual, Bruker-AXS Shelx-97 manual, Prof. G. Sheldrick CIF file help International table of crystallography, full text available on BC library website Book: Crystal Structure Refinement: A Crystallographer's Guide to SHELXL, Dr. P. Müller Getting crystals Your Crystallographer will Treasure, Dr. R. Staples Guide to grow crystals, Dr. J. Reibenspies American Crystallographic Association Please note that all work performed in BC core facilities and recharge centers should always be appropriately acknowledged. If you are publishing or presenting data acquired in BC core facilities and recharge centers, please include the following statement in the Acknowledgement section of your manuscript/poster/presentation, "The authors would like to thank the Boston College <insert facility name> for assistance with the work presented in this paper/poster/presentation*." * Delete as appropriate Bo Li, Ph.D. Director, X-ray Crystallography Cente Dr. Bo Li joined the Chemistry Department at Boston College in January 2008. He served as a staff crystallographer in the Department of Chemistry, SUNY/Albany, where he earned his Ph.D. in inorganic chemistry. A native of China, Dr. Li received his B.S. in material sciences from Tongji University and a M.S. majoring in crystal growth and crystallography at Beijing Polytechnic University. Dr. Li has collected and solved over 500 crystal structures of inorganic and organic compounds. He has substantial experience in handling crystal samples that are liquids at ambient temperature, extremely unstable, moisture- and air-sensitive, very small, and severely disordered or twinned. His research interests focus on inorganic and organometallic chemistry of heterometallic compounds. X-ray Crystallography Center Bo Li, Ph.D. Director bo.li.5@bc.edu 617.552.1815 Merkert 209B Back To Top Back To Top Vice Provost for Research Boston College, Waul House 270 Hammond Street Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 vproffice@bc.edu 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College