College Park Scholars Skip to main content Main Menu About Curriculum Housing Annual Traditions Enrichment Opportunities People History News Programs Arts Business, Society and the Economy Environment, Technology and Economy Global Public Health International Studies Justice and Legal Thought Life Sciences Media, Self and Society Public Leadership Science, Discovery and the Universe Science and Global Change Science, Technology and Society Student Organizations Lakeland STARS Peer Mentors Scholars Promoting and Revitalizing Care (SPARC) Scholars in Action Student Advisory Board For Scholars Invited Students Incoming Students Current Students Alumni & Friends Welcome to Scholars A nationally acclaimed living–learning program The attention of a small college, the opportunities of a cutting-edge research university. Learn How Scholars Works Programs that enhance your studies Each of College Park Scholars' 12 programs covers a thematic area that allows students to connect their major and other interests and learn across fields Learn About Our Programs This program sends me forward equipped with knowledge, skills, a network and the courage I need to continue my growth. Ruth Murdoch '23 Environment, Technology and Economy 82,036 Hours of service to the community over 25 in-person Service Days 8,000+ Internships, research projects and service-learning initiatives completed for sophomore capstone 83 Approximate number of majors in each Scholars cohort View previous stat View next stat Important Dates August 25, 2022 Scholars Under the Lights First-year Scholars students will kick off their Scholars experience with a fun evening getting to know their fellow Scholars through active games and other community-building activities. View Event Details for Scholars Under the Lights August 26, 2022 Service Day First-year Scholars kick off their college experience with a day of service in the Greater College Park area. Service Day offers an active way for students to build community with their peers while also bettering their community. View Event Details for Service Day September 1, 2022 Convocation What does it mean to be a Scholars student? During this event, freshman Scholars will learn what makes our living–learning program unique and what it means to be a part of this community at the University of Maryland. View Event Details for Convocation September 2, 2022 Scholars Block Party With the first week of classes under your belt, come to the Scholars Block Party to let off some steam, have fun, meet new people and learn more about Scholars student organizations and other ways to get involved at the University of Maryland. View Event Details for Scholars Block Party Latest News Showing 1 - 6 of 94 May 20, 2022 SDU Director, Who Emphasized Interdisciplinary Thinking, Departing UMD Dr. Alan Peel, who has been a director of Science, Discovery and the Universe (SDU) Scholars program since 2007, is stepping down from his position. May 19, 2022 6 Scholars Alums Selected to Serve as Spring Commencement Senior Marshals The University of Maryland has announced its senior marshals for Spring Commencement, slated for Friday, May 20. Six College Park Scholars alumni number among the 60 graduating seniors serving as marshals: May 17, 2022 4 Graduating Scholars Alums Recognized With Prestigious University Awards Four Scholars alumni are among the handful of graduating seniors recognized this month with some of the University of Maryland’s most prestigious awards. Gabriela Winter, an alum of the Public Leadership Scholars program, received the Wilson H. Elkins Citizenship Awards, presented each year to one of the top students in the graduating class who has displayed outstanding involvement and leadership in campus activities. May 16, 2022 GPH Director Receives Award for Excellence in Undergraduate Teaching Dr. Lis Maring (middle), director of the Global Public Health Scholars program, poses with Dean William Cohen, associate provost and dean for Undergraduate Studies, and Samantha Miller, one of the students who nominated her for the Donna B. May 09, 2022 Course provides safe space to unpack power, privilege When Michelle Pinkrah strolled into her first Thursdays-at-3:30 p.m. class of the semester in late January, she had no idea what she’d signed up for. She had signed up by accident, actually. The class wasn’t her first choice for her practicum course requirement with College Park Scholars, where she is a student, and she’d quickly forgotten it was even on her schedule. Pinkrah sat down in the circle of her peers and encountered something she hadn’t expected: a dialogue class, or, a class that centers around group discussion of life and experiences. April 12, 2022 Scholars Student 1 of 6 Terps to Receive 2022 Hollings Scholarship from NOAA An Environment, Technology and Economy (ETE) Scholars student has received a 2022 Ernest F. Hollings Undergraduate Scholarship from the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA). Showing 1 - 6 of 94 View more News Contact College Park Scholars 1125 Cumberland Hall, 4250 Farm Dr., College Park, MD 20742 301.314.2777 · askcpscholars@umd.edu Visit our Twitter Visit our Facebook Visit our Instagram Visit our Youtube umd.edu Accessibility Privacy Notice Policies & Procedures Public Records Request Careers Back to Top