Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. UC News UC News right arrow down arrow UC News Search Topics right arrow down arrow UC Answers #UCtheGood In The News Arts & Culture Science & Tech International Athletics Health College Bound Impact right arrow down arrow #UCtheGood Insights Diversity Experience-Based Learning Next Lives Here Bicentennial COVID-19 Student Experience Colleges right arrow down arrow College of Allied Health Sciences College of Arts & Sciences College of Business Blue Ash College Clermont College College-Conservatory of Music College of Design, Architecture, Art, and Planning College of Education, Criminal Justice, & Human Services College of Engineering and Applied Science Graduate School College of Law College of Medicine College of Nursing College of Pharmacy Units right arrow down arrow Academic Health Center Admissions Alumni Association Board of Trustees Campus Services Equity and Inclusion Hoxworth Human Resources IT@UC Libraries Office of Innovation Office of Research President's Office Provost Public Safety Student Affairs UC Foundation Veteran's Affairs Continuing Education Media Contacts UC’s co-op rises in national rankings U.S. News & World Report ranks UC among best colleges in the country, No. 4 for co-op By Jac Kern Email JacEmail Jac 5135561823 September 13, 2021 Share on facebook Share on Twitter Pin Story Print Story Like The University of Cincinnati’s co-op program rose to No. 4 in the U.S. News & World Report’s latest rankings, continuing its historical placement of Top 5 co-op programs in the country. The latest 2022 issue of the magazine’s influential “Best Colleges” guide ranks UC among the top tier of national universities (No. 148) but perhaps more importantly, the university outpaces almost all national rivals on performance indicators important to students and their families — specifically UC’s cooperative education. In this year’s rankings, UC’s experience-based co-op and internship program beat out similar programs at both private and public institutions like Duke, Stanford, Cornell, Carnegie Mellon, Purdue, Georgetown and many others. Photo/Andrew Higley/UC Creative + Brand In the end, it’s all about ensuring students are set up for long-term, lifelong success. Gigi Escoe Dean of the Division of Experience-Based Learning and Career Education As the global founder of cooperative education, UC houses one of the world’s largest co-op programs where each year, students earn a collective $58 million annually working for thousands of employers around the globe. The program allows UC students to sequentially alternate academic semesters with professional, paid work directly tied to their majors with local, national and international employers, from multinational firms to non-profits and start-ups too. “Not only do we want our students to be ready for their first job, we want them to have the skills they need to build robust and dynamic careers spanning the course of their lives,” says Gigi Escoe, vice provost for undergraduate studies and dean of the Division of Experience-Based Learning and Career Education. Photo/Colleen Kelley/UC Creative + Brand “This is why we've made experience-based learning and career education core components of the UC model for all students. We are intently focused on delivering innovative, future-focused curriculum and programming. We prepare students to work in traditional, remote, and hybrid environments while attending to ideation, team building, on-going professional development, networking and culture. In the end, it’s all about ensuring students are set up for long-term, lifelong success.” It was UC’s co-op program that brought second-year computer science student Nachiket Dighe from Mumbai, India to Cincinnati. “Getting co-op experience before graduation is one of the best things about the university,” Dinghe says. UC’s focus on its Bearcat Promise (that all students will graduate with a diploma in one hand and a career plan in the other) provides students a guided path to and a competitive advantage at graduation. Focus on students attracts diverse, academically strong class This fall, UC welcomed its most diverse student body ever. That diversity complements UC’s co-op and internship program, as recruiting employers see a diverse workforce as a cultural and competitive necessity. New UC students were welcomed to campus at August's Convocation. Photo/Andrew Higley/UC Creative + Brand Enrollment highlights UC is more diverse with racial and ethnic minorities making up 24.1% of this year’s student body, a slight increase over last year’s 23.2%. Nearly one in four first-year students are minorities. Largest Uptown student enrollment in history: UC’s largest campus is located in Uptown, boasting more than 40,000 students. The quality of UC students has remained solid as well. The average GPA for incoming students at the Uptown campus is 3.7, the same as last year’s. Read the full Back to School package. More rankings Best Colleges for Veterans: No. 84, up 14 spots from last year Steady at No. 147 for Best Value New rankings this year include Best Undergraduate Computer Science (No. 135), Business (No. 84) and Nursing (No. 43) programs See U.S. News’ 2022 graduate rankings Featured image at top: UC co-op student working on a Turner Construction site. Photo/Joseph Fuqua II/UC Creative + Brand Impact Lives Here The University of Cincinnati is leading public urban universities into a new era of innovation and impact. Our faculty, staff and students are saving lives, changing outcomes and bending the future in our city's direction. Next Lives Here. Tags College-Conservatory of Music College bound College of Pharmacy Experience-based Learning College of Medicine College of Arts and Sciences College of Allied Health Sciences Student Experience College of Education, Criminal Justice, & Human Services Veteran's Affairs Blue Ash College Clermont College In The News College of Design, Architecture, Art, and Planning Graduate School College of Law Diversity College of Nursing Lindner College of Business Next Lives Here College of Engineering and Applied Science Related Stories College of Medicine to participate in national effort to assess... May 31, 2022 College of Medicine joins national effort to improve teaching clinical reasoning skills Local 12 News: ‘It’s changing my life’: Ten students awarded... May 30, 2022 Benya Coleman, a recent graduate of Hughes STEM High School, spoke with Local 12 News reporter Jenna Cisneros about her award of the Marian Spencer Scholarship to attend the University of Cincinnati this fall. Internationally acclaimed clarinetist Pavel Vinnitsky joins... May 27, 2022 UC College-Conservatory of Music Dean Stanley E. Romanstein has announced the addition of clarinetist Pavel Vinnitsky to the college’s roster of distinguished performing and media arts faculty members. Vinnitsky’s appointment as Associate Professor of Clarinet begins on Aug. 15, 2022. Debug Query for this University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45220 513-556-0000 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45220 513-556-0000 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top