Skip to Main Content Brown University Graduate Programs Search Menu Graduate Programs Innovation Management and Entrepreneurship Sc.M. school School of Engineering Inquire All Graduate Programs Navigate This Page Navigate This Page About the Program Admission Information Financial Aid Completion Requirements Alumni Outcomes Leadership Contact and Location Our Program in Innovation and Entrepreneurship, PRIME, is a STEM Masters of Science (ScM) degree based in the Brown University School of Engineering PRIME students experience the process of creating value from technology, learn how to develop embryonic ideas and execute how to bring these ideas to market. Core business skills in finance, strategy, marketing, decision making, globalization and management are provided to assure venture success. Full-time on campus students also participate in business immersion activities, including an internship course and a trip to the San Francisco Bay area, where they interact with company executives, government representatives, and technologists, richly enhancing their classroom experiences. PRIME students leverage numerous School of Engineering resources for prototype development. Beyond its traditional residential offering, PRIME has a blended delivery option for working students, typically 0-5 years post their graduate studies. The blended offering is composed of face-to-face and online classes to enable program participation by our remote and working students. The two required summer courses are delivered fully online and begin in July. For full-time on campus students, in person classes begin in the Fall term. Additional Resources There is an entrepreneurship room for the PRIME students equipped with the entire necessary infrastructure to carry out class assignments and projects. The PRIME students also have access to the entire engineering user facilities to create prototypes.. Admission Information Inquire If you have any questions regarding the application process for this program, please email masters_admissions@brown.edu. For program specific questions, please email prime@brown.edu. Admission Requirements GRE Subject: Not required GRE General: Required; the GRE General Test at home version is accepted TOEFL/IELTS: Required for any non-native English speaker who does not have a degree from an institution where English is the sole language of instruction or from a University in the following countries: Australia, Bahamas, Botswana, Cameroon, Canada (except Quebec), Ethiopia, Ghana, Ireland, Kenya, Lesotho, Liberia, Malawi, New Zealand, Nigeria, Zimbabwe, South Africa, Sierra Leone, Swaziland, Tanzania, Gambia, Uganda, United Kingdom (England, Scotland, Northern Ireland, Wales), West Indies, Zambia). The TOEFL iBT Special Home Edition and the IELTS Indicator exam are accepted. Students from mainland China may submit the TOEFL ITP Plus exam. Letters of Recommendations: Three (3) recommendations required Personal Statement: 1000-1500 word personal statement that gives your reasons to pursue graduate work in the field of your study. The statement should include examples of your past work in your chosen field, your plans for study at Brown, issues and problems you'd like to address in your field and your professional goals. Resume/CV: Required Dates/Deadlines Admission Deadline February 1, 2022 Early Admission Deadline December 15, 2021 5th Year Deadline May 1, 2022 Financial Aid Tuition: 2021/2022 Academic Year is $68,072. Students are billed per course each term. 8 courses in one year Scholarships: PRIME students are encouraged to explore work opportunities on the Brown campus; STA and RA positions available. Completion Requirements Program curriculum can be accomplished in 3 semesters (summer, fall and spring) by completing the following eight courses: Business Engineering Fundamentals I | ENGN2110 Business Engineering Fundamentals II | ENGN2120 Engineering Management and Decision Making | ENGN2125 Technology Entrepreneurship & Commercialization I | ENGN2150 Technology Entrepreneurship & Commercialization II | ENGN2160 Globalization Immersion Experience & Entrepreneurship Laboratory | ENGN2180 2 Elective Courses - to be approved by the Director of PRIME Alumni Careers Learn More Leadership Department Chair Larry Larson prime@brown.edu Director of Graduate Studies Patrick McHugh patrick_joseph_mchugh@brown.edu Contact and Location Innovation Management and Entrepreneurship Mailing Address Brown University Box D prime@brown.edu 401-863-6843 Visit Masters in Innovation Management and Entrepreneurship Resources Program Faculty Program Handbook Graduate School Handbook Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Graduate School School of Engineering School of Professional Studies School of Public Health Warren Alpert Medical School This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Innovation Management and Entrepreneurship Open details for Innovation Management and Entrepreneurship Bookmark this Page