Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Diversity & Inclusion Menu Leadership Commitment Future Gilbert-Walker Statue President's Diversity Council Faculty Development and Diversity Commitment to Diversity and Inclusion Developing Cultural Humility Diversity Updates Human Sexuality at Baylor Frequently Asked Questions Policy Commission on Historic Campus Representations Academic Programs Xavier University Exchange Program Baylor Interdisciplinary Core Women's and Gender Studies McNair Scholars Program Campus Involvement Active Citizenship Campus Communities Student Organizations and Greek Life THIS Matters Global Baylor Train & Learn Students Staff & Faculty Cultural Events Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Day Community Events Resources Baylor Free Food Events Campus Diversity Committee Diversity Enhancement Grant Diversity Enhancement Award Cultural Events Experience for Religiously Diverse Students Communities of Faith Religious Observance Calendar The Good Neighbor Project Report It! The Career Closet Women's Colloquium Dr. Beverly Daniel Tatum Report It! Baylor>Diversity & Inclusion>Campus Involvement>Campus Communities Campus Communities Baylor Latinas Unidas Latinas Unidas is a community support program for women of all Latin American backgrounds. In our meetings, we come together in an environment that promotes empowerment, self-improvement, cultural awareness, fellowship, and mentorship. Latinas Unidas provides safety, supportive relationships, and community involvement to effectively impact student’s overall well-being. Our goal is to help our students find a sense of belonging in the Baylor community, initiate reflection and discussion, and promote academic success, professional growth and leadership development through mentorship with Latina staff/faculty members. Contact Jamie Lopez for more information. Baylor VETS VETS (Veteran Educational and Transition Services) is on a mission to promote the academic success of veterans at Baylor University. All Baylor students who are veterans are eligible for the free benefits offered through the VETS Program. We understand that though veterans may have shared a common military culture, each student's experience is unique. Therefore, we have sought to partner with a range of departments and their corresponding resources in order to ensure that support is provided to the specific and unique challenges that our veterans face. Also, we recognize that our student veterans have a lot to contribute to the Baylor community. Our veterans bring developed leadership skills, discipline, global perspectives and tested hearts for service, just to name a few. VETS aims to support Baylor's veterans as they enrichen our Baylor community through sharing their insight and gifts within the classroom, campus and community. Veterans have served our nation, so now is the time to serve these students to ensure a successful transition from "salutes to sic 'ems!" First Generation Students Will you be the first in your family to earn a college degree? Baylor University is pleased to welcome you as the first, or among the first in your family to attend college. Being a first-generation college student is a proud accomplishment. Baylor recognizes that you will face unique experiences as you begin this exciting journey and we look forward to supporting you! M.I.S.T.E.R. MISTER (Males Inspiring Success Through Education and Relationships) aims and seeks to find ways of supporting, nurturing, and bolstering persistence of social, religious, and academic performance among minority males at Baylor University. Through the Department of Multicultural Affairs, MISTER provides a place for minority males to explore issues impacting them as they conceptualize positive features for themselves. This organization is open to all students, friends, and allies who are interested in being a supportive presence in the lives of these young men. Contact Geoffrey Griggs for more information. Men For Change we belong. we connect. we serve. Baylor Men For Change is a collaborative effort among Spiritual Life, Multicultural Affairs, and the Counseling Center to provide a mentoring community on campus for men to meet and to discuss ideas of spirituality and masculinity in a brave space.* The Baylor Men for Change community is also an advocacy group that attempts to critique toxic masculinity in our culture and to help Baylor men discover other, healthier versions of masculinity. Learn more by clicking the link above or emailing Josh Ritter, Geoffrey Griggs, or Don Arterbury. My Sister, My Self Baylor University's "My Sister, MySelf" is a unique series of monthly meetings dedicated to addressing contemporary issues facing Black Women and Women of Color. Our goal is to share information on ways in which we can improve ourselves individually and collectively in the community, home, and professional world. We desire to create a comfortable environment where in-depth discussion can encourage self-improvement, community and cultural awareness and global thinking. Most importantly, My Sister, Myself seeks to facilitate a casual space where participants can be encouraged and refreshed through fellowship. Want to get involved? Email Monique Marsh or Courtney Streat. Campus Involvement Active Citizenship Campus Communities Student Organizations and Greek Life Multicultural Greek Council National Pan-Hellenic Council THIS Matters Global Baylor General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 Leadership Commitment Future Gilbert-Walker Statue President's Diversity Council Faculty Development and Diversity Commitment to Diversity and Inclusion Developing Cultural Humility Diversity Updates Human Sexuality at Baylor Frequently Asked Questions Policy Commission on Historic Campus Representations Academic Programs Xavier University Exchange Program Baylor Interdisciplinary Core Women's and Gender Studies McNair Scholars Program Campus Involvement Active Citizenship Campus Communities Student Organizations and Greek Life THIS Matters Global Baylor Train & Learn Students Staff & Faculty Cultural Events Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Day Community Events Resources Baylor Free Food Events Campus Diversity Committee Diversity Enhancement Grant Diversity Enhancement Award Cultural Events Experience for Religiously Diverse Students Communities of Faith Religious Observance Calendar The Good Neighbor Project Report It! The Career Closet Women's Colloquium Dr. Beverly Daniel Tatum Report It!