Skip to main content Search form Search Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers Contact Give About Search Menu Public Health Now News Events Publications Topics Student Voices Celebrating the Centennial Our Work to Address COVID-19 Columbia Public Health Magazine Academics Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy & Procedures Office of Education Research Featured Research Global Health Centers Programs Grants & Awards Corporate Partnerships People Our Faculty Current Students Friends and Supporters Partners Alumni Become a Student Meet Our Faculty Life & Community Degree Finder How to Apply Career Services More Information Master of Public Health Degree Programs Certificate Program Core Curriculum Search You are here Home Academics Departments Sociomedical Sciences Research Winter Storm Update/Impacts to Campus and Services Last Updated 12:50pm Fri May 6 See Coronavirus Updates for information on campus protocols. Research Our research looks at every facet of how social and economic factors impact human health, involving robust collaborations between faculty, students, and community-based organizations. Research Centers A complete list of all research centers in the department of Sociomedical Sciences. Gender, Adolescent Transitions, and Environment GATE is dedicated to improving the lives of adolescents and women around the world through addressing issues related to pubertal health transitions, menstrual hygiene management (MHM), and access to sanitation. Faculty Spotlight Kate Lovero's research aims to improve the prevention and treatment of adolescent mental health problems in low-resource settings, focusing particularly on low- and middle-income countries. The Region 2 Public Health Training Center Enhances the current and future public health workforce's ability to effectively deliver the Essential Public Health Services (EPHS) to the populations of New York, New Jersey, Puerto Rico, and the U.S. Virgin Islands. Columbia Mailman Launches Free Course on the Global Menstrual Movement Columbia Mailman School’s GATE (Gender, Adolescent Transitions, and Environment) Program launched the world’s first MOOC (Massive Open Online Course) on the global menstrual movement. Faculty Spotlight Dr. Jessie Ford is a sociologist whose research explores how expectations around gender and sexuality shape sexual health, violence and pleasure. Faculty Spotlight Dr. DuPont-Reyes is an interdisciplinary public health scholar that centers her research on issues of health equity in population mental health among young and diverse populations. Schools Often Respond to Student Health Needs with Discipline Schools with students who have higher levels of substance use and depressed feelings have a higher prevalence of school discipline and school-based police contact, according to a study by Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health researchers. Sexual Health Initiative to Foster Transformation SHIFT is a comprehensive research project that will examine the individual, interpersonal, and structural factors that shape sexual health and misconduct for undergraduates. Faculty Spotlight Christian T. Gloria studies the protective and resilience factors that enable people to adapt, grow, and thrive against chronic stress and adversity. Close Sign up for Transmission Interested in changing the world? Apply Today Columnbia Mailman Connect with Us Public Health Now News Events Publications Topics Student Voices Academics Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy & Procedures Office of Education Research Featured Research Global Health Centers Programs Grants & Awards Corporate Partnerships People Our Faculty Current Students Friends and Supporters Partners Alumni Become a Student Meet Our Faculty Life & Community Degree Finder How to Apply Career Services More Information Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health | 722 West 168th St. NY, NY 10032 Site Map Privacy Columbia University Irving Medical Center Copyright © Columbia University 2019 Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers