Skip to main site navigation Skip to main content Responding to COVID-19 In light of the ongoing pandemic, find out the Annenberg School's latest rules and procedures. Return to Anneberg School for Communication Homepage Open the main menu People Faculty, Lecturers & Researchers Graduate Students Staff Graduate Ph.D. Program How to Apply Financial Support Curriculum and Milestones Courses Graduate Faculty Joint Degrees & Certificates Student Life Careers & Outcomes Undergraduate Major in Communication Declaring the Major Major Requirements Courses Academic Opportunities Advising Appointments Careers & Outcomes Research Research Areas Topics Centers & Groups Annenberg School Library Executive Education News & Events News Events In the Media About Message from the Dean Mission & History Leadership & Governance Diversity & Inclusion Location & Facilities Careers at Annenberg Contact Us Open the search panel Search Site Alumni Policies & Resources Home Exploring a Fast-Changing Media Landscape Shaping the Future of Communication The Annenberg School for Communication is a vibrant, diverse, and close-knit community of scholars at the forefront of engaging today's media landscape and its impact on the major issues of our world. Education Undergraduate Communication Major Doctorate in Communication Executive Education Research Our Research Areas Our Research Centers & Groups Hot Topics Climate More on Science Communication News Climate Scientist Michael Mann to Join Penn Faculty Michael E. Mann will be joining the School of Arts & Sciences, with a secondary appointment in the Annenberg School. Event 7 Apr 2022 CARGC-CDCS Symposium - Environmental Racism and Infrastructure Injustice in the United States and Beyond News 22 Mar 2018 Doctoral Student Hanna Morris Uses Interdisciplinary Methods to Study Climate Change Communication Visit Helene Langlamet's profile Helene Langlamet Graduate Student News 10 May 2019 Do Most Americans Believe in Human-Caused Climate Change? Hot Topics Media Effects More on Media Effects News Professor Emeritus Elihu Katz — Founding Figure in Communication — Passes Away at 95 A sociologist and media scholar, Katz made substantial contributions in the areas of media effects, diffusion, and media events, and was a cherished friend and mentor to many. News 22 Nov 2021 What Big Data Reveals About Online Extremism Visit Yphtach Lelkes, Ph.D.'s profile Yphtach Lelkes, Ph.D. Faculty News 20 Oct 2021 Believability in the Wake of #MeToo News 21 Jan 2022 A novel theory on how conspiracy theories take shape Hot Topics Journalism More on Media Effects News Journalism is Outdated: Professor Barbie Zelizer Discusses a New ‘Manifesto’ In "The Journalism Manifesto," Professor Barbie Zelizer and her co-authors argue that journalism needs a major transformation in order to survive as an essential pillar of our democracy. Event 31 Mar 2022 CARGC Colloquium: Bilge Yesil, College of Staten Island Centers & Groups Center for Media at Risk In the Media On the Media: The Books of Guantanamo Bay Visit Claire Wardle, Ph.D.'s profile Claire Wardle, Ph.D. Faculty Leaders in Communication Scroll through this video gallery to hear our faculty and students explain their research passions and academic interests in their own words. Doctoral Candidate and artist Roopa Vasudevan studies the ways that the everyday technologies shape our daily lives. Dean Jackson on his research focus, interest in multimodal scholarship, and outlook on his role as dean Prof. Julia Ticona talks about her new book, "Left to Our Own Devices: Coping With Insecure Work in a Digital Age." Ten years after Occupy Wall Street, Prof. Jessa Lingel's class "We are the 99%: Media and Memory of the Occupy Movement" helps students understand that moment in participatory democracy. Professor Sarah J. Jackson talks about her path to studying identity and inequality in media, and how activists can shape the public conversation. What does curiosity look like — literally? Professor David Lydon-Staley and artist Rebecca Kamen explain how research into curiosity has been turned into art. In this TEDxPenn Talk, Emily Falk discusses the legacy of Emile Bruneau and how we can unravel the conflicting biases in our brain to work towards a more just and peaceful world. Paul Falzone (PhD '08), founder and director of Peripheral Vision International, uses media, technology, and pop culture to create social change in East Africa. Hear more about his path from Annenberg to Uganda and beyond. Professor Diana Mutz talks about her new book, Winners and Losers: The Psychology of Foreign Trade. Follow five of our Ph.D. students through a typical day in their lives at the Annenberg School. See previous slide See next slide Stay Engaged with Annenberg Sign up for our monthly newsletter, Annenberg NOW, and occasional updates on events, news, and more. Sign Up Today University of Pennsylvania Homepage Annenberg School for Communication 3620 Walnut Street Philadelphia, PA 19104 (215) 898-7041 contact@asc.upenn.edu Contact Us Support Annenberg Privacy Copyright Information Disclaimer Report Accessibility Issues & Get Help Engage With Uson social media Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Copyright © 2022 Annenberg School for Communication at the University of Pennsylvania