Skip to main content Skip to main content Give Give Schedule a Visit Lyle Visit SMU Tour Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Lyle Home Academics Academics Departments Advising Multidisciplinary Programs Distance Education Undergraduate Degree Programs Graduate Studies Research Research Research Opportunities Contact Us Centers & Institutes Centers & Institutes Hart Center Caruth Institute Hunt Institute Darwin Deason Institute Apply Now Apply Now Visit Lyle Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions Resources FAQ's Connect with Us Alumni Alumni Lifelong Learning Alumni Program Support Lyle Industry Mentor Program Recruiting at Lyle Cox & Lyle Red Zone Tailgate on the Boulevard About Lyle About Lyle Our Namesake: Bobby B. Lyle Mission Statement Message from the Dean Dean's Office Faculty Directory 9 Things Every Lyle Student Should Know Job Opportunities Support Lyle Get in Touch ☰ Academics Lyle Home Academics Undergraduate Degree Programs Undergraduate Degree Programs With more than a 75-year legacy of innovation, achievement and excellence, the Lyle School is one of the Southwest’s premier institutes of higher learning for students seeking degrees in engineering and technical disciplines. View the undergraduate degree programs that are offered within the 5 academic departments of the Lyle School. Civil and Environmental Engineering Civil and Environmental Engineering undergraduate degree programs include a B.S. in Civil Engineering or a B.S. in Environmental Engineering. These programs are designed so that students can tailor their courses of study to include specializations and minors according to their individual interests. CEE Degree Programs Computer Science It is an incredibly exciting time to study Computer Science at Lyle. With the support of world-class faculty, the latest technology tools, and cutting-edge research, we encourage students to tap their intellectual abilities to approach difficult problems and create new solutions. The Department of Computer Science offers three undergraduate degree plans and one minor. CS Degree Programs Electrical and Computer Engineering The Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering offers a full complement of courses at the bachelor’s degree level in communications, networks, digital signal processing, optoelectronics, electromagnetics, microelectronics, computer architecture, digital systems and hardware security. Students can choose from three major programs and may elect to obtain a double major in areas such as Math and Physics. ECE Degree Programs Mechanical Engineering The Department of Mechanical Engineering offers three major programs and one minor in mechanical engineering. ME Degree Programs Operations Research and Engineering Management The Department of Operations Research and Engineering Management offers one major program and one minor program in management science. Management science deals with the development of mathematically-based models for planning, managing, operating and decision-making. OREM Degree Programs Academics Departments Advising Multidisciplinary Programs Distance Education Undergraduate Degree Programs Graduate Studies School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube search-plus