Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Advancement Menu About About University Advancement Leadership Directory Administrative Advancement Services Alumni Engagement Campaign and Donor Stewardship Corporate and Foundation Relations Operations and Financial Services Major Gifts Donor Bill of Rights Give Light Giving to Baylor Student Scholarships Academic Units Student Life Class Giving Athletics Parent Giving The Torch (Crowdfunding) How to Give Credit Card or Check Memorial and Tribute Gifts Corporate and Foundation Relations Gifts of Securities Gifts of Real Estate Gift Planning/Estate Gifts Matching Gifts Celebrating Giving 1845 Society 1845 Society Legacy Old Main Society Baylor Alumni Give Online Contact Us Office of Advancement Ensuring a Bright Future Baylor University greatly values the alumni, parents and friends who support and sustain us. I am grateful for the opportunity to serve both the University and our Baylor Family as we work together to advance the mission of this institution. The Office of Advancement’s purpose is to provide opportunities for our Baylor Family to support and engage with Baylor, both through giving to the University and in connecting with their alma mater through our Baylor Alumni program. Together, we can create opportunities for our students, connect to fellow alumni and parents and find opportunities to engage with corporate partners and foundations to help advance our society. As you explore how University Advancement is working to make Baylor’s future bright through Baylor Alumni and the Give Light Campaign, I hope you will consider how you can engage and give to be part of these exciting times at Baylor! Sic'Em Bears, David Rosselli Vice President for Advancement Explore Make a Gift From scholarships to faculty research; campus beautification to Homecoming activities; faculty support to capital projects, University Advancement helps the Baylor family come together to ensure our future is bright. Read More Give Light is a $1.1 billion comprehensive campaign for the future of Baylor University, and it will undergird Illuminate and impact every aspect of campus life. Read More Baylor Alumni is the University's official alumni engagement program. It celebrates the shared memories, experiences and connections of Baylor alumni offering a diversity of ways to engage and an innovative approach to growth, led by dedicated volunteers and a committed team of professionals. Read More News Read More News Apr. 14, 2022 Baylor Mourns Passing of Beloved Former First Lady Joy Reynolds WACO, Texas (April 14, 2022) – WACO, Texas (April 14, 2022) – The Baylor University family is grieving the loss of beloved former First Lady Joy Reynolds. The wife of Baylor’s 11th President and later Chancellor and President Emeritus, the late Herbert H. Reynolds, Mrs. Reynolds fulfilled her role as First Lady with boundless grace and energy. Read More Apr. 5, 2022 Baylor University Announces $3 Million Gift Establishing New Chair in Christian Thought WACO, Texas (April 7, 2022) – Baylor University today announced a $3 million gift from Jim and Sharon Harrod of Horseshoe Bay, Texas, establishing an endowed faculty chair position to support exceptional scholarship and transformational learning within the Honors College and the study of great thinkers who have stood at the intersection of the Christian faith and culture at large. Read More Mar. 29, 2022 Graduate and Professional Programs Ranked in U.S. News & World Report’s 2023 Edition of Best Graduate Schools WACO, Texas (March 29, 2022) – Several Baylor University graduate and professional programs were among those nationally ranked in the 2023 U.S. News & World Report Best Graduate Schools rankings, released March 29. Read More Mar. 23, 2022 Who are the Fosters — namesakes of Baylor’s new Foster Pavilion? To the most recent generation of Baylor Family members, the Foster name is synonymous with campus growth and exciting new facilities. The Paul L. Foster Success Center brought academic and career counseling and support together in Sid Rich back in 2007, and the Foster Campus for Business and Innovation provided a stunning new home for the … Read More Office of University Advancement One Bear Place #97026 Waco, Texas 76798-7026 Clifton Robinson Tower - Suite 800 (254) 710-2561 University_Advancement@baylor.edu Make a Gift Please select...Where It's Needed Most Make a Gift Leadership DirectoryGiving at BaylorHow to GiveCelebrating Giving General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 About About University Advancement Leadership Directory Administrative Advancement Services Alumni Engagement Campaign and Donor Stewardship Corporate and Foundation Relations Operations and Financial Services Major Gifts Donor Bill of Rights Give Light Giving to Baylor Student Scholarships Academic Units Student Life Class Giving Athletics Parent Giving The Torch (Crowdfunding) How to Give Credit Card or Check Memorial and Tribute Gifts Corporate and Foundation Relations Gifts of Securities Gifts of Real Estate Gift Planning/Estate Gifts Matching Gifts Celebrating Giving 1845 Society 1845 Society Legacy Old Main Society Baylor Alumni Give Online Contact Us