This theme uses "root" links to dependencies and assets (CSS, JS, images, etc.). Place all theme files and directories at the root of your web server for this page to render as intended. Skip to main content iastate.edu Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons AccessPlus Blackboard CyBox CyMail Outlook More Sign Ons... Iowa State University SOIL FERTILITY Menu Toggle Search Toggle Search Contact Current Topics Home Page Nutrient Topics Lime and soil pH Manure nutrients Nitrogen Nutrient deficiencies Nonconventional additives and byproducts Nutrients and water quality Phosphorus Potassium Secondary and micronutrients Site specific 4R nutrient management planning Soil/plant sampling, testing and recommendations Photo gallery Links Weather/Climate Current Topic Starter Fertilizer for Corn: A Potentially Useful Practice with a Cold Spring and High Fertilizer Prices Antonio Mallarino, Professor and Nutrient Management Extension Specialist, Department of Agronomy, Iowa State University April 18, 2022 The weather forecast for the rest of April suggests likely well below average temperatures that may result in corn planting on soils colder than optimum which require careful consideration (see recent ICM News article). Also, fertilizer prices continue be much higher than normal. Starter fertilization can be useful to complement primary preplant fertilization for corn, but not always. The placement of small amounts of nutrients in the seed furrow or in a band to the side and below the row increases the concentration of nutrients where seedling roots grow. Common starter fertilizers have nitrogen (N), phosphorus (P), and potassium (K) and sometimes other nutrients. Read on. How to use this site Welcome to the Iowa State University Agronomy Extension Soil Fertility Home Page. Nutrient topics are listed in the drop down menu. Simply click on a topic of interest and you can find information about that topic, including Extension publications, newsletter articles, conference proceedings and reports, presentations, and links to other related sites. Links also provide access to soil fertility decision aid tools, and a photo gallery. Featured Quick Links Compendium of Nontraditional Materials ISU Extension and Outreach Store ISU Integrated Crop Management ISU Integrated Crop Management Blog North Central Extension-Industry Soil Fertility Conference Current Weather SOIL FERTILITY Department of Agronomy 716 Farm House Lane Ames, IA 50011 Antonio Mallarino apmallar@iastate.edu 515-294-6200 phone John Sawyer jsawyer@iastate.edu Facebook @IowaStateU @iowastateu YouTube RSS Copyright © 1995- Iowa State University of Science and Technology All rights reserved Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility