Search | Directories | Reference Tools UW Home > Discover UW > Student Guide UW Bothell Course Descriptions UW Tacoma Course Descriptions Glossary SCHOOL OF SOCIAL WORK SOCIAL WORK SOCIAL WORK (MSW) Detailed course offerings (Time Schedule) are available for Spring Quarter 2022 Summer Quarter 2022 Autumn Quarter 2022 SOC W 500 Intellectual and Historical Foundations of Professional Social Work Practice (3) Intellectual, historical, and ethical foundations of the social work profession. Engagement with crucial aspects of the profession's history; contemporary issues, problematics, and directions; and key concepts and theoretical frameworks. Students develop personal, professional, and intellectual foundations for practicing social work built on the central values of plurality and social justice. View course details in MyPlan: SOC W 500 SOC W 501 Poverty and Inequality (3) Analysis of poverty and inequality in United States. Analytic and descriptive focus on measurement, processes of production and perpetuation, and public policy responses. Examines causes of poverty, the role of policy, and socioeconomic dimensions of stratification, including race, ethnicity, class, gender, immigration status, disability, age, sexual orientation, and family structure. View course details in MyPlan: SOC W 501 SOC W 504 Social Work for Social Justice: Developing a Personal-Professional Stance (1-4, max. 4) Focuses on personal and professional development toward social work practice for social justice. Employs critically self-reflective, experiential, and dialogic learning processes to engage students to explore personal meaning systems and narratives in the context of professional values of social justice, multiculturalism, empowerment, and globalization. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: SOC W 504 SOC W 505 Foundations of Social Welfare Research (3) Overview of research process/methods in social work, with focus on consuming and performing practice-related research and evaluating one's own practice. Emphasis on critical understanding of empirical literature, development of useful and appropriate questions about social work practice, and strategies and techniques for doing research and applying findings to practice. View course details in MyPlan: SOC W 505 SOC W 506 Social Welfare Research and Evaluation (3) Second of a two-quarter research sequence. Introduces a range of methods for informing evidenced-based social work practice. Emphasizes critical appraisal of the literature, development of research questions, and strategies and techniques for conducting practice-relevant research, including data collection and analysis. Prerequisite: a minimum grade of 2.7 in SOC W 505. View course details in MyPlan: SOC W 506 SOC W 507 Advanced Standing Social Welfare Research and Evaluation (5) Introduces a range of methods for informing evidence-based social work practice. Emphasizes critical appraisal of the literature, development of research questions, and strategies and technique for conducing practice-relevant research, including data collection and analysis. Prerequisite: advanced standing students. View course details in MyPlan: SOC W 507 SOC W 510 Micro/Meso Social Work Practice 1: Individuals (3) Foundation course in direct social work practice with individuals. Introduces knowledge and skills needed for effective and accountable person-centered and participant-directed practice. Students gain skills for engagement, relationship building, interviewing, assessment and collaborative intervention planning with individuals through an intersectional lens. View course details in MyPlan: SOC W 510 SOC W 511 Micro/Meso Social Work Practice 2: Families and Groups (3) Foundation course in direct practice with families and groups. Provides generalist practice knowledge and skills for social work practice with families, small groups and service delivery systems to promote maximum self-determination, functioning, and quality of life. Prepares students for assessment, intervention planning and decision making with families and groups within the context of social systems. View course details in MyPlan: SOC W 511 SOC W 512 Macro Social Work Practice 1: Community and Policy Practice (3) Foundation course in macro social work, focused on community-based social work and policy practice. Students develop skills in system-level assessment, intervention, and evaluation. Theories of social change are examined with examples drawn from community organizing and policy advocacy. View course details in MyPlan: SOC W 512 SOC W 513 Macro Social Work Practice 2: Organizational Practice (3) Foundation course in macro social work practice, focused on organizational change. Using an anti-oppression lens, students develop skills in assessment, intervention and evaluation with groups, organizations, and communities. Students examine ways to facilitate change within organizations and critically assess the cultural aspects of organizations. View course details in MyPlan: SOC W 513 SOC W 514 Clinical Social Work: Practice with Adults (3) Theory and practice of clinical social work, emphasizing social justice frameworks and life course perspectives. Emphasizes specialized, strengths-based approaches to all phases of social work practice. Students learn motivational interviewing, critically examining applications with clients of varying social identity categories, given intersectional identities. View course details in MyPlan: SOC W 514 SOC W 515 Clinical Social Work: Practice With Children, Youth, and Families (3) Builds on foundational frameworks/competencies applying strength-based, social-justice informed approaches including motivational interviewing to all phases of social work practice specific to children and families. Covers common child and family topics (historical trauma, child development, attachment, intersectionality and disability) focusing on assessment and intervention through a culturally responsive lens. View course details in MyPlan: SOC W 515 SOC W 516 Research Base for Prevention Science (3) Introduces the transdisciplinary field of prevention science; enhances understanding of the developmental epidemiology of risk, protection and outcome and how prevention interventions are conceptualized and evaluated; critiques research on preventive interventions and practice; and outlines the role of prevention science in advancing health and well-being over the life course. View course details in MyPlan: SOC W 516 SOC W 517 Promoting Individual, Family, School, and Community Risk Prevention (3) Covers existing evidence-based practices in prevention science that have demonstrated effects on reducing risks and promoting positive development in youth. Emphasizes practice skills, topic include promotion of healthy development in childhood/adolescence; prevention of child abuse and neglect, early pregnancy, violence and delinquency, substance abuse, school misbehavior, and mental health disorders. View course details in MyPlan: SOC W 517 SOC W 518 Macro Practice in Health and Prevention (3) Students engage in the translation of research, advocacy, and the sustainability and dissemination of prevention initiates and programs. Includes skill development in policy analysis, community organizing, and media/legislative advocacy. Covers current issues in prevention, the policy context surrounding them, and skills to propel prevention forward as a priority in or society. View course details in MyPlan: SOC W 518 SOC W 519 Policy/Services: Health/Mental Health (3) Investigates how social and economic inequality in America is established, manifested, and maintained. Also examines interventions that purportedly address inequality. Provides analytic tools to help with critical thinking about competing views of inequality and the interventions that address it. View course details in MyPlan: SOC W 519 SOC W 520 Policy/Services: Multigenerational (3) Investigates how social and economic inequality in America is established, manifested, and maintained. Also examines interventions that purportedly address inequality. Provides analytic tools to help with critical thinking about competing views of inequality and the interventions that address it. View course details in MyPlan: SOC W 520 SOC W 521 Child and Family Inequalities: Policy/Services Platform (3) Advanced study of policy and services relevant to practice with children, adolescents, and families. Applies social justice framework to understanding policy context and organization of services responses to child and family inequalities, especially for historically oppressed and marginalized populations. Examines social construction of policies in historical, political, and comparative context. View course details in MyPlan: SOC W 521 SOC W 522 Advanced Standing Integrative Seminar (5) Assists with transition to graduate study for students entering MSW Advanced Standing Program. Serves as bridge between students' BASW preparation and the advanced MSW curriculum; builds graduate-level critical analysis and writing skills, integrating MSW foundation course content in social justice principles, diversity, structural inequalities, anti-oppression work; and micro/mezzo/macro practice. View course details in MyPlan: SOC W 522 SOC W 523 Preparation for Specialized Professional Practice - Advanced Standing Students (3) Designed to prepare students in the Advanced Standing MSW program for field/practicum experience. Builds upon content and skills acquired through generalist (micro, mezzo, and macro levels) practice. Includes development of critical thinking skills, values, and knowledge to advance social justice, skills for advancing multiculturalism, intergroup collaboration, and empowerment. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: SOC W 523 SOC W 524 Generalist Practicum (0-10, max. 14) Agency-based practicum with emphasis on development of knowledge, perspectives, and skills needed for practice with individuals, families, groups, organizations, and communities. Prerequisite: social work major. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: SOC W 524 SOC W 525 Specialized Practicum (1-12, max. 24) Agency-based specialized practicum. Builds on previous fieldwork in the context of practice in an area of specialization. Prerequisite: completion of foundation courses and practicum. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: SOC W 525 SOC W 526 Social and Healthcare Policy in an Aging Society (3) Applies a multigenerational, social justice framework to analyze how historical and current service structures, policies, and regulations support or undermine families across the lifespan, especially marginalized populations. Builds and applies skills to analyze, critique, and advocate for policies and services that support growing numbers of older adults and multigenerational families. View course details in MyPlan: SOC W 526 SOC W 527 Global and Local Inequalities: Critical Analyses of the Processes and Policies of Globalization (3) Discussion of the health of the planet, economic and cultural globalization, the enduring legacies of imperialism and colonialism in this global era, and their local impacts. Foci include international agreements, UN conventions, immigration, and refugee policies. View course details in MyPlan: SOC W 527 SOC W 528 Healthcare Inequalities: Policy/Services Platform (3) Examines the organization, policies, and services of U.S. healthcare system from a social justice framework. Topics include the U.S. healthcare system's historical development, differential access to health and healthcare, healthcare system reform, and the analysis of healthcare policy from contrasting ideological perspectives. View course details in MyPlan: SOC W 528 SOC W 529 Mental Health Inequalities: Policy/Services Platform (3) Mental health policy trends and organization of services at national, state, and local levels reflected in legislative, regulatory, and institutional policies. Provides historical perspective on the development of U.S. mental health policies and services. Discusses specific areas of intersystem linkages in terms of equitable access and empowerment. View course details in MyPlan: SOC W 529 SOC W 530 Advanced Practice with Diverse Children and Families (3) Builds on foundation frameworks and competencies to develop specialized knowledge and skills for working with vulnerable children and families. An ecological framework informs family- and community-centered assessment and intervention that is empowering, culturally responsive, and clinically relevant. Foci include resilience, violence, attachment, loss, substance abuse, and disability. View course details in MyPlan: SOC W 530 SOC W 531 Practice with Diverse Children and Families: Focus on Child Mental Health (3) Develops specialized knowledge and skills for practice with children with mental health concerns and their families. Emphasis on child and family mental health assessment and interventions that are culturally relevant, collaborative, and strength-promoting. Topics include culture and mental health, system of care, psychotropic medication, ADHD, and depression. View course details in MyPlan: SOC W 531 SOC W 532 Practice with Diverse Children and Families: Focus on Child Welfare (3) Develops specialized knowledge and skills for culturally relevant child welfare practice across a range of settings including child protection, foster care, and adoption. Topics include family dynamics around child maltreatment; trauma and its impact on children; separation, loss, and identity development; and self-care in child welfare practice. View course details in MyPlan: SOC W 532 SOC W 533 Practice with Diverse Children, Youth, and Families: Community Settings (3) Focuses on the critical role of neighborhoods and communities as settings for child and family social work intervention. Provides the theoretical, empirical, and practical foundations for engaging with, implementing, and designing effective programs and services with and for children, youth, and families in diverse community settings. View course details in MyPlan: SOC W 533 SOC W 534 Praxis of Intergroup Dialogue (3) Students design, plan, implement, and evaluate intergroup dialogue sessions as peer facilitators. Students facilitate intergroup dialogue in conjunction with SOC W 504. Focuses on intensive in-vivo instruction, consultation, and supervision of facilitators. View course details in MyPlan: SOC W 534 SOC W 535 Special Topics in Interpersonal/Direct Practice (2-3, max. 9) Examines current substantive topics in direct/interpersonal practice. View course details in MyPlan: SOC W 535 SOC W 536 Social Movements and Organizing: People, Power, and Praxis (3) Focuses on social, economic, and political problems from an organizer's perspective, and strategies, tactics, and skills necessary to engage in organizing activities. Emphasizes principles common to community, electoral, union, and issue organizing. Addresses why people organize, how organizing works, and what it takes to be a good organizer. View course details in MyPlan: SOC W 536 SOC W 537 Empowerment Practice with Refugees (3) Empowerment practice with refugees and immigrants across a transnational continuum of forced migration, including flight, internal displacement, asylum seeking, repatriation, and resettlement. Instruction includes classroom activities, workshops with local service providers, and agency-based projects. Addresses implications for strengths-based social services, policy, and practice skills. View course details in MyPlan: SOC W 537 SOC W 538 Critical Empowerment Practice with Multi-ethnic Communities (3) Principles of empowering practice, critical analyses of models of multiculturalism and paradigms of knowledge and practice proven problematic in our increasingly diverse society. Assists students in developing empowering practice values, knowledge, and skills for work in multi-ethnic communities. View course details in MyPlan: SOC W 538 SOC W 539 Breaking Down the Wall and Shifting the Paradigm: Engaged Practice with Latinas and Latinos (3) Provides advanced knowledge and skills for practice with diverse Latinx populations through 1) examination of structural and cultural factors, and 2) understanding of Latinx practice models to promote the well-being of Latinx communities at multiple levels and in local and global contexts in culturally responsive ways. View course details in MyPlan: SOC W 539 SOC W 540 Advanced Social Work Practice in Health Settings I (3) Teaches theory and strengths-based practice within interprofessional health care settings from bio-pyschosocial, family systems, multi-cultural, contextual, and lifespan perspectives. Advances skills in conducting assessments and interventions to support individuals and families experiencing pain and loss associated with trauma and acute or chronic illness. View course details in MyPlan: SOC W 540 SOC W 541 Social Work Practice in Health Settings (3) Teaches health care theory and practice skills relevant to working with adults and children in a variety of health care settings, using biopsychosocial, contextual, multicultural, interdisciplinary, and lifespan perspectives. Advances skills in adherence assessment, ethical decision-making, discharge planning, cross-cultural and cross-professional practice, and counseling regarding life-threatening illness. View course details in MyPlan: SOC W 541 SOC W 542 Recovery-Oriented Social Work Practice in Community Mental Health (3) Emphasizes recovery-oriented practice with adults with severe and persistent mental illness and persons with co-occurring mental illness and substance disorders. Trains for generalist social work practice in most community mental health settings: community mental health centers, psychiatric hospitals, residential programs, jails, homeless shelters, on-the-streets, client's homes, etc. View course details in MyPlan: SOC W 542 SOC W 543 Social Work Practice in Community Mental Health II (3) Focuses on social work practice with persons with severe mental illness. Emphasizes recovery, supported housing, supported employment, integrated treatment of co-occurring disorders. Covers practice with diverse populations: multicultural, developmentally disabled, geriatric, and gay/lesbian. Examines partnering with family members and working with Social Security. Complements SOC W 542, but may be taken free-standing. View course details in MyPlan: SOC W 543 SOC W 544 Clinical Social Work with Individuals I: Theory and Practice (3) First quarter of a two-quarter sequence on the theory and practice of clinical social work. Focuses on key concepts underlying direct practice. Topics include the therapeutic relationship, therapeutic listening, the ground rules, transference, counter transference, psychological defenses, resistance, phases of treatment, transference, countertransference, and vicarious trauma. View course details in MyPlan: SOC W 544 SOC W 545 Evidence-Based Practices for Clinical Social Work (3) Continues knowledge building around the theory and practice of clinical social work with adults. Focuses on deeper application of theories and evidence-based practices for clinical social work. Emphasizes cognitive-behavioral approaches within the context of a social ecological framework and a recovery orientation. View course details in MyPlan: SOC W 545 SOC W 546 Addressing Trauma and Recovery in Multi-Generational Advanced Practice (3) Multigenerational perspective on clinical interventions for various traumas: childhood sexual abuse, battering at any age, chemically dependent parents, elders with abusive adult children, and a range of losses throughout the lifespan. Recovery process explicated in terms of family strengths across the generations and through state-of-the art techniques for healing trauma. View course details in MyPlan: SOC W 546 SOC W 547 Multigenerational Integrative Seminar (1-3, max. 3) Designed to foster the integration of classroom learning and field education. Taken concurrently with advanced practicum, provides support for addressing challenges in professional settings, development of leadership skills, and preparing for future work in the field of multigenerational practice. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: SOC W 547 SOC W 548 Multigenerational Practice with Children, Families and Elders I (3) First quarter of a two-quarter sequence. Emphasizes preparation of practitioners with capacity to move flexibly among a variety of professional roles, including the provision of direct services, program planning, supervision, and community practice. Emphasizes contextual assessment from micro to macro levels. View course details in MyPlan: SOC W 548 SOC W 549 Multigenerational Practice with Children, Families and Elders I (3) Second quarter of a two-quarter sequence. Highlights program planning, supervision, and intervention across all levels of practice. View course details in MyPlan: SOC W 549 SOC W 550 Strategic Program Management and Change Leadership in Human Services (3) Examines tools and techniques required for leadership, program planning, implementation, and program change. Topics include strategic planning, logic modeling, agency-bound relations, work-group facilitation, and diversity-promoting management. Lecture, discussion, and exercises. Required for SSW administration concentrators; open to others with permission of instructor. View course details in MyPlan: SOC W 550 SOC W 551 Human Resource Management in the Human Services (3) Theories and techniques for 1) designing human services workplaces that support employees' performance and well-being, and 2) managing diverse, satisfied, and high-performing human service staffs. Topics include job quality analyses; job descriptions; employee interviewing, supervision and performance evaluation; models of negotiation and conflict resolution; and strategies for working with volunteers. View course details in MyPlan: SOC W 551 SOC W 552 Financial Management of Human Services Programs (3) Covers key financial management components of human service programs, including development and use of business plans, budgets, and financial statements. Helps students to demonstrate an understanding of financial management through budget preparation, financial statement analysis, new project cost projections, audits, and presentations using computer-based spreadsheets and presentation software. View course details in MyPlan: SOC W 552 SOC W 554 People, Place, Equity (3) Introduces empirical, theoretical, and applied knowledge on place as a key dimension of social work practice. Examines how people-place relationships differentially affect social opportunities such as health and wellness, employment, and housing. Provides intellectual and practical foundations for incorporating spatial analyses and collaborative place-making interventions in practice. View course details in MyPlan: SOC W 554 SOC W 555 Global Perspectives in Social Work Practice (3) Focuses on contemporary social issues of global importance: poverty; HIV/AIDS; population growth; gender inequality; and war, conflict, and displacement, with specific focus on these issues in the global south. Examines sociocultural, economic, and political processes that shape these issues, and entwined perspective of human rights and development. View course details in MyPlan: SOC W 555 SOC W 556 Family Healing: A Cross-Generational Approach (3) Lustbader Explores how to respond to multi-generational dynamics within the entire extended family and examines how bow difficulties and strengths are passed from one generation to another. Emphasizes cultural differences as well as issues pertaining to the impact of chemical dependency, mental illness, and disability across generations. View course details in MyPlan: SOC W 556 SOC W 557 Caring for Persons with Life-Limiting Illness: A Lifespan Approach (3) Focuses on multi-systemic social work practice with seriously ill people with a life-limiting condition. Examines how families care for a critically ill love one, and the differences that occur when the seriously ill person is a child, adolescent, a mid-aged adult, or an elder at the end of life. View course details in MyPlan: SOC W 557 SOC W 558 Gender, Gender Identity, and Sexuality (3) Anti-oppression focus on social work practice with lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, two-spirit, intersexed, and queer communities. Emphasizes cultural, social, and political context within which such practice occurs as well as an examination of the diversity and heterogeneity within these communities. Enhances students' micro and macro practice skills. View course details in MyPlan: SOC W 558 SOC W 559 Child Development (3) Provides students with a basic understanding of child development theory and research as well as specific knowledge about the development of children from infancy through adolescence. Emphasizes developmental approach to assessment and intervention with children and families. Particular emphasis paced on developmentally-based child welfare practice. View course details in MyPlan: SOC W 559 SOC W 560 Policy Processes, Institutions, and Influences (3) Focuses on the process and institutions through which social policies are developed, adopted, and implemented, with special attention to the implications of these processes for social justice. Develops practice skills in analyzing and influencing the policy process, including social problem definition, policy design, policy adaptation, and policy implementation. View course details in MyPlan: SOC W 560 SOC W 561 Concepts and Methods of Policy Analysis (3) Engages students in the concepts and applied practice of policy analysis and evaluation. Prepares students to address two generic policy questions: Given an identified problem, what policy or program should be selected? Given a particular policy or program, how do we evaluate effectiveness? Particular attention paid to social justice implications. View course details in MyPlan: SOC W 561 SOC W 562 Integrative Health/Mental Health Practice I (3) First quarter of a two-quarter sequence. Emphasizes preparation of practitioners with capacity to move flexibly among a variety of professional roles, including the provision of direct services, program planning, supervision, and community practice. Emphasizes contextual assessment from micro to macro levels. View course details in MyPlan: SOC W 562 SOC W 563 Integrative Health/Mental Health Practice II (3) Second quarter of a two-quarter sequence. Highlights program planning, supervision, and intervention across all levels of practice. View course details in MyPlan: SOC W 563 SOC W 565 Special Topics in Policy Practice (2-3) Examination of current substantive topics in policy practice. Content varies according to recent developments in the field and the interests of the instructor. View course details in MyPlan: SOC W 565 SOC W 569 Community-Centered Integrative Practice (3) This interactive student-centered course shifts the paradigm from the binary of macro vs micro and elevates the importance of relationships, connectivity, and allyship as acts of love, justice and resistance. Provides advanced skill building in assessing and maximizing community strengths, empowering practices and coalition building. View course details in MyPlan: SOC W 569 SOC W 570 Anti-racist Organizing for Social and Economic Change (3) Applies an institutional analysis of racism and white privilege to the strategies of community organizing by communities of color and indigenous peoples. Examines anti-racist organizational transformation, intersectionality of oppressions and privileges, white allies in anti-racist struggles, and the role of social workers in maintaining and combating institutional racism. View course details in MyPlan: SOC W 570 SOC W 571 Assessment of Mental Disorders (3) Provides basic knowledge and skills to assess mental disorders and improve critical thinking concerning assessment and diagnosis. Emphasizes the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM-V) for its system of symptom description and classification. Examines challenges of methodological implications of mental health assessment across race, gender, and ethnicity. View course details in MyPlan: SOC W 571 SOC W 572 Understanding Addiction, Pharmacology of Drugs, and Treatment Methods (3) Provides students with the knowledge and basic skills to recognize and understand the dynamics of chemical dependency in the lives of individuals, how to assess the presence of this disorder, and what the issues are in referring individuals to treatment for this disorder. View course details in MyPlan: SOC W 572 SOC W 573 Child Welfare and Permanency Planning (3) Focuses on social work interventions within the public child welfare system for children who have been abused and neglected. Includes practice models to ensure safety and permanency for children, federal and state mandates for permanency, cultural determinants, juvenile court dependency system, and research findings pertaining to permanency planning outcomes. View course details in MyPlan: SOC W 573 SOC W 574 Collaborative Community-Based Program Evaluation (3) Focuses on carrying out a formative and process evaluation of a community program in conjunction with program staff and clients. In addition to learning about program theory, measurement construction, study design, and data analysis, students develop consultative and presentation skills needed in utilization-focused evaluation. View course details in MyPlan: SOC W 574 SOC W 575 Domestic Violence Policy and Intervention (3, max. 6) Examines policy, theory, research, and intervention in field of intimate partner violence with emphasis on historical, cultural, and political contexts. Advanced study of structural contributors, policy parameters, and service delivery and cross-systems necessary to effective practice and leadership in the field locally, nationally, and globally. View course details in MyPlan: SOC W 575 SOC W 576 Contexts of Disability and Anti-Ableist Practice (3) Engages several areas of social work practice where knowledge about disability as an element of human diversity is needed. Examines disability's recent socio-political history, models of disability, disability rights and disability justice frameworks. Emphasizes how policies and their implications for practice affect peoples' daily lives and facilitates critical personal reflection. View course details in MyPlan: SOC W 576 SOC W 577 Maintaining Quality Social Work Practice: Ethics, Self-care, and Risk Management (2-3) Develops models for managing ethical and legal obligations to clients and others; managing risk; and maintaining ethical, responsible, and self-sustaining practice over a professional career. Examines competing ethical frameworks and material on essential values underlying ethical principles and the basis for ethical and legal regulation of practice. View course details in MyPlan: SOC W 577 SOC W 578 Evidence-Based Practice in Child Mental Health (3) Critically examines the program components and empirical research base of selected child mental health treatment program models designed to serve children and youth who present with severe emotional or behavioral disorders. Focuses on treatment models that reflect a "systems care philosophy" and which offer alternatives to traditional services. View course details in MyPlan: SOC W 578 SOC W 579 Faith Matters and Mental Health Practice: Conflict vs Integration (3) Examines the complex interrelation between faith matters and the practice of mental health professions, including approaches to definitions and assessments. View course details in MyPlan: SOC W 579 SOC W 580 Grant Writing and Fund Development (3) Prepares students to participate and provide leadership in grant writing and fundraising for community-based human services. Opportunity to practice skills required for developing a successful grant proposal and planning a successful fundraising program. Identify, cultivate, and develop sources of funding. Students assist in writing a complete grant proposal as final project. View course details in MyPlan: SOC W 580 SOC W 581 Historical Trauma and Healing (3) Provides specialized knowledge and skills for practice with communities experiencing historical trauma. Covers emerging theories of historical trauma, impact of historical trauma on families and communities, and culturally relevant interventions to promote healing. Builds upon the concepts of empowerment practice and indigenous models of social work. View course details in MyPlan: SOC W 581 SOC W 582 Interpersonal Violence and Trauma (3) Examines trauma theory, nature of interpersonal violence, psychodynamic concepts, cognitive behavioral theory, treatment of victims and offenders. Psychological trauma, abuse-specific psychotherapy, multidisciplinary and cognitive behavioral interventions with victims and offenders, effects of interpersonal violence, and counter-transference reactions. Includes lecture, discussion, case presentations, and presentations by community experts. View course details in MyPlan: SOC W 582 SOC W 583 Multicultural and Multigenerational Approaches to Healing Grief and Loss (3) Uses critical analysis to expand Western symptom-oriented grief and loss theory to include multicultural approaches, exploring new constructionist models of meaning-making, narrative biography, and cultural tradition through case studies. Assessment and intervention exercises include journaling, art, and ritual, allowing students to explore how their own grief affects practice. View course details in MyPlan: SOC W 583 SOC W 584 Multicultural Mental Health Practice (3) Advanced-practice course that builds upon foundation content in HUB, micro- and macro-practice/HBSE sequences, policy, diversity, and research. Grapples with complex mental health service design and delivery issues often informed by ethnocentric paradigms of knowledge and practice that have proven problematic in their general application in our increasingly diverse society. View course details in MyPlan: SOC W 584 SOC W 585 Advanced Group Work (3) Overview of group work and major theorist in the field. Examines differential applicability of methods across diverse populations. Emphasis on developing powers of observation of group process (as opposed to content) and on ability to intervene at the group level (as opposed to individual level). Prerequisite: Group work experience. View course details in MyPlan: SOC W 585 SOC W 586 Policy Advocacy (1-3, max. 3) Focuses on involvement in the policy-making process. Students design projects to influence public policy in local, state, and federal levels. Readings based on policy materials (proposed and final laws, regulations, budgets, advocacy documents). Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: SOC W 586 SOC W 587 Spirituality in Healthcare (2) Examination of the beliefs, values, meaning, and spirituality of health professionals for the well-being of their patients as well as for themselves. Offered: jointly with B H 518/FAMED 547; Sp. View course details in MyPlan: SOC W 587 SOC W 588 Social Work in Schools (3) Meets professional standards for Washington State Educational Staff Associate certification. Explores social work role within organizational and legal contexts of school systems. Addresses evidence-informed and multi-level social work practice relative to national, state and local trends in education. Examines school reform, truancy, homelessness, diversity, violence, student support and special education. View course details in MyPlan: SOC W 588 SOC W 589 Social Work Practice with Families (3) Philosophical, theoretical, and practice issues relevant to family-centered social work. Presents family systems theory and a generalized model of engagement, assessment, and treatment. Clinical applications with particular client populations and their presenting problems, such as couples, family crisis, child behavioral problems, and affective disorders. View course details in MyPlan: SOC W 589 SOC W 590 Social Work Supervision and Consultation (3) Provides knowledge and skills involved in the role of social worker as supervisor and team leader; supervision as a leadership function, power and authority, professional boundaries, staff recruitment, selection, performance evaluation, and addressing staff-related performance problems. View course details in MyPlan: SOC W 590 SOC W 591 Social Work Practice in Long-Term Care Across the Lifespan (3) Applies a multigenerational framework to introduce values, skills, and knowledge necessary for social work practice in long-term care settings across all age groups. Meets at a nearby continuing care community and provides regular opportunities to interact with persons requiring long-term care, their families, and formal caregivers. View course details in MyPlan: SOC W 591 SOC W 592 Social Work Practice with African-American Families (3) Introduces the study of African-American families from a historical, socio-cultural, and political perspective. Presents various theories for understanding African-American families and addresses an Afrocentric framework for intervention. View course details in MyPlan: SOC W 592 SOC W 593 Social Work Practice with Chemically Dependent Adults: Understanding Assessment, Evaluation, and Counseling (3) Teaches skills in four contexts: (1) incorporating questions concerning alcohol/drug use in an assessment of new clients, (2) conducting a comprehensive alcohol/drug assessment when a problem has been identified, (3) offering a brief motivational enhancement intervention to ambivalent clients, and (4) delivering cognitive-behavioral counseling focusing on overcoming dependence. View course details in MyPlan: SOC W 593 SOC W 594 Gender and Inequalities in the Global Context (3) Examines issues of gender, globalization, and inequality through a gender lens. Topics include global movements of capital (the global factory) and labor (migration, trafficking, etc.), disruption/creation of family forms and gender roles (domestic violence), social welfare, private/public polices, international frames (human rights), resistance, and response. View course details in MyPlan: SOC W 594 SOC W 595 Co-Occurring Addiction and Mental Health Disorders (3) Provides students with the knowledge and skills to understand the dynamics of co-occurring addiction and mental health disorders (COD) in the lives of individuals. Students learn how to assess the presence of COD and what the issues are in referring individuals to treatment or providing them treatment for COD. View course details in MyPlan: SOC W 595 SOC W 596 Special Topics in Social Work (1-10, max. 15) Introduces and explores a specific area of social work, with specific focus on emerging methods of practice. Content varies according to recent developments in the field and the interests of the instructor. View course details in MyPlan: SOC W 596 SOC W 597 Graduate Study Abroad in Social Work (1-15, max. 15) For graduate students in a UW study abroad program. Specific content varies and must be individually evaluated. View course details in MyPlan: SOC W 597 SOC W 598 Integrative Seminar (1-5, max. 12) Integrative, skill-based seminar that provides MSW students an opportunity to synthesize social work theory and practice through applied critical thinking, case presentations, skill-building, and professional development. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: SOC W 598 SOC W 599 Independent Study in Social Work (1-10, max. 10) Prerequisite: approval of a well-specified plan by an instructor and program director, including learning objectives and activities. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: SOC W 599 SOC W 600 Independent Study or Research (1-10, max. 10) An independent research project. Prerequisite: approval of a well-specified plan by an instructor and program director, including learning objectives and activities included on the SOC W 600 form. View course details in MyPlan: SOC W 600 SOC W 700 Master's Thesis (*-) View course details in MyPlan: SOC W 700 Office of the University Registrar registrar@uw.edu Modified: May 30, 2022