Home About Department Leadership Strategic Vision Inclusion, Diversity, Equity and Advocacy Visiting the Department Accreditation Contact Us Undergraduate Admissions Degree Programs Advising Careers and Internships Research Opportunities Student Organizations FAQs Graduate Admissions Programs Funding Student Organizations FAQs People Faculty Staff Research Research Areas Research Centers Undergraduate Research Opportunities Alumni Academy of Distinguished Alumni Outstanding Young Alumnus/Alumna External Advisory Committee Giving How to Hire Our Students News Department News Events Press Coverage People + Planet Magazine ☰ Home About Department Leadership Strategic Vision Inclusion, Diversity, Equity and Advocacy Visiting the Department Accreditation Contact Us Undergraduate Admissions Degree Programs Advising Careers and Internships Research Opportunities Student Organizations FAQs Graduate Admissions Programs Funding Student Organizations FAQs People Faculty Staff Research Research Areas Research Centers Undergraduate Research Opportunities Alumni Academy of Distinguished Alumni Outstanding Young Alumnus/Alumna External Advisory Committee Giving How to Hire Our Students News Department News Events Press Coverage People + Planet Magazine Welcome to Civil, Architectural and Environmental Engineering Learn More About the Department Pause Video Congrats to @rtbonnecaze, who has been named Dean of @CockrellSchool! https://t.co/BFP2QQ9Tl8 Follow @ut_caee Home David H. Nicastro Print Alumni Image #1: Image Caption Title #1: Texas State Capitol - Austin, Texas Image Caption #1: Nicastro is one of the most respected forensics engineers in the area of cladding and exterior envelope analysis in the country. And he not only investigates failures but designs remedies for problems - in fact, he and his company, Building Diagnostics, Inc. (BDI) try very hard to prevent failures. The firm prides itself on years of successfully analyzing and remedying construction failures: from historical structures to highrise commercial office towers, residential properties, hospitals, and institutional facilities. Alumni Image #2: Image Caption Title #2: The Durability Lab - Austin, Texas Image Caption #2: Nicastro stays informed of technological advancements and industry developments through his professional society committee activities and relationships with both contractors and manufacturers.. To pursue original research, the created The Durability Lab, a testing center at Pickle Research Center, to study the durability of building components, identifying factors caused in premature failure. Inducted September 29, 2017 David Nicastro is the founder and CEO of a building-failure analysis firm, Building Diagnostics, Inc. with branches in four cities who contributes to standards development with insight gained by analyzing building failures. His work has set the standard for other companies both nationally and internationally and is a leader in advancing the field of forensics engineering related to building systems and closures. Read more: David H. Nicastro Rashed Islam Print Alumni Image #1: Image Caption Title #1: US 290 and WIlliam Cannon Continuous Flow Intersection - Austin, Texas Image Caption #1: Islam developed the innovative concept of Continuous Flow Intersection for this once-notorious intersection which is the gateway to the Texas Hill Country. A Vice President at HDR, Inc., he is developing sustainable multimodal transportation infrastructure solutions to meet 21st century safety and mobility challenges. Alumni Image #2: Image Caption Title #2: Mueller Redevelopment - Austin, Texas Image Caption #2: Islam was Project Manager for this mbitious effort to redevelop Robert Mueller Municipal Airport into a mixed-use urban village in the heart of the city. He also led master planning efforts for several Central Texas cities and has provided professional traffic engineering and transportation planning services to many signature Austin development projects including Mueller, Domain, Hill Country Galleria, and Crestview Station TOD. Inducted September 29, 2017 Passionate about enhancing the transportation system, Rashed Islam has been instrumental in implementing innovative, congestion-relieving ideas in Central Texas, some of which are the first of their kind in the state. He is a Vice President at HDR Inc., a global architectural, engineering and consulting firm where he manages the company’s traffic engineering program in Texas, Oklahoma and Louisiana and oversees the firm’s Central Texas Business Operations. Read more: Rashed Islam L. Patrick Flynn, Jr. Print Alumni Image #1: Image Caption Title #1: UT Life Sciences LIbrary - Austin, Texas Image Caption #1: Committed to furthering the field of architectural engineering, Flynn founded Flynn Construction, Inc., a diversified general contracting firm with expertise in commercial building construction. The company has long list of completed projects on the UT campus, including the Cryo-Electron Microscope and X-Ray Crystallography Lab in the Norman Hackerman Building, and Computer Lab Renovation at the McCombs School of Business. Alumni Image #2: Image Caption Title #2: Cleanroom Construction Image Caption #2: As the semiconductor industry grew in Central Texas in the 1990’s, Flynn Construction emerged as the leader in advanced technology microelectronic labs and cleanroom construction. With the recent emergence of the life science industry in Central Texas, the company is again leading the field as the expert in highly complex technical projects in genetic research and life science. During his career, Flynn and his company have completed the design and construction of over 100 labs and cleanroom facilities. Inducted September 29, 2017 Patrick Flynn has been at the forefront of Austin’s development for more than three decades of rapid growth and expansion. Throughout his career as a general contractor and dedicated volunteer, he has helped build Austin. Committed to furthering the field of architectural engineering, he has built his own firm that has a first-rate reputation for excellence in safety, green building and ethics in business. Read more: L. Patrick Flynn, Jr. David T. Covarrubias Print Alumni Image #1: Image Caption Title #1: Pharr-Reynosa International Bridge - Pharr, Texas Image Caption #1: Covarrubias feels that his greatest professional accomplishment is the design and construction of this international bridge, a 3-mile long structure crossing the Rio Grande River in Pharr, Texas. One of the most important ports of entry for the U.S.-Mexico border, it connects two countries for commercial and passenger vehicles, serving nearly 200,000 vehicles a month. Alumni Image #2: Image Caption Title #2: World Trade International Bridge - Laredo, Texas Image Caption #2: Covarrubias was project manager and structural designer of the World Trade International Bridge, a commercial traffic only, 14-lane bridge that presented special design challenges. He coordinated the work of all of the design team members for this award winning project, including the roadway engineer, surveyor and hydraulic engineer. Inducted September 29, 2017 For nearly 30 years, David Covarrubias has excelled in the field of structural engineering, on both bridge and building projects. As CEO of Structural Engineering Associates (SEA), Inc., the leading bridge design firm in Texas, he is an outstanding and inventive engineer and business manager. Under his guidance, the firm has received national bridge design awards. Read more: David T. Covarrubias Page 1 of 5 Start Prev 1 2 3 4 5 Next End News CAEE Students Win 1st Place in Texas Water Conference Design Competition The University of Texas CAEE Student Team took home the first place trophy in the Texas Water Conference’s Student Design Competition this year. The team was composed of three environmental engineering grad students, Himanshu Sail, Shivani Katkar, and Jake Goodman, and mentored by Associate Professor Manish Kumar. Keep reading Dr. Todd Helwig wins the AISI Steel Bridge Task Force 2022 Richard S. Fountain Award Dr. Todd Helwig, professor and director of the Ferguson Structural Engineering Laboratory, has won the 2022 Richard S. Fountain Award for his innovation and leadership within the steel industry. Keep reading Dr. Mary Jo Kirisits earns the 2022 Maxine and Jack Zarrow Family K-16 Teaching Innovation Award Dr. Mary Jo Kirisits, environmental engineering professor for CAEE, has won the 2022 Maxine and Jack Zarrow Family K-16 Teaching Innovation Award. The award is reserved for faculty members in the Cockrell School of Engineering who has most impacted students in K-12 and beyond, encouraging enrollment into STEM education and empirically improving the educational experience across all grade levels. Keep reading Associate Chair Lance Manuel elected as fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science (AAAS) Lance Manuel, CAEE faculty member and associate chair, is one of the 6 new fellows from UT Austin that has been elected into the American Association for the Advancement of Science (AAAS), the world's largest general scientific society. This election honors members whose efforts on behalf of the advancement of science or its applications in service to society have distinguished them among their peers and colleagues. Dr. Manuel’s work focuses on wind turbines, and improving design criteria for complex inflow turbulence conditions, as well as long0term performance of deepwater offshore floating structures. Visit Dr. Manuel’s website for more information on his groundbreaking work. Top Ranked Programs Civil & Environmental Engineering Program Ranked in the Top 5 in U.S. News and World Report Rankings Learn More #5 Undergraduate Civil Engineering Program $60K+ Average Starting Salary of Our B.S. Graduates 92% Of Our Students Participate in Internships Spotlights Explore more at the CAEE Department 'Like a Wartime Effort': Texas Engineers Mobilize to Battle COVID-19 Learn more Department Chair Bob Gilbert Elected to National Academy of Engineering Learn more How to Hire Our Students Learn more Job Openings Learn more © The University of Texas at Austin | Privacy Policy | Web Accessibility ENGR Direct Canvas UT Direct Contact Us Faculty Directory Giving UT Directory Follow Texas CAEE