Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Student Affairs VPSA Office Strategic Direction Departments Departments Campus Recreation Chaplain and Religious Life Dean of Students Dr Bob Smith Health Center Fraternity and Sorority Life Hegi Family Career Development Center Office of the Student Experience Residence Life and Student Housing Social Change and Intercultural Engagement Student Affairs Administration Student Center and Activities Women and LGBT Center Stakeholders Stakeholders Employers Parents and Families Partners Resources Resources Student Event Guidelines Student Boulevard Guidelines Alcohol Approval Request Form Giving Newsstand Get Help ☰ Not Just a Place to Reside A place to live. Make the Hilltop home with Residence Life and Student Housing. SMU Student Affairs Live Here We do things differently on the Hilltop; housing is just one of them. We don’t do dorms or residence halls like most universities. We offer a one of a kind experience in our Residential Commons. Our Residential Commons creates a place that everyone can call home. From the moment they step onto our campus, students from across the country, around the globe and all walks of life become part of a close-knit community. Their connections with fellow students and faculty take root and grow into lifelong friendship. Make the Hilltop Home Get Involved Housing Options and Application Apply for Housing Residential Life at SMU Live Your Best Life The Residential Commons Learn More Leadership Opportunities Maximize Your Potential Upper Division Housing Stay Connected Apply Visit School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share