Skip navigation Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Brown Grad School About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Graduate School Admitted Students & Orientation Graduate School Skip to Navigation Admitted Students & Orientation Orientation - Fall 2022 (tentative dates) Orientation will be offered in person, with an option to attend required sessions remotely. Additional details will be forthcoming in June and July. International Orientation: August, 24-26, 2022 Student of Color Orientation: August 28-29, 2022 All-Student Orientation: August 30-31 Resource Fair: September 1, 2022 New: Guide for Admitted Online Students - 2022 New Student Email Communications See the email logs for communications to new students. The first several emails will generally be sent to the account you used when applying to Brown, but subsequent emails (after June 1 or January 1 depending on start date) will be sent to your Brown account. Also check out: Grad Assistant's Unofficial Guide to Brown for international students. Preparing for Your First Days in Providence. Take a Virtual Campus Tour 1) In your App Store: Download "Brown University Guides" by Guidebook. 2) Select and download the Brown University Graduate School Virtual Tour. 3) In the top left corner, click on the three lines and select the Campus Tour or Audio Tour. 4) Or view on a desktop here. What to do now 1) Activate your Brown account As soon as you receive instructions to activate, or: By June 1 for degree programs that start in September By May 1 for degree programs that start in June and July By January 1 for degree programs that start in January Check your personal email for instructions to activate your Brown account with your Brown ID. For issues, see the IT Knowledgebase or contact the Computing and Information Services IT Service Center. After activation, we recommend you: Add a mobile number to Banner. This allows you to reset your Brown password should you forget it, and also ensures you are notified should an emergency occur at Brown. To do this, log in to selfservice.brown.edu and click Personal Information. Log in to your email. You can simply visit gmail.com and log in with your Brown email address and the password you chose for Google services. Setup Two-Step Verification. The first time you log in to a Brown service like Banner, you will be prompted to set up a means of verification, such as a phone number. You can log into MyAccount after setup to add additional devices or phone numbers. Read more about two-step verification at brown.edu/go/twostep Note for international students: International numbers are acceptable and they should be entered with a + in front of the country code. If you don't plan to get a US cell phone once in the country, you can use the smartphone app over wifi or without a connection, print a sheet of bypass codes from MyAccount, or pick up a token from the IT Service Center. 2) Read about financing graduate school Read Financing Graduate School and check out other resources at the Office of Financial Aid. 3) Explore housing options Optional. Explore housing options: Graduate student housing applications through Auxiliary Housing open in March for the following fall. Please also consider watching our Incoming Student Housing Webinar hosted by the Graduate Student Council (Friday, May 6, 2022). 4) Learn more about the Graduate School Read more about Brown University Graduate School: Deans and staff, governance, where we are on social media, and the Graduate Student Council. What to do before you arrive on campus 1) Submit required health related documentation By July 1 for programs that start in the summer or fall. By January 2 for programs that start in the spring. Submit required health related documentation and learn more about your health services while at Brown. 2) Health insurance coverage By July 31, 2021 for programs that begin in the summer and fall By January 10, 2022 for programs that begin in the spring 2021 Learn about your health insurance coverage while at Brown. Waive coverage if you are currently enrolled in a plan with comparable coverage. 3) Submit a photo for your Brown Identification Card By August 1 (earlier if possible) for programs that start in the summer and fall By December 4 for programs that start in the spring Visit the Applicant and Student section on Banner to submit a photo for your Brown Identification Card. 4) Submit a final transcript By August 1 for programs that start in the summer and fall By December 15 for programs that start in the spring Official transcripts for your undergraduate degree, including degree conferral, must be submitted to the Graduate School: Via mail to: Graduate School Admissions Brown University Box 1867 Providence, RI 02912 Via email from your school's Registrar's Office through an electronic service to [email protected] 5) Pay your tuition bill By August 1 for the fall semester By January 1 for the spring semester The University Bursar is responsible for handling all billing questions. For information, deadlines, or forms related to tuition, billing, payment plans and refund policies, please visit the Bursar’s website. See especially the student account and billing information and E-Bill and Payment Guide. 6) Complete required course on Codes of Academic & Student Conduct By September 9 for programs that start in the summer and fall By January 25 for programs that start in the spring Complete the online course on Academic Code & Code of Student Conduct as soon as you receive the links in your Brown email. 7) Start the I-9 Process Start the I-9 Form process (if you will be receiving a stipend), which can be initiated in Workday. If needed, see instructions for completing the I-9. 8) See accommodations, parking & directions Checkout the pages on Accommodations, Parking, Maps & Directions before you arrive. What to do after you arrive on campus 1) Pick up your Brown ID Card As soon as possible after arrival on campus. Visit the Brown Card Office (check website for hours before going), Page-Robinson Hall, room 511. Learn about Brown ID Card services. 2) Meet requirements for international students Read additional information for international students. Deadline: within 3 days of arriving in Providence. Complete the OISSS New Student Registration Form online with a scan of your passport, immigration documents, and I-94 record. Deadline: approximately 10 days - two weeks after arrival. If you are receiving funding from Brown, apply for a Social Security card; provide your Social Security number to the Payroll office. 3) Set up direct deposit; complete federal and state withholding By September 1 Complete the forms online through the Workday. Tips: On the right hand side of the page, select "Workday Access". Once logged in, check your Workday inbox for required tasks to complete. Staff at the Brown Business Center can also help students review their records and assist with the completion of these forms. 4) Visit your program Meet the program leadership, administrators, and your advisor. Consult with your advisor prior to registering for courses. 5) Register for courses Fall 2021: September 3 at 4 pm EDT - September 5 at 11 am EDT, 2021 Spring 2022: January 25 at 4 pm - midnight EDT Register online for courses through CAB ([email protected]). Check out the Registrar's website for a calendar with important dates and deadlines and registration information. 6) Complete the I-9 Process By August 31 Complete the I-9 Form process (if you will be receiving a stipend), which can be initiated in Workday before arriving on campus and completed at the HR Service Center, Page-Robinson Hall, room 213. If needed, see instructions for completing the I-9. Also, see a list of acceptable documents. 7) Important Dates & Deadlines for Graduate Students Review the Important Dates & Deadlines for Graduate Students. Campus Resources Academic Library and Research Support The Brown University Library offers a wealth of information for graduate students, from traditional books and journals to original manuscripts and photographs, full-text databases, digital images, data sets, and streaming multimedia. Learn more about the locations, materials, and resources available to the Brown community. Also be sure to set up a meeting with your Subject Librarian. Professional Development Learn about the many offices and centers that can help you develop skills to succeed in both the academic and non-academic worlds after Brown. Teaching Whether you pursue a career inside or outside of higher education, developing the necessary skills to communicate your knowledge, ideas and research to others is critical. Learn about the offices and programs available to help develop teaching and communication skills. Writing Center Take advantage of this free academic service. The Center is staffed with experienced writers and teachers who offer support to graduate student of varying writing abilities. Service, Support & Logistics Bookstore Visit the Brown Bookstore for all your supplies and technology needs. The Bookstore offers a full line of electronic products, including iPads, software, peripherals, and related supplies. There also house an in-store authorized Apple and Dell Service, Repair, and Consultation Center, and a broad selection of collegiate and casual clothing. Computing & Information Services The Computing and Information Services IT Service Center offers technical support to members of the Brown community. Learn more about all aspects of network access, computer use, software, printing, and technology training on campus. Dining Services Read about flexible eating plans and the dining facilities on campus. Dining Services offers a variety of options related to students’ tastes, preferences, and hectic lifestyles. Mail Services Learn more about mail and package delivery on campus and how your mail should be addressed. Public Safety (DPS) Learn more about services offered to students (emergency phones, Safewalk, Campus Watch) and tips for staying safe on campus. Police and Public Safety Officers patrol the campus 24 hours a day, seven days a week in patrol vehicles, on bicycles, and on foot and the Communication Control Center can be accessed 24 hours a day. Student Accessibility (SAS) SAS coordinates services and accommodations for students who may need accommodations related to medical, physical and psychological concerns as well as assisting students with Attention Deficit Disorder, learning disabilities, sensory conditions and more. Transportation Learn how to get around on and off campus with a variety of services offered by the Transportation Office. Brown offers evening and onCall ride programs, weekday campus transport for students with disabilities, a daytime shuttle service, free bus service through RIPTA and more. Title IX Office Find out about assistance and services offered by the Title IX office and campus coordinators. Community & Living Athletics Find out more about the recreational offerings (club sports, fitness classes, personal training) and the many on-campus facilities available to all students through the recreation fee. Chaplains & Religious Life Brown’s Chaplains are a multi-faith team—Muslim, Jewish, Catholic, and Protestant—who are available to consult with all students. Reach out to them for questions or discussion that can be voiced and explored openly, whether these concerns originate within religious, philosophical, ethical, or spiritual practice. Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS) CAPS is a good resource to visit if you are experiencing difficulty coping, are faced with making difficult decisions, or managing other emotional or psychological problems. Records are confidential and there is no charge for their services. Family Resources In this section, read about family-related policies, campus and external resources for families and children. Student Activities Learn about the nearly 500 recognized student groups, including a number of graduate student specific organizations, which are supported by the Student Activities Office. Campus Events Calendar Check out the Campus Events Calendar. Beyond the Gates Beyond the Gates: An introduction to Rhode Island, Providence and beyond. Learn what’s nearby (banks, shopping, food), where else you can visit in the state, and how to get there. Home About the Graduate School Healthy Brown FAQs for Graduate Students Academics & Research Living & Resources Financing & Support Admitted Students & Orientation Application Information For Graduate Students For Faculty and Staff Brown University Brown University Graduate School Box 1867 Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-2600 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Resources Graduate School Handbook Academic Code CareerLAB Brown University Writing Center Sarah Doyle Center for Women and Gender Sheridan Center for Teaching & Learning Top Destinations Admission Inquiry Form Commencement Five-Year Ph.D. Support Open Graduate Education External Funding Application Process International Applicants