Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Skip to primary site search Google Tag Manager For Faculty and Staff For Alumni For Students For Potential Students Biomed A-Z People Directory Department of Ecology, Evolution and Organismal Biology Show/Hide Home About Us Anatomical Gift Program EEB Internal Intranet Facilities Herbarium Plant Environmental Center People Graduate Education Undergraduate Education News News Bianca Brown recently featured in the Brown Alumni Magazine. Wed Jun 30 Congratulations to recent EEOB graduate, Bianca Brown, who was recently named as one of seven "exceptional alumni." Click here to read the full article in the Brown Alumni Magazine. Read More EEB grad, Emily Hollenbeck working tirelessly to preserve the ecosystems she loves Wed May 12 Emily Hollenbeck, the new president of Costa Rica’s Monteverde Conservation League and a former IBES graduate affiliate, is working tirelessly to preserve the ecosystems she loves. Read full article here. Read More IBES Welcomes Jon Witman as an IBES Affiliate Fellow Mon Mar 15 The Institute at Brown for Environment and Society is excited to welcome Professor of Biology Jon Witman as an IBES Faculty Affiliate. Read full story here. Read More Gators and Guineafowl May Help Us Understand How Dinosaurs Moved Tue Feb 23 "We've uncovered surprising new information that will improve reconstructions of locomotion in extinct animals," said lead study author Armita Manafzadeh, EEB graduate student. Read full article here. Read More Bianca Brown Fri Jan 15 Every day, scientists learn more about the gut microbiome, the diverse group of bacteria that colonizes the digestive tract and helps maintain an organism’s overall health. Click here to read story. Read More Interview with Mark Bertness Fri Jan 15 Interview with Mark Bertness, author of A Brief Natural History of Civilization. Read story here. Read More EEB professor wins prestigious Fulbright award Mon Sep 21 Stephen Porder, Professor of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology and Assistant Provost for Sustainability, will study and teach in Paris next year as a De Tocqueville Distinguished Chair, to read full story, click here. Read More Professor Sohini Ramachandran appointed Data Science Initiative Interim Director Fri Aug 28 Read article here. Read More Burrowing crabs reshaping salt marshes, with climate change to blame Fri Aug 7 Given higher sea levels and softer soil in the wake of a shifting climate, Sesarma crabs, which have already decimated salt marshes in the Northeast, are now rising to prominence in southeastern marshes, a new study finds. Read full article here. Read More Different tracks, same dinosaurs: Brown researchers dig deeper into dinosaur movements Thu Jul 9 Using X-ray-based technology developed at Brown University, researchers uncover shared subsurface movement patterns between birds and dinosaurs, adding a new dimension of fossil track diversity. To read full, article click here. Read More Pages 1 2 3 4 next › last » Brown Biology and Medicine Search Brown Show/Hide Learn More About Warren Alpert Medical School Program in Biology Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty and Staff Potential Students Alumni The Department of Ecology, Evolution, and Organismal Biology The Department of Ecology, Evolution, and Organismal Biology Brown University Box G-W 80 Waterman Street Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-2100 Fax: 401-863-2166 Twitter Twitter Giving to Brown Division of Biology and Medicine Brown University Box G-A1, Providence, RI 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-3330 Maps / Contact Us © 2022 Brown University Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram LinkedIn SnapChat