Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index University Recreation Menu Search TTU University Recreation Why work for Texas Tech UREC? • Convenient On-Campus Locations • Flexible Work-Schedule • Career Development and Practical Leadership Opportunities • Fun Environment working with and for Students, Faculty and Staff • Voted "Best Place to Work on Campus", by the Raider's Choice Awards (Daily Toreador) from 2004-2021 Hannah Salas Membership Services Assistant Working at University Recreation has been a wonderful experience! They provide students with support and community. It is so much more than just a job to me. I have fostered friendships, developed as a leader, and obtained skills that will help me in the future. I could not have asked for a better place to work as a student! Spring Hiring Info Sessions • Sessions dates: Wed. Mar. 23rd (6:02pm), Thur. Mar. 24th (5:02pm) and Fri. Mar. 25th (4:02pm). All sessions are in Room 201 of the SRC. Come early, space is limited. We are looking for summer availability! Please only come if you are here this summer. • * Sessions are the mandatory 1st step in employment at TTU University Recreation • Learn about positions in Aquatics, Facilities, Fitness/Welllness, Intramurals, Marketing, Member Services, Outdoor Pursuits and Summer Camp. • Applications, Hiring Requirements and UREC Culture will be discussed Aquatics Certified Lifeguard Job Description: A Lifeguard employed with Texas Tech Rec Sports is responsible for the overall health, safety and welfare of those using the Recreation facilities and programs. Under direct supervision of the Coordinator of Aquatics, the Lifeguard acts as the primary safety steward for all recreation activities held in Aquatic Facilities at the Texas Tech Recreational Sports Complex. This Lifeguarding role is considered a forward-facing customer service position. Pay rate: Starting at $10.00/hour, increases with each certification Example Hours: We are open Sunday - Saturday. Typcially shifts are 3-5 hours long. All schedules are based on availability and need. Entry Level: Yes, contingent on current certifications or completion of certification course. More Info Swim Lesson Instructor Job Description: Responsible for teaching swim techniques to youth and adult swimmers. Pay rate: $10.00/hour Example Hours: We are open Sunday - Saturday. Typcially shifts are 3-5 hours long. All schedules are based on availability and need. Entry Level: Yes, contingent on current certifications or completion of certification course. Fill Out Interest Form Below!> Facilities Facility Assistant Job Description: Under general supervision, the Facility Assistant enforces policies, maintains the cleanliness of equipment, and demonstrates excellent customer service. Additionally, employees are always required to provide a welcoming, inclusive environment. Pay rate: $9.00/hour Example Hours: We are open Sunday - Saturday. Typcially shifts are 3-5 hours long. All schedules are based on availability and need. Entry Level: Yes. Fill Out Interest Form Below! Maintenance Technician Job Description: Under general supervision, the Facility Maintenance Worker is responsible for inspection, preventative maintenance and repair of cardiovascular and strength equipment in the Student Recreation Center. This position is critical to maintaining equipment in a presentable and functional state, thereby minimizing risk to users. They also assist Rec Sports Professional staff with any capital projects under other general maintenance duties. Pay rate: $9.50/hour Example Hours: Mornings and Afternoons. Typically shifts are 3-5 hours long Entry Level: Yes. With some basic knowledge of tools and handiwork. Fill out Interest Form Below! Outdoor Grounds Crew Job Desription: Under general supervision, the Field Maintenance Worker is responsible for inspection, preparation, and maintenance of outdoor sports facilities to include: West Rec Grass and Turf Fields, The Softball Complex, Rugby Field, Urbanovsky Park (including all play spaces and amphitheater). This position is critical to maintaining outdoor sports facilities in a presentable and functional state, thereby minimizing risk to users. They also assist Rec Sports with any other inside maintenance that is needed during times of heavy need or outside downtime. Pay rate: $9.50/hour Example Hours: Mornings and Afternoons. Typcially shifts are 2-4 hours long Entry Level: Yes. With some basic knowledge of tools and handiwork. Fill Out Interest Form Below! Fitness/Wellness Group Fitness Instructor Job Description: Job duties include, but are not limited to, motivating patrons individually or as a group while keeping them safe, participating in meetings and social events, educating patrons on proper movement technique, maintaining a high level of focus and control, and creating a friendly, energetic and welcoming environment. Instructors are well versed in a variety of different formats: step, kickboxing, strength, core, cardio water, yoga, Pilates, barre and cycle. Pay rate: Starting at $12.00/hr. NCCA Accredited Certification required for employment. Example Hours: 2 - 8 Hours per week. Entry Level: Yes. . More Info Link! Instructional Dance Instructor Job Description: As an Instructional Dance Instructor, you will be expected to perform a variety of duties that support Texas Tech Recreational Sports, and the FitWell Department. Job duties include, but are not limited to, motivating patrons individually or as a group while keeping them safe, participating in meetings and social events, educating patrons on proper movement technique, creating a friendly, energetic and welcoming environment. Instructional Dance can include: belly dance, ballet, hip hop choreography, salsa, bachata, country, etc. Pay rate: $12.00/hr Example Hours: Classes vary, 2-8 hours per week. Entry Level: Yes. No additonal certification requiredFill Out Interest Form Below! Personal Trainer Job Description: Responsibilities include but are not limited to conducting individual and group personal training sessions in a dynamic, safe, and constructive manner; maintain a high level of motivation and control in classes while exhibiting friendly, kind, energetic, outgoing and enthusiastic qualities. Pay rate: $12.00/hr, could increase with more certifications. Example Hours: Hours set by client load. Working weekends may be necessary. Entry Level: Yes. NCAA Accredited Certification required for employment.More Info Link! CrossFit Texas Tech Coach Job Description: Coming soon. Pay rate: $12.00/hr. NCCA Accredited Certification required for employment.. Example Hours: Classes are taught at 6:30am 4:30pm and 5:30pm Monday – Friday. Saturday class is at 10:00am. Working on weekends may be necessary. Entry Level: Yes. CrossFit Level One coaching certificate required for employment.Fill Out Interest Form Below! Massage Therapist Job Description: Coming soon. Pay rate: $22-26.00/hr Example Hours: Depends on interest and client load. Entry Level: No, this position goes through TTU HR. Fill Out Interest Form Below! Intramural Sports Intramural Program Assistant Job Description: Maintain and keep inventory of Intramural Team Sport equipment on a nightly and seasonal basis. Supervise and manage the West Rec Turf Complex. Implement risk management procedures, resolve conflict, provide world class service, and create open lines of communication between program participants, facility patrons, and Sport Progams Office Pay rate: $9.00/hr Example Hours: Coming soon. Entry Level: Yes.Fill Out Interest Form Below! Sport Officials Job Description: Officiate Team Sports for the IM Community. Enforce Game Rules and Sportsmanship policies while providing leadership in the exciting world of sports. No prior officiating experience is needed, but basic knowledge of the sport is required. All officiating equipment needed will be provided at the trainings. Pay rate: $9.50/game in most sports. Games typically last an hour. Example Hours: Sunday-Thursday Evenings. Between 2-4 games a night. Entry Level: Yes. With some basic knowledge of the sport and with attendance and completion of Rules/Mechanics Clinics. Sports include Basketball, Flag Football, Soccer, Softball, Volleyball. More Info Marketing Graphic Designer Job Description: Under general supervision, the Marketing Student Designer is responsible for creating marketing and promotion pieces for the department. This might include brochures, digital posters, flyers, mail pieces, logos, and other design pieces as needed. This position is critical to maintaining the brand presence of Recreational Sports to student, faculty, staff and the community. They also assist Rec Sports Professional staff with other duties as assigned. Pay rate: $9.50/hour Example Hours: Office Setting - Most shifts are 2-4 hours long. Entry Level: Yes. With a working knowledge of graphic design software. Fill out Interest Form Below! Marketing Staff: Social Media, Videographer, Photographer Job Description: These positions are critical to maintaining the brand presence of Recreational Sports to student, faculty, staff and the community. They also assist Rec Sports Professional staff with other duties as assigned. Pay rate: $9.50/hour Example Hours: Varies - Days, Nights, Weekends. Most shifts are 2-4 hours long. Entry Level: Yes. With a working knowledge of different video equipment and editing systems. Fill Out Interest Form Below! IT Graduate Assistant Job Description: Provide technical support and assistance to the Rec Sports department with the use of basic hardware and some software support and maintenance. This position will also specialize in hardware and software relevant to the department. Pay rate: Based on experience Example Hours: 20-25 hours a week. 4-5 hour shifts 5 days a week. Entry Level: Yes, with some previous experience required.Fill Out Interest Form Below! Member Services Member Services Assistant Job Description: Works with the member services coordinator to sell memberships and answer member questions. Pay rate: $9.50 Example Hours: Office Setting - Most shifts are 4 hours long Entry Level: YesFill Out Interest Form Below! Outdoor Pursuits OPC Staff Job Description: Main duties include working the climbing wall and rental shop. Other skills and positions such as Bike Mechanic and Trip Leader are internally promoted. Pay rate: Starting at $9.50, could increase with each new certification. Example Hours: 10-15 hours per week. Fill Out Interest Form Below! Summer Sports Camp Summer Camp Counselor Job Description: Help facilitate a sports camp for youth ages 7-14. Ready to able to participate with a high level of energy. Lead groups of 25-35 with safety, inclusion and fun as the core principles of this sports discovery camp. Pay rate: $10.00/hr Example Hours: Seasonal Work. Late May to Mid-July. Mon-Fri 7:30am-12:30pm Entry Level: Yes. Fill Out Interest Form Below! University Recreation Address Texas Tech University, Box 42151, Lubbock, TX 79409 Phone 806.742.3351 Email urec@ttu.edu Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock, Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversityMar 23, 2022 11:00 AM University Recreation Hours Programs University Recreation Back Aquatics Fitness and Wellness Sport Programs Outdoor Pursuits Summer Youth Programs Memberships Facility Information University Recreation Back Aquatic Facilities Facility Rental Information Student Rec Center West Rec Turf Field Complex Parking Parking During Basketball Games Rentals/Reservations Employment About Us University Recreation About Us Back Professional Staff University Recreation Mission and Vision Policies Giving and Scholarships Contact Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index