Skip to content Cornell University Search toggle menu close About Cornell About Cornell Overview University Facts Maps & Directions Mission & Vision Core Values Locations Ithaca New York City Related Links Diversity Indigenous Engagement Economic Impact Sustainability Global Cornell Leadership Admissions Overview Undergraduate Apply Admissions Dates and Deadlines Costs and Aid Graduate Admissions Fields of Study Financial Support Continuing Education & Summer Sessions Summer Sessions Winter Sessions Part-time Study Academics Academics Overview Fields of Study Colleges & Schools Departments Library Continuing Education Related Links Office of the Provost Academic Calendar Course Catalog Global Learning Learning Goals Research Overview Explore Cornell Research Extreme Talent. Radical Collaboration. Results That Matter. Related Links Vice President for Research and Innovation Centers & Institutes Technology Licensing (CTL) Graduate Research Undergraduate Research OVPRI Research Publications Public Engagement Overview Featured CCE helps Buffalo get school food truck rolling Related Links Cornell Cooperative Extension Engaged Cornell Hub Land Grant to New York State New York State Impact Life at Cornell Life at Cornell Overview Athletics & Recreation Arts & Culture Health & Safety Live, Work, Travel Student Life Related Links Find Your Networks Center for First-Year Students Clubs & Student Groups More Toggle navigation Apply Undergraduate Graduate Visit Give Students Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Search Search Overview Fields of Study Colleges & Schools Departments Library Continuing Education Academics Academics Challenge Yourself Teaching and learning, research and engagement: A Cornell education is rigorous—every aspect is geared to prepare you to improve the world. The Cornell Experience You'll interact closely with world-class faculty and a diverse student body, each a collaborator in learning, in research, and in service. They're here to help you push yourself and your ideas further than you could ever push them on your own. 4,000 Courses across 100 academic departments 80 Undergraduate majors and more than 120 minors 102 Graduate fields of study In the Classroom You'll actively explore the material before you, design a formal line of inquiry and follow it, work with various teams, and get your hands dirty. This may be the Ivy League, but we exist in and learn from the world around us. Students collect insects along the shores of Beebe Lake “Cornell’s extraordinary community of scholars is dedicated to solving the issues facing the world, educating the leaders of tomorrow and bettering people’s lives.” - Michael I. Kotlikoff, Provost College of Arts & Sciences Physics of Musical Sound Explores musical sound from a physics point of view. Course Details College of Agriculture and Life Sciences Magical Mushrooms, Mischievous Molds From the edible and the hallucinogenic to the pathogenic, explore the Mushroom's role in nature and in shaping past and present civilizations. Course Details Engineering Introductory Oceanography Study contemporary public issues regarding the health of the ocean, global warming and a sustainable future. Course Details Cornell Peter and Stephanie Nolan School of Hotel Administration Introduction to Wines Everything you wanted to know about wine - from the history of winemaking to viticultural regions, understanding the terms on a wine label, and connecting flavors to influencing production factors. Course Details Office of the Provost Browse Academic Calendar Browse Fields of Study Browse Schools & Colleges Browse Course Catalog Faculty Stories Astrophysicist Astrophysicist Economist Architect Lisa Kaltenegger Associate Professor of Astronomy and Director of the Carl Sagan Institute College of Arts and Sciences Probing distant worlds, Lisa Kaltenegger and fellow Cornell scientists uncover evidence that organisms could find ways to evolve on nearby exoplanets despite harsh environmental conditions, a critical step in the quest to find life beyond Earth. Ariel Ortiz-Bobea Assistant Professor of Applied Economics and Policy Charles H. Dyson School of Applied Economics and Management By modeling the effects of rapidly changing climate on U.S. agricultural production, economist Ariel Ortiz-Bobea’s research provides a blueprint for growers around the globe seeking to adapt their practices to rising temperatures. Jenny Sabin Arthur L. and Isabel B. Wiesenberger Professor in Architecture College of Architecture, Art and Planning Architectural designer Jenny Sabin stretches the boundaries of her field by collaborating with scientists, engineers and artists to develop structures that respond to human inhabitants and surrounding natural environments. In the Field Students involved in the POST Program volunteer at the Youth Farm Project in Ithaca Service with a Purpose Public service is a pillar of Cornell academics. It not only enriches the community—it enriches your understanding of how ideas work in the real world. David M. Einhorn Center for Community Engagement Public Engagement Cornell and Indian students in the field in Tamil Nadu, India Global Perspectives, Global Opportunities Our office is located in Ithaca, New York, but you can study just about anywhere your academic inquiries take you. Global Learning Education Abroad Mario Einaudi Center for International Studies Continue Exploring … Back to top Admissions Ithaca Visiting Undergraduate Research Helpful Links expand menu Academic Calendar Leadership Careers Events News Title IX Emergency Preparedness Visiting Cornell expand menu Campus Tours Maps & Directions Ithaca-NYC Travel Johnson Museum Botanic Gardens Ithaca Ithaca Today expand menu Live View Weather 79°F / 26°C Ithaca, New York University Privacy Web Accessibility Assistance Copyright Site Information Contact Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube