Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Student Leadership & Involvement Student Engagement Leadership Community Engagement Frosh Camp Fraternity & Sorority Life Student Organizations Contact Us Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Community Engagement Freshmen Frosh CampFrosh FusionFrosh Frenzy Sophomores SummitSuccess SeriesHelpful Links Professional Development Community SeriesSLPC ConferenceLeadership & Professional Competencies Dine & Discuss Up 'Til Dawn Weeks of Welcome CECP News Report a Concern about a Student Take Action Register for Recruitment Register for Frosh Camp Tiger Zone About Us Follow SLI Online InstagramFacebooktwitter Home Student Leadership & Involvement Community Engagement Blue Crew Blue Crew Student Tailgate The official student tailgate, "The Den," is back! The Den will be staged in the Tan lot adjacent to the Liberty Bowl - in front of the Coliseum and across from the Pipkin Building. To reserve a spot in The Den, visit Blue Crew's Tiger Zone page. Reservations are on a first-come, first-served basis. Your RSO will receive a confirmation email from Blue Crew regarding your reservation. The tailgating lot is accessible by taking Southern Avenue from campus to the stadium and turning right on Early Maxwell at Access 11 - the lot is on the right. Tailgates will open about 4 hours before the game for groups and students who have reserved spots. Have questions? You can email bluecrew@memphis.edu. You can also join the tailgate even if your group doesn't have a reserved parking spot; just walk on by The Den and join your Tiger Family! Student Tailgate Lot Reservation Form Student Shuttles Free shuttle bus service for all students, faculty, and staff. They will depart fromCentral Lot and Southern Lot 4 hours before kickoff until kickoff. They will be dropped off at the Cocoa Cola Bottling Co. on Hollywood. Shuttle services will continue after the game for 1 hour. Must have a valid UM ID. Shuttles will be open to the public for $5. Anything that is not allowed into the Liberty Bowl will not be allowed onto the shuttles. Cheer on our Tigers with Blue Crew! Blue Crew is a University of Memphis student group made up of the most passionate Tiger fans on campus. If you're loud, rowdy, and crazy about your Memphis Tigers, you need to GET INVOLVED WITH THE BLUE CREW! Blue Crew is open to students of all ages. Get Connected! Follow us on Twitter: @MemphisBlueCrew Check out pics and videos on Instagram: @MemphisBlueCrew Tag your posts with #bluecrew Get Involved! Blue Crew is divided into four teams: Traditions, Game Day Operations, Crew, and Tiger Spirit. Join Blue Crew on their TigerZone page. Tiger Pride Committee Oversees Tiger Pride initiatives, manages spirit swaps, and develops innovative ways to create more Tiger Pride on campus and at Tiger Games. Game Day Operations Committee Oversees game day operations for all athletic events. Manages student shuttles and game day parking. Manages the student tailgating area. Manages the Blue Wave and crowd surfer banner. Traditions Committee Directly oversees all tradition events planning, including Homecoming, Welcome Week, Winter Welcome Week. Oversees the Homecoming competitions. Celebrates and develops university of Memphis traditions. Crew Committee Serves as the volunteer core for Student Activities Council, promotes tiger spirit and celebrates the Memphis Tigers. Contact bluecrew@memphis.edu for more information on getting involved on one of our teams! Game Day Traditions Learn the Tiger Fight Song! <!-- intentionally non-empty iframe; for xsl --> Game Day Checklist <!-- intentionally non-empty iframe; for xsl --> Tiger Spellout <!-- intentionally non-empty iframe; for xsl --> Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 9/1/21 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.