Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Rudi E. Scheidt School of Music About Us Admissions Academics Ensembles Faculty Support Events Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Majors and Programs Composition Commercial Music Conducting Jazz Studies Music Business Music Education Music History Pedagogy Performance BrassKeyboardPercussionStringsVocal Arts Woodwinds Recording Technology Vocology Certificate Take Action Apply Now Alumni Support Us Scheidt Family Music Center Contact Us Follow the School of Music Online InstagramFacebooktwitterYoutubeLinkedInVimeo Home Music Academics Commerical Music Acquire the skills and build the network you need to create a successful career as a commercial artist. This is where your aspiration becomes action. Whether you seek a successful career as a solo artist, want to flex your writing chops as a sought-after songwriter, or any other aspect of commercial music performance, the path to successful music-making begins here. Best of all, our commercial music majors are empowered to tailor our flexible curriculum based on exactly what your commercial music career aspirations look like. Here, you will find tremendous opportunities to take what you’re learning in the classroom and apply it in real-life professional settings. Within our NASM-accredited program, you’ll have the opportunity to work and train alongside professors who have a history of sustained success and experience in the music industry. You’ll dive into a strong curriculum that places emphasis on practical and essential skills like production techniques, becoming comfortable in a recording studio, digital audio recording, songwriting, Avid Pro Tools software literacy, orchestral arranging, and improvisation all while building your professional portfolio. You will enjoy state-of-the-art music facilities, and work with a large and diverse community of faculty, students, and industry professionals. You’ll have the opportunity to attend numerous concerts, clinics, and master classes given by students, faculty, and visiting artists that will broaden your experience. Additionally, the University’s location allows limitless opportunities to plug into and perform in a vibrant music city. Admission + Audition Requirements Interested students should complete the University of Memphis application and apply to the School of Music. Commercial Music auditions are held to determine admission into School of Music programs and to award performance scholarships. Scholarships are available. What degrees do we offer? Bachelor of Music in Commercial Music Performance Outcomes: Commercial Music students will be prepared for a career in performance, songwriting, composing / arranging, recording / producing, music instruction, worship music, music publishing, artist management, event promotion, musical theater, or music journalism. Commercial Music students will receive real-world performing experience and exposure in local music venues that are part of the thriving Memphis music scene. Commercial Music students will develop core skills in performance, musicianship/theory, music history, digital production technology, and music business. Commercial Music students will utilize technology to enhance their level of musicianship, promote their work. Map out your college experience! View Bachelor of Music in Commercial Music Performance required courses for degree completion and a recommended course schedule. APPLY NOW > Student + Alumni Success David Parks (BM' 12) 2021 Grammy Award winner I Featured in MTV's “Making The Band” I Toured with Justin Beiber Alexis Dillard (BM in progress) NBC’s “The Voice.” finalist Benny Reiner (BM '12) Percussionist, Broadway's Hamilton I Grammy-award-winning and multi-platinum-selling drummer and percussionist Kaleb Ritchie (BM '15, MM '18) Adjunct Faculty Member, University of Memphis Rudi E. Scheidt School of Music Micah Lewis (MM ‘13) Musician 2nd Class, U.S. Navy I Drummer, U.S. Fleet Forces Band Faculty click here > Ensembles click here > Scholarships click here > Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 4/5/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.