COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Dr. Rodney Miller Ph.D. Section Menu College of Fine Arts Dean's Office Dr. Rodney Miller Ph.D. Dean College of Fine Arts Campus Box 151 (316) 978-3389 rodney.miller@wichita.edu 116, Wiedemann Hall Main Campus High-Resolution Photo Overview Dr. Rodney Miller is in his fifteenth year as Dean of the College of Fine Arts at Wichita State University. He came to WSU from the University of Nebraska at Kearney, where he served as Dean of the College of Fine Arts & Humanities for six years. Prior to that, he was the Director of Vocal Studies at New York University. Dr. Miller received his Ph.D. from Illinois State University, an MM from Indiana University and a BM from West Texas State University. His scholarly and creative endeavors run the gamut from professional operatic performances to quantitative research analysis. He is a veteran of the professional operatic stage, and his career has taken him throughout the U.S., Europe, and Asia. He has been on national broadcasts both in the United States and in Europe, and has recorded for labels on both continents. His specific scholarly interests include 20th Century American vocal music, both popular and classical, as well as administrative and sociological theory as it applies to American Higher Education. Miller has long been an advocate of arts education. In this capacity he was integral in the creation and served as the founding president of the Nebraska Alliance for Arts Education. In this capacity he also served as a member of the National Alliance for Arts Education through the education wing of the Kennedy Center and Americans for the Arts. He has also collaborated on studies charting the economic, cultural and quality of life impact of the non-profit arts, and he has written extensively on the importance of the arts to the health and wealth of our society. He and his wife, Pina Mozzani, also a professional opera singer and vocal teacher, have two children following in their footsteps. Their daughter, Rachael, is a professional actress in Los Angeles, and their son, Matthew, is a lighting and designer in Chicago who has worked extensively in Europe as well as North and South America. 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©