Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Division of Student Affairs Student Affairs Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links Graduate Student Life Menu Main Nav Graduate Student Life Contact Back Back Close About Overview Murray House Meet Our Staff Programs and Services Overview Doctoral Writing Group Graduate Leadership Program Grads Give Back GPS Grad Student Retreat New Graduate and Professional Student Orientation Grad Student Association Overview Senate and Student Organizations Campus Life Contact Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Division of Student Affairs Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Senate and Student Organizations Home Grad Student Association Senate and Student Organizations Grad Student Association Senate and Student Organizations Graduate Student Senate and Student Organizations The chief political organization for graduate students at Boston College is the Graduate Student Senate (GSS). Our Senate comprises representatives from (a) the Carroll Graduate School of Management, the Connell Graduate School of Nursing, the Lynch Graduate School of Education and Human Development, the Graduate School of the Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences, the School of Social Work, and the School of Theology & Ministry, and from (b) the GSA’s three affinity groups: the Graduate Students of Color Association; the Graduate Pride Alliance; and the Graduate International Students Association. Together, the Senate cooperates on projects relevant to broad sections of the graduate student community, in addition to advocating for initiatives put forward by, or on behalf of, the graduate student body. Every graduate student enrolled at BC is invited to attend a senate meeting. Email gsa@bc.edu to learn more. If you have a question, concern, or suggestion for the Graduate Student Senate please fill out the below form. Graduate Student Senate Public Comments Form Executive Board Senators Graduate Student Organizations Archives Kelby Bibler, Executive Director He/Him/His Kelby is a second-year Master’s student in Philosophy at the Graduate School of the Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences. He completed his undergraduate work at Belmont University where he studied Political Science and Philosophy. At BC, Kelby has worked as a Graduate Assistant in the Department of Romance Languages and Literature and as a Teaching Assistant in the Department of Psychology and Neuroscience. As Director of the Graduate Student Association, Kelby hopes to leverage his passion for higher education and skills in community development to improve BC and the greater Boston area. Outside work and school, Kelby enjoys reading walks, playing the piano, and exploring the outdoors with his partner, Ella. Daisy Mitchell, Director of Programming She/Her/Hers Daisy is a 1st year masters student at the Lynch School of Education working towards a M.A. in Mental Health Counseling & received her B.A. in Psychology & Public Health at Goucher College in Maryland. Prior to her graduate study, she completed an Americorps year at a non profit in Baltimore, worked at NYU on a research project looking into universal PreK in NYC schools, and engaged in community organizing centered around immigrant justice & decarceration in New York. Daisy is excited to learn from & join the GSA & the BC community! Ali Kelley, Director of Finance She/her/hers Ali Kelley is a Master's student in the Woods College of Advancing Studies, pursuing a Master's in Leadership and Administration with a specialization in Human Resource Management. Prior to her graduate program, she received a BS in Business Administration with a concentration in Management from Ithaca College. During this time she gained a passion for creating accessible resources for all students, and worked to create an equitable funding process for their student body. Ali hopes to continue this work at BC in the Graduate Student Association this year as the Director of Finance. Graduate Arts and Sciences Association (GASA) Stephen Surh Biography coming! Graduate Education Association (GEA) Jolene McGlynn She/Her/Hers Jolene is a second year masters student in the Lynch School of Education obtaining her degree in Mental Health Counseling with a Certificate in Child & Family Mental Health. She graduated with a B.S. in Kinesiology and a B.S. in Psychology from the University of Massachusetts Amherst. She is the president of the GEA for the 2020-2021 school year and served on the social committee for the previous year. Jolene was born and raised right outside of Boston and grew up attending BC football games. She has a passion for helping families, children, adolescents and those suffering from addiction. Graduate Management Association (GMA) Frank McCarthy He/Him/His Frank McCarthy is a full-time MBA student within the graduate Carroll School of Management. Prior to starting hims MBA, Frank served in the U.S. Army for four years as an active duty Infantry Officer. Frank is passionate about public service and he looks forward to working with the Senate to better our collegiate community. The Student Collective (SSW) Eva Butten She/her/hers Eva is a full-time second year clinical MSW student with a specialized field of practice in Latinx Communities. She is also part of the Latinx Leadership Initiative, a program that equips social work leaders to serve Latinx communities and provide sustainable services. Eva is also a part of the governing body, sher serves as the executive coordinator for the BCSSW student collective, a student representative organization that enhances the students' experience She is also a co-leader in the Equity Justice and Inclusion Student Lead group, and the Empowered to Empower group serving as a liaison between students and deans. Prior to attending BC for the MSW, she attended Suffolk University where she majored in public policy and legal studies. Currently, she is interning at Youth Connect, an advocacy and intervention program that partners with the Boston Police Department to help high-risk youth and families achieve their goals and live healthier lives. Graduate Student of Color Association (GSCA) Charles Codner He/His/Him Charles Codner is a second year MSW student with a concentration in Health at the Boston College School of Social Work. Charles is originally from Jamaica where he obtained a teaching diploma, then a Bachelor Degree in psychology at Assumption University. Charles has worked in the mental health field for over five years, and currently employed as a Director for a communiy congregate care facility. Charles enjoys going to the beach, hiking, cooking and traveling. Graduate Pride Alliance (GPA) Jason L. Madden He/His/Him Jason L. Madden (Jai) is a second year student in the Boston College School of Social Work part-time masters program. He is currently employed full-time at the Department of Children and Families as an Ongoing Social Worker; he sits on several committees including diversity leadership training and trauma informed leadership team. Jai is from Jamaica and while living there he worked as a youth advocate with whom many of his clients were LGBTQ+ youths. The last ten years of his life he has dedicated to working with individuals in the health sector, educational setting, human services and mental health clinics focusing on; women's issues, HIV/AIDS, LGBTQ, behavioral health, mental health and children and families. Jai has been working to promote more social justice through the works he cosed to indulge in. He has extensive training in treating childhood trauma and post-traumatic Stress Disorder which includes TF-CBT and ARC, both evidence-based treatment modalities. Jai loves all things queer from pride celebrations to Sunday drag brunch. He also enjoys going on hikes and being in nature. Graduate International Student Association (GISA) Ilse Bellido Richards She/Her She is a secon-year MA student in the International Higher Education program. Currently works in two graduate assistantships, one for OISS, Office of International Students and another for Learning to Learn - Trio office. She was born and raised in Columbia, moved to the United States about 10 years ago. Passionate about traveling, art and education. The Student Forum (STM) Kelly Sankowski She/Her/Hers Kelly Sankowski is serving as the Representative for Events and Funding for the School of Theology and Ministry's Student Forum this year. She is originally from the Washington D.C. area where she worked as a reporter for the Catholic Standard newspaper prior to moving to Boston. She received her undergraduate degree in English and Religious Studies from the University of Virginia and has a deep love for the Blue Ridge Mountains, vineyards and ice cream. Graduate Nurses Association Violeta Epstein She/Her/Hers Violeta is a direct masters entry student on the adult gerontolgy track. She was born in Buenos Aires Argentina but is a lifelong New Yorker. Previous to coming to BC, Violeta taught Spanish and coordinated community service for an elementary school in NYC. She holds a BA from the University of Pennsylvania and an MA from NYU. Violeta enjoys film, travel, and hnging out with her five children and husband. Student Veterans Association Matthew Ebbertt He/Him/His Matthew Ebbertt is a dual Master of Business Administration and Master of Science in Finance candidate in the class of 2021. He is an experienced, diverse, and globally engaged leader with over 17 years of service in the U.S. Army, both enlisted and as a commissioned officer. The Graduate Pride Alliance (GPA) The Graduate Pride Alliance The Graduate Pride Alliance (GPA) provides community, support, and fellowship for LGBTQ students and their allies. The Graduate Pride Alliance organizes social, educational, and advocacy events for the Boston College students. GPA sponsored Boston College’s inaugural Lavender Graduation in 2013 and the University’s first march Boston Pride Parade in partnership with the Rainbow Alliance. The GPA launched Boston College’s Safe Zone Program in 2014. You can learn more about the GPA through our Constitution. Connect with Us Like us on Facebook and sign up for our listserv. President: Jason Madden Treasurer: Benjamin Bavly Resources for LGBTQ Students at BC The Office of the Dean of Students offers a website listing resources for students who identify as LGBTQ or who have questions arising from their sexual or gender identity. These resources are available in a printable format here. You can also obtain a printed copy of this resource brochure at the Murray Graduate Student Center. Graduate Students of Color Association (GSCA) Graduate Students of Color Association Leadership Team Chair: Charles Codner Treasurer: Lisa Chen Mission Statement The framework for Graduate Students of Color Association celebrates, supports, and engages the students at Boston College who come from various racial and ethnic minority backgrounds. We’ve summarized what we’re about in these three pillars: Identity, Advocacy, and Community. But, remember, this is just a framework. In order to fill it out and to be the best organization we can be, we need you! Get involved! Identity At BC, it’s not just our minds that are admitted here—no matter how brilliant ours might be. Our bodies are admitted here as well, bodies that have histories and identities, stories and treasures—embodied legacies of pain and triumph. Here at GSCA, we are convinced that a truly educational experience cannot be exclusive of or diminutive of our racial and ethnic self-understandings. That’s why we hope this group is a must-join for individuals who come to BC from backgrounds representing racial and ethnic identities that have been the occasions of societal short-sightedness, misunderstanding, and even hatred: African-Americans, Native Americans, Asian Americans, and Hispanic Americans. Moreover, enlivened by this core identity, GSCA hopes that all BC graduate students will join. After all, we are—all of us, really—persons of color. Bring yours. Advocacy Our campus—like our world—is imperfect, and both continue to pose challenges based in race and ethnicity (to say nothing about the challenges based in gender, sexual orientation, ability, body type, and others that GSCA members confront as well). At GSCA, we contemplate justice; we advocate for policies and programs that bring awareness to issues that are happening in our communities of accountability; and we ask questions of as well as partner with campus organizations in order to make our world better. That is, after all, why we came to grad school. Be about it. Community We celebrate color! It means that we celebrate the traditions, insights, and—of course—recipes and art forms that have come to us as grateful descendants. It means that we celebrate each other; encourage each other; and try our best to help make the campus experience one that is as diverse and as inclusive as our Jesuit mission inspires us to be. So let’s eat together; let’s share open-mic nights together; let’s go to sporting events together; and let’s network together. Come around! Membership Membership is open to ALL graduates students at Boston College. Students of color and those from underrepresented backgrounds are especially encouraged to join. All members must abide by the constitution. To learn more visit our Facebook page! Graduate International Student Association (GISA) Graduate International Student Association GISA is a student organization run by graduate international students at Boston College. Our mission is to provide educational, social and cultural opportunities to the graduate international student community at Boston College. In addition, we seek to promote and enhance positive interactions among American and International graduate students. We therefore organize and sponsor events that are open to and encourage all graduate students to take a break from their busy academic lives and have some fun while learning about each other's cultural heritages and our diverse world community. Stay up-to-date with GISA Facebook twitter Join our listserv: Send an email to sympa@listserv.bc.edu from the address you want to subscribe to the list. Sympa is not a person but a mailing list management robot. In the subject line of your message, type in: subscribe gisa-bc FirstName LastName (replacing FirstName LastName with your information). Past Event Highlights GISA Afternoon Tea Group Dinner and a Movie Blue Man Group Outing GISA Spring Party Wine Tasting Outing Opera Evening Resume & Cover Letter Writing Workshop Diwali Celebration GISA Mini-Cultural Nights (Featuring Boliva, Bulgaria, China, India, Pakistan, Rwanda, Turkey, etc.) "A Quick Look at Ramadan & Eid around the Muslim World" Mini-Cultural Night Graduate Student Group Tickets to the BC Football Game (co-sponsored with the GSA) GISA/GSA Holiday Party IntEnt About Us IntEnt is a Boston College graduate student organization providing mentorship, experiential learning, and collaborative resources to BC graduate entrepreneurs. Our mission is to develop, train, support, and inspire a community of entrepreneurial and intrapreneurial leaders grounded by Jesuit principles and dedicated to putting good into the world. IntEnt was founded in 2017 and has over 500 registered members across all Boston College schools. We are an approved affinity club of the Graduate Student Association at Boston College. What We Do InTent offers workshops and programs that enable students to develop applicable business skills, gain educational mentorship, and attain access to networking resources beyond the BC curriculum. These offerings provide excellent occasions for students to apply their education, make an impact, and influence a growing Boston ecosystem. Workshops IntEnt provides graduate students several skill building workshops throughout the year to expand their abilities in different areas of innovation, entrepreneurship, intrapreneurship, and leadership. All workshops are easily accessible online and recorded for on-demand access. Additionally, group-based workshops allow participants to network with other graduate students and apply skills learned. Apprenticeship The IntEnt Apprenticeship Program is a voluntary opportunity that pairs Boston College graduate students with local Boston organizations. Participants will have the ability to develop applicable business skills and gain educational mentorship, and are provided access to networking resources beyond the BC curriculum. Incubator The IntEnt Incubator Program provides Boston College graduate students the opportunity to build and hone a business idea from scratch. IntEnt will offer participants mentorship from subject matter experts and seasoned entrepreneurs throughout their program duration. Accelerator The IntEnt Accelerator Program provides Boston College graduate students and alumni the opportunity to learn how to grow and scale business operations in order for future investor funding. IntEnt will offer participants mentorship from subject matter experts and seasoned entrepreneurs throughout the program duration. IntEnt will also connect participants with potential investors for future seed funding. Club Leadership Ed Lallier, Co-Founder & Chairman Zack Robbins, President Click here to register your membership now or follow us on Facebook. Graduate Student Veteran Association President: Matt Ebbertt Treasurer: William Foshage Archives Senate Meeting Notes 2019-20 September Senate Meeting Notes (September 27, 2019) October Senate Meeting Notes (October 25, 2019) November Senate Meeting Notes (November 21, 2019) February Senate Meeting Notes (February 27, 2020) March Senate Meeting Notes (March 2020) April Senate Meeting Notes (April 30, 2019) September Senate Meeting Notes (September 25, 2020) October Senate Meeting Notes (October 16, 2020) November Senate Meeting Notes (November 20, 2020) 2018-19 September Senate Meeting Notes (September 20, 2018) October Senate Meeting Notes (October 18, 2018) November Senate Meeting Notes (November 15, 2018) February Senate Meeting Notes (February 5, 2019) March Senate Meeting Notes (March 12, 2019) April Senate Meeting Notes (April 9, 2019) 2017-18 September Senate Meeting Notes (September 15, 2017) October Senate Meeting Notes (October 13, 2017) November Senate Meeting Notes (November 10, 2017) February Senate Meeting Notes (February 2,2018) March Senate Meeting Notes (March 16, 2018) April Senate Meeting Notes (April 6, 2018) 2016-17 September Senate Meeting Notes (September 21, 2016) October Senate Meeting Notes (October 19, 2016) November Senate Meeting Notes (November 16, 2016) February Senate Meeting Notes (February 2, 2017) March Senate Meeting Notes (March 3, 2017) April Senate Meeting Notes (April 6, 2017) Back To Top Back To Top Graduate Student Life The John Courtney Murray, S.J. House 292 Hammond Street Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 617-552-1855 gsc@bc.edu About Programs Grad Student Association Campus Life Division of Student Affairs Division of Student Affairs BAIC BC Bands Business Service Center Career Center Counseling Services Graduate Student Life Health Promotion Health Services Residential Life Robsham Theater Student Conduct Student Involvement Student Outreach & Support Women’s Center Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College