By continuing to use this site, you agree to the use of cookies in accordance with our privacy policy. Dismiss Stay Safe The official source of public health information for Syracuse University. Skip to Content Open menu About Admissions Academics Life Athletics More Search the University Open search Popular searches Close menu Home About Toggle dropdown Leadership Vision & Mission Consumer Information Facts & Figures Plan Your Visit Campus Map History News Partnerships Work at Syracuse Social Media Bookstore Brand Help & Contacts Admissions Toggle dropdown Undergraduate Graduate Online Part-Time Cost & Aid Request Information Visit & Tour Apply Academics Toggle dropdown Schools & Colleges Undergraduate Majors & Minors Graduate Degrees Online Programs Syracuse University Global Study Abroad Opportunities & Support Calendars Departments Research Centers & Institutes Libraries, Collections & Galleries Academic Administration Life Toggle dropdown Accessibility & Diversity Campus Highlights Events Calendar Services & Support Meals & Dining Housing Groups & Activities Recreation & Facilities For Students For Veterans & Military For Faculty & Staff For Parents & Families A-Z Index Sitemap Login Athletics Men’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Football Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Track and Field Women’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Field Hockey Ice Hockey Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Softball Tennis Track and Field Volleyball Athletics Dept. Toggle dropdown Facilities Staff Directory Academic Honors Community Service Spirit Program Varsity Club Sports Medicine Championships Fan Zone Toggle dropdown Dome Schedule Seating Information Orange All Access Otto’s Kids Club Game Photos Promotions Orange Club Schedules News Alumni About Toggle dropdown Notable Alumni Alumni Association Awards News Events and Clubs Toggle dropdown Orange Central Northeast Midwest South West World/Affinity Regions Toggle dropdown Atlanta Boston Chicago Los Angeles Middle East New York San Francisco Washington, DC Services Toggle dropdown Career Network Generation Orange Directory Profile Class Notes Giving Contact Contact Visit Apply Coronavirus Updates Forever Orange Home Admissions Cost & Aid Types of Aid Special Programs More from this Section Summer Aid Graduate Student Aid Student Employment Loans Grants Scholarships Special Aid Programs for Undergraduates Syracuse University and the Office of Financial Aid and Scholarship Programs administers a variety of undergraduate specialized programs. These programs may include partnerships with outside organizations, along with federal and state opportunity programs for underrepresented and/or first generation students. Eligibility is determined by the Office of Admissions at the time of application review. Apply for aid Current Programs Higher Education Opportunity Program (HEOP) High School for Leadership and Public Service (HSLAPS) KIPP Liberty Partnerships Program On Point for College Posse Leadership Scholarship Raise.me Student Support Services Program (SSSP) Syracuse Challenge Syracuse University Co-Generation Scholarship Today's Students, Tomorrow's Teachers (TSTT) Higher Education Opportunity Program (HEOP) The Arthur O. Eve Higher Education Opportunity Program (HEOP) was established by the New York State Legislature in 1969 to provide access to independent colleges and universities for economically and educationally disadvantaged students from New York State. Economic eligibility is based on state-mandated low-income guidelines. Academic criteria are determined by each HEOP institution. A student enrolled in HEOP does not meet the institution’s traditional admissions profile, but is a top performer from the high schools and academies that they attend. HEOP students must demonstrate that they are able to successfully compete at whatever institution they attend. There are no compromises in the admissions process. HEOP is an avenue through which any student meeting both academic and economic guidelines can obtain a bachelor’s degree. High School for Leadership and Public Service (HSLAPS) Syracuse University’s Maxwell School of Citizenship and Public Affairs, in collaboration with the New York City Board of Education, developed HSLAPS for high school students. The goal is to develop a generation of leaders from urban areas by providing a rigorous academic curriculum and opportunities for leadership and public service. KIPP Syracuse University partners with KIPP to offer a financial aid award package striving to meet the full need of students. The KIPP Foundation has public charter schools that operate in accordance with a license agreement with the Foundation. Students are from low-income families and are eligible for federal free or reduced-price meal program. KIPP’s goal is to support students as they navigate high school, prepare for college entry, and their college journey. KIPP teachers and leaders help students achieve their dreams by preparing them for a life of choices: which college to attend, which career path to pursue, and how to use their talents to contribute to their communities and improve the world. Liberty Partnerships Program The Liberty Partnerships Program (LPP) is a state-funded program designed to offer strong school and community partnerships that deliver research-based programming to students enrolled in public and non-public schools that are identified as having a high risk of students dropping out of school. The program’s mission ensures that these students “will graduate from high school and be prepared to enter post-secondary education or the workforce.” In conjunction with the Liberty Partnerships Program, the Office of Financial Aid and Scholarship Programs will award a Liberty Partnerships Scholarship (combined with Syracuse University Merit Scholarship and need-based grant, if applicable) equal to at least one half of tuition to qualified undergraduate students who have participated in the Liberty Partnerships Program. The scholarship is renewable for four years according to standard scholarship renewal policies at Syracuse University. To apply for this scholarship, students must submit a statement of participation that is endorsed by the coordinator of their Liberty Scholarships Program. This statement must be submitted to Syracuse University following the directions on the form, at the time of application to the University. The deadline for submission is February 1. On Point for College Syracuse University has entered into a collaborative agreement with the On Point for College program to enhance community outreach and college opportunity programs for students in the City of Syracuse, Utica, New York City Partnerships-Goddard Riverside Settlement, and New Settlement. On Point for College provides a wide range of access and support services for prospective college students at 15 community centers in the inner city of Syracuse. Students are given guidance on the college selection process, applying for financial aid and information on special programs. Syracuse University provides a financial aid package that meets full need to admitted, active On Point for College Students with a minimum of full tuition being covered by a combination of Federal Pell Grant, NYS Tuition Assistance Program grant, and Syracuse University scholarship and grants. The scholarship is renewable for four years according to standard scholarship renewal policies at Syracuse University. To apply for this scholarship, students must submit an On Point for College Program statement of participation form, available at the student’s local On Point program site. The student’s On Point advisor can provide further details. The statement must be endorsed by the Syracuse On Point Program Director. This statement must be submitted to the Office of Financial Aid and Scholarship Programs no later than April 15. Posse Leadership Scholarship Syracuse University partners with the POSSE Foundation to admit high school students with extraordinary academic and leadership potential from Miami. Selected students receive a full-tuition Syracuse University Posse Leadership Scholarship. Students are identified through the POSSE Foundation and the Syracuse University Admissions Office. RaiseMe We're partnering with RaiseMe to offer micro-scholarships to U.S. citizens that recognize your achievements as you progress through high school, allowing you to start earning money for college before you even apply to college. You can earn up to $10,000 per year, and the amount you earn in RaiseMe from Syracuse University will be your guaranteed minimum amount of institutional aid - you may receive even more in your scholarship or financial aid package once we review your completed applications for admission and financial aid. Student Support Services Program (SSSP) Through a grant competition, funds are awarded by the U.S. Department of Education (a Federal Trio Program) to institutions of higher education to provide opportunities for academic development, assist students with basic college requirements, and to motivate students toward the successful completion of their postsecondary education. Students must meet Syracuse University standard admission requirements, and either be first generation college students, or meet federal income guidelines. Those admitted into the program will attend the Syracuse University SummerStart , as this is a mandatory requirement of SSSP. Expenses for the SummerStart program fee is paid by the University and Support Services funds. Learn more about the SSSP . Syracuse Challenge The Syracuse Challenge is a program developed by the Syracuse City School District and Syracuse University. A student enters into an agreement with the school district in the eighth grade and agrees to earn a New York State Regents Diploma with advanced designation, maintain an 85 percent average for each year in high school, and achieve an SAT combined score of at least 1100 (critical reasoning and math) or ACT composite score of at least 23. Students who successfully meet the criteria are guaranteed admission into The College of Arts and Sciences (but may be admitted into other colleges if qualified) and are guaranteed an individualized financial package based on family financial circumstances, to ensure that enrollment at Syracuse University is affordable. Syracuse University Co-Generation Scholarship This scholarship was designed to provide selected students in the neighboring University community bounded by South Salina Street, East Castle Street, Renwick Avenue and East Adams Street the financial resources that would enable them to receive a quality education. Students receive full tuition, fees, room and board and a book allowance. Eligible students are identified by the Syracuse Housing Authority and the Syracuse University Admissions Office. Today’s Students, Tomorrow’s Teachers (TSTT) Today’s Students, Tomorrow’s Teachers (TSTT) is a career development program for the recruitment and mentoring of high school students, especially students of color, into the teaching profession. In conjunction with Today’s Students, Tomorrow’s Teachers, the Office of Financial Aid and Scholarship Programs will award a TSTT Scholarship (combined with Syracuse University Merit Scholarships if applicable) equal to at least one half of the cost of tuition. Scholarship candidates are reviewed by the Director of Metropolitan Admissions for Syracuse University. To learn more about the TSTT Program and this scholarship opportunity at Syracuse University, please contact the Office of Metropolitan Admissions at: 11 East 61st Street New York, NY 10021 sulubin@syr.edu T: 212.826.0320 F: 212.826.0331 Related Pages Apply for Financial Aid How do you realize your dream of attaining a world-class education at Syracuse University? Apply for financial aid—it’s easier than you think! Speak with a Financial Aid Counselor The Office of Financial Aid and Scholarship Programs is here to assist you and make the financial aid process as easy as possible. Please do not hesitate to contact us with any questions or concerns. Financial Term Definitions Find out the definitions of common financial aid terms. Popular Toggle dropdown Academic Calendar Campus Map Careers Libraries Majors and Minors Visit and Tour A-Z Toggle dropdown Academic Departments Schools and Colleges Sitemap Search Contact Toggle dropdown Admissions Financial Aid Emergency Contacts Human Resources Make a Gift Login Toggle dropdown MySlice Blackboard SUMail Syracuse University 900 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, NY 13244 Phone: +1.315.443.1870 Follow S.U. on Instagram Like S.U. on Facebook Follow S.U. on Twitter Follow S.U. on LinkedIn Follow S.U. on Tiktok Subscribe to S.U. on YouTube © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy