Skip to content Stanford University Students Faculty & Staff Families Visitors Alumni COVID Resources Search Menu News Events Academics Research Health Care Campus Life Admission About Search term Search Stanford: Web People Search Web Other ways to search: Map Profiles Main Content About Stanford Stanford is a place of discovery, creativity and innovation located in the San Francisco Bay Area on the ancestral land of the Muwekma Ohlone Tribe. Faculty 2,288 Opened in 1891 Students 16,937 Leadership President Marc Tessier-Lavigne Marc Tessier-Lavigne became Stanford University’s eleventh president on September 1, 2016. Office of the President Provost Persis Drell Persis Drell is Stanford’s thirteenth provost, the chief academic and budgetary officer of the University. Office of the Provost Other Administration The University is also governed by a Board of Trustees and Faculty Senate and supported by numerous offices. University Administration Visiting Stanford Plan a Visit Stanford welcomes more than 150,000 visitors to campus annually. Whether you live in the neighborhood or are coming from far away, we look forward to seeing you here on the Farm. Visitor Information Virtual Tours Visitor Information offers several multimedia tours of Stanford, including videos, slideshows and a self-guided tour. Virtual Tours Other Resources Have a delicious meal at one of Stanford’s numerous dining locations. If you want to do some shopping during your visit, we’ve got that covered too. Our Maps & Directions will help you find your way. “Be Here” – a virtual reality experience of Stanford What’s it like to be a Stanford undergraduate or graduate student? Students chart their own paths of discovery, learning and growth, and each journey is as unique as the individual. Experience the stories of five Stanford students in immersive 360° video. Watch the video Stanford’s Relationships with Native Peoples Stanford University’s campus is located within the traditional territory of the Muwekma Ohlone Tribe. The university has been engaged with Ohlone sites and communities since its founding in the mid-1880s. Today, the university has a vibrant community of Native students, faculty, staff, and alumni. Read our land acknowledgment statement and learn more. History Stanford History The Leland Stanford Junior University was founded in 1885 by California Senator Leland Stanford and his wife, Jane, in memory of their only child, Leland Jr., who died of typhoid fever at 15. A History of Stanford Stanford Then & Now Stanford has changed with the world over the last 125+ years, often leading the way with new ideas and discoveries. Here’s a look at Stanford people, places and experiences, past and present. Stanford Then & Now Stanford Timelines Our history is rich and inspiring. Our future will be cutting edge and groundbreaking. Immerse yourself in our past and see into our future. Stanford Timelines Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube iTunes U Schools Business Earth, Energy & Environmental Sciences Education Engineering Humanities & Sciences Law Medicine Departments Departments A - to Z Interdisciplinary Programs Research Research Centers A - to Z Interdisciplinary Research Libraries Health Care Stanford Health Care Stanford Children's Health Online Learning Stanford Online About Stanford Facts History Accreditation Admission Undergraduate Graduate Financial Aid Resources A - to Z Index Campus Map Community Engagement Directory Stanford Profiles Applying Visiting Giving Careers Contact Stanford University Stanford Home Maps & Directions Search Stanford Emergency Info Terms of Use Privacy Copyright Trademarks Non-Discrimination Accessibility ©Copyright Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305.