Skip to main content Search form Search Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers Contact Give About Search Menu Public Health Now News Events Publications Topics Student Voices Celebrating the Centennial Our Work to Address COVID-19 Columbia Public Health Magazine Academics Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy & Procedures Office of Education Research Featured Research Global Health Centers Programs Grants & Awards Corporate Partnerships People Our Faculty Current Students Friends and Supporters Partners Alumni Become a Student Meet Our Faculty Life & Community Degree Finder How to Apply Career Services More Information Master of Public Health Degree Programs Certificate Program Core Curriculum Search You are here Home About Leadership Team Winter Storm Update/Impacts to Campus and Services Last Updated 12:50pm Fri May 6 See Coronavirus Updates for information on campus protocols. Mission & History Dean Linda P. Fried Facts & Figures Board of Advisors Fact Sheets Leadership Team Mission & History Dean Linda P. Fried Facts & Figures Board of Advisors Fact Sheets Leadership Team Leadership Team Dean Linda P. Fried, MD, MPH Dean and DeLamar Professor of Public Health lpfried@columbia.edu Dean Fried is a world-renowned geriatrician and epidemiologist. Dean since 2008, she led the transformation of Columbia Public Health’s MPH and doctoral programs to interdisciplinary education that provides strong grounding in public health and expertise for leadership in the 21st Century. Under her leadership, the School has developed novel translational programs in interdisciplinary science, including health impacts of climate change; lifecourse bases for achieving public health; data science for health; and the creation of the Program in Global Health Justice and Governance, the Lerner Center for Public Health Promotion and the Robert N. Butler Columbia Aging Center. Vice Deans Ying Kuen Cheung Vice Dean for Faculty Professor, Biostatistics yc632@cumc.columbia.edu Dr. Ying Kuen K Cheung's primary research interests include experimental design, with an expertise in early phase clinical trials in cancer and stroke, both significant public health concerns especially in the aging population. Efficient statistical designs facilitate the screening of potential treatments and identification of appropriate dose ranges of treatments, while maintaining the safety of consented patients. Dr. Cheung has served on the steering committee or as an investigator in many Mailman School and Columbia-initiated and commercially-sponsored studies. Michael Joseph, PhD Vice Dean for Education Associate Professor of Epidemiology mj3019@cumc.columbia.edu Dr. Joseph is a highly regarded teacher and curricular innovator, whose educational contributions and approach have been recognized locally, nationally and internationally. Dr. Joseph provides academic guidance for the Mailman School’s education portfolio, which enrolls more than 1400 students from around the world in doctoral and master’s degree programs. As Vice Dean, he leads the Columbia MPH and directs a range of support services, including admissions and financial aid, student affairs, and career services. Gary W. Miller, PhD Vice Dean for Research Strategy and Innovation Professor of Environmental Health Sciences gm2815@cumc.columbia.eduDr. Miller moved to Columbia University in 2018 after 16 years at Emory University. Dr. Miller is the founding director of the HERCULES Exposome Research Center at Emory University, the first exposome-based research center in the U.S. He authored the first book on the topic, The Exposome: A Primer. His research focuses on environmental drivers of neurodegeneration. In his vice dean role, Dr. Miller partners with faculty to further their research success and serves as a catalyst to propel interdisciplinary work throughout the School. Sepi Sepasi, MBA Vice Dean for Finance and Administration ss5827@cumc.columbia.edu Ms. Sepasi has over twenty years of experience in finance, planning and administration. As Interim Vice Chancellor for Finance and Human resources at Rutgers University, she helped build the financial infrastructure to support and manage the flagship campus. Prior to this role, she was the Associate Vice President for Strategic Financial Initiatives. Previously, she spent 11 years at University of Chicago and Northwestern University. Ms. Sepasi has her MBA from the Eli Broad Graduate School of Management and BA from Michigan State University. Administrative Leadership Raygine DiAquoi, EdD Assistant Dean, Office of Diversity, Culture, and Inclusion Assistant Professor, Sociomedical Sciences rcd60@columbia.edu Dr. DiAquoi is responsible for developing a rich agenda of activities and programs that promote the recognition and understanding of historical and current social inequalities, and facilitating action steps in our institution, community, and in the broader field of public health to eliminate them. Prior to joining the School, she provided training and support to communities and educational institutions to improve the academic experiences of marginalized populations. Vanita Gowda, MPA Chief Communications Officer vrg8@cumc.columbia.edu Ms. Gowda is a strategic communications and advocacy professional with more than 20 years’ experience in the public and private sectors, focusing on initiatives to improve the health and well-being of vulnerable and underserved populations around the world. She started her career as a reporter in Washington DC, covering Capitol Hill and national affairs. Vanita earned her MPA from Columbia’s School of International and Public Affairs and earned her BA from the College of William & Mary. Bethany Jankunis, MSW, JD Chief of Staff bj2296@cumc.columbia.edu Ms. Jankunis serves as a top strategy and implementation partner to the Dean, coordinating the efforts of various levels of School leadership and overseeing all aspects of functioning of the Dean’s office. Prior, Ms. Jankunis was Chief of Staff for the Provost at New York University’s School of Engineering, then Assistant Vice President for Administrative Planning and Initiatives, reporting to the School’s President. Previously, Ms. Jankunis worked as a Policy Advisor to the New York City Comptroller, then as Chief of Staff for New York State Assembly member and Higher Education Chair Deborah Glick. She holds an MSW from the Hunter College School of Social Work and a JD from Fordham Law School. Center Directors Center for Infection and Immunity W. Ian Lipkin Director and John Snow Professor of Neurology/Pathology Administrative Contact: Kelly Magnus (kh2907@cumc.columbia.edu) ICAP Wafaa El-Sadr Director and Mathilde Kfrim-amfAR Global Chair, University Professor Administrative Contact: Mkeba Cason (mtc2101@cumc.columbia.edu) Department Chairs Biostatistics Kiros Berhane Chair and Cynthia and Robert Citron-Roslyn and Leslie Goldstein Professor Administrative Contact: Sonia Lyn (svl1@cumc.columbia.edu) Environmental Health Sciences Andrea Baccarelli Chair and Leon Hess Professor Administrative Contact: Fernando L. Luque (fll2112@cumc.columbia.edu) Epidemiology Charles Branas Chair and Gelman Endowed Professor Administrative Contact: Laura Goldenkranz (lag2172@cumc.columbia.edu) Health Policy and Management Michael Sparer Chair and Professor Administrative Contact: Rebecca Schoenfeld (rs3665@cumc.columbia.edu) Population and Family Health Terry McGovern Chair and Harriet and Robert H. Heilbrunn Professor Administrative Contact: Jenny Cheng (jc5261@cumc.columbia.edu) Sociomedical Sciences Kathleen Sikkema Chair and Stephen Smith Professor Administrative Contact: Yasmin Davis (yj12@cumc.columbia.edu) More to Explore Friday 03June COVID-19: From Causes to ConsequencesMay 27 2022 Asia and Africa Have Similar Aging Burden as the WestMay 4 2022 Period Poverty and the Pandemic: A Forgotten CrisisMay 4 2022 BARDA Support to Speed Development of Next-Generation Sequencing-Based Diagnostics PlatformMay 3 2022 Sign up for Transmission Columnbia Mailman Connect with Us Public Health Now News Events Publications Topics Student Voices Academics Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy & Procedures Office of Education Research Featured Research Global Health Centers Programs Grants & Awards Corporate Partnerships People Our Faculty Current Students Friends and Supporters Partners Alumni Become a Student Meet Our Faculty Life & Community Degree Finder How to Apply Career Services More Information Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health | 722 West 168th St. NY, NY 10032 Site Map Privacy Columbia University Irving Medical Center Copyright © Columbia University 2019 Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers