Skip to main content Iowa State University Anthropology Menu Toggle Search Toggle Search Undergraduate Graduate Directory Contact WLC Home Anthropology Home Please note: our website is still under construction! If you’re searching for something that you can’t find, contact us directly at wlc_outreach@iastate.edu. Engage the world with a degree in Anthropology! Today’s anthropologists do not just work in far away locations; they can be found doing cool things in many fields and careers: in corporations doing market research, in government doing forensics or international development, in non-profit organizations working on local education initiatives or working on global environmental issues. Anywhere people are engaging with other people, you’re likely to find an anthropologist. Who will you engage? What do anthropologists do? The short answer is: all kinds of things. Here are some areas that our faculty work in. Environmental Anthropology Learn more Anthropology + Migration Learn more Museum Studies Learn more Ethnohistory Learn more Our Department At first glance, Anthropology under a World Languages and Cultures umbrella might seem a bit…unconventional. If you look again, you’ll see that Cultures are what bring us and the rest of the world together. Anthropology is the study of human societies and cultures and their development. What better fit than a department that allows for cross-cultural exploration, interdepartmental collaboration, and a plethora of international connections? Following the merger of these two departments in 2016, course offerings have risen, our graduate program is growing and expanding in new ways, and we’re able to offer experiences (field research, internships, reasearch opportunities) like never before. Meet the faculty and staff who keep things running smoothly here. Department of World Languages and Cultures Anthropology College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Copyright © 1995- Iowa State University of Science and Technology All rights reserved. Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility Loading...