Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Skip to primary site search Google Tag Manager Physics Show/Hide About Graduate Undergraduate Concentrations AP, IB & Transfer Credit Honors Senior Theses Research Opportunities Ways to Get Involved! Resources Prospective Students Research Courses People Events Centers Diversity & Inclusion Room Reservations Resources During COVID Honors HONORS IN PHYSICS Candidates receiving honors in Physics will be expected to pursue a more rigorous and extensive program than those merely concentrating in the subject. Candidates typically earn the Sc.B. degree, though in special circumstances an A.B. degree will be acceptable. All Sc.B. candidates are eligible for honors consideration without any special application procedure. During the student's eighth semester, the Physics concentration and honors advisors will review the student's grades in all mathematics and physics courses required for the concentration (if the student takes more than the required number of elective courses, those electives with the highest grades will be counted). If at least 1/3 of these courses have grades of A or S with distinction, the successful completion of the senior thesis is then the remaining requirement, including an oral presentation at the end of the eighth semester. This presentation will be evaluated by the thesis advisor, and the Physics concentration and honors advisors. If it is deemed satisfactory, the student will be awarded honors at graduation. Outstanding theses may be nominated for publication by The Wayland Press of Brown University. The Physics Honors Coordinator, Professor Bob Pelcovits, is the main point of contact for questions and will inform seniors about upcoming deadlines and presentation dates. Undergraduate Concentrations AP, IB & Transfer Credit Honors Senior Theses Research Opportunities Ways to Get Involved! Resources Prospective Students Explore Brown University Search Brown Show/Hide Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Department of Physics Department of Physics Brown University Box 1843 182 Hope Street Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-2641 Fax: 401-863-2024 Email [email protected] Twitter Twitter Facebook Facebook Make a Gift Giving to Brown Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat