Skip to main content Information For: Current Students Alumni Harvard Undergraduates Educators Recruiters Media Apply Give to HGSE Search Apply for Degree Programs Apply for Professional Education Donate Give back to HGSE and support the next generation of passionate educators and innovative leaders. Keywords Close Menu Degree Programs Professional Education Faculty & Research Usable Knowledge Keywords About HGSE About the Dean Dean's Welcome Messages from the Dean Commentary and Media Dean's Office History of HGSE Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Our Impact Campus and Facilities Office Directory Virtual Tour Gutman Conference Center Reservation Request Form Capacities and Cost Floor Plan Catering Policies Audio Visual Directions, Parking, and Hotels Map of HGSE Directions to HGSE History of HGSE Buildings Faculty & Staff Directory Work at HGSE Title IX Information Doctoral Degree Programs Doctor of Education Leadership Doctor of Philosophy in Education Brochures Academic Calendar Academic Catalog Doctoral Viewbook Master's Degree Program Master's in Education Programs Education Leadership, Organizations, and Entrepreneurship Education Policy and Analysis Human Development and Education Learning Design, Innovation, and Technology Teaching and Teacher Leadership Concentrations Arts and Learning Early Childhood Global, International, and Comparative Education Higher Education Identity, Power, and Justice in Education Literacy and Languages A Personalized Approach Online Master's in Education Leadership Foundations Brochures Academic Catalog Academic Calendar Academic Year 2020-22 Programs Professional Education About Us Programs Early Childhood K-12 Higher Education Online Programs For Organizations Group and Team Enrollment Custom Programs Admissions Payment & Tuition Assistance Refunds & Withdrawals Policies and Accessibility Campus Experience On-Campus Program Health and Safety Policies FAQs Events Contact Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Centers, Projects and Initiatives Faculty Recruitment Faculty Experts Admissions Introduce Yourself Explore Find the Right Program Brochures Life at HGSE Connect Apply Refer a Candidate Frequently Asked Questions Financial Aid HGSE & Harvard University Consumer Information Tuition & Costs Applying for Aid Incoming Students Incoming International Students Continuing Students Scholarships, Fellowships & Grants Need-Based Grant Awards HGSE Fellowships Additional Fellowships External Fellowships Student Loans Student Work International Students International Applicant FAQ Funding Sources Students with Families Financial Aid Appeals Presentations & Publications Budgeting & Financial Literacy Budget Calculator Registrar News & Events Harvard Edcast Education Now Askwith Education Forum Upcoming Events Submit an Event Usable Knowledge Ed. Magazine Harvard Education Publishing Group Information for Media Education Now Usable Knowledge Usable Knowledge Harvard EdCast Ed. Magazine HGSE Centennial Community Learning Beyond the Classroom Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Organizations and Initiatives Community Events and Action Resources Teaching and Learning Gutman Library Services Alumni Services Collections Special Collections Request for Library Purchase Library Hours Websites for Educators About the Library Facilities & Equipment Contact Information Coronavirus Response Information Directory Calendar Alumni Network & Connect Get Involved Learn & Grow Benefits & Services my.harvard Student Handbook Introduction Welcome to HGSE Preface Commitment to Diversity Part 1: Enrollment Policies Academic Programs and Affiliations Registration and Enrollment Policies Tuition and Fees Financial Aid Student Health Insurance Grading Part 2: Student Supports Advising HGSE Supports University Supports Campus Safety and Security Part 3: Program Policies Academic Governance Doctor of Education (Ed.D.) Program Policies Doctor of Philosophy in Education (Ph.D.) Program Policies Doctor of Education Leadership (Ed.L.D.) Program Policies Master of Education (Ed.M.) Program Policies Part 4: Academic Integrity and Standards of Conduct Resolution on Rights and Responsibilities Academic Standards and Integrity Standards of Conduct in the Harvard Community Committee on Rights and Responsibilities Policies on Harassment and Discrimination Policy on Consensual Romantic Relationships Policy on Physical Violence Policy on Misrepresentation of Status Policy on Illicit Substances Policy on Hazing Policy on Threats Part 5: Copyright and Publishing Policies Copyright Disclosure Use of the Harvard Name Information For Current Students Alumni Harvard Undergraduates Educators Recruiters Media Connect with HGSE Facebook Twitter Linked In LinkedIn Symbols Created with Sketch. Instagram Master's Degree Program Program: Teaching and Teacher Leadership The Teaching and Teacher Leadership (TTL) Program seeks to emphasize, analyze, and elevate the critical role that teachers play in the broader education ecosystem. As a student in our TTL Program, you will gain the skills you need to design and lead transformative learning experiences that change lives, advance social justice, and help generate the best outcomes for all students. The TTL Program prepares teachers who are also learners — so you’ll think not only about the learning you’re trying to instill in your students, but the learning that you are doing as well. This program is intentionally designed for those who are both learning to teach and who are already developing their leadership as teachers. Whether you are an experienced or novice teacher, our groundbreaking approach to teacher education will engage you in a community of practice that enables you to build core competencies, work alongside faculty and school-based mentors in meaningful and lasting networks and pursue a wide range of career goals. Applicants to the TTL Program will choose between two strands. The Teaching strand enables both novice and early-career teachers to pursue Massachusetts initial licensure in secondary education through a residency or an internship fieldwork model. The Teacher Leadership strand will enable experienced teachers to focus on instructional leadership, coaching, and/or teacher development. Ideal candidates will come ready to work in US schools. The intentional mixture of experience levels and diverse backgrounds is one of the signature strengths of the program. After completing the Teaching and Teacher Leadership Program, you will have a deeper understanding of the following competencies that explore how to: Leverage your knowledge and skills to lead others in joyful, equitable, rigorous, and transformative learning. Analyze instruction for the purpose of improving it. Foster productive inquiry and discussion. Identify, understand, and counteract systemic inequities within educational institutions. Problem-solve through planful cycles that include gathering information, interpreting data, making diagnoses, and testing solutions. “At the heart of TTL is helping teachers reach all students. Whether you are preparing for the classroom yourself or an experienced teacher preparing to improve teaching and learning on a wider scale, our goal is to provide you with the knowledge and skills to lead others in learning.” Heather Hill, Faculty Co-Chair Curriculum Information The TTL Program is designed to help you gain the knowledge and practice the skills essential to leading others in learning — and will create pathways to success that will allow you to thrive as an expert practitioner and mentor in your community. A minimum of 42 credits are required to graduate with an Ed.M. degree from HGSE. The main elements of the 2022–23 academic year curriculum are: The HGSE Foundations courses (14 credits) are How People Learn, Leading Change, Evidence, and Equity and Opportunity, in which students gain core skills central to the profession of education. This program commences with How People Learn, an immersive online course that runs June–July and requires a time commitment of 10-15 hours per week. You will continue Foundations with Leading Change, Evidence, and Equity and Opportunity on campus in August. The final component of Foundations is an Equity and Opportunity elective, which will take place during terms when electives are available. A minimum of 12-credits specific to TTL, including the following: The TTL Program Core Experience (4 credits), a yearlong course in which teachers and teacher-leaders collaborate to improve practice. Students must enroll in their first fall semester. Required coursework (8 credits), particularly for those who are in the Teaching licensure strand. Field experiences that provide both teachers-in-training and teacher-leaders with opportunities to practice the skills needed to advance into new or expanded roles. Elective coursework, which includes the opportunity for those not earning licensure to specialize in an HGSE Concentration. Explore our course catalog. Note, all information and courses are subject to change. Summer Experience All TTL students will participate in the Summer Experience supporting the Cambridge Harvard Summer Academy (CHSA), taking place in Cambridge, MA in July. Through your work at CHSA, you will help middle and high school students in the Cambridge Public Schools with credit recovery, academic enrichment, and preparation for high school. Students in the Teaching strand will teach students directly as part of the teaching team, while students in the Teaching Leadership strand will provide instructional support and coaching to the teaching team. This is an opportunity for you to immediately immerse yourself in a school environment and practice the skills necessary to advance your career. Licensure Information Students who elect the Teaching strand will work toward earning teaching licensure and will select one of two fieldwork models. You can choose to apply either to a residency model, where students assume teaching responsibilities near the start of the program, or to an internship model, which ramps up teaching responsibility more gradually. In both fieldwork models, licensure candidates will be supported by TTL faculty and school-based mentors. Both of the TTL licensure models enable novice teachers to complete the courses and field experiences needed to teach at the middle school and high school levels. Specifically, you will be eligible to teach in grades 5–8 in English, general science, history, and mathematics, as well as grades 8–12 in biology, chemistry, English, history, mathematics, and physics. Advancing Research on Effective Teacher Preparation As a student in the TTL Program, you will have the opportunity to contribute to HGSE’s research on what makes effective teacher preparation. This research seeks to build an evidence base that contributes to the field’s understanding of effective approaches to teacher training, including how to support high-quality instruction, successful models of coaching and mentorship, and effective approaches to addressing the range of challenges facing our students. TTL students will be able to participate in research studies for course credit, and some will also serve as research assistants, gaining knowledge of what works, as well as a doctoral-type experience at a major research university. TTL Fellowships HGSE is committed both to investing in the future of the teaching profession and minimizing the student debt that teachers have to carry. HGSE offers a range of financial aid, fellowship, and grant opportunities to provide greater access and affordability to our students. Program Faculty Students will work closely with faculty associated with their area of study, but students can also work with and take courses with faculty throughout HGSE and Harvard. The faculty co-chairs for TTL are Heather Hill and Victor Pereira. View our faculty directory for a full list of HGSE faculty. Heather C. Hill Victor Pereira, Jr. Rhonda Bondie Kathryn Parker Boudett Noah Heller Pamela A. Mason Katherine Rieser Eric Shed Beth A. Simpson Christina "V" Villarreal Career Pathways The TTL Program prepares you for a variety of career pathways, including: Curriculum designers Department heads and grade level team leaders District-based instructional leadership team members Instructional and curriculum leadership team members Licensed middle or high school teacher Professional developers and content specialists School improvement facilitators School-based instructional coaches and mentor teachers Outcomes Our TTL Program enables you to fully examine your growth as a professional — and explore the many ways you can generate better outcomes for your students. From developing a deeper understanding of teaching principles and practices to honing your experience and embracing innovation in a variety of learning environments, our graduates go on to make a profound difference in the lives of their students. Here, you'll meet several HGSE alumni whose careers center around teaching and learning leadership: Centering Learning: Alice Wang, TEP'22 The Intellectual Contribution Award recipient for Teacher Education reflects on her time at HGSE and looks toward the future. On the Child's Side: Melanie Shea, TEP'20 The Intellectual Contribution Award recipient for Teacher Education reflects on her time at HGSE and looks toward the future. Cohort and Community The TTL Program prioritizes the development of ongoing teacher communities that provide continued support, learning, and collaboration. Our cohort-based approach is designed to encourage and allow aspiring teachers and leaders to build relationships with one another, as well as with instructors and mentors — ultimately building a strong, dynamic network. As a TTL student, you will build a community around a shared commitment to teaching and teacher development. You will learn from and with colleagues from diverse backgrounds, levels of expertise, and instructional settings. To further connections with the field, you are invited to attend “meet the researcher” chats, engage in learning through affinity groups, and interact with teaching-focused colleagues across the larger university, by taking courses and participating in activities both at HGSE and at other Harvard schools. Tell us about yourself so that we can tailor our communication to best fit your interests and provide you with relevant information about our programs, events, and other opportunities to connect with us. Introduce Yourself Admissions Information Learn more about our admissions application requirements and instructions, tuition and financial aid, recorded webinars, download a brochure, and find answers to frequently asked questions. Connect with Admissions If you have additional admissions-related questions, please contact Samantha Pulley. Additional TTL Resources Distinctive Features (1:32) Curriculum (1:08) Career Outcomes (0:44) Ideal Candidates (1:23) Connect with Program Staff If you have remaining program-specific questions, please contact TTL Assistant Director Andrena Mason. In this section Master's Degree Program Master's in Education Programs Education Leadership, Organizations, and Entrepreneurship Education Policy and Analysis Human Development and Education Learning Design, Innovation, and Technology Teaching and Teacher Leadership Concentrations Arts and Learning Early Childhood Global, International, and Comparative Education Higher Education Identity, Power, and Justice in Education Literacy and Languages A Personalized Approach Online Master's in Education Leadership Foundations Brochures Academic Catalog Academic Calendar Academic Year 2020-22 Programs Master's Degree Program Master's Degree Program Master's in Education Programs Education Leadership, Organizations, and Entrepreneurship Education Policy and Analysis Human Development and Education Learning Design, Innovation, and Technology Teaching and Teacher Leadership Concentrations Arts and Learning Early Childhood Global, International, and Comparative Education Higher Education Identity, Power, and Justice in Education Literacy and Languages A Personalized Approach Online Master's in Education Leadership Foundations Brochures Academic Catalog Academic Calendar Academic Year 2020-22 Programs Sign up for our newsletters to get the latest from the Harvard Graduate School of Education. Sign Up Now Artboard 1 13 Appian Way | Cambridge, MA 02138 Centennial Contact Us Directory Directions Harvard University ©2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College Linked In Symbols Created with Sketch. Youtube RSS Podcast HGSE Publishing Policies & Disclaimers Digital Accessibility Policy Privacy Policy Trademark Notice