Skip to main content Clemson University Degrees Home Degree Programs MENU Chemistry (B.S./B.A.) LEARN MORE ABOUT Have you ever wondered about what makes up our world, down to the smallest particle? Studying chemistry at Clemson won't just give you a close-up look at atoms, molecules and chemical reactions. It will also prepare you for a career in medicine, research, pharmacy and many other industries. If you find yourself thinking about where the molecules you inhale come from, majoring in chemistry can turn your thoughts into engaging research projects conducted with approachable and knowledgeable faculty members. Chemistry has a hand in almost every part of the scientific process. Our Bachelor of Science degree - which is certified by the American Chemical Society - will prepare you for a professional career in chemistry, while our Bachelor of Arts degree gives you a broad education needed for a career dependent on a basic knowledge of chemistry. FAST FACTS We offer both a Bachelor of Science and a Bachelor of Arts in chemistry. We are primarily housed in Howard L. Hunter Laboratory on campus, which has more than 50,000 square feet of lab space. Additional research facilities can be found in the Biological Research Center and at the Advanced Materials Research Lab. Our alumni are employed across various industries and companies, including the Environmental Protection Agency, Michelin, Pfizer, Sun Chemical and Merck. Roughly 70 percent of chemistry graduates pursue a professional or graduate degree after graduation. WHAT YOU'LL STUDY Along with general education requirements, chemistry majors will engage in an in-depth, hands-on course of study that takes you from the basics all the way to organic, inorganic, analytical and physical chemistry, just to name a few. You might also take part in Clemson's undergraduate research program, called Creative Inquiry. The Bachelor of Science in chemistry emphasizes the technical and communication skills needed for a professional career in chemistry. You'll be required to participate in undergraduate research teams on projects such as synthesis of new compounds with materials potential, bioorganic and medicinal chemistry, polymers, thin films and surfaces, electrochemistry and much more. You will work with cutting-edge laboratory tools and instruments and will have the opportunity to do a cooperative education internship where you'll apply your education in the workplace. A Bachelor of Arts in chemistry provides you with a broad education and focuses on areas in medicine, pharmacy and law. There are fewer chemistry courses, but a requirement of two years of a foreign language along with a minor. You'll be prepared for careers dependent on a basic knowledge of chemistry, and a B.A. is an excellent preprofessional curriculum for medicine, pharmacy and law. Curriculum Chemistry, B.A. Chemistry, B.S. Popular Minors Business Administration Food Science Life Sciences Cluster Modern Languages Music Similar Majors Biochemistry (B.S.) Biological Sciences (B.S./B.A.) Chemical Engineering (B.S.) Food Science and Human Nutrition (B.S.) Genetics (B.S.) Materials Science and Engineering (B.S.) Preprofessional Health Studies (undeclared) Preveterinary Medicine (Non-Degree Program) EXPERIENCES BEYOND THE CLASSROOM Majoring in chemistry at Clemson isn't just about doing the research. It's about the hands-on experience, inside and outside the walls of the laboratory. Clemson's state-of-the-art facilities and extensive research equipment provide you with a world outside the classroom and inside the world of intensive research and innovative experimentation. There are also opportunities that allow you to make connections beyond Clemson, be it research institutes, chemistry clubs or simply interacting with highly qualified faculty. Research The chemistry department is one of the largest and most active on campus, with more than 20 faculty members and about 15 postdoctoral and visiting scientists.Learn More » Facilities Clemson's chemistry department holds one of the finest laboratory spaces in the Southeast. With more than 50,000 square feet filled with cutting-edge instruments, you'll have a world of experimentation tools at your fingertips.Learn More » SAACS The Student Affiliate of the American Chemical Society is Clemson's chemistry club. Joining SAACS is a great way to meet other chemistry majors and listen to speakers talk about various disciplines of chemistry. Creative Inquiry Our undergraduate research program, called Creative Inquiry, is a unique program that allows you to work alongside professors on all types of research projects. Such experiences in your academic career can put you ahead of your peers. Learn More » CONNECT WITH OTHER STUDENTS COSMIC AFTER GRADUATION Your college decision isn't really about the next four years. We get it. It's about what doors are opened by your degree and whether those opportunities are what you had envisioned for yourself. About 70 percent of Clemson chemistry graduates pursue a professional or graduate degree after graduation. Here's a snapshot of what life after graduation looks like for some of our most recent students. WHERE OUR RECENT GRADUATES HAVE GONE KEY 41-100% 21-40% 11-20% 0-10% RECENT EMPLOYERS Quality Assurance Inspector Westinghouse Fuels Lab Technician Sun Chemical Chemist Becton Dickinson Associate Scientist in Analytical Chemistry Pfizer RECENT POSTGRADUATE STUDIES Ph.D. Analytical Chemistry Colorado State University Ph.D. Pharmaceutical Sciences University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill M.S. Food Science Pennsylvania State University Ph.D. Chemistry University of Michigan J.D. University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill COMMON CAREER AREAS Analytical Environmental Forensics Biochemical Medical Environmental Industrial Health & Safety Hospital Administration Organic/Inorganic Geochemistry Environmental Remediation Polymer Chemistry Physical Education Business Technical Sales/Marketing Pharmaceutical Sales Management Consulting Industrial Quality Control Research & Development Technical Writing Law Patent Law Legislation and Lobbying Used with permission from the University of Tennessee. FIND OUT MORE Have more questions or want more information? Fill out the form below, which goes directly to the following department contact. If you’d also like to receive general University information from Clemson’s admissions office, please follow the link to the right and sign up to join our mailing list. Sharetta Bufford Recruiter 864-656-3296 Email Department Website College Website Loading... Department Website College Website Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Line Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2015 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on Google+ Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on YouTube Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram Search Clemson University degrees Clemson Degree Programs Search Alphabetical List Schedule a Visit Campus Life Admissions Costs & Financial Aid Similar Majors To Chemistry (B.S./B.A.) Biochemistry (B.S.) Biological Sciences (B.S./B.A.) Chemical Engineering (B.S.) Food Science and Human Nutrition (B.S.) Genetics (B.S.) Materials Science and Engineering (B.S.) Preprofessional Health Studies (undeclared) Preveterinary Medicine (Non-Degree Program)