About Curricular Role Courses on Media Management at Columbia Business School Student-Run Activities Ph.D Program in Communications Feedback From Previous Students Press Publications Books Papers Working Papers Events Upcoming Events Recent Events Past Events 2021 Events 2020 Events 2019 Events 2018 Events 2017 Events 2016 Events Pre-2015 Events Archive CITI-IMMAA Seminars People Director Principals Administrative and Research Staff Associated Senior Fellows Affiliates CITI Fellows Visiting Scholars Advisory Boards Corporate Affiliates and Foundations in Recent Years Research Digital Financial Observatory The Columbia Institute for Tele-Information About Curricular Role Courses on Media Management at Columbia Business School Student-Run Activities Ph.D Program in Communications Feedback From Previous Students Press Publications Books Papers Working Papers Events Upcoming Events Recent Events Past Events 2021 Events 2020 Events 2019 Events 2018 Events 2017 Events 2016 Events Pre-2015 Events Archive CITI-IMMAA Seminars People Director Principals Administrative and Research Staff Associated Senior Fellows Affiliates CITI Fellows Visiting Scholars Advisory Boards Corporate Affiliates and Foundations in Recent Years Research Digital Financial Observatory h-citi.jpg The Columbia Institute for Tele-Information (CITI) A university-based research center focused on strategy, management, and policy issues in telecommunications, computing, and electronic mass media. Upcoming Events Monthly Virtual Seminars The webinars are co-sponsored bythe International Media Management Academic Association (IMMAA) and the Columbia Institute for Tele-Information (CITI). Forthcoming Speakers: June 2, 11am-12pm Robert McChesney, Professor of Communication, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign To register, visit: https://mcchesneyciti.eventbrite.com July 7, 11am-12pm Robert Picard, Senior Research Fellow, Reuters Institute, University of Oxford. To register, visit: https://citiimmaapicard.eventbrite.com Recent Events May 19, 2022 Global Online Platforms: Free Flow vs. Domestic Culture: Day 2 Around the world, the proliferation and penetration of streaming video systems challenges the role of traditional broadcasters and multichannel TV providers. Viewers can pick content directly from anywhere– a great opening. But the dominance of several major platforms also puts pressure on national production and distribution system, and to new forms of gatekeepers -- a great narrowing. The emerging video system thus brings into conflict two important societal and economic values: the free access by and to media, information, and creativity on the one hand, and the preservation of domestic content and culture on the other hand. With the cost per mile of transmission near zero, distance has ceased to be a barrier against overseas providers. This enables platforms and products of one or a few countries to dominate worldwide. In addition, different countries have different perspectives and traditions on what kind content is acceptable. In such an environment, sharp clashes of business, politics, technology, and culture are inevitable. It has led to national and regional initiatives which, in the aggregate, create a restrictive media environment. It is therefore necessary to establish a balanced approach to domestic cultural diversity and international free flows that is sensitive to the multiple concerns. To analyze and discuss this, the Columbia Institute for Tele-Information is holding a 2-day conference on April 14th 2022 and May 19th 2022 which seeks to bring together thought leaders, policymakers, industry players, and others. Day 2 Agenda: 10:00-10:10am EDT Welcome and Introduction Eli Noam, Paul Garrett Chair in Public Policy and Business Responsibility, Columbia Business School 10:10-10:30am EDT National Culture Milton Mueller, Professor and Program Director, School of Public Policy, Georgia Tech 10:30-11:20am EDT Options to Support National Culture in the Online TV Environment, and Their Effectiveness Eli Noam, Paul Garrett Chair in Public Policy and Business Responsibility, Columbia Business School (Moderator) Mira Burri, Professor of International Economic and Internet Law, University or Lucerne (Switzerland) Nicolas R. Prince, Assistant Professor of Management, University of Wyoming Jimmyn Parc, Visiting Lecturar, Sciences Po Paris and Associated Researcher, Seoul National University 11:20-12:15pm EDT Media Industry Prospective Carolina Lorenzon, Mediaset (Moderator) Egbert Schram, Group CEO Hofstede Insights Naoki Ishizaka, Dentsu Globo Representative (tentative) 12:15-12:35pm EDT Views on Domestic Culture (tentative) Marcello Foa, former President of Rai (Italy) 12:35pm-12:55pm EDT Policymakers Prospective Reed Hundt, Former FCC Chairman 12:55-1:00pm Conclusions Eli Noam, Paul Garrett Chair in Public Policy and Business Responsibility, Columbia Business School May 5, 2022, 11am-12pm Thomas Hess, Professor of Information Systems & Management; Director, Institute for Digital Management and New Media, Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität München "Digital Paywalls" Hess has observed that digitalization has exacerbated the monetization of news content, such that changing consumption behavior of readers and insufficient digital advertising revenues have pushed news publishers to increase direct revenue generation in the digital environment. News publishers commonly implement digital paywalls based on freemium models, restricting free content offerings in terms of either choice (premium paywall) or quantity (metered paywall). Although research on information systems, marketing, and media management has intensively investigated the consequences of digital paywalls on news websites, the content monetization dilemma still does not seem to be solved. This talk therefore provided an overview of three central digital paywall research streams: (1) offering free content, paid content, or both; (2) consequences of introducing a digital paywall; and (3) the impact of the digital paywall configuration on user behavior. The talk concludes with questions that needs to be addressed in future research. April 14, 2022, 10am-1:20pm CITI Global Online Platforms: Free Access & Free Trade vs. Domestic Culture: Day 1 Around the world, the proliferation and penetration of streaming video systems challenges the role of traditional broadcasters and multichannel TV providers. Viewers can pick content directly from anywhere– a great opening. But the dominance of several major platforms also puts pressure on national production and distribution system, and to new forms of gatekeepers -- a great narrowing. The emerging video system thus brings into conflict two important societal and economic values: the free access by and to media, information, and creativity on the one hand, and the preservation of domestic content and culture on the other hand. With the cost per mile of transmission near zero, distance has ceased to be a barrier against overseas providers. This enables platforms and products of one or a few countries to dominate worldwide. In addition, different countries have different perspectives and traditions on what kind content is acceptable. In such an environment, sharp clashes of business, politics, technology, and culture are inevitable. It has led to national and regional initiatives which, in the aggregate, create a restrictive media environment. It is therefore necessary to establish a balanced approach to domestic cultural diversity and international free flows that is sensitive to the multiple concerns. AGENDA 10:00-10:30am EDT Background and Introduction Eli Noam, Paul Garrett Chair in Public Policy and Business Responsibility, Columbia Business School William Dutton, Emeritus Director, Oxford Internet Institute 10:30-11:20am EDT The Market Structure of Online TV Around the World Jason Buckweitz, Executive Director, Columbia Institute for Tele-Information Dwayne Winseck, Professor at School of Journalism and Communication, Carleton University Patrick-Yves Badillo, Professor, University of Genève Dominique Bourgeois, Professor, University of Fribourg 11:20-12:10pm EDT The Emerging Conflicts Over Trade Rules, Regulations, and Subsidies William Drake, Department of Communication and Media Research at the University of Zurich, and CITI, Columbia J.P. Singh, Professor of International Commerce and Policy, Schar School of Policy and Government, at George Mason University. Wendy Su, Associate Professor of Media and Cultural Studies, University of California Riverside 12:10-1:00pm EDT The Free Flow of Content and Trade Laws(Tentative) Scott Fitzgerald, Associate Professor and Discipline Lead, School of Management, Curtin Business School (Australia) Tom Hazlett, Information Economy Project, Clemson University 1:00-1:10pm EDT Conclusion Eli Noam, Paul Garrett Chair in Public Policy and Business Responsibility, Columbia Business School March 3, 11am-12pm John Rose, Managing Director for the Media Practice, and Senior Partner, Boston Consulting Group "Consumer Trends in Streaming Video and the Future Shape of the TV Landscape" Rose is engaged in innovation built on big data strategy. He has led a multiyear effort with the World Economic Forum on big data and consumer information. He has also contributed an online course on digital transformation, in partnership with the University of Virginia and Coursera. Prior to joining BCG in 2004, John was executive vice president at the major music group EMI. At EMI, John developed and oversaw the company’s digital business, antipiracy efforts, cost restructuring, and strategic options. Before EMI, John spent almost 20 years with McKinsey, where he was a director and coleader of the global media and entertainment practice. February 3, 11am-12pm Jaron Lanier, pioneer of virtual reality technology and applications January 13, 11am-12pm Vint Cerf, "Father of the Internet", and VP/ Chief Internet Evangelist, Google Vint will briefly reviewed the history and the policy issues that have arisen with the growth of the Internet and its new applications, looking ahead to the impact and implications on internet companies and others. November 4, 2021 Julia Cagé Associate Professor of Economics, Sciences Po, Paris; CEPR Research Fellow Julia Cagé is an Associate Professor of Economics in the Department of Economics at Sciences Po Paris, and a Research Fellow at the Center for Economic Policy Research (CEPR) in Public Economics, Industrial Organization and Economic History. She is also co-director of the Laboratory for Interdisciplinary Evaluation of Public Policies (LIEPP)’s “Evaluation of Democracy” research group. Her research interests focus on political economy, economic history, industrial organization and development. Julia is particularly interested in media economics, political participation and political attitudes, and has already authored two books on the subject: Saving the Media. Capitalism, Crowdfunding and Democracy (2015), and L’Information à tout prix (2017). Saving the Media was awarded the Special Jury Prize for Best Book on Media of the 2016 edition of the “Prix des Assises du Journalisme”. Her most recent book, The Price of Democracy (2020), scrutinizes contemporary democracy and proposes radical new solutions for political funding. October 7, 2021, 12:00pm-1:00pm EDT Christopher Yoo Professor of Law, Communication, and Computer & Information Science, University of Pennsylvania Yoo is Professor of Law, Communication, and Computer & Information Science as well as the Founding Director of the Center for Technology, Innovation and Competition. He has emerged as one of the world’s leading authorities on law and technology. One of the most cited scholars in administrative and regulatory law as well as intellectual property, he has authored five books and over 100 scholarly works. Further detail can be found below. His work focuses on investigating innovative ways to connect more people to the Internet; comparing antitrust law in China, Europe and the US; and analyzing the technical determinants of optimal interoperability. In his talk, Professor Yoo addressed the following topic: Media and competition policymakers around the world have become increasingly concerned about “big data,” which leads them to focus on the amount of consumer information they are able to obtain and control in the abstract. But what exactly do we mean by the “data market” and by market power in it? This presentation deconstructed different types and attributes of data, how their value depends on the business model to which they are being applied, and the inevitable role of diminishing marginal returns. Cybersecurity in DFS: The Next 6 Years September 30, 2021, 9:30am – 11:00am The Columbia Institute for Tele-Information, as part of its Digital Financial Services Observatory project, hosted a webinar to discuss what the future of cybersecurity in the DFS field will look like. The DFSO team, along with invited thought leaders, explored innovation and future expectations in cybersecurity and the DFS ecosystem. Some of the areas of coverage include: What are the most pressing issues and cyber-attacks faced by the DFS ecosystem that must be addressed in the short-term, the next 1-2 years? What lurks on the horizon in the long term, from years 3-6? Literacy, numeracy, and financial and digital literacy are ever-present challenges in DFS. Given a growing presence of a younger, more tech-savvy generation appearing in low and middle income countries, what are your expectations regarding this younger demographic’s impact? Where do you perceive the greatest challenges appearing in the future in the effort to increase financial inclusion, digital literacy and cyber capacity and how might they be addressed? What multinational, regional and global collaboration and practices are and should we expect to see formed to thwart challenging current and new forms of cyber attacks? Innovation What new technologies are being used / developed to combat fraud and cyber breaches? How can AI and machine learning aid in this effort and can this (and regulatory sandboxes) help spawn cost effective solutions? What might be the impact of quantum computing? September 2, 2021, 12:00pm-1:00pm EDT Andrea Prat Professor of Business and Economics, Columbia University Andrea Prat is the Richard Paul Richman Professor at Columbia University. His work focuses on organizational economics and political economy. His current research in organizational economics explores – through theoretical modeling, field experiments, and data analysis – issues such as incentive provision, corporate leadership, employee motivation, and organizational language. His work attempts to define and measure the influence of the media industry on the democratic process. Recent articles in this area include: “Media Power” in Journal of Political Economy (2018) and “Measuring and Protecting Media Plurality in the Digital Age” Knight First Amendment Institute (2020). He served as Chairman and Managing Editor of the Review of Economic Studies. Tuesday August 17, 2021, 9:00am-12:30pm EDT Leading Topics, Trends and Innovation in Cybersecurity and Digital Financial Services (DFS) Leading industry experts, thought leaders and academics came together for a half day exploration of three significant topics of current interest in digital financial services and cybersecurity: the gender divide in DFS and diversity in the cybersecurity profession; notable trends through and beyond the pandemic; the intersection of blockchain, digital currencies and cybersecurity. Welcome, Address, and the DFSO Actionable Cybersecurity Risk Management Framework 9:00 – 9:30am EDT (New York) Prof. Eli Noam, Columbia Institute for Tele-Information (CITI) and Columbia University Leon Perlman, Former CITI, Columbia University Keith Bowie, CITI & Columbia University, A. Research Scholar The Gender Divide and Diversity in Cybersecurity & DFS 9:30 – 10:25am Dr. Rebecca Wright, (moderator) Columbia University, Druckenmiller professor of Computer Science, director of Vagelos Computational Science Center at Barnard Jaya Baloo, Avast, Chief Information Security Officer Lesly Goh, World Bank Group, Chief Technology Officer and Director of Enterprise Architecture and Technology Taylor Grossman, Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, Research Analyst in the Cyber Policy Initiative Brencil Kaimba, Serianu, Head of Product Strategy and Partnership Development and ISACA Kenya, Membership Director Trends, Initiatives & Innovation in Cybersecurity in DFS: The Pandemic & Beyond 10:30 – 11:25am Simon Hunt, (moderator) Mastercard, Executive Vice President, Cyber Security Product Innovation Cynthia Wright, MITRE Corporation - Principal, Cyber Strategy & Policy at the MITRE Corporation Amit Kachnia-Patel, FBI, Supervisory Special Agent Anna Collard, KnowBe4, SVP Content Strategy & Evangelist and Founder of Popcorn Training Anup Singh, Microsave, Partner Cybersecurity, Blockchain, Digital Currencies & DFS 11:30am -12:25pm Sandra Ro, (moderator) Global Blockchain Business Council (GBBC), CEO Sunayna Tuteja, U.S. Federal Reserve, Chief Innovation Officer Joshua Klayman, Linklaters, U.S. Head of Fintech and Head of Blockchain and Digital Assets Paul Marrinnan, TRM Labs, Blockchain Intelligence R.A. Farrokhnia, Columbia Business School, Executive Director Dean’s Office, Adjust Associate Professor of Business Final Thoughts 12:25 – 12:30pm Michael Wechsler, CITI & Columbia University, A. Research Scholar August 5, 2021, 12:00pm-1:00pm EDT Luis Cabral Professor of Economics and International Business, New York University Luis Cabral is the Paganelli-Bull Professor of Economics and International Business and the Chair of the Economic Department at NYU’s Stern School of Business. Prof. Cabral's research is focused on the dynamics of firm competition, both from the antitrust and the strategy perspectives. His research topics include networks and network effects; corporate reputation; and a focus on media and entertainment industries. In addition to numerous journal articles, he is the author of Introduction to Industrial Organization, a textbook translated and adopted by universities in dozens of countries worldwide. From 2004-2009, he was a member of European Commission President Barroso's Group of Economic Policy Analysis (a group of 12 members). July 1, 2021, 12:00pm-1:00pm EDT Sherry Turkle Professor of the Social Studies of Science and Technology, MIT Sherry Turkle is the Abby Rockefeller Mauzé Professor of the Social Studies of Science and Technology at MIT and the founding director of the MIT Initiative on Technology and Self. Turkle writes on the “subjective side” of people’s relationships with technology, especially computers. She is an expert on culture and therapy, mobile technology, social networking, and sociable robotics. A licensed clinical psychologist, she is the author of six books, including the brand-new The Empathy Diaries: A Memoir (Penguin, 2021), which ties together her personal story with her groundbreaking research on technology, empathy, and ethics. Her other books include the New York Times bestsellers Reclaiming Conversation: The Power of Talk in a Digital Age; Alone Together: Why We Expect More from Technology and Less from Each Other; The Second Self: Computers and the Human Spirit; Life on the Screen: Identity in the Age of the Internet; and Simulation and Its Discontents. Professor Turkle is a Ms. Magazine “Woman of the Year”, a TED speaker, a featured media commentator, the recipient of Guggenheim and Rockefeller Humanities fellowships, and a member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. Monday & Tuesday June 28 & 29, 2021 Webinar with the Columbia-IBMCenter for Blockchain and Data Transparency "Blockchain’s Role in the Privacy and Security of Video Distribution and Usage" CITI has had a long history working on both the topics of Blockchain and video. We recently published two volumes on the future of video and have been engaged over the last 6 years in researching digital financial services, which has led to us publishing several papers on Blockchain and the cryptoeconomy. We now seek to merge these two topics, as we have observed that there is a growing confluence between the two, and Blockchain could solve many issues we identified in the future of video. Using Blockchain to Secure Future Video Distribution Verification of authenticity of videos and stills, protection against deep fakes Protections and authentications of content for copyright purposes Protection of advertisers against industrialized click-fraud Securing a decentralized repository of global IP registration Access control for content, interactive video, storage, and for video meetings Insuring User Privacy Through Blockchain Privacy protection of a user’s media consumption and transactions from platforms and advertisers Protection of viewer choices and user-generated content in authoritarian countries Securing user data gathered by video providers Future Payment Systems for Video Enabled by Blockchain Securing the financial flow of content payment and creator compensation, The use of automated smart-contracts Advertising Supported Video in a Blockchain Video Environment Taxation of Video Systems in a Blockchain System Balancing New Regulation with Innovation: Blockchain-supported Video Distribution Balancing liability amongst various players in a Blockchain-delivered video environment Balancing privacy with other societal goals Balancing access security with the free flow of information Columbia Business School four-block Contact Us Columbia Institute for Tele-Information 3022 Broadway Uris Hall New York, NY 10027 Phone: (212) 854-4222 Fax: (212) 854-1471 [email protected] Make a Gift About Us Directories RSS Feeds Hiring Media Inquiries Contact Us Directions Follow on Twitter instagram Like on Facebook Follow on YouTube Connect on LinkedIn © Columbia University Columbia University in the City of New York 665 West 130th Street, New York, NY 10027 212-854-1100 Privacy and Policy Statements Return to Top