Alert By continuing to use this site, you agree to the use of cookies in accordance with our privacy policy. Dismiss Stay Safe The official source of public health information for Syracuse University Skip to Content Toggle menu Search the University Search the University Online Online Programs The Experience Why Online Veteran and Military Online Student Support FAQs Online Online Programs The Experience Why Online Veteran and Military Online Student Support FAQs Home Online Online Student Support Online Student Support Invested in Your Success As an online student at Syracuse University, you’ll be supported at every step. From the time you enroll, an academic advisor will work with you to plan your program and map your progress, while career services staff help you define and achieve your professional goals. And throughout your journey, you’ll have access to the academic and personal help you need to succeed. Syracuse University Libraries Features a staff of specialists knowledgeable in the most useful library tools and resources for your field of study.Learn More Information Technology Services Works with our schools, colleges and administrative divisions to support students, faculty and staff with technology resources.Learn More Writing Center and the Graduate Editing Center Offers one-on-one consulting services to support the success of all Syracuse University students.Learn More Center for Disability Resources Arranges for the provision of auxiliary aids, assistive technology and reasonable accommodations for all qualified students with documented disabilities.Learn More Office of Online Student Success Coordinates resources and strategies that ensure academic and personal development for students enrolled in undergraduate online programs.Learn More Frequently Asked Questions How do I buy books/materials? Will I have an advisor? Will I be able to attend graduation? See More Common Questions Take the next step: Find Your Program PopularToggle dropdown Academic Calendar Campus Map Careers Libraries Majors and Minors Visit and Tour A-ZToggle dropdown Academic Departments Schools and Colleges Sitemap Search ContactToggle dropdown Admissions Financial Aid Emergency Contacts Human Resources Make a Gift LoginToggle dropdown MySlice Blackboard SUMail Syracuse University 900 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, NY 13244 Phone: +1.315.443.1870 Like Syracuse on Facebook Follow Syracuse on Twitter Subscribe to Syracuse on YouTube Follow Syracuse on Instagram © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy