Skip navigation Information For: Future Students Current Students PLME Students Faculty & Staff Residents & Fellows Alumni Parents The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University Search Brown Search AMS About Education Student Affairs Diversity Admission Financial Aid Med A to Z People Directory Department of Orthopaedics Fellowship Programs Sports Medicine Fellowship Sports Medicine Fellowship Brown Bears Rhode Island Rams Providence Bruins Salve Regina University Athletics Newport Gulls Newport Rugby Roger Williams University Hawks Volvo Ocean Race Round the World Tennis Hall of Fame Champions Cup US Lacrosse ATP World Tour Festival Ballet Providence Brown's Sports Medicine Fellowship is a unique, one year experience of post-residency training in disorders specifically related to all facets of sports medicine. The fellowship is ACGME accredited (4/20/2018 - 4/1/2028) and participates in the match, sponsored by the Arthroscopy Association of North America (AANA) and American Orthopedic Society for Sports Medicine (AOSSM), administered through the San Francisco match (SFmatch.org). The fellowship is modeled to be a true mentorship experience with the fellow playing an active role in the management of injured athletes as a critical member of the sports medicine team. The fellowship is not designed to mimic another year of your residency, it is designed to provide an attending level experience. The goal for the fellowship is to provide a state-of-the-art clinical and operative opportunity that allows the fellow to become an expert in the diagnosis, non-operative treatment, operative treatment and rehabilitation of sports related injuries. The sports medicine fellow will work with fellowship trained and board certified sports medicine orthopedic surgeons with a primary focus on knee, shoulder, and hip disorders. The surgical experience includes routine arthroscopic knee and shoulder procedures and complex disorders such as multi-ligament knee injuries and shoulder arthroplasty. There is additional exposure to pediatric sports medicine and hip arthroscopy, and opportunities to participate in trauma, elbow, and foot/ankle disorders with associated faculty if desired. The fellow is encouraged to work with the shoulder fellow. There is ample opportunity for an independent surgical experience for the fellow with full attending privileges for the academic year. The fellow will participate in Brown's orthopedic resident education including progressive primary supervision and teaching of residents during surgical procedures. There is a weekly sports medicine fellow conference and journal club. Team coverage responsibilities are shared with attending surgeons and other Brown fellows/residents and include over 30 Division 1 Brown University varsity athletic teams and the Providence Bruins AHL professional hockey team. The emphasis of the fellowship is clinical; however academic investigation into clinical or basic science problems is encouraged. There is ample opportunity to participate in ongoing and novel research projects through a highly funded and productive Department of Orthopedics Research Laboratory. The fellow has the opportunity to go to multiple industry as well as Academy learning courses. Ultimately, the fellow will develop and refine a knowledge base and technical skills set that allows for a career in treating sports injuries and contribution to the sports medicine profession from the clinical and scholarly perspective. The fellow will NOT be responsible for office night call, hospital on call, or trauma coverage. There ARE sports medicine moonlighting/coverage opportunities during the year to augment the fellow’s experience and salary. The Warren Alpert Medical School and the Department of Orthopaedics have a long tradition of actively seeking underrepresented minorities for inclusion and advancement. Our Sports Medicine Fellowship program encourages application by such candidates with notification through the fellowship and San Francisco match websites. Full-Length Video One Minute Video Faculty Paul Fadale, MD Professor of Orthopaedics Chief, Division of Sports Medicine Director, Sports Medicine Fellowship To learn more about Dr. Fadale click here. After completing both his internship and residency at Brown University, Dr. Fadale completed a Sports Medicine Fellowship in Baltimore and a Trauma/Sports Medicine Fellowship in Switzerland. Before returning to Brown as the Chief of Sports Medicine, he served as a faculty member at the University of Pittsburgh Medical Center. Dr. Fadale is the Head Team Physician for the Providence Bruins Professional Hockey Team, Brown University Athletics, Festival Ballet Providence and previously the U.S. Figure Skating Finals. He has taught / lectured at AO (trauma), AANA (arthroscopy) , AOSSM (sports medicine) and AAOS (orthopaedic surgery) surgical educational courses. Dr. Fadale is a graduate of the State University of New York. He has participated in several radio and television presentation including the Cable News Network (CNN). His research and publications cover a wide range of athletic injuries. Michael J. Hulstyn, MD Professor of Orthopaedics Dr. Hulstyn's Professional Papers Dr. Hulstyn was an undergraduate at the University of California at Davis and Brown University. Postgraduate medical education includes residency at the University of California at San Diego and Brown University, and a Sports Medicine Fellowship at Massachusetts General Hospital and Harvard University. He is a Team Physician for Brown University, Johnson & Wales University, and the Providence Bruins Professional Hockey Club, providing care to interscholastic, intercollegiate and professional athletes. His research interests include clinical and basic science projects studying sports-related injuries to the shoulder and knee. Brett Owens, MD Professor of Orthopaedics Director, Sports Medicine Research Brett Owens, MD is a fellowship-trained, board certified orthopedic sports medicine surgeon, specializing in arthroscopic repair of sports-related injuries as well as complex knee and shoulder reconstructions. Prior to joining the Brown program, he served as the Chief of Orthopedics and Sports Medicine at Keller Army Hospital at West Point, NY, where he cared for soldiers and cadets at the United States Military Academy and was Team Physician for the Army Athletics. Dr. Owens is currently Team Physician for the U.S Lacrosse Men’s National Team, and Team Physician for Brown University. He has published over 150 articles in peer-reviewed medical journals, given over 200 national or international presentations, co-edited two textbooks on orthopedic injuries, and serves as Associate Editor for the American Journal of Sports Medicine. His research has garnered 5 major awards from the American Orthopedic Society for Sports Medicine. Braden C. Fleming , PhD Lucy Lippitt Professor of Orthopaedics Professor of Engineering Dr. Fleming joined the Department of Orthopaedics in June 2003. He received his doctorate in Mechanical Engineering from the University of Vermont in 1996 and then served on the faculty of the Department of Orthopaedics & Rehabilitation at the University of Vermont. His primary research interests focus on the lower extremity and spine with a particular interest in knee and soft tissue biomechanics, and biomedical instrumentation. Recent projects include the in vivo strain measurements of the human anterior cruciate ligament, the development of an experimental model to investigate graft healing and the progression of osteoarthritis following ACL injury and reconstruction, tissue engineering methods to stimulate ligament healing, and the in vivo measurement of the forces and motion of spinal implants. He has received several awards for his research including the ACL Study Group Traveling Fellowship (2010); The Cabaud Research Award (2009) and the O'Donogue Research Award (2005) of the American Orthopaedics Society of Sports Medicine; the Bruce Selya Research Award of Lifespan (2005), GOTS-Beiersdorf Research Award (2000), the American Society of Biomechanics Post-doctoral Young Scientist Award (1999), the Albert Trillat Young Investigator Award (1997), and the Kappa Delta Award of the American Academy of Orthopaedic Surgeons (1994). Dr. Ramin Tabaddor Assistant Professor of Orthopedics Dr. Tabaddor has been practicing orthopedic surgery since 2009. He is a fellowship trained, CAQ certified sports medicine orthopedist, with a special concentration in hip and pelvic-related disorders (including femoroacetabular impingement, gluteus medius tears, athletic pubalgia and iliopsoas tendon tears). Dr. Tabaddor treats a wide range of sports related injuries, both surgical and nonsurgical, and he has had specialized training in hip arthroscopy. He holds an undergraduate degree with honors from Boston University and an MD from Boston University School of Medicine.Additionally, he completed his surgical internship medical residency at Brigham & Women’s Hospital and his orthopedic residency at Harvard Combined Orthopedic Residency Program, where he also served as Chief Administrative Resident. Dr. Tabaddor’s professional affiliations include: American Orthopedic Society of Sports Medicine; International Society of Hip Arthroscopy; American Academy of Orthopedic Surgeons; Arthroscopy Association of North America; and RI Orthopedic Society. He is a member of the physician referral network for USA Gymnastics and the Team Physician for the US In-line Speed Skating Team.Dr. Tabaddor sits on the Sports Medicine Advisory Committee of the Federation of International Rollersports and the Sports Medicine Advisory Committee of the Rhode Island Interscholastic League. He has also provided coverage for Special Olympics, Boston Ballet, URI athletics and various high school sporting events in the state of Rhode Island. He is an avid runner and swimmer and enjoys participating in triathlons and paddle boarding. Dr. Tabaddor resides in Providence, RI. Jonathan Schiller, MD Associate Professor of Orthopaedics Dr. Schiller's Professional Papers Dr. Schiller is an Assistant Professor of Orthopaedics at The Warren Alpert School of Medicine of Brown University and an attending physician at Hasbro Children’s Hospital and Rhode Island Hospital. He has authored numerous peer-reviewed publications, book chapters, and regional, national, and international presentations related to pediatric orthopaedic care. His current research interests include improving success of limb lengthening procedures, pediatric fracture management, scoliosis, and treatment of the adolescent and young adult hip problems. He was the recipient of the 2007 Peter G. Trafton Research Award for Orthopaedic Trauma and the 2008 Haffenreffer Family House Staff Excellence Award. Michel Arcand, MD Assistant Professor of Orthopaedics Dr. Arcand is a graduate of St. Anselm College and earned his MD at the Université Laval Faculté de Médecine in Quebec, Canada. After completing his residency with the Université de Montréal he completed a shoulder and elbow fellowship with Baylor University and a sports medicine fellowship at the University of Chicago. Dr. Arcand treats a wide range of sports related injuries with both operative and non-operative methods, specializing in upper extremities. Typical injuries include rotator cuff tears and impingement, shoulder dislocations, arthritis, fractures and total shoulder replacement surgery. He is actively involved in sports medicine and is affiliated with Bishop Hendricken Rugby Club and Newport Rugby Club. Aristides I. Cruz, Jr., MD Assistant Professor of Orthopaedics Dr. Cruz is an Assistant Professor of Orthopaedics at The Warren Alpert School of Medicine at Brown University and an attending physician at Hasbro Children’s Hospital. He served in the United States Air Force as an attending Orthopaedic Surgeon and completed Fellowship training in Pediatric Orthopaedic Surgery at The Children’s Hospital of Philadelphia where he received training in the treatment of children’s sports injuries. His clinical interests include the treatment of ligamentous injuries, musculoskeletal trauma, and fractures in the skeletally immature athlete. He is board certified, a member of the Arthroscopy Association of America, and a member of the Pediatric Orthopaedic Society of North America. James O. Maher III, MD Clinical Assistant Professor of Orthopaedics A graduate of New York Medical College, Dr. Maher completed his orthopaedic residency training at the same university. He then spent four years on active duty with the US Navy stationed at Newport Naval Hospital. In addition to being the Naval Academy Preparatory Team Physician, he served in Saudi Arabia during the Persian Gulf War. Currently, his team physician responsibilities include Salve Regina University, Roger Williams University, St. George's School and Rogers High School. He is the orthopaedic consultant for the Newport Tennis Hall of Fame (ATP Tournament), Newport Jai Alai, and USGA Amateur Tournament. Dr. Maher practices both in Newport and Providence. Peter Kriz, MD Associate Professor of Orthopaedics(Clinical) Assistant Professor of Pediatrics Dr. Kriz is a graduate of Boston College and Tufts University School of Medicine. Dr. Kriz completed a pediatric and chief residency at Rhode Island Hospital/Hasbro Children's Hospital. He completed a fellowship in Primary Care Sports Medicine at Children's Hospital Boston in 2010. Dr. Kriz's research interests include injury prevention in youth sports and sport-related concussion. He currently provides team physician responsibilities to student-athletes at Brown University and several area high schools, and concussion management for the Providence Bruins Professional Hockey Team. Special interests include biomechanical/video analysis and injury assessment of the throwing athlete, musculoskeletal ultrasound, dance medicine, and sports concussion management. He is a fellow of the American College of Sports Medicine, and has lectured at several national meetings on the topic of youth sports injuries. David Bica, DO Assistant Clinical Professor of Orthopaedics Dr. Bica joins University Orthopedics as an attending at Newport Hospital after practicing 3 years with East Greenwich Spine and Sport. Dr. Bica will serve as an assistant clinical professor in the Department of Orthopedics along with his current position as assistant clinical professor in the Department of Family Medicine at the Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University. Dr. Bica is board certified in Family Medicine with a certificate of added qualification in Sports Medicine. Dr. Bica was born and raised in Rhode Island, graduated from Providence College, and then earned his osteopathic medical degree at the Philadelphia College of Osteopathic Medicine. Dr. Bica completed his residency and fellowship at East Carolina University and stayed on faculty as Assistant Residency Director teaching residents and medical students. Dr. Bica has been practicing in Rhode Island at East Greenwich Spine and Sport since 2014.Dr. Bica serves as the President and Education Committee Chairman of the Rhode Island Academy of Family Physicians. Dr. Bica also serves as the Secretary of the Rhode Island Society of Osteopathic Physicians and Surgeons. Dr. Bica's other interests include sports medicine research, osteopathic manipulative medicine in treatment of neck and lower back pain, fluoroscopic spinal injections, and diagnostic and interventional musculoskeletal ultrasound. Philip Salko, MD Clinical Assistant Professor of Orthopaedics Dr. Salko is Board certified in Family Medicine and CAQ trained in primary care sports medicine. Dr. Salko specializes in primary care sports medicine and interventional pain management utilizing ultrasound, fluoroscopy and other non-invasive modalities. Prior to joining University Orthopedics, he worked as Chief of Primary Care Sports Medicine for a regional orthopedic group. He served as Head Team Physician at Bryant University and as an Assistant Professor at Brown Medical School. He recently was the recipient of a teaching award through the doctoring program at Brown. Additionally, Dr. Salko was one of the original founders of the Brown Primary Care Sports Medicine Fellowship, where he serves as Assistant Site Fellowship Director. He is currently Secretary/Treasurer of the Rhode Island Academy of Family Physicians, and was recently chosen President-Elect for 2018. Dr. Salko is also a member of the Communications Committee of the American Medical Society for Sports Medicine, as well as, a Board Member of the Sports Medicine Advisory Committee of the RI Interscholastic League. He has served as a medical volunteer for the Save the Bay Swim; “Rhode Races” Newport marathon and half marathon; North Kingstown High School; Bryant University; RI Medical Reserve Corps; and Disaster Medical Assistance Team. Dr. Salko received his undergraduate degree in Biology from Franklin and Marshall College and his MD from Jefferson Medical College. He completed his residency in Family Medicine at Brown University and his fellowship in Primary Care Sports Medicine through University of Utah. Andrew Chen, MD Assistant Professor of Orthopaedics Andrew Chen, MD, CAQSM is a primary care sports medicine physician whose interests encompass all aspects of sports and musculoskeletal medicine. These interests include the diagnosis and management of acute and chronic injuries, injury rehabilitation and prevention, sports-related concussions, and exercise physiology. He is specially trained in non-operative and minimally-invasive management of musculoskeletal issues such as ultrasound-guided injections for arthritis and tendon pain and percutaneous needle tenotomy (TenJet) for chronic tendon problems like tennis elbow and plantar fasciitis. Dr. Chen received his medical degree from Jefferson Medical College in Philadelphia and completed his family medicine residency training at Mount Sinai Hospital and with the Institute for Family Health in New York City. Afterwards, he moved to Cleveland for his sports medicine fellowship training at Case Western Reserve University School of Medicine and University Hospitals. During his time there, he served as team physician for Kent State University, Lake Erie College, and Hawken Upper School David Pezzullo, MS, PT, SCS, ATC Director of Physical Therapy University Orthopedics, Inc. Mr. Pezzullo received a Bachelor of Science degree in Physical Therapy from the University of Connecticut and an advanced Masters of Science degree in Sports and Orthopedic Physical Therapy from the University of Pittsburgh. He is a Board Certified Sports Physical Therapy Clinical Specialist by the American Physical Therapy Association as well as a certified athletic trainer by the National Athletic Trainers Association. He currently serves as the Director of Physical Therapy at University Orthopedics and is an athletic trainer for the University of Rhode Island Men’s Ice Hockey team. He was a Clinical Assistant Professor in the Department of Physical Therapy at the University of Pittsburgh for 8 years with a teaching concentration in anatomy and musculoskeletal evaluation and rehabilitation. He also served as the Medical Communications Manager for the City of Pittsburgh Marathon in 2000 and 2001. He has published several peer- reviewed journal articles, book chapters, and delivered presentations at several national professional conferences. Musculoskeletal rehabilitation of the shoulder, knee, spine, foot and ankle are his areas of expertise and clinical interest. Fellows Current Fellow 2021-2022 Rachel Talley-Bruns, MD Rachel Talley Bruns, MD grew up in San Jose, California. She earned her bachelor's degree in Dance at the State University of New York at Purchase. She worked as a professional modern dancer in New York City while completing the Postbaccalaureate Premedical Program at Columbia University. She attended medical school and completed her residency at the New York Medical College, Westchester Medical Center in Valhalla, NY. Upcoming Fellow 2022-2023 Logan Petit, MD Logan grew up in Bedford, New Hampshire. He earned his undergraduate degree from the University of New Hampshire in Durham, New Hampshire. He attended medical school and earned a Masters of Public Health at the Tulane School of Medicine in New Orleans, Louisiana. He is currently finishing his residency at the Yale School of Medicine in New Haven, Connecticut. Previous Fellows 2020-2021 Andrew Gage, MD Andrew Gage, MD grew up in East Amherst, NY. He earned his undergraduate degree at the University of Buffalo in Buffalo, NY. He attended medical school and is completing his residency at the Jacobs School of Medicine in Buffalo. 2019-2020 Erin Haggerty, MD Erin Haggerty grew up in Ventura, California. She earned her undergraduate degree at the University of California Los Angeles (UCLA) as a member of the women’s rowing team. She attended medical school at The University of Southern California (USC) and is currently completing a second fellowship in foot/ankle at UC Davis/Reno Orthopaedics. 2018-2019 Taylor Wiley, MD Taylor Wiley, MD grew up in Vernon, Connecticut. He earned his undergraduate degree at Providence College, in Providence RI. He attended medical school at New York Medical College in Valhalla, NY. He completed his residency at the University of Connecticut Health Center in Farmington, CT. 2017-2018 Ross Budacki, M.D. Ross Budacki, MD grew up in Erie, Pennsylvania. He earned his undergraduate degree at Pennsylvania State University Schreyer Honors College in State College, PA. He attended medical school at Georgetown University School of Medicine in Washington, DC. He completed his residency at the Einstein Medical Center in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. 2016-2017 J.Kristopher Ware, MD J. Kristopher Ware, MD, grew up in Glastonbury, CT. He earned his undergraduate and Masters of Science degrees at the University of Connecticut in Storrs, CT. He completed his Doctor of Physical Therapy degree at MGH Institute in Boston, MA. He worked for 6 years as a Physical Therapist prior to attending medical school at the University of Vermont in Burlington, VT. He completed his residency at the University of Connecticut Health Center in Farmington, CT. 2015-2016 Ryan Morris, DO Ryan Morris, DO, grew up in Rolla, Missouri. He earned his undergraduate degree at Missouri School of Science and Technology. He attended medical school at Oklahoma State University Center for Health Sciences in Tulsa, Oklahoma and completed his residency at Genesys Regional Medical Center in Grand Blanc, Michigan. 2014-2015 Trevor Born, MD Trevor R Born, MD, grew up in Bradenton, FL. He earned his undergraduate degree at the University of Florida in Gainesville, FL. He attended medical school at University of South Florida Morsani College of Medicine in Tampa, FL and completed his residency at the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, MN. 2013-2014 Jeremy Mangion, MD Dr. Mangion earned his undergraduate degree at Columbia University in New York, he then proceeded to medical school at “UMDNJ” -New Jersey Medical School in Newark, NJ. Dr. Mangion completed his residency at the New York Medical College – Westchester Medical Center in Valhalla, NY. 2012-2013 Philip Lahey, MD Dr. Lahey earned his undergraduate degree at Cornell University in Ithaca, NY; earned his graduate degree at the Georgetown University School of Medicine in Washington, DC then proceeded to Tufts University where he went to Medical School followed by his Internship at the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minnesota and completed his residency at the Maimonides Medical Center in Brooklyn, NY. 2011-2012 Anthony Avery, MD Dr. Avery, M.D. grew up in Washington, DC. He earned his undergraduate degree at Villanova University in Villanova, Pennsylvania and earned his medical degree at Georgetown University School of Medicine in Washington, DC. Dr. Avery completed his residency at the Monmouth Medical Center in Long Branch, New Jersey. 2010-2011 Brett Anderson, MD Dr. Anderson, M.D. grew up in Douglas, MA. He earned his undergraduate degree at the United States Air Force Academy and his medical degree at the University of Texas Health Science Center in San Antonio (UTHSCSA). He completed his orthopedic residency training at UTHSCSA and is currently in practice with the United States Air Force in Colorado. He is board certified by the American Board of Orthopaedic Surgery and is a fellow of the American Academy of Orthopaedic Surgeons. 2009-2010 Keith Monchik, MD Dr. Monchik was born in Washington DC, attended Franklin and Marshall College where he earned his BA in government studies. He attended medical school at Ross University where he earned the distinguished academic scholar award and valedictorian. His surgical training and trauma fellowship occurred at Brown University / Rhode Island Hospital where he won the house staff excellence award and public service award. Clinical Practice The Division of Sports Medicine maintains a busy clinical practice. The Fellow has the opportunity to evaluate patients in different clinical settings such as: attending private offices, the Rhode Island Hospital sports medicine clinic, the VA medical center, and athletic training rooms at Brown University and Providence Bruins Hockey. This offers the opportunity for a complete and varied experience in the management of athletic injuries. Exposure to different attendings throughout the year allows the fellow to see multiple approaches in patient management. It is important that the fellow learns in an office setting the management of patients, the business aspects of medicine, and understanding coding/billing. Physical therapy is located in all office locations providing the fellow with constant interaction with physical therapists and the opportunity to monitor their patient’s progress. Operative experience is designed for the fellow to master skills in diagnostic and operative arthroscopy as well as open surgical procedures. The division draws surgical patients from the private clinical setting, athletic training rooms, hospital sports medicine clinics, and appropriate surgical cases from our level 1 trauma center. In general, the fellow will be in the operating room 3 to 4 days a week. This mentorship program allows for progressive maturation of the fellow leading to an independent surgical experience with the opportunity to teach. Numerous opportunities exist for the sports medicine fellow to participate with athletic teams including Brown University division 1 athletics and the Providence Bruins Professional Hockey Team (AHL affiliate of the Boston Bruins). The fellow will participate in preparticipation physical exams, athlete clinics, game coverage, and medical/surgical management of the athletes as required. Because the Sports Medicine Fellowship is in the Department of Orthopedics, clinical responsibilities can be shared with other residents and fellows. This allows for time flexibility for the fellow. Research The fellow will have protected time for his/her research efforts; this time can be adjusted for the fellow's needs. This time also includes the opportunity to research or learn surgical procedures in the department cadaver and arthroscopic laboratories. The fellow is encouraged to complete or to contribute to at least one research project in the department. The division maintains an active sports medicine research program under the direction of Brett Owens, MD and boasts world class research faculty to include Braden Fleming, PhD; Trey Crisco, PhD; Qian Chen, PhD; Bahar Bilgen, PhD; Ali Biercevicz, PhD; and Martha Murray, MD; with several Brown University undergraduates, medical students, and residents undertaking projects concurrently. Brown maintains a national leadership role in ligament and articular cartilage research. Ample support for supplies and equipment as well as technical support is available to assist the fellow. Bioengineering Lab: http://www.brown.edu/academics/medical/about/departments/orthopaedics/bioengineering/research Dr. Fleming’s Lab: https://vivo.brown.edu/display/bfleming Dr. Bilgen’s lab: https://vivo.brown.edu/display/bbilgen Dr. Chen’s Lab: https://vivo.brown.edu/display/qchen3 RIH Orthopaedic Foundation (RIHOF) Biomechanical Testing Facility: http://www.rihof.org/ Accomplishments Members of our research team have been highly decorated researchers who have been awarded the following recent research awards: Kappa Delta Ann Doner Vaughn Award (AAOS) – 2017, 2013 O’Donoghue Sports Injury Research Award (AOSSM) - 2014, 2012, 2005, 1996 Hughston Award (AOSSM) - 2006 Cabaud Research Award (AOSSM) - 2013, 2009, 2001 NCAA Research Award (AOSSM) - 2007 Aircast Research Award (AOSSM) – 2015, 2014, 2013 Multicenter Research Groups Our group believes in collaborative research approach and has been part of many multicenter studies to include the following: MARS Group – Multicenter ACL Revision Study Multiple Ligament Surgical Timing and Rehabilitation Trial (START) Surveillance and Outcomes Measures in Orthopaedic Surgery (SOMOS) Team ACL – Primary Repair of ACL Workgroup BEAR MOON clinical trial site - https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT03776162 Salary and Benefits The salary is determined by level of training (PGY year) and in accordance with Rhode Island Hospital Department of Graduate Medical Education. During the year the fellow has elective opportunities to augment their surgical experience and salary through the VA medical center by teaching and assisting orthopedic residents during elective surgery. Additional compensation is available including, but not limited to health and dental insurance. The fellow has opportunity to attend annual society meetings including AAOS, AOSSM, and AANA. There is also opportunity to function as a surgical faculty member at the AANA Resident Course in Chicago. The Fellowship year begins August 1 and ends July 31 of the following year. Two weeks of formal vacation are provided in addition to academic meeting trips and flexibility is available if job interview requirements arise. For more information about Brown: Why Brown? Why Rhode Island? Application Process Our next application enrollment period will be for the academic year August 2023 through July 2024. Applications will be accepted from September, 2021 and the deadline for submission is November 1st, 2021. Applications will only be accepted through the San Francisco Match. http://sfmatch.org Formal Virtual Brown University Sports Medicine Interviews will be held on Monday, March 7, 2022. Formal interviews are coordinated with the other New England Fellowship programs. Contact Send requests for information to: Sonia M Castle Sports Medicine Fellowship Coordinator 1 Kettle Point Avenue East Providence, Rhode Island, 02914 Phone: 401-457-1538 Fax 401-831-0616 E-mail: [email protected] Audrey Bell - Fellowship Coordinator Phone: 401-457-1567 E-mail: a[email protected] Home About Us News Faculty Residency Program Fellowship Programs Adult Reconstruction Foot and Ankle Hand Pediatrics Shoulder Elbow Spine Sports Medicine Trauma Research Laboratories Brown Medical Students MS4 Visiting Students Diversity and Inclusion Print this Page Share this Page The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University Box G-A1, Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-3330 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: Facebook / LinkedIn / YouTube / Flickr / Twitter Resources Academic Departments Affiliated Hospitals Faculty Directory Make a Gift Quick Links University Orthopaedics