Skip to content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation About About Georgia Tech History & Traditions Rankings Mission & Vision Our Values Ethics Visitor Information Institute Leadership Office and Department Directory Student, Staff, and Faculty Directory Careers at Tech Academics Academic Environment Majors and Degrees Colleges and Schools Continuing and Professional Education Georgia Tech Online Academic Calendar Admissions Prospective Students Admissions Overview Campus Tours Tuition and Costs Financial Aid & Scholarships Digital Swag Campus Life Explore the Main Campus Student Activities Athletics Georgia Tech Yellow Jackets Tickets Ramblin Wreck Store Research Research Areas Research News News & Events News Center Experts Guide Feature Stories Campus Calendar Media Contacts Apply Give Search Search form Enter your keywords Get the latest Covid-19 health information, operational status updates, and campus guidelines. You are here: GT Home Bachelor of Science in Biochemistry Undergraduate Biochemistry Degree Overview In addition to its technology-focused biochemistry curriculum and state-of-the-art laboratories, Georgia Tech’s B.S. in Biochemistry degree program offers several key advantages: The opportunity to work on cutting-edge research projects with world-class faculty and facilities, so you can round out your education by practicing what you have learned. Flexible degree options: You can customize your degree to fit your specific interests and career goals. Atlanta location: Atlanta, Georgia is one of the most tech-savvy cities in the U.S. and home to some of the world’s most prestigious company headquarters. As a Biochemistry major, you will acquire basic competence and knowledge in the biological and physical sciences. You will develop a strong understanding of biochemical principles, and learn how to apply them to real-world problems. Biochemistry Degree Concentrations and Options Concentrations Customize your biochemistry curriculum plan to match your specific interests and career plans. Prepare for medical, pharmacy, dental, veterinary, physical therapy, or graduate school. See the course requirements for the Pre-Health Science Track. Build a business perspective into your degree without adding the hours required for a minor. See the course requirements for the Business Track. Options Increase your competitiveness for jobs and graduate school by adding a designation to your degree. Pursue an in-depth, long-term research experience. Learn more about the Research Option. Prepare for a global career. Learn more about the International Plan. B.S. Biochemistry Requirements The Bachelor of Science in Biochemistry degree program contains the following: general core classes; technical courses that provide a strong background in biochemistry; technical electives to explore areas in greater depth; courses involving undergraduate research, and free electives. Explore the Biochemistry curriculum. View all of the B.S. in Biochemistry degree requirements Rankings and Awards Georgia Tech’s School of Chemistry and Biochemistry faculty members are frequently recognized for their outstanding contributions to their fields. A National Medal of Science Winner A presidential award given to individuals deserving of special recognition for their outstanding contributions to knowledge in the physical, biological, mathematical, or engineering sciences. 10 Sloan Research Fellowships Awarded for distinguished performance and a unique potential to make substantial contributions to the field. 15 National Science Foundation CAREER Award Winners The National Science Foundation’s most prestigious award for early-career teacher-scholars who most effectively integrate research and education within the context of the mission of their organization. See all faculty, graduate, and undergraduate awards and honors What Can You Do with a Degree in Biochemistry? Holding a biochemistry degree opens up a wide spectrum of opportunities, including careers in chemistry or other fields such as: Physician/Medical Doctor Pharmacist Research Scientist Lab Manager High School Teacher College Professor Dentist Lawyer Physical Therapist Veterinarian What Are Georgia Tech Graduates Doing Now? Pursuing studies at top professional (graduate, medical, pharmacy, dental) schools across the U.S. Leading a team of researchers at an innovative biotech startup company. Serving as operating director of a global private equity firm. Supporting vascular surgery care as a physician assistant. Providing treatment and care for small animals as an associate veterinarian. Common Job Titles and Average Salaries Biochemist or Biophysicist B.S. degree: $50K Ph.D.: $91,190 Physician Assistant: $104,860 College Professor: $92,490 Source: U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics Biochemistry Research Opportunities Explore opportunities to conduct research in chemistry while getting your degree. Get all the details and next steps here: Undergraduate Research. Beyond the Classroom Gain employment experience and benefit from real-world experience in your field. Learn more about the Co-op Program. Conduct supervised research in a chemical or related organization. Learn more about the Undergraduate Internship Program. Students in the School of Chemistry and Biochemistry have a wide range of opportunities for undergraduate study at institutions throughout the world. Learn more about study abroad and international opportunities. Stories from the School of Chemistry and Biochemistry Summer Lab Experience Helps Launch Industry and Research Careers In the Classroom with Gary Schuster Biochemistry Student Named a Rhodes Scholar Seth Marder: Transcending Standard Research and Teaching Related Degrees BS in Biology BS in Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering BS in Chemistry MS in Bioinformatics Related Websites College of Sciences School of Chemistry and Biochemistry Next Steps Subscribe to the Prospective Student e-newsletter Register for the "It's All About Science & Math" information session Learn How to Apply Apply Now Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Google Plus Instagram Flickr Pinterest RSS Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Colleges, Instructional Sites & Research Colleges College of Computing College of Design College of Engineering College of Sciences Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Scheller College of Business Instructional Sites Georgia Tech-Lorraine Georgia Tech-Savannah Georgia Tech-Shenzhen Georgia Tech Online Professional Education The Language Institute Global Footprint Global Engagement Research Georgia Tech Research Institute Research at Georgia Tech Executive Vice President for Research Student & Parent Resources Student Resources Apply BuzzPort Buzzcard Career Resources Commencement Library Student Life Student Entrepreneurship Study Abroad Canvas Parent Resources Parent and Family Programs Student Life Scholarships & Financial Aid Employee, Alumni, & Other Resources Employees Administration and Finance Advising & Teaching Faculty Affairs Faculty Hiring Human Resources Office of the Provost TechWorks Alumni Alumni Association Alumni Career Services Giving Back to Tech Outreach Startup Companies Economic Development Industry Engagement Government & Community Partners Professional Education Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 Phone: 404-894-2000 Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404.894.2000 Directory Employment Emergency Information Enable Accessibility Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © Georgia Institute of Technology Login