Skip navigation Find: A to Z Index People Directory Learn More: About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Superfund Research Program Site Navigation Home What is the Superfund? Brown's Program Projects Cores News Partnerships Publications Links Print this Page Share this Page Brown About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory m.Brown.edu News Events Visit Campus Life Map Directory Brown Apps Safety About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Superfund Research Program Toxicant Exposures in Rhode Island: Past, Present, and Future The Brown University Superfund Research Program (SRP), Toxicant Exposures in Rhode Island: Past, Present, and Future, is focused on complex environmental contaminant issues in Rhode Island. Rhode Island has a long history of industrial activity resulting in extensive contamination. An academic-government-community partnership model is a key feature of our overall SRP research strategy. Together with our partners we work to expand the understanding of the human health consequences and management of contaminated sites in Rhode Island and other post-industrial states. Our research embraces the complexity of mixed contaminants and their inevitable proximity to dense population centers, and is responsive to the needs of our government and community partners in managing the problems that this causes. Brown University's Superfund Research Program is a win-win-win for Rhode Island citizens, Rhode Island communities, and the Rhode Island environment. Brown SRP Researchers and Community Come Together on Narragansett Tribal Lands - see the feature article on the national NIEHS website Environmental Field Day with our partners from Mystic Aquarium, the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Society, and the Narragansett Indian Tribe Brown SRP trainees and staff reviewing research progress outside on the ERC laboratory building patio on the main Brown campus. We offered a workshop on 2D Nanomaterials for Human Health and the Environment. Click on the image below for more information. 2D Nanomaterials for Human Health and the Environment Workshop Watch this 3 minute video highlighting Brown SRP's new research on PFAS water sampling: Angela Stermer down a well: Trainee Angela Stermer (Project 1) testing water for PFAS as part of a collaboration between the Brown SRP and the RIDOH. Also in Superfund Research Program Site Navigation Home What is the Superfund? Brown's Program Projects Cores News Partnerships Publications Links Print this Page Share this Page Calendar There are no upcoming events. Seedlings: Free Virtual Workshops on Gardening & Food Justice (Distributed December 31, 2021) Frickel releases new book (Distributed October 29, 2021) Tollefson develops interactive contaminant and public space map (Distributed October 5, 2021) Narragansett Tribal Farm Updates (Distributed September 17, 2021) Plavicki wins Dean's Award (Distributed September 13, 2021) view more news Follow Us Our Sponsor Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory Institute for Molecular and Nanoscale Innovation Brown University Box M 184 Hope Street Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401-863-1895 [email protected] Related Links At Brown: Dept. of American Studies Dept. of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine IBES IMNI School of Engineering Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U Google+ LinkedIn RSS Futurity