Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Leaders in HIV Research You are here Home About News & Media Temple's Impact Leaders in HIV Research Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Preferred Name Use Pronoun Use and Gender Identity Temple Thought Leaders Housing & Dining Health & Wellness COVID-19: Keeping Our Community Safe & Healthy COVID-19 FAQ Testing & Tracing Vaccines Academics, Tuition & Aid Temple HEERF III Grant Student Housing & On-campus Life Work-life for Faculty & Staff Faculty Teaching Information Return Scenario Planning Temple Community Health Advisory Group University Communication Vaccination Rates and Active COVID-19 Cases at Temple University International Campuses and Programs City Life Philadelphia Visiting Temple Accommodations Dining Options Religious Services Information FAQs Safety Main Campus and Philadelphia Safety FAQ Contact Temple RAVE Temple Guardian App Community Programs and Research University News Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Campus Life Arts and Culture Clubs and Organizations Housing, Dining and OWLcards Parking and Transportation Safety Student Banking Student Centers Wireless, Computers and Phone Academics Advising and Academic Support Courses and Calendars International Students Libraries Registration, Grades and Books Schools and Colleges Health and Wellness Athletics and Fitness Health and Counseling Tuition and Financial Aid Financial Aid Tuition and Billing Careers and Internships Career Center Internships Student Jobs Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees Presidential Search President University Leadership Board of Trustees Updates Past Presidents 2019 State of the University History & Traditions Russell Conwell Temple Traditions Acres of Diamonds Honorary Degrees Past Honorary Degree Recipients Temple Health News & Media Media Mentions Temple University Wallpapers Temple's Impact Career in Charitable Change Fueled by Temple Experiences Advancing Breast Cancer Research Leaders in HIV Research 21st-century Learning Temple Firsts Paving the Way Medical & Community Support Student Support Contact members of Strategic Marketing and Communications Offices Public Information Facts About Temple Faculty & Staff Resources Working at Temple Calendars and Time Off Holiday Schedule Careers at Temple Human Resources Performance and Training Business Services Catering Exception Policy Double Tree Catering/ Conferences Contact Frequently Asked Questions Trademark Licensing Policy Corporate Responsibility Logo and Graphics Guide Guidelines for Trademark Use The Student, Faculty and Staff Guide to Ordering Licensed Temple Products Becoming Licensed Trademark and Licensing FAQ Where to Buy Temple Gear University-approved Hotels Club Quarters DoubleTree Hotel Hilton Garden Inn Hilton Philadelphia at Penn's Landing Loews Hotel Sonesta Philadelphia The Conwell Inn Campus Services Computers, Email and Phones Conferences and Meetings Health Sciences Center Form Main Campus Meeting Space Howard Gittis Student Center Form Documents & Insurance Facilities and Space ID Cards Parking and Transportation Faculty Resources Calendars, Schedules and Grades Courses and Curricula Instructional Resources Faculty Senate and News Research and Grants Finance and Travel Accounting and Budget Employee Banking and Finance Tuition Remission Travel and Expenses Wellness and Safety Fitness and Health Safety and Alerts Campus Development Frequently Asked Questions Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Data Integrity and Data Verification Unit In-scope Materials Quick Reference Guide Rankings Data Overview and Updates Additional Resources Frequently Asked Questions FAQ: Fox School of Business MBA rankings Enterprise Risk Management Key Terms and Definitions Helpline Frequently Asked Questions Resources Compliance With the Four Pillars Who We Are Libraries Charles Library Through dedication and perseverance, Temple researchers are closer to finding a cure for HIV. Recently, researchers at Temple University successfully removed viral DNA from primates, a crucial step that might lead to a cure for HIV. A team led by Kamel Khalili, Laura H. Carnell Professor and chair, Department of Neuroscience, and Tricia Burdo, associate professor of neuroscience in the Lewis Katz School of Medicine at Temple, has used CRISPR-Cas9 gene editing—more commonly known as CRISPR—to eliminate simian immunodeficiency virus (SIV), the primate equivalent of HIV, from a large animal model. This is the first experiment of its kind. The report was published online on Nov. 27, 2020, in the journal Nature Communications. Kamel Khalili Laura H. Carnell Professor and Chair, Department of Neuroscience, Lewis Katz School of Medicine “I would like to see that we can cure HIV right over here on North Broad Street.” Finding alternative treatments HIV, which affects approximately 36 million people globally, attacks the body’s cells, replicating itself and integrating into the host’s genome, becoming part of the fabric of their DNA. Scientists worldwide are exploring two different means of finding a cure. The first involves identifying infected cells and eliminating them. The second—the path that Temple is following—involves targeting infected cells and removing viral DNA. Khalili—an expert in gene editing—and Burdo—who specializes in the nonhuman primate model of HIV—aren’t altering human genes. CRISPR technology allows Khalili, Burdo and their team to excise viral DNA from the host’s genome without any interference with the host’s gene functions. The most common and current HIV treatment is antiretroviral therapy, which suppresses the virus, but doesn’t eliminate it from a person’s DNA. Khalili and Burdo address this by removing the infected part of the DNA. “What happens is that our technology cuts out the viral DNA and removes it,” Burdo said. “Your body will then end join the DNA back together and repair it.” Tricia Burdo Associate Professor of Neuroscience, Lewis Katz School of Medicine “Our technology will hopefully give the ability for people to be HIV free.” Making a cure accessible Ultimately, the team’s goal is to develop a more simple treatment designed specifically for global accessibility. They anticipate that a treatment based on their research would work differently: a single infusion that people could get at a clinic or receive bedside. And it’s important for it to be accessible because it could change so many lives. In many countries, there is still a stigma attached to HIV and to the people who are infected with it. Khalili’s group’s goal is to offer free treatments to those who need it. Scientists have been working toward a cure for HIV for four decades. The Temple team is thrilled to make a breakthrough that brings the world so much closer to it. Photo Gallery View slideshow as list Close 1/10 Jake Robinson, Shuren Liao, Rahsan Sariyer, Ilker K. Sariyer, Tricia Burdo, Kamel Khalili, Pietro Mancuso, Chen Chen, Rafal Kaminski, Mandy D. Smith and Martina Donadoni—all Temple researchers who contributed to the study. Photographed by Ryan S. Brandenberg and Joseph V. Labolito. 2/10 Kamel Khalili 3/10 Tricia Burdo 4/10 Mandy D. Smith, researcher 5/10 Kamel Khalili, Chen Chen and Tricia Burdo 6/10 Ilker K. Sariyer, researcher 7/10 Hong Liu and Kamel Khalili 8/10 Khamel Khalili and Tricia Burdo 9/10 Shuren Liao, researcher 10/10 Martina Donadoni, researcher Jake Robinson, Shuren Liao, Rahsan Sariyer, Ilker K. Sariyer, Tricia Burdo, Kamel Khalili, Pietro Mancuso, Chen Chen, Rafal Kaminski, Mandy D. Smith and Martina Donadoni—all Temple researchers who contributed to the study. Photographed by Ryan S. Brandenberg and Joseph V. Labolito. Kamel Khalili Tricia Burdo Mandy D. Smith, researcher Kamel Khalili, Chen Chen and Tricia Burdo Ilker K. Sariyer, researcher Hong Liu and Kamel Khalili Khamel Khalili and Tricia Burdo Shuren Liao, researcher Martina Donadoni, researcher Read More CRISPR Technology CRISPR gene editing allows scientists to precisely cut and alter strands of DNA. Learn more about how the team used CRISPR technology in their research. Read More CRISPR Technology How did Temple researchers get to where we are today? Breakthrough discoveries happen over time, with researchers committing hours of work over many years to understand how CRISPR technology could eliminate HIV from our DNA. See the phases that comprise research at Temple and learn more about how Khalili, Burdo and their team got to where they are today, and where they hope to go. The Phases of Temple’s HIV Research Discovery Phase The discovery phase started with an idea: Temple researchers wanted to develop a single-dose treatment of HIV that was simple, safe and globally accessible. This phase also included research commercialization. The Excision Biotherapeutics company was created, with support from Temple's Office of Research, to further develop and patent the technology and provide funding opportunities to advance this research through commercialization. Development Phase Step One The development phase involved using CRISPR technology to remove viral DNA from cultured human cells without any interference with gene functions. Step Two In 2017 and 2019, when CRISPR technology was introduced to HIV-infected cells in humanized mice, the virus was able to be eliminated. This was the first demonstration that a cure for HIV might be possible. In 2020, a single injection of the CRISPR gene-editing technology successfully removed SIV (an HIV-like virus) from infected cells in nonhuman primates. This is where the team is today. Release and Expand Phase Step Three Following the conclusion of nonhuman primate studies and with FDA approval, the technology will be tested in stages to determine its safety and effectiveness among humans in future clinical trials. Safety of the trial participants is the highest priority during this stage. Step Four This phase involves future FDA approval and releasing approved treatment globally. Step Five Finally, through research, the team will identify and expand applications of the technology to other viruses and genetic diseases. https://news.temple.edu/topics/research Research at Temple Read more about Temple’s groundbreaking research initiatives. See our news stories about research initiatives at Temple. View Main Page Learn About Our Impact Read more stories about the work we do and see how far we can go. View Main Page Learn About Our Impact Go back to AboutMore in Temple's Impact Career in Charitable Change Fueled by Temple Experiences Advancing Breast Cancer Research Leaders in HIV Research 21st-century Learning Temple Firsts Paving the Way Medical & Community Support Student Support Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community.