Skip To Top Navigation Skip To Main Content Skip To Footer search Loading... Careers Ask-HR Current Employees Search Menu Clemson Main Site Index Events Calendar Campus Map CU Safety Phonebook Careers AskHR Current Employees HR Self Service Kronos Login COVID-19 Resources Employee Assistance Program Benefits and Well-being Tigers at Work Payroll Training and Development Performance Management Staff and Faculty Relations Transition and Separation International Employment Talent Acquisition Employment Verification HR Resource Library HR Policies and Procedures HR Service Teams Clemson Main Site Index Events Calendar Campus Map CU Safety Phonebook Clemson Home page HR Home Talent and Organizational Development Tiger Training Employee Resources T&OD Home Page Tiger Training Employee Development Performance Management Supervisor Training Contact Us Tiger Training Tiger Training is Clemson University’s designated Training Management System, to be used for all University required (compliance) and optional training. Overview Tiger Training assists Clemson University with hosting, delivering, tracking, and reporting on all required training for faculty, staff, and students. Tiger Training houses various required and optional training courses. New training courses are added frequently. Tiger Training has a customized Training Management System that the University has built in collaboration with the Bridge corporation. Bridge is not to be confused with Canvas, the University’s learning management platform for academia, or the Bridge-to-Clemson program for students. Accessing Tiger Training If you have required training due, you will receive a notification from the Tiger Training system that will inform you of upcoming courses a week before the designated due date. To access the Tiger Training system and review your training assignments: Go to Tiger Training Use your Clemson username and password to login Recommended web browsers: Mozilla Firefox and Google Chrome Training What is a Training Management System? (Video) Training Management System Learning Guide You may see the name Bridge in relation to our Training Management System. Tiger Training has a customized Training Management System that the University has built in collaboration with the Bridge corporation. Bridge is not to be confused with Canvas, the University’s learning management platform for academia, or the Bridge-to-Clemson program for students. What required training do I need to complete? Training / Course Faculty Staff Student Workers Supervisors Bridges: Building a Supportive Community (Title IX) Conflict of Interest Information Security Awareness Policies and Procedures for Equitable Treatment Required Supervisor Training Series For additional information, or training on your role in the Tiger Training system, please contact tigertraining@clemson.edu Frequently Asked Questions I have already completed my Tiger Training assignments. Do I need to complete them again? In some cases, you may be required to take certain courses one or more times annually. Please contact tigertraining@clemson.edu for more information about these training requirements. I am a supervisor, so should I be providing time and a computer to all my direct reports to take this required training? Yes, all supervisors should provide both time and equipment so that all the employees they supervise are able to meet training requirement deadlines. Do I have to be given permission to become an author in Tiger Training? Yes, if you would like to become an author in the Tiger Training system, you will need to sign up for a one hour author training session. I want to learn more about Tiger Training. Where can I do that? Additional training guidance is offered by the University’s vendor. Does Tiger Training work in all web browsers? We recommend using Chrome or Firefox and do not recommend using Internet Explorer or Safari. What is Tiger Training? Tiger Training is Clemson University’s choice in a training management system and is used to deliver and track your required training. Tiger Training is an engaging, streamlined, and effective learning management platform that allows Clemson to quickly extend to our employees the skills, tools and knowledge that they need to be successful. How do I log in to Tiger Training? Simply visit https://tigertraining.clemson.edu/ to login to Tiger Training. Once there, enter your Clemson username and password in the username and password fields. I’m confused. Why does Tiger Training say that it is Bridge in the web browser? Does this have anything to do with the Bridge to Clemson program? No, the Tiger Training system is not related to the Bridge-to-Clemson program. In late 2017, the University secured an outside software vendor named Bridge to provide the University its training management system (TMS). We called it Tiger Training to avoid confusion with the Bridge-to-Clemson program. Tiger Training is available for use by all faculty, staff and students. To access your required training and training deadlines, used the preferred web browsers (Mozilla Firefox and Google Chrome), visit tigertraining.clemson.edu and log in using your Clemson username and password. What University-required training courses am I required to take? When you visit TigerTraining.clemson.edu, your required training is inventoried for you, which helps take the guess work out. Most faculty and staff are required to take the following University-required trainings: Bridges: Building A Supportive Community Policies and Procedures for Equitable Treatment Information Security Awareness Conflict of Interest Required Supervisor Training Series (for new supervisors) If you are a student worker you are required to take the Information Security Awareness Course I am not able to complete the course because the slide will not advance. What do I do? From a troubleshooting point of view, below are a list of things you can try: Switch browsers to the recommended Mozilla Firefox or Google Chrome. Internet Explorer does not work well with the Tiger Training System. Clear your cache. If the problem persists, contact us at tigertraining@clemson.edu. I’m confused. I thought Bridge was our Training Management System. Is it Tiger Training now? Recently we rebranded the training management system to Tiger Training. Originally,, the University secured an outside software vendor named Bridge to provide the University its training management system (TMS). Recently we changed the name to Tiger Training to avoid confusion with the Bridge-to-Clemson program. Tiger Training is available for use by all faculty, staff and students. To access your required training and training deadlines, used the preferred web browsers (Mozilla Firefox and Google Chrome), visit tigertraining.clemson.edu and log in using your Clemson username and password. I am no longer a Clemson University employee, so why am I getting this? Please email tigertraining@clemson.edu I am getting notifications about people I no longer supervise, so why am I getting this? Please email tigertraining@clemson.edu What is this for/why am I receiving these messages? The email notification that you have received is from Clemson University’s Training Management System, Tiger Training. Because of your classification in the University’s HRIS System, you are required to complete training delivered through Tiger Training. In the future, to access the Tiger Training system and review your required training assignments: Go to https://clemson.bridgeapp.com Login in using your Clemson username and password. Recommended web browsers: Mozilla Firefox and Google Chrome I don’t think my employees should complete the trainings listed on their learning page. Why are they required to complete these courses? As an employee of Clemson University, the employees you supervise have access to University resources and systems, and as a result, they are asked to complete all required training. Doing required training protects Clemson and all who work for the University. Employee Resources T&OD Home Page Tiger Training Employee Development Performance Management Supervisor Training Contact Us CLEMSON HR Administrative Services Building 108 Perimeter Road Clemson, SC 29634-5337 864.656.2000 RESOURCES Careers Benefits Forms Training Security and Safety Report Quick Links Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Line Privacy Policy Site Information Contact HR Clemson, SC Ask-HR Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram Copyright © Clemson University. All rights reserved. Clemson University is an AA/EEO employer. Scroll To Top