Skip to main content Navigation Academics Admissions Research Locations Student Life Alumni & Giving Athletics Apply Now Rosen College of Hospitality Management There is no better place to learn about hospitality than in the #1 tourist destination in America. Our college is the most modern and technologically advanced facility ever built for hospitality management education. You’ll learn from our diverse, international faculty and interact and connect with industry partners who will give you a global perspective on hospitality, event management, entertainment management and tourism. hospitality.ucf.edu Ranked in the top five hospitality schools in the world. With 3,500 students, the college is one of the largest and fastest-growing hospitality programs in the nation. More than 90% of Rosen College students earn full-time jobs upon graduation. The college established the first specialized event management program of its kind in the U.S. Study-abroad programs offer partnerships with 11 international universities in Austria, Australia, Japan, China and the Netherlands. The college is home to Florida’s first stand-alone Ph.D. program in Hospitality Management. Search Degrees There are many benefits to taking a more proactive approach to choosing a career. The Rosen College of Hospitality Management has curriculum and programs to help you land your next opportunity. Or browse by: Bachelors Minors Masters Graduate Certificates Top College Degrees Top College Degrees Hospitality Management (BS) Event Management (BS) Entertainment Management (BS) Hospitality and Tourism Management (MS) Restaurant and Foodservice Management (BS) Hospitality Management (PhD) Destination Marketing and Management Certificate Hospitality Management (Minor) Event Management (Minor) Admissions Info Explore admissions requirements, deadlines, tuition and financial aid, and more. Visit UCF Take a tour of the campus and see what makes UCF so amazing. Apply Now Seeking a bachelor’s degree? Interested in graduate school? Get started today. Hospitality Management News Check out more stories Colleges & Campus Turning Events into Careers UCF’s new master’s program in event leadership will bring a world of experience to the epicenter of this fast-growing industry. Colleges & Campus 2022 UCF Medical Grad Putting Service at Forefront in Medicine As part of the UCF College of Medicine’s 10th graduating class, Michael Chiang ’20MS is the first Knight to earn a dual degree in medicine and… Science & Technology New Tool from UCF-led Team Shows Homeowners and Renters the True Cost of Disasters The tool can provide disaster readiness reports for 13.3 million addresses in 196 counties along the Gulf of Mexico — including all of Florida, and… Opinion: Space Tourism Rosen College of Hospitality Management professors debate the pros and cons of space tourism. Read More University of Central Florida Colleges Burnett Honors Arts and Humanities Business Community Innovation and Education Engineering and Computer Science Graduate Studies Health Professions and Sciences Medicine Nursing Optics and Photonics Sciences Undergraduate Studies University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida