Skip to main content. ADVISORY | COVID-19 Information × kumc.edu School of Health Professions School of Medicine School of Nursing University of Kansas The University of Kansas Health System The University of Kansas Cancer Center Search keywords, names, etc... Search within this section Search all sites News Archive Our Campuses Diversity and Inclusion Wellness Leadership KU Medical Center Fast Facts Events Calendar News Maps & Contact Information Make a Gift Our Campuses Make a Gift Info for Current Students Blackboard Webmail myKUMC Prospective Students Prospective Employees Alumni Faculty & Staff Residents & Fellows Patients Donors Researchers Visitors Our Campuses Make a Gift Info for kumc.edu Our Campuses Make a Gift Info for Academics Academics Prepare for your health care career with top-ranked programs, state-of-the-art facilities and unmatched opportunities for clinical training. Admissions & Aid Degree Programs International Education Clinical Education Interprofessional Education Libraries Student Handbooks Related Links: School of Health Professions School of Medicine School of Nursing Research Research Explore world-class research programs that advance the health sciences and attract national recognition. Centers, Institutes and Cores Our Experts Research News Research Administration Human Research Protection Program Scheduling Research Facilities Related Links: Student Research Forum Summer Research Training Program Patient Care Patient Care As an academic medical center, we work with The University of Kansas Health System and other regional partners to provide high-quality, compassionate clinical care. The University of Kansas Health System The University of Kansas Cancer Center Student-Run Clinics Clinical Education University and Faculty Practice Outreach Outreach We build partnerships throughout the state to find new ways to improve the lives of Kansans. Our community-based efforts extend across the country and around the world. Social Impact Rural Education Global Health Career Development Community Programs Outreach News Related Links: Community Engagement Masonic Cancer Alliance Student Life Student Life Our three campus communities offer unique social events and cultural attractions—the perfect backdrop to our world-class education programs. Student Support Activities & Events Diversity and Inclusion Wellness Why Kansas? Related Links: Office of Student Life Office of Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Office of International Programs About About The University of Kansas Medical Center's mission is to improve lives and communities in Kansas and beyond through innovation in education, research and health care. Our Campuses Diversity and Inclusion Wellness Leadership KU Medical Center Fast Facts Events Calendar News Maps & Contact Information Make a Gift News Archive COVID-19 vaccine effective in people receiving cancer treatment, study finds About 95% of participants achieved a measurable immune response after vaccination, according to study led by a KU School of Medicine professor and published in JAMA Oncology. May 9, 2022 | Pauline Horton "If you have a cancer, you can be assured" that you are receiving protection from the COVID-19 vaccines, said Qamar Khan, M.D., medical oncologist from the University of Kansas Medical Center. Khan led a study that looked at the effects of the COVID-19 vaccine on patients undergoing cancer treatment. People undergoing active cancer treatment, including stem cell transplant, should receive the COVID-19 vaccine, according to a study published in JAMA Oncology and led by a medical oncology professor at the University of Kansas Medical Center. Qamar Khan, M.D., professor in the medical oncology division in the Department of Internal Medicine at KU School of Medicine, headed the study named Cancer Therapy and Immunogenicity of COVID Vaccine, shortened for convenience to CANINE. People with cancer are at a higher risk of developing severe COVID-19 and dying from it. These findings provide guidance to a group largely excluded from clinical trials evaluating the efficacy of COVID-19 vaccines Details of the study Khan, also a member of The University of Kansas Cancer Center, and his team measured antibodies in the blood of 453 participants. Samples were obtained before receiving a messenger RNA (mRNA) vaccine, after the first dose and then one, three and six months after the second dose. A small number of patients received the Janssen (Johnson & Johnson) vaccine, and their samples were taken three times, up to seven months post-vaccination. Blood samples were also gathered from patients who received an mRNA booster. The team measured binding antibodies, which bind to and destroy the virus’ spike protein. They also measured neutralizing antibodies, which stop the virus from infecting healthy cells. The higher the level of antibodies, the better protection against COVID-19. One-third of participants showed no antibody response after the first dose of the vaccine. However, antibody response peaked four weeks after the second dose of the mRNA vaccine and was sustained at six months post-second dose. Overall, 95% of patients achieved a measurable immune response. Eight out of 10 patients remained above the antibody threshold of 100 units per milliliter or higher at six months. Production of memory B cells Qamar Khan, M.D. Most importantly, antibodies increased 20-fold after a third (booster) dose, suggesting a “brisk” memory B cell response. Memory B cells stay in the body and evolve after vaccination, improving protection against the virus over time. “We were concerned that memory B cells would not be produced at all because of the immunosuppressive nature of some of these cancer treatments,” Dr. Khan said. “Instead, participants produced a generous reservoir of memory B cells, which will provide lasting protection against the COVID-19 virus. The booster shot was a game-changer.” The immune system and cancer Our immune system constantly scans our body for foreign substances, called antigens, that pose a risk to our health. The white blood cells in our immune system make antibodies when threats are detected. Some types of cancers can alter our immune systems. Dr. Khan noted that participants with a blood cancer did not generate as many antibodies as those with a solid tumor. Cancer treatments, including chemotherapy and stem cell transplants, suppress the immune system. As a result, people with cancer are uniquely – and sometimes severely – immunocompromised. Vaccines, like the COVID-19 vaccine, teach our immune system to identify and attack specific viruses. The clinical takeaway A better understanding of how the immune system responds to COVID-19 vaccination could help physicians make informed decisions about vaccinating people undergoing cancer treatment. It could also guide organizations like the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention to determine vaccine prioritization for patients with cancer. “There has been some fear about whether people undergoing cancer treatment should receive the COVID-19 vaccine or not, and some cancer patients are still on the fence about COVID-19 vaccines,” Khan said. “These findings tell us that, yes, they absolutely should. If you have a cancer, you can be assured that you're getting protection from the vaccines.” This work was supported in part by The University of Kansas Cancer Center and the Investigator Initiated Steering Committee, a grant from the National Institute of General Medical Sciences (P20 GM130423), and The University of Kansas Cancer Center Support Grant (CCSG) from the National Cancer Institute (P30 CA168524). See Related Stories in Cancer Center, Research, School of Medicine Research, School of Medicine Newsroom Media Inquiries 913-617-8698 khawes@kumc.edu News and Media Relations Make a Gift 3901 Rainbow Boulevard, Kansas City, KS 66160 | 913-588-5000 About Calendar News Equal Opportunity Statement Careers Facebook opens in new tab Twitter opens in new tab YouTube opens in new tab Instagram opens in new tab LinkedIn opens in new tab © 2022 The University of Kansas prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, ethnicity, religion, sex, national origin, age, ancestry, disability, status as a veteran, sexual orientation, marital status, parental status, gender identity, gender expression, and genetic information in the university's programs and activities. Retaliation is also prohibited by university policy. Inquiries regarding our non-discrimination policies should be directed to the Director for the Equal Opportunity & Academic Compliance Office, Mail Stop 7004, 4330 Shawnee Mission Parkway, Fairway, KS 66205, 913-588-5964, 711 TTY (for the Wichita, Salina, and Kansas City, Kansas medical center campuses). Inquiries regarding the University Sexual Harassment Policy should be directed to the Title IX Coordinator at 913-588-8011. Free Expression Statement | Privacy Statement | Notice of Privacy Practices | Consumer Information We use cookies to analyze our traffic & provide social media features. Visit the KU Medical Center Privacy Statement for more information. By closing this window & browsing this site, you agree to our use of cookies.