Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Loewenberg College of Nursing About Us Programs & Admissions Student Life Faculty & Staff Research & Initiatives News & Events Giving & Support Scrub Hub Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Programs & Admissions BSN ProgramAdmissions Accelerated BSN ProgramAdmissions RN to BSN ProgramAdmissionsRequest Info MSN ProgramAdmissions Post MSN ProgramAdmissions PhD ProgramAdmissions Pre-Admit Lambuth FAQs Applied: What's Next? Take Action Schedule a tour Apply now Give now Contact Us Find us on Social Media InstagramFacebooktwitterLinkedIn Home Loewenberg College of Nursing Programs and Admissions Frequently Asked Questions Frequently Asked Questions BSN Program | RN to BSN Program | MSN Program Click the question to show the answer. BSN Program What are the application deadlines? February 15 for Fall semester, September 1 for Spring semester How long will it take after I submit my application to find out if I have been accepted to the program? You be notified by e-mail approximately 6 (six) weeks after the application deadline How many people are accepted into the BSN program per semester? -BSN: 150 -Accelerated BSN: 40 (Fall only) What prerequisites do I need in order to apply? English Comp I & II Intro Sociology or General Psychology Math 1530 (or one of the following:1420, 1710, 1730, 1830, 1910 or 2000) Nutrition Sciences: Anatomy & Physiology I (with lab) Anatomy & Physiology II (with lab) Microbiology (with lab) Do I have to complete all my prerequisites before applying to the nursing program? All science prerequisites must be completed before entering the nursing program How many times may I repeat a science prerequisite course? One science prerequisite course may be repeated one time. The second course grade will be used to calculate the Science GPA (regardless if repeated grade is higher or lower). Do I have to complete all my general education courses before starting the nursing program? No more than six (6) general education credit hours can be remaining prior to enrollment in the nursing program. Do I have to re-take my science prerequisites if I took them over 7 years ago to be accepted into the program? Science prerequisite courses must be taken within 7 years of the anticipated enrollment in the nursing program. Science courses include Anatomy & Physiology I and II (with labs), and Microbiology (with lab). If I am accepted to the Lambuth campus, can I switch to the Memphis campus or vice versa? Students are strongly encouraged to complete the nursing program at their home campus. Request for transfer are to be made in writing to the Assistant Dean of Students. May I apply to both the Lambuth and Memphis campus? Yes Are there nursing scholarships available? Yes. The Loewenberg offer scholarships to current nursing students only. Non-nursing and/or pre-nursing students are not eligible for LCON scholarships. May I meet with a Nursing Academic Advisor prior to being accepted into the Nursing program? All academic advising prior being accepted into the Nursing program is done by the Academic Counseling Center www.memphis.edu/acc/prenursing/index. Top of page RN to BSN Program What is the difference between RN-BSN program and BSN program? The RN-BSN program is from applicants with a current licensure and already possess an Associate Degree in Nursing. What are the application deadlines? Application dates are flexible and be accepted for Fall, Spring, or Summer any time before the term begins. What prerequisites do I need in order to apply? English Comp I & II Intro Sociology or General Psychology Math 1530 (or one of the following:1420, 1710, 1730, 1830, 1910 or 2000) Nutrition Sciences: Anatomy & Physiology I (with lab), Anatomy & Physiology II (with lab) Microbiology (with lab) Do I have to re-take my science prerequisites if I took them over 7 years ago to be accepted into the program? Science prerequisite courses must be taken within 7 years of the anticipated enrollment in the nursing program. Required validation of current science knowledge for RNs will occur through employer verification, repeating of course, taking a higher-level science course in the same field, or obtaining a fiftieth (50th) percentile score or above on the NLN appropriate science test. Are there nursing scholarships available for RN-BSN students? Yes. The Loewenberg offer scholarships to current nursing students only. Non-nursing and/or pre-nursing students are not eligible for LCON scholarships. I have taken classes at another institution. How can I find out what will transfer to the University of Memphis? Use the Transfer Equivalency Table to determine what may transfer to the UofM. https://www.memphis.edu/admissions/transfer/equivalency_table.php May I test out of any Nursing courses? Yes, you can test out of Pharmacology, Health Assessment, and Clinical Pathophysiology by completing the passing the HEIS exam with a minimum score of 850. Students may also submit tests results for Pharmacology, Health Assessment, and/or Pathophysiology national achievement exams taken during their ADN program. Loewenberg College of Nursing will accept a score of 50% or greater on the Assessment Technologies Institute (ATI) or a score of 850 or greater on the Health Education Systems Incorporated (HESI) exam. Can I send you a criminal background check that was done by my employer? No, the check must include all searches specified by our clinical settings. Can I send you a urine drug screen that was done by my employer? No, it must be a 12-panel urine drug screen as specified by our clinical settings. Top of page MSN Program What are the admission requirements for the MSN program? The admission requirements for the MSN program are a Bachelor of Science in Nursing degree with a minimum cumulative GPA of 2.8 and an active RN license. What are the application deadlines for the MSN program? February 15 for Fall semester September 1 for Spring semester Only the Executive Leadership has a fall deadline of July 15 and a spring deadline of November 15. Is the MSN program entirely online? The MSN program is mostly online but you will need to come to campus for orientation, lab, the pre-competency exam and the competency exam. How long is the MSN program? Since we urge students who work to enroll part-time, the MSN program typically takes two to three years to complete. Does the MSN program accept graduate nursing transfer credits? The MSN program accepts graduate nursing transfer credits up to 12 credit hours for each concentration as long as a degree was not obtained, the grades earned were B or better, the institution is accredited, and the courses have the same course description as well as amount of credits as our courses. What courses are required for the MSN program? The MSN program has three concentrations (Executive Leadership, Family Nurse Practitioner, and Nursing Education). Are scholarships available for the MSN program? Yes. We offer scholarships to current nursing students only. Non-nursing and/or pre-nursing students are not eligible for LCON scholarships. Top of page Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 4/7/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.