Menu Search Social Apply Give Now About SMU About SMU Administration Annual Report Centennial Hall Contact SMU Directory Maps Merchandise Site Index SMU Magazine Strategic Plan A private university of 11,000 students near the center of Dallas, SMU offers strong undergraduate, graduate, and professional programs through seven schools. Academics Academics Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education & Human Development Academic Calendar Canvas Continuing & Professional Education Course Catalogs Executive Education Guildhall International Student & Scholar Services Libraries Majors & Minors My.SMU Information Technology Provost SMU Abroad Student Achievement University Advising Center for Pre-Majors Admission Admission First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students En Español 中國語言網站 Apply Now Visit Request Information Majors & Minors Financial Aid Parent Information Athletics SMU Athletics Tickets Recreational Sports Campus Life Campus Life Bookstore Campus Safety Career Center Community Engagement & Leadership Computer Help Dining Health Center Multicultural Student Affairs Mustang Express Student Transitions & Orientation Parking and ID Card Services Recreational Sports Residence Life & Housing Student Activities Student Center Student Senate Tutoring & Study Skills University Chaplain Women & LGBT Center Vice President for Student Affairs Dean of Student Life Research Faculty Research Undergraduate Research Research Administration Support Get Involved Make a Gift Planned Giving Endowment Giving SMU Unbridled: The Second Century Campaign The Second Century Celebration Quick Links Access and Equity Administration Bursar Calendars Clery Report Employment Financial Aid Information Technology Libraries Maps Meadows Museum Registrar Student Affairs Webmail Search Page Not Found Home / Resources Page Not Found We're sorry! The page you are looking for does not exist. You may have mistyped the URL or clicked on an out-of-date link. You might find what you're looking for in our site index listing, or try a search. Resources SMU Home SMU Site Index Faculty Websites Personal Sites Here are a few things that you will find at SMU! Small class sizes and individualized attention Hundreds of academic programs A city with vast cultural and job opportunities A beautiful, innovative campus Students who travel the world to learn × Small Classes SMU’s student-faculty ratio is 11:1, and 3 out of 4 classes have fewer than 30 students, so professors know students by name. Devoted to teaching, they value the classroom experience as much as pursuing groundbreaking research. Get all the facts about SMU. Close Learn more × SMU Adventures SMU students are having amazing adventures, living and studying in Europe, Australia, Asia and other exciting locations and sharing their tales online. 148 programs in 50 countries offer courses, cultural immersion, research and internships abroad. Close Learn more × It's (Almost) Always Sunny at SMU SMU is a great place to live and learn. Tree-lined paths, outdoor art, soothing fountains and colorful gardens invite you to enjoy SMU’s serene setting and the great Dallas weather. SMU is serious about sustainability and is committed to building only eco-friendly, LEED-certified green buildings. Close Learn more × Academics SMU offers more than 100 majors and 75 minors in the humanities, sciences, engineering, business, communication, performing and visual arts, and education. Traditional disciplines are complemented by innovative programs, such as arts entrepreneurship and human rights. Close Learn more × SMU & Dallas: Big Opportunities SMU draws on the resources of its location in Dallas – a larger-than-life city that is among the leading centers in the nation for business, innovation, culture and service. A steady economy and #3 national ranking for Fortune 500 corporate headquarters make Dallas a great place for internships and potential jobs in many industries. Close Learn more © Southern Methodist University PO Box 750100 | Dallas, Texas | 75275-0100 | 214-768-2000 Contact Us | Legal Disclosures | Working at SMU | SMU Bookstore Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Parents Visitors & Community News Media En Español 中國語言網站