Student Work Career Services Academic Calendar Faculty Open Positions Admissions Academics People Campus About News + Events Apply Now Student Work Career Services Academic Calendar Faculty Open Positions Admissions Apply Now Admission Requirements Portfolio Requirements Financial Information Certain Affinity Scholarship Guildhall Preparation A Day In The Life Housing Refer a Game Changer Academics Specializations Student Work People Guest Lecturers and Advisors Faculty Staff Alumni Students Campus Our Facilities GameLab Area Studios Visit About History of Success FAQ Industry Partnerships Career Services Career Fair Testimonials Contact Us Apply Now Portfolio Submission Portfolio Requirements Art Design Production Programming Financial Information SMU Financial Aid Guildhall Preparation Art Design Production Programming Specializations Art Creation Level Design Production Programming Student Work Independent Projects Team Game Projects Faculty Faculty Open Positions Staff Staff Open Positions Alumni Alumni Spotlight Alumni Success Students International Students GameLab GameLab Facilities GameLab Events Steam FAQ Admissions Admissions Apply Now Admission Requirements Portfolio Requirements Financial Information Certain Affinity Scholarship Guildhall Preparation A Day In The Life Housing Refer a Game Changer Academics Academics Specializations Student Work People People Guest Lecturers and Advisors Faculty Staff Alumni Students Campus Campus Our Facilities GameLab Area Studios Visit About About History of Success FAQ Industry Partnerships Career Services Career Fair Testimonials Contact Us News + Events Apply Now People Guest Lecturers and Advisors Faculty Faculty Open Positions Staff Staff Open Positions Alumni Alumni Spotlight Alumni Success Students International Students Apply Now SMU Guildhall International Students SMU Guildhall is a graduate program with a global reach, and our student body includes students from around the world. We're proud of the diversity within our program, and it's always a pleasure to see friendships form and cultures come together here, both inside and outside of the classroom. We also realize that traveling across the world to study can present unique challenges and unfamiliar circumstances. Our staff is here to help you navigate your time here. Enrolling at SMU Guildhall The application process is the same for all applicants regardless of citizenship or country of residence, with the exception of a few extra documents required for international applicants: English Language Proficiency — International students are required to submit test scores from an internationally recognized English language test, such as the TOEFL or IELTS English proficiency tests, if the applicant is from a country where the predominant language of instruction is not English. A score of at least 550 (paper test) or 80 (computer test) is required on the TOEFL for admission consideration. A score of 6.5 or higher is required on the IELTS for admission consideration. Visas — For students requiring a U.S. visa, it is mandatory that the following forms be completed and returned with your SMU Guildhall application: Financial Certification for Study at SMU (Financial statement must be notarized and converted in US Dollars) Health Care — All international students who are enrolled in one or more credit hours are required to maintain the Student Health Insurance Plan as a condition of enrollment. International students must enroll in the Student Health Insurance Plan unless they have a special waiver personally granted by the Student Health Center staff. International Student Resources International Student & Scholar Services (ISSS) — ISSS provides immigration services, advocacy, and support to students on F or J visas. Housing — Finding a place to live around campus is an easy process with many apartment communities nearby. For more information, please see our housing page. Job Searching — SMU Guildhall Career Services helps all students prepare for employment in the gaming industry. Past international students have gone to work at over 250 studios and tech companies around the world. Common questions — A list of the most common questions and answers we often get from International students can be found on our FAQ page. For additional questions, please contact Kristy Lee, who will be happy to help you. Apply to SMU Guildhall SMU Guildhall Game Changers Shaped Here 3100 McFarlin Blvd., Suite 306 Dallas , Texas 75275 (214) 768-4278 © SMU Legal Disclosures Site Index Working at SMU Apply to SMU Guildhall x