Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu Division of Student Affairs Housing and Residential Engagement Main Navigation About Us Show Extended Mission Meet Our Staff Contact Us Student Employment and Leadership Opportunities Parking Information Student Housing Policies Current Residents Show Extended Payment Information Resident Mailing Addresses Wi-Fi for Entertainment Devices Lockouts Dining Services FAQ's Submit a Maintenance Request The Gastronome Community Market Future Residents Show Extended Housing Information Housing Communities Student Housing Suites How to Apply for Housing Payment Information Theme Communities What to Bring on Move-in Day International Students International Programs & Global Engagement On-Campus Housing for International Students Housing Tours Tour Information Campus Tours Residential Engagement Show Extended Residential Engagement Faculty in Residence Theme Communities Housing Policies Of The Month Awards Housing Student Organizations About RSA About NRHH Resources Show Extended SwakU Gifts and Care Packages MicroFridge® with Safe Plug® GradGuard Renters insurance Spectrum Fire Safety Report Off-campus Housing Events and Conference Services Show Extended Meeting Room Reservation Request Form Summer Conferences Dining and Catering Tabling Request Form Marketing Requests Contact our Events and Conferences Team Take a Housing Tour Submit a Maintenance Request Contact Us Housing Portal National Residence Hall Honorary The purpose of the Chi Psi Phi Chapter of the National Residence Hall Honorary (NRHH) at Cal State Fullerton is to recognize outstanding contributions within student housing at Cal State Fullerton. As a student-led organization, the goals of NRHH include the encouragement of recognition, community service, and academic success. These goals are demonstrated through community service projects, development, and commitment to leadership, focusing on recognition, community service, and scholastics on the local, regional, and national levels. As an integral component of the National Association of College and University Residence Halls, Incorporated (NACURH), the NRHH strives to recognize the top 1% of student leaders living in college and university housing at NACURH member schools. Constitution National Residence Hall Honorary Election Timeline Wednsday, April 8, 2020 at 5:30 p.m: Open Forum via Zoom Wednsday, April 15, 2020 at 10:00 a.m: E-board Intent Form Opens Tuesday, April 21, 2020 at 11:59 a.m: E-board Intent Form Closes Wednsday, April 22, 2020 at 10:00 a.m: Election Ballot Being Sent (virtually) Tuesday, April 28, 2020 at 11:59 a.m: Election Ballot Closes Wednsday, April 29, 2020: E-board Announced Zoom Link Meeting ID: 438 116 866 This site is maintained by Housing and Residential Engagement. Last Published 4/13/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact housing@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.10 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.