Skip to main content University of Nevada, Las Vegas Students Faculty/Staff Alumni Donors Community Audiences Students Faculty/Staff Alumni Donors Community Topics About Academics Admissions Athletics Diversity Research Menu U-N-L-V Diversity Diversity About Academics Admissions Athletics Diversity Research Find close Diversity menu Diversity Diversity Home About Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Diverse Curriculum Supportive Campus Identity Groups Support Diversity Initiatives Events Contact close find region Find Search A-Z Index Directories Quick Links Bookstore Bookstore Calendar Calendar Campus Maps Campus Maps Degrees Degrees Libraries Libraries MyUNLV MyUNLV News Center News Center RebelCard RebelCard Rebelmail Rebelmail Social Media Social Media UNLV Mail UNLV Mail WebCampus WebCampus Loading Directories Home A-Z Index Colleges, Schools, and Departments Administrative Units Research Centers and Institutes Resources and Services Employee Directory Contact UNLV Social Media Directory UNLV Mobile Apps UNLV has created one of the most affirmative and dynamic academic environments in the country. We pride ourselves in celebrating the diversity of our students, faculty and staff. We embrace core values of equity, and inclusion by listening to others with an open mind, and supporting each other in our differences. UNLV Diversity & Community African Diaspora Asian, Pacific Islander, and Middle Eastern First-Generation Individuals with Disabilities Latinx/Latino LGBTQ Military and Veterans Native American Undocumented Students Women Events View All Events OUR: What is Research? Understanding the Research Cycle Conducting research is becoming increasingly common among undergraduate students. In this informative and interactive workshop, students will learn an inclusive conceptualization of research and how it is applied to diverse… Date: June 7, 2022 Land Acknowledgement The University of Nevada, Las Vegas acknowledges and honors Indigenous communities of this region, and recognize that the university is situated on the traditional homelands of the Nuwuvi, Southern Paiute People. Land Acknowledgement Statement University Statements and Compliance Supportive Campus Supportive Campus UNLV’s faculty and staff are committed to creating an environment where students thrive as they prepare for fulfilling careers and lives. Diverse Curriculum Diverse Curriculum Because of our multifaceted student population, UNLV offers a robust, dynamic offering of academics and support services to meet their needs and prepare them to enter the workforce. Anti-Black Racism Task Force Anti-Black Racism Task Force On June 5, 2020, President Marta Meana invited a group of faculty, staff and students to convene a task force to address the concerns of our Black faculty, staff, and students. The focus of the task force centers around the safety and well-being for students, faculty, and staff and to help foster an environment that is centered around safety, equity, and inclusion. Minority-Serving Institution Minority-Serving Institution About 63 percent of UNLV students identify as a racial or ethnic minority, and UNLV is committed to supporting students in achieving their full potential. UNLV is proud of its designations as a Minority Serving Institution, an Asian-American and Native-American, Pacific Islander-Serving Institution, and as a Hispanic Serving Institution. Administration Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion An inclusive workplace culture makes diversity work. We strive to provide a supportive, inclusive campus through administrative initiatives, resources, and committees. More Info What's Happening New Voices and New Approaches Bring Out the Best in Students Jan. 21, 2022 New Voices and New Approaches Bring Out the Best in Students UNLV presents the Best Teaching Practices Expo 2022 in hybrid format. UNLV Partners with TheDream.US to Support Nevada DREAMers’ Pursuit of Higher Education Oct. 28, 2021 UNLV Partners with TheDream.US to Support Nevada DREAMers’ Pursuit of Higher Education UNLV will join nationwide list of eligible higher education institutions for the organization's national scholarship program. U.S. News & World Report: UNLV Again Named Nation’s Most Diverse Campus Sep. 13, 2021 U.S. News & World Report: UNLV Again Named Nation’s Most Diverse Campus UNLV moves from second into a four-way tie for first in annual U.S. News & World Report list for “campus ethnic diversity.” More News Announcements TheDream.US National Scholarship Program Featured Nov. 4, 2021 TheDream.US National Scholarship Program New Scholarship Offers a Soft Landing for First Generation Students Aug. 24, 2020 New Scholarship Offers a Soft Landing for First Generation Students New Scholarship Offers a Soft Landing for First Generation Students May. 12, 2020 New Scholarship Offers a Soft Landing for First Generation Students More Announcements In The News Mission Accomplished Apr. 8, 2021 | Las Vegas Black Image Magazine Mission Accomplished Letter from the Publishers Apr. 8, 2021 | Las Vegas Black Image Magazine Letter from the Publishers UNLV renews push to pull up the roots of structural racism Feb. 24, 2021 | Nevada Independent UNLV renews push to pull up the roots of structural racism UNLV retiring Hey Reb! mascot Jan. 20, 2021 | Las Vegas Review Journal UNLV retiring Hey Reb! mascot Funds totaling $1M given to organizations helping Nevada’s immigrant families Dec. 21, 2020 | KLAS-TV: 8 News Now Funds totaling $1M given to organizations helping Nevada’s immigrant families More In the News Let's Talk UNLV Podcast Wellness Coronavirus Information Safety and Emergency University Statements and Compliance Web Accessibility Top Tier 2.0 Employment Visit Our Campus Campus Maps Parking Information News Center Contact UNLV University of Nevada, Las Vegas 4505 S. Maryland Pkwy. Las Vegas, NV 89154 Phone: 702-895-3011 Campus Notifications © 2022 UNLV Produced by UNLV Web & Digital Strategy UNLV.edu Privacy Statement Website Feedback Social Media at UNLV