Skip to content Clemson University Clemson University Search Menu Close Sorry, your browser does not support inline SVG. Sorry, your browser does not support inline SVG. Apply Giving News Resources for Students Faculty & Staff Parents Alumni Clemson University Academics Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Academics Home Employment Opportunities Apply for Admission Colleges College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business College of Education College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences College of Science Graduate School Academic Resources Academic Calendar Registrar Division of Undergraduate Studies Center for Career and Professional Development Academic Success Center GRAD 360° Libraries Outside the Classroom PEER/WISE Call Me MISTER® Creative Inquiry and Undergraduate Research Cooperative Education University Professional Internship and Co-op Program (UPIC) Study Abroad Admissions Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Admissions Home Schedule a Tour Apply for Admission Applying to Clemson First-Year Undergraduate Transfer Undergraduate International Undergraduate Graduate Students Academic Opportunities Majors Graduate Programs Online Graduate Programs Scholar Programs Paths to Graduate School Honors College Experiential Learning Financial Aid Tuition and Fee Calculator Undergraduate Financial Aid Graduate Fellowships and Awards Residency Requirements Campus Life Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Campus Life Home Club Sports Brooks Center for the Performing Arts Join Your Clemson Family Finding Your Community Living-Learning Communities Student Veterans Multicultural Programs FIRST Army ROTC Air Force ROTC Services On Campus Housing & Dining Campus Recreation Parking and Transportation Student Health Services TigerOne Card Services Clemson Athletics Get Involved Clubs and Organizations Fraternity and Sorority Life Orientation Ambassadors Tiger Media Graduate Student Government Undergraduate Student Government Research Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Research Home Clemson University Research Foundation (CURF) Division of Research Research Opportunities Student Research at Clemson Creative Inquiry Research Facilities Postdoctoral Affairs Serving South Carolina Through Research School of Health Research Public Service and Agriculture Clemson Experimental Forest Clemson Extension Clemson Research and Education Centers Public Service and Agriculture Research Farm Services Innovation and Economic Development Corporate Partnerships and Strategic Initiatives Clemson University International Center for Automotive Research (CU-ICAR) Clemson University Restoration Institute (CURI) Clemson University Biomedical Engineering Innovation Campus (CUBEInC) Center for Human Genetics Innovation Campus and Technology Park About Clemson Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back About Clemson Home Clemson News Clemson Athletics For Tigers Applying to Clemson Working at Clemson Traditions Military Heritage Things To Do in Clemson Visit Clemson Campus Resources Employment Opportunities Home and Garden Information Center Brand Guidelines CCIT Academic Calendar Training ClemsonForward Campus Leadership Board of Trustees President Academic Affairs and Provost Inclusion and Equity Student Affairs Faculty Senate Staff Senate Search Resources for Current Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Admissions Undergraduate Admissions Forward Arrow Undergraduate Admissions Cost and Aid Admissions Statistics Virtual Engagement Opportunities Contact Undergraduate Admissions Back Arrow Back Graduate School Admissions Visit Forward Arrow Visit Choose Your Tour Visitor Parking and Accommodations Things To Do in Clemson Back Arrow Back Applying to Clemson Forward Arrow Applying to Clemson First-Year Application Process Transfer Application Process International Application Process Counselor Information Veterans Back Arrow Back Apply Giving News Sikes Hall Icon Main Menu Forward Arrow Icon Back Arrow Icon Back Clemson University Academics Academics Home Employment Opportunities Apply for Admission Colleges College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business College of Education College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences College of Science Graduate School Academic Resources Academic Calendar Registrar Division of Undergraduate Studies Center for Career and Professional Development Academic Success Center GRAD 360° Libraries Outside the Classroom PEER/WISE Call Me MISTER® Creative Inquiry and Undergraduate Research Cooperative Education University Professional Internship and Co-op Program (UPIC) Study Abroad Admissions Admissions Home Schedule a Tour Apply for Admission Applying to Clemson First-Year Undergraduate Transfer Undergraduate International Undergraduate Graduate Students Academic Opportunities Majors Graduate Programs Online Graduate Programs Scholar Programs Paths to Graduate School Honors College Experiential Learning Financial Aid Tuition and Fee Calculator Undergraduate Financial Aid Graduate Fellowships and Awards Residency Requirements Campus Life Campus Life Home Club Sports Brooks Center for the Performing Arts Join Your Clemson Family Finding Your Community Living-Learning Communities Student Veterans Multicultural Programs FIRST Army ROTC Air Force ROTC Services On Campus Housing & Dining Campus Recreation Parking and Transportation Student Health Services TigerOne Card Services Clemson Athletics Get Involved Clubs and Organizations Fraternity and Sorority Life Orientation Ambassadors Tiger Media Graduate Student Government Undergraduate Student Government Research Research Home Clemson University Research Foundation (CURF) Division of Research Research Opportunities Student Research at Clemson Creative Inquiry Research Facilities Postdoctoral Affairs Serving South Carolina Through Research School of Health Research Public Service and Agriculture Clemson Experimental Forest Clemson Extension Clemson Research and Education Centers Public Service and Agriculture Research Farm Services Innovation and Economic Development Corporate Partnerships and Strategic Initiatives Clemson University International Center for Automotive Research (CU-ICAR) Clemson University Restoration Institute (CURI) Clemson University Biomedical Engineering Innovation Campus (CUBEInC) Center for Human Genetics Innovation Campus and Technology Park About Clemson About Clemson Home Clemson News Clemson Athletics For Tigers Applying to Clemson Working at Clemson Traditions Military Heritage Things To Do in Clemson Visit Clemson Campus Resources Employment Opportunities Home and Garden Information Center Brand Guidelines CCIT Academic Calendar Training ClemsonForward Campus Leadership Board of Trustees President Academic Affairs and Provost Inclusion and Equity Student Affairs Faculty Senate Staff Senate Search close Admissions Undergraduate Admissions show submenu for Undergraduate Admissions Cost and Aid Admissions Statistics Virtual Engagement Opportunities Contact Undergraduate Admissions Graduate School Admissions Visit show submenu for Visit Choose Your Tour Visitor Parking and Accommodations Things To Do in Clemson Applying to Clemson show submenu for Applying to Clemson First-Year Application Process Transfer Application Process International Application Process Counselor Information Veterans Clemson Home Admissions Applying to Clemson Current: Transfer Application Process Apply to Clemson as a Transfer Student Transfer admission is becoming increasingly more competitive. Transfer applications are reviewed on a rolling basis as they become complete (all required documents are received). Admission is closed when all classroom space has been committed. You will be notified by email when we receive your application and as needed while it’s under consideration. Clemson Application Coalition Application Common Application You are considered a transfer applicant if you have earned a high school diploma or equivalent credential and have attended a college or university in a full-time or part-time status during a regular semester. Application Schedule and Deadlines Transfer applications are reviewed on a rolling basis as they are completed. Admission is closed when all classroom space has been committed. You will be notified by email when we receive your application and as needed while it’s under consideration. Date Event December 1 Deadline to apply for Spring admission (January enrollment) December 15 Official transcripts, except those for your current term, must be postmarked by this date July 1 Final deadline to apply for Fall admission Transfer students who wish to apply for Maymester or Summer Sessions should submit their application at least two weeks before classes begin. How to Apply to Clemson as a Transfer Student Review important dates and deadlines. Complete the application. Submit your application through the Clemson Application, Coalition Application or the Common Application. No preference is given to any application in the admission review process. Pay the application fee. There is a $70 application fee. Clemson accepts all major credit cards. If you cannot afford to pay the application fee, please fill out the financial sections of the application completely. This information will determine if you meet the level of need we can approve by policy for a fee waiver. If you have other hardships concerning the application fee, please reach out to the counselor for your state. Request final official transcripts from each college previously attended. You must submit official transcripts even if you do not expect to receive credit for the work or if you withdrew prior to receiving final grades. Transcripts must be received by Undergraduate Admissions from the registrar of each college previously attended. Ace Your Application. Here’s What We Look For. Requirements for Transfer Applicants Complete a year of college study — after high school graduation — earning 30 semester hours or 45 quarter hours of transferable credit. Advanced Placement, International Baccalaureate and dual-enrollment credit may not be used to count toward the 30 semester hours (45 quarter hours) requirement. Earn a cumulative grade point average of 2.5 or higher on a 4.0 scale – 3.0 preferred. Complete freshman-level courses in English, science and mathematics for your intended major at Clemson University. Refer to the Transfer Course Equivalency List (TCEL) to see which courses have been previously transferred to Clemson from your institution. Be in good standing and eligible to return to the institution last attended. View Course Transfer Information Choice of Major Some majors at Clemson are more competitive due to grade point average requirements and space limitations. Students interested in one of the majors listed below will need to select a second choice of major on the application to allow more flexibility in the review process. Admission is closed when all classroom space has been committed. Space-restricted majors include Architecture (available for Fall semester only); Communication Studies; Health Science (available for Fall semester only); Landscape Architecture (available for Fall semester only); Nursing (available for Fall semester only); accelerated second degree nursing (available for Fall semester only; must apply by September 1); ; Performing Arts (Audio); Pre-Business; Psychology;RNBS completion track (offered fully online);and Sports Communication. GPA-restricted majors include Construction Science and Management (3.0 GPA required), Early Childhood Education (2.75 GPA required), Elementary Education (2.75 GPA required), General Engineering (2.7 GPA required), Secondary Education (2.75 GPA required) and Special Education (2.75 GPA required). Additional requirements for some majors Nursing Priority consideration is given to students who have completed and excelled in the appropriate science and math courses, which include general biology (BIOL 1030/1050 or BIOL 1100), anatomy and physiology I and II (BIOL 2220/2221 & BIOL 2230/2231), microbiology (MICR 2050/2051 or MICR 3050/3051), general chemistry (CH 1010/1011), and statistics (STAT 2300). Transfer students may use the Transfer Credit Equivalency List (TCEL) through the Clemson website to informally evaluate their own transfer credits. You can cross reference your courses to the nursing curriculum. Accelerated Second Degree Nursing Must have a bachelor’s degree from a regionally accredited college or university. All prerequisite courses must be successfully completed prior to the start of classes. For more information regarding admission requirements, curriculum plan and contact information, visit the Accelerated Second Degree Nursing website. RNBS Completion Track Allows registered nurses with an associate degree in nursing to earn a bachelor’s degree in nursing (offered in a fully online format only). For more information regarding admission requirements, steps for admission and enrollment in RNBS track, program details and contact information, visit the RNBS program website. Construction and Science Management Construction science and management majors should have a minimum grade point average of 3.0 and must have successfully completed English composition (ENGL 1030), physics I (PHYS 2070/PHYS 2090), and calculus I with physics (MATH 1060) or business calculus (MATH 1020) for review consideration. Production Studies An audition is required for students interested in pursuing music or theatre concentrations. For more information, visit the Department of Performing Arts website. Pre-Business The Pre-Business program provides students planning to earn Bachelor of Science degrees in Accounting, Economics, Financial Management, Management, and Marketing. Prospective transfer applicants must have successfully completed English composition (ENGL 1030), Microeconomics (Econ 2110) or Macroeconomics (ECON 2120) and approved Math sequence (i.e., either MATH 1020/2070 or 1060/2070 or 1060/1080) for review consideration. Transfer students may use the Transfer Credit Equivalency List (TCEL) to informally evaluate their own transfer credits. You can cross-reference your courses to the pre-business curriculum. Transcripts The Office of Admissions accepts official, secure transcripts via three methods of delivery. U.S. Mail Clemson University Undergraduate Admissions 105 Sikes Hall Box 345124 Clemson, SC 29634-5124 Electronic Services Use a third-party service (Parchment, Student Clearinghouse, etc.) to electronically and securely send official transcripts to our office at this email address: apply@admission.clemson.edu. Hand Delivery A stamped, sealed and unopened envelope containing an official transcript can be hand-delivered to the Office of Admissions. The envelope must not state “Issued to Student” to be accepted. Clemson University Undergraduate Admissions 105 Sikes Hall Box 345124 Clemson, SC 29634-5124 High School Performance and Standardized Test Scores* Transfer applicants with less than 30 credits (post-high school) may still be considered, but they must also submit high school transcript and test scores (SAT or ACT). High school performance is reviewed first, and a strong high school GPA, class rank and standardized test score are necessary. College academic performance is also required and will be reviewed. *This consideration is only for transfer applicants who have completed less than 30 hours of college coursework. Activities Outside the Classroom What do you enjoy most? We want to hear about your favorite activities and how you dedicate yourself to growing in your performance, leadership and service. Leadership opportunities Sports Arts Volunteer activity Part-time employment Military service Family obligations Background and Opportunities Not every student has access to the same resources, so each applicant is considered based on how they take advantage of the opportunities they have through their school and community. Let us know about the circumstances that have shaped you academically and personally. The Office of Admissions takes diversity, legacy status, first-generation status and more into account when reviewing each application. Your Unique Story At Clemson, we recognize that our differences make us stronger. Upload an optional personal statement with your application to let us know if there are specific circumstances that we should consider in the admissions process. After You Apply Next Steps We will keep you updated on the status of your application via email, but you can always find the most up-to-date information by visiting your Applicant Portal. When you are accessing the Applicant Portal for the first time, please reference your email for log-in instructions. Please allow seven to 10 business days for the receipt of transcripts, test scores and other credentials to be added to your application file. All transfer applications will be reviewed on a rolling basis. Need to Edit Your Application? To change your major, edit your personal information, change your application term or withdraw your application, please visit your Applicant Portal. Explore Financial Aid The Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) is available on October 1. The amount of need-related aid for which you are eligible is determined by the information you supply annually on the FAFSA. To be considered for need-based scholarships, applicants must also submit the FAFSA to the federal processor by January 2. Decision Types Fall Admit Admitted transfers for Fall have until the deposit deadline in their admission letter to choose whether or not to attend Clemson University. Students admitted to Fall may opt in to the Summer term if they choose. January Admit Students admitted to the Spring semester will enroll at Clemson in January. Admit with different major Students who receive this decision must select a different major to be admitted to Clemson. Deny, less than 30 hours We encourage students who receive this decision to take additional college coursework to achieve the 30-hour requirement and reapply for transfer admission. Apply to Clemson as a Transfer Student Application Schedule and Deadlines How to Apply to Clemson What We Look For Requirements for Transfer Applicants Choice of Major Transcripts Activities Outside the Classroom Background and Opportunities Your Unique Story After You Apply Next Steps Decision Types Clemson University Facebook Instagram Twitter Linkedin Youtube Tiktok Policy/Terms of Use Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Copyright © 2022 Clemson University • Clemson, South Carolina 29634 Clemson University Facebook Instagram Twitter Linkedin Youtube Tiktok Resources A-Z Index Campus Map CU Safety Directory Webcams Apply to Clemson