COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Criminal Justice, Major MajorCriminal Justice All Programs Fairmount College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Criminal Justice Wichita State’s Bachelor of Science (BS) in criminal justice combines quality curriculum, applied-learning with local and federal agencies, a flexible online option—and a new location within the Law Enforcement Training Center on WSU’s Innovation Campus. As a graduate, you’ll be well prepared for advanced study in criminal justice and for a wide variety of careers. Learn how criminal justice is the right fit for you. Request Info Start Your Application Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the program To take courses in the Fairmount College of Liberal Arts and Sciences, you must first be admitted to Wichita State. For WSU’s admission requirements, and to apply, click the link below. Admission requirements Inside the Program Law Enforcement Training Center benefits students, community The Law Enforcement Training Center provides an unprecedented experience for students in WSU's Criminal Justice Program. Students benefit from a close relationship with law enforcement, including internships, co-op positions and applied learning opportunities. The state-of-the-art facility includes training space and classrooms for the Sedgwick County Sheriff's Department, Wichita Police Department and criminal justice students. Curriculum The major consists of at least 36 credit hours (but not more than 50 credit hours). Core courses cover topics from criminal law and procedure to corrections, research methods and policy. You’ll also take several criminal justice electives courses based on your interests and career goals. View the curriculum Careers A degree in criminal justice from Wichita State will give you an edge with a diverse range of employers, including local, state and federal law enforcement; courts and correctional agencies; juvenile justice; private security; and related fields. Learn more about careers in this field Similar Programs Criminal Justice (Minor) Homeland Security Forensic Sciences Pre-Law Sociology Applied Computing 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©