SMU Cox Display Navigation and Site Search SMU Cox School of Business SMU Cox Utility Navigation Students Companies Alumni Apply Contact Us smu.edu Display Navigation Display Search Search SMU SMU Cox Main Navigation At SMU Cox Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu An exceptional school in the heart of a vibrant, global, business-friendly city. Collins Center Cox News Cox Events Graduate Outcomes CoxToday Magazine Academic Departments Career Growth Global Programs Degrees & Programs Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu Rigorous programs within a truly customized academic experience. Master of Science MS in Accounting MS in Business Analytics MS in Finance MS in Management MS Health Promotion Management MS in Sport Management MBA Full-Time Two-Year MBA Full-Time One-Year MBA MBA Direct Professional MBA Online MBA Executive MBA Joint Degrees JD/MBA MA / MBA MS Engineering / MBA Undergraduate Bachelor of Business Administration Non-Degree Executive Education Summer Business Institute Diversity & Inclusion Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu Shaping Leaders for a Changing World. Diversity at Cox Latino Leadership Initiative I Am Latino in America Subiendo Academy at SMU Cox School Dean’s Message Executive Education Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu Meet your career challenges head-on by mining the expertise of the nation's top business leaders. Programs for Individuals Custom Solutions Latino Leadership Initiative HR Roundtable Graduate Certificates Collins Center Learning Culture Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu An innovative learning culture influences the way the world does business. Centers and Institutes Academic Departments Research Business Library NextGen Cox Curriculum People & Community Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu A community where professors know students by name and help them create powerful networks. Students Alumni Faculty Companies Cox Executive Board Cox100 Press Releases Display Search Utility Navigation Students Companies Alumni Apply Contact Us smu.edu Centers and Institutes The following centers and institutes are in the Cox School of Business at Southern Methodist University, serving as resources to the University, the community and the World. Many also offer opportunities for scholarly research and writing, conferences, periodic lectures and symposia. Questions about the centers and institutes can be sent to their directors or faculty members. Albert W. Niemi Center for Economic Growth and Leadership Development The Albert W. Niemi Center for Economic Growth and Leadership Development focuses on creating learning experiences for students and community members. Learn more The Brierley Institute  As the nation’s first academic institute devoted to the study of customer engagement, the Brierley Institute plans to change the business world and transform the fundamental interaction between a customer and a company. Learn more Business Library The Business Library provides high-quality information services for Cox Business School students and others in the University community. Learn more Bridwell Institute for Economic Freedom The Bridwell Institute continues and expands upon the mission of its predecessor, the O’Neil Center for Global Markets and Freedom, to study the impact of competitive market forces on freedom and prosperity in the global economy. Learn more Edwin L. Cox Business Leadership Center The Center provides Cox Business School students with the leadership and essential skills needed to be successful in business. The BLC offers classes and seminars that complement the curriculum at the school. Learn more Career Management Center You can start using the vast, dedicated resources of the Cox MBA Career Management Center from the moment you enroll. That's the time to start targeting your career goals and mapping a strategic plan, and we're here to help you. Learn more Caruth Institute for Entrepreneurship As one of the oldest entrepreneurship centers in the United States, the Institute has for more than 50 years been committed to encouraging those who can to build a business of their own. Learn more Folsom Institute For Real Estate The backbone of real estate activity at SMU since 1984, the Folsom Institute supports research and real estate academic programs at both BBA and MBA levels, and bridges the academic and professional worlds. Learn more Don Jackson Center for Financial Studies The Don Jackson Center for Financial Studies provides enrichment programs and research opportunities for students and faculty in the Cox School's Finance Department. Learn more EnCap Investments & LCM Group Alternative Asset Management Center The Alternative Asset Management Center provides students with hands-on training in the increasingly important financial markets of non-traditional asset classes, including hedge funds and private equity funds. Learn more Kitt Investing and Trading Center The Kitt Investing and Trading Center is a state-of-the-art instructional and research facility designed to integrate finance curriculum, enhance innovative faculty research, and teach students practical finance and investment applications. Learn more JCPenney Center for Retail Excellence The Center is a leading source of academic expertise on consumer shopping behavior and the effects of retailer activities on shopping behavior. Learn more Maguire Energy Institute The Institute promotes the study of policy, marketing, and management issues related to oil, natural gas and electricity. Learn more National Center for Arts Research The National Center for Arts Research provides a toolkit of evidence-based insights into the health of arts and cultural organizations in America. Learn more Southwestern Graduate School of Banking The School offers a comprehensive, state-of-the-industry program designed for those seeking a dynamic approach to graduate-level instruction in banking. Learn more SMU Cox Footer Utility Nav Give Contact Us Apply © Cox School of Business Southern Methodist University PO Box 750333 Dallas, Texas 75275-0333 214-768-2000 SMU Cox Legal Home SMU Cox on Social Media Facebook Instagram Twitter