Covid-19: Get the latest updates here Apply to JTS Contact Campus Life Alumni Get Email Updates Donate Now Search About Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund Leadership History JTS and Israel Conservative Judaism Offices & Resources Policies Accreditation Visit JTS Admissions List College Admissions Davidson School Admissions Rabbinical School Admissions Gershon Kekst Graduate School Admissions H. L. Miller Cantorial School Admissions Take a Virtual Tour Academics Academics School List College The William Davidson School The Rabbinical School The Gershon Kekst Graduate School H. L. Miller Cantorial School Faculty & Scholars Faculty & Scholars Center & Institutes Center for Pastoral Education Block / Kolker Center for Spiritual Arts The Hendel Center for Ethics and Justice Milstein Center for Interreligious Dialogue Louis Finkelstein Institute for Religious & Social Studies Research Institutes Summer Programs Nishma Summer Sessions Summer Hebrew Language Courses Professional Training Professional Training CONTINUING EDUCATION FOR CLERGY The Rabbinic Training Institute (RTI) Summer Rabbinic Learning Conference Online Learning for Rabbis and Cantors FOR JEWISH EDUCATORS Day School Leadership Training Institute (DSLTI) Jewish Early Childhood Education Leadership Institute (JECELI) Ivriyon: Hebrew Immersion Institute for Day School Educators Jewish Day School Standards and Benchmarks FOR OTHER PROFESSIONALS NAASE Week of Study Community Learning Community Learning ONLINE Live Online Classes JTS Torah Online BEYOND THE CAMPUS JTS Learning in Your Community Courses and Curricula LEARNING EVENTS Public Lectures and Events FOR 8TH-12TH GRADERS Prozdor Teen Learning Library About The Library Letter from the Librarian Library Services The New JTS Library Library Programs and Events Library Online Exhibits Special Collections JTS Library Membership Email a Librarian News & Events News Events Academic Calendar Davidson School Admissions Admissions Davidson School Admissions Apply Visit Contact Admissions Student Life Meet Davidson Alumni Tuition & Fees Financial Aid & Fellowships Admissions Overview The William Davidson School brings together students with a deep passion for Jewish education ready to lead the next generation. The William Davidson School’s expert faculty guide students as they grow spiritually, academically, and professionally into transformational leaders in education. Our rigorous curriculum offers opportunities to pursue specialized courses of study, professional training, and advanced research. Degree Programs Find information about The William Davidson School’s master’s and doctoral programs, including master’s concentration details, core curriculum outlines, and doctoral tracks. MA EdD Applications and Deadlines Prospective students can find an overview of application requirements, submission details, relevant deadlines, and more. MA Application EdD Application Non-Degree Visit JTS Students interested in applying to The William Davidson School are encouraged to come to campus at any time. Learn about tours, informational sessions, open houses, and more. Visit Campus Student Life Hear from Liora Liora Seltzer, Online MA in Jewish Education Working full time in a Jewish day school, I was looking for a program that would help me grow professionally. The flexible online program was great given my very busy schedule! Taking classes about education and leadership while being a teacher is a unique experience, because I was able to use what I read and learn in my current classroom. Liora Seltzer, Online MA in Jewish Education Tuition, Financial Aid & Fellowships Find details about merit- and need-based financial aid options, as well as information on fellowships with the JCC Association, UJA, and more. Tuition Financial Aid & Fellowships Alumni: Beyond Davidson Graduates of The William Davidson School have gone on to lead camps, day schools, organizations, and more, all across the world. Explore news and updates from our network of impressive alumni to learn about life after The William Davidson School. Beyond Davidson Events Right now there are no event listings for this location or category. Our calendar is updated regularly. Please check back. SHARE THIS PAGE Request Admissions Information from The William Davidson School We’ll send more details about our programs and the admissions process directly to your inbox. First Name(Required) Last Name(Required) Email(Required) Phone Potential Enrollment Year Please Select One202120222023202420252026 Program of Interest Please Select OneMAEdDExecutive Doctoral ProgramNon-Degree Comments or Questions RESOURCES Current Students Faculty & Scholars CONNECT WITH US Get Email Updates Visit Give Social Media © The Jewish Theological Seminary All Rights Reserved | בית המדרש ללימודי יהדות 3080 Broadway, New York, NY 10027 Privacy Policy x Share This Page From Name(Required) From Email(Required) To Email(Required) Message