Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Office of Investments Menu Office of Investments Baylor's Endowment Endowment Value Endowment Distributions Endowment Returns Endowment Portfolio Portfolio Managers Investing in a Changing World Investment Team Dave Morehead, CFA Renee Hanna, CFA Jin Dingmore, CFA Maggie McBride Jeff Wallace, JD, CPA, CFP Contact Us About Baylor Give/Donate Investing in Baylor’s Future The Office of Investments is responsible for managing Baylor’s endowment and other long-term investments of the University. The $1.8 billion endowment portfolio supports the affordability and quality of a Baylor education today and for generations to come. $71.4 million was distributed from the endowment to the University over fiscal year 2021 in support of scholarships, professorships, and other mission-related activities of the University. Make a Gift Meet Our Team The Office of Investments is comprised of a strong team of investment professionals that are experienced in investing across all aspects of the globally diversified endowment portfolio. Dave Morehead, CFA Chief Investment Officer Marketable Investments About Dave Renee Hanna, CFA Managing Director of Investments Private Investments About Renee Jin Dingmore, CFA Investment Officer Private Investments About Jin Maggie McBride Investment Analyst Marketable Investments About Maggie Jeff Wallace, JD, CPA, CFP Managing Director of Investment Operations, Finance and Legal About Jeff Baylor's Endowment A growing endowment is essential to keeping a Baylor education affordable for deserving students of all economic backgrounds, and it is an important determinant of our long term competitiveness with other top-tier institutions. Investment returns from the endowment portfolio and ongoing gifts from alumni and friends are essential to the healthy growth of Baylor's Endowment. The portfolio is invested with a target return that provides for monthly distributions to support students on campus today while more than keeping pace with inflation to enhance the endowment's purchasing power for generations to come. Baylor's endowment hit an all-time high of $1.8 billion in Fiscal Year 2021 About Baylor's Endowment Office Location Pat Neff Hall, Suite 225 1320 S. 7th Street Waco, Texas 76706 (254) 710-8797 Show More General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 Baylor's Endowment Endowment Value Endowment Distributions Endowment Returns Endowment Portfolio Portfolio Managers Investing in a Changing World Investment Team Dave Morehead, CFA Renee Hanna, CFA Jin Dingmore, CFA Maggie McBride Jeff Wallace, JD, CPA, CFP Contact Us About Baylor Give/Donate