SMU Cox Display Navigation and Site Search SMU Cox School of Business SMU Cox Utility Navigation Students Companies Alumni Apply Contact Us smu.edu Display Navigation Display Search Search SMU SMU Cox Main Navigation At SMU Cox Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu An exceptional school in the heart of a vibrant, global, business-friendly city. Collins Center Cox News Cox Events Graduate Outcomes CoxToday Magazine Academic Departments Career Growth Global Programs Degrees & Programs Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu Rigorous programs within a truly customized academic experience. Master of Science MS in Accounting MS in Business Analytics MS in Finance MS in Management MS Health Promotion Management MS in Sport Management MBA Full-Time Two-Year MBA Full-Time One-Year MBA MBA Direct Professional MBA Online MBA Executive MBA Joint Degrees JD/MBA MA / MBA MS Engineering / MBA Undergraduate Bachelor of Business Administration Non-Degree Executive Education Summer Business Institute Diversity & Inclusion Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu Shaping Leaders for a Changing World. Diversity at Cox Latino Leadership Initiative I Am Latino in America Subiendo Academy at SMU Cox School Dean’s Message Executive Education Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu Meet your career challenges head-on by mining the expertise of the nation's top business leaders. Programs for Individuals Custom Solutions Latino Leadership Initiative HR Roundtable Graduate Certificates Collins Center Learning Culture Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu An innovative learning culture influences the way the world does business. Centers and Institutes Academic Departments Research Business Library NextGen Cox Curriculum People & Community Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu A community where professors know students by name and help them create powerful networks. Students Alumni Faculty Companies Cox Executive Board Cox100 Press Releases Display Search Utility Navigation Students Companies Alumni Apply Contact Us smu.edu Full-Time One-Year MBA Full-Time One-Year MBA Overview Curriculum Experiential Learning Career Development Admissions Overview Curriculum Experiential Learning Career Development Admissions Program You're headed for success in your current career — and you want to get there faster. A full-time, 12-month program, the One-Year MBA at SMU Cox is tailored for early-career professionals who are looking for a rigorous, personalized experience in an intimate small-school setting. Learn in small classes from an award-winning faculty with open doors, connect with MBA students from around the world and dynamic business leaders from Dallas's Fortune 500 companies, and gain the skills, confidence and global alumni connections you need to take your career to the next level. Apply Now Request More Information Meet 1:1 with FTMBA Admissions Admissions Events The SMU Cox MBA program proved valuable for many reasons, as it was well rounded, offered quality courses that taught transferrable tools I could use immediately in my post‐graduate career field, real world knowledge and exposure to the way business is conducted on a global scale. Elizabeth Weix, One-Year MBA 2017 Goldman Sachs - Associate Find your MBA Student Clubs See All Clubs Energy Club Join a group of people who want to dive deeper into energy industry issues. Partnering with the Maguire Energy Institute at SMU Cox, the club hosts well-known guest speakers, organizes seminars and corporate visits, participates in national case competitions and offers other opportunities to network with the club’s industry contacts so you can position yourself for a career in the industry. Learn More Women in Business One of SMU Cox's largest student organizations, Women in Business helps launch members into meaningful careers as business leaders. The club provides opportunities for mentorship and networking with high-powered women from industries across Dallas, as well as a calendar full of events, from lunch-and-learns with guest speakers to seminars and get-togethers. The club's relationship with the Forté Foundation means you automatically benefit from membership of the national organization. Learn More Entrepreneurship Club Join the MBA students who are helping Cox become a prime entrepreneurial incubator. Network with and learn from innovators, and team up with students from the business, law and engineering schools to compete in SMU's most exciting Business Plan Competition. Learn More By the Numbers: The Cox One Year MBA Class of 2022 Total Class Size 46 Average GMAT 683 Average GRE 307 Average GPA 3.11 Average Age 28 Average Years of Work Experience 4 years Women 26% Under-Represented Minorities 21% International 9% After Cox: Success Stories Bilal Sayyed, One Year MBA 2018 ExxonMobil – Senior Business Analyst My overall experience at SMU was fantastic! What made my experience most memorable were the relationships that I was able to forge with my cohort and faculty members, from whom I was able to share and gain knowledge, experiences and apply those learnings in my academic work, as well as my role today with ExxonMobil. What made it most valuable for me was having the opportunity to participate in group work and case studies, allowing us to bring our unique experiences and perspectives at a high-level into one singular deliverable. The diverse background of the faculty lends itself to knowledge share that expands beyond just a textbook, incorporating real-world business examples which proved to be invaluable allowing me to understand the practical application in the workplace. What I am most proud of is that through this program, I was able to attain the very job with the company that I had targeted and wrote of in my acceptance letter. I look forward to paying that back to the school as an SMU alum. Inobat Igamberdieva, One Year MBA 2016 Principal, Interlock Partners As Inobat reflects on her time at Cox she says “Networking opportunities are everywhere because Cox takes special care to surround you with classmates from diverse backgrounds and experiences and expose you to top notch professors whose knowledge will benefit you for years to come. The unique Practicum classes where you can get hands-on learning experience in real time, and the opportunity to connect with Alumni and business leaders to expand your network further were invaluable.” Inobat used her international finance background to land a principal role at an early stage venture capital firm, Interlock Partners. Danielle Arnold, One Year MBA 2018 American Airlines – Financial Analyst The One Year MBA program was the perfect fit for me. I was able to fully focus on my personal and professional development without taking too much time out of the workforce. Cox’s smaller class size and student-to-faculty ratio allowed me to form strong relationships with my peers and professors. Being able to work with and learn from my classmates with diverse backgrounds will be crucial for my long-term success. One of the most valuable parts of the program for me was SMU’s connections with employers which helped me solidify my role at American Airlines. SMU Cox Footer Utility Nav Give Contact Us Apply © Cox School of Business Southern Methodist University PO Box 750333 Dallas, Texas 75275-0333 214-768-2000 SMU Cox Legal Home SMU Cox on Social Media Facebook Instagram Twitter