Update My Record Careers First time login Login Logout Events News Privacy Policy Update My Record Careers First time login Login Logout Need help making a gift? Call 866-419-6768 Iowa State Logo Give Now Forever True, For Iowa State How to Give Types of Gifts Gift Policies Forms Gift Planning Areas to Support FundISU Corporation and Foundation Giving Make a Gift News and Stories News Archive Forward Magazine Your Iowa State Newsletter Insights Newsletter COVID-19 FAQs For Donors Donor Services Order of the Knoll Awards Women & Philanthropy Faculty and Staff Cardinal Sheet Who We Are About Governance Leadership Team Financial Information Phone Center: 515-598-2390 Careers Contact Us Search Content: Giving to Iowa State {1} ##LOC[OK]## {1} ##LOC[OK]## ##LOC[Cancel]## {1} ##LOC[OK]## ##LOC[Cancel]## Current: Giving to Iowa State » Billing » Review » Finish First Name: "First Name" is required. Last Name: "Last Name" is required. Primary Email: Email "E-mail" is required. Confirm "E-mail" confirmed text is required. Emails do not match! "E-mail"needs to contain a valid entry. Your password must have each of the above components and be at least 8 characters. Does Not Pass Low Moderate Secure Very Secure Re-type your password. Re-type your email. Please verify your input by typing it again. Passwords do not match! Emails do not match! Inputs do not match! Passwords match! Emails match! Inputs match! Gift Designations: Choose the area of Iowa State that you'd like to support. Designations ISU General Scholarship Fund I want to choose where my gift is designated. Selected Designations Remove Name Amount Percentage Library Acquisitions Fund $ University Library Strategic Fund $ Library Student Employee Scholarship $ Library Special Collections and University Archives Fund $ I want to support a fund not listed here and will add specific gift designation in Notes and Instructions box below. $ Total: $0.00 0% × Donation areas Select the area(s) that you would like to support. If you don't see your area of choice, select "Other Area" and click "Continue." Then you may add a note in the "Notes/Instructions" box. College of Agriculture and Life Sciences Agriculture and Life Sciences Student Experience Fund Agriculture Development Fund Agriculture General Scholarship Endowment Fund Ivy College of Business Business Administration Founders Fund Business Fund for Excellence (Unrestricted Support) Ivy College of Business General Scholarship Fund Ivy College of Business Student Experience College of Design College of Design Excellence Fund College of Design Scholarship Fund College of Design Student Experience Fund College of Engineering College of Engineering Fund for Excellence Engineering College Scholarship Fund Engineering Student Experience Fund College of Human Sciences Human Sciences Development Fund Human Sciences General Scholarship Fund Human Sciences Student Experience Fund College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Liberal Arts & Sciences Excellence Fund Liberal Arts and Sciences General Scholarship Fund Liberal Arts and Sciences Student Experience Fund College of Veterinary Medicine Veterinary Medicine Impact Fund Veterinary Medicine Scholarship Fund Veterinary Medicine Student Experience Fund Veterinary Medicine Teaching Hospital Endowment General University Support Greater University Fund for Excellence Hixson Opportunity Awards ISU General Scholarship Fund ISU Scholarships for Student Achievement Study Abroad Fund for Excellence University Library Library Acquisitions Fund Library Student Employee Scholarship University Library Strategic Fund Other Areas of Support Companion Animal Fund Extension Development Fund Graduate College Development Fund Honors Program Fund Marching Band Support Performing Arts Fund at Stephens Auditorium Reiman Gardens Annual Memberships Student Affairs Program Enhancement Fund University Museums Membership Program Women in Science and Engineering General Fund Athletics Intercollegiate Athletic Fund ISU Alumni Association ISU Alumni Association Programs Endowment Fund ISU Alumni Association Sustaining Donor ISU Alumni Center Building Expansion Fund ISUAA Cardinal and Gold Leadership Scholarship Other Areas I want to support a fund not listed here and will add specific gift designation in Notes and Instructions box below. Pay My Pledge No matches were found. Close Donation Information: Gift Amount: $ "Gift Amount" is required. "Gift Amount" must be currency. "Gift Amount" must be equal to or greater than $5.00. "Gift Amount" is too large. I would like to split my gift into multiple payments or make a recurring gift. Scheduled Payments Today's Payment (Charged Today) $ 0.00 Number of Payments 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 36 37 38 39 40 41 42 43 44 45 46 47 48 49 50 51 52 53 54 55 56 57 58 59 60 of $ 0.00 $ 0.00 Remaining Payments: 0 payment(s) of $ 0.00 Total Amount: $ 0.00 Frequency of payments: Current Date 1st Day Of Month 15th Day Of Month x Monthly Quarterly Twice a year The remaining payments will be placed between: Notify me days before my card will be charged. Email address to notify/remind: Notes/Instructions: Include notes or special instructions for your gift. You may write-in special designations for your gift or note any other things that you'd like us to know about your gift. 
 I would like to make a payment on my pledge. I would like to make a payment on my pledge. This gift is a payment on an existing pledge Please enter pledge number(s) here: Please give credit to an additional person Please give credit to an additional person If you would like another person to receive credit for this gift as well, please provide their name below. Last name: Honorary and Memorial Gift Honorary and Memorial Gift This gift is being made: Please Choose In memory of In honor of Name: Name and address of person(s) to notify of this gift: 
 Matching Gift Information Matching Gift Information Does your employer match gifts? Employer Name Click Here to find your Company Please Wait... Home Careers Iowa State Highlights Forever True, For Iowa State How to Give News and Stories For Donors Faculty and Staff Who We Are 2505 University Boulevard, P.O. Box 2230, Ames, Iowa 50010-2230, 866.419.6768. Copyright ©2016, Iowa State University Foundation. All rights reserved. Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Privacy Policy Website Terms of Use Back to Top