UH Home Login to AccessUH Visit Us On Facebook! Visit Us On LinkedIn! Toggle navigation About Our College A Message from the Dean Mission & Goals Administration Faculty Directory Resident Directory Our Building's Namesake College News & Events Need a Speaker? Directions to UHCO Future Students & Residents Scholarships Academic Programs The Optometry Profession Applying to UHCO Student Life Accreditation and Rankings Transferring to UHCO Research Current Research Studies Summer Research Program Research Faculty Seminars At A Glance Visual Optics Institute Texas Eye Research and Technology Center UHCO Myopia Control Initiative UHCO Technical Services Faculty Labs Alumni, CE & Donors Career and Practice Advancement Continuing Education Distinguished Alumnus Awards Featured Alumni Foundation for Education and Research in Vision Giving to UHCO Professional Resources Optometry Resources Guide Patient Care University Eye Institute The Surgery Center Cedar Springs Eye Clinic Applying to UHCO Give to UHCO Faculty & Staff Current Students You Are Here: UHCO Home Future Students & Residents Academic Programs Graduate Program Future Students & Residents | Academic Programs Scholarships Academic Programs Doctor of Optometry (O.D.) Graduate Program (Ph.D./M.S) How to Apply Prerequisites Curriculum Courses Combined Programs Financial Assistance Graduate Poster Grievance Procedure Clinical Residencies The Optometry Profession Applying to UHCO Student Life Accreditation and Rankings Transferring to UHCO Information Request Please tell us a little about yourself and about what info you'd like to receive from the College of Optometry. Learn More Graduate Program The Graduate Program in Physiological Optics/Vision Science confers an MS and/or PhD degree and prepares students to embark on a career in teaching and/or research in the basic or clinical science of vision. Students are accepted into the program with a minimum of a BS degree (or the equivalent) from a variety of fields such as optometry, physiological optics, vision sciences, medicine, ophthalmology, structural and functional biosciences, neuroscience, psychology, optics, bioengineering, and biophysics. The need for new knowledge in the vision sciences is great, and teaching and research opportunities are numerous in a spectrum of academic, industrial, and professional settings. Although the program has sufficient structure to provide a broad base of scientific knowledge about vision systems, it is at the same time appropriately flexible to permit students to develop expertise in areas of special interest. Students will join the labs of faculty mentors who are studying normal and abnormal visual processes, diseases and disorders of the eye, visual optics, the visual pathways, eye movement control systems, and the development of treatments to prevent loss of vision using a variety of approaches ranging from molecular and cellular, to behavioral and optical. Master of Science The Master of Science (MS) track requires about two years of study, including 30 semester hours of coursework and research, teaching experience, and a research project with a written thesis. The thesis committee must consist of a minimum of three faculty members, at least two of which are from within the graduate program; one member may be external to the program, from academia or industry, and is approved by the graduate program. Acceptance into the full-time MS program is often accompanied by program financial support, teaching or research assistantships. A combined OD/MS program is also offered. Combined OD/MS A combined OD/MS program is available for enrolled optometry students who wish to pursue a Master’s of Science (MS) degree in Physiological Optics/Vision Science concurrently with the doctor of optometry (OD) degree. OD students apply for the combined OD/MS program in the Fall of their for admission in the Spring of their second year. In addition to a total of 30 semesters hours of coursework (12 overlapping with OD coursework) and research hours, the combined OD/MS program requires a written thesis based on original research. The thesis committee must consist of a minimum of three faculty members, at least two of which are from within the graduate program; one member may be external to the program, from academia or industry, and is approved by the graduate program. The research project can be an extension of prior research, generally done during the summer between first and second year of the OD program, in a federally funded summer research training program for OD students. Doctor of Philosophy The Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) track normally requires at least four years of study, including 60 semester hours of coursework and research hours, teaching experience, a foreign language or research skill, qualifying examinations, and a written dissertation based on a body of original research. Dissertation committees for PhD students must consist of a minimum of four members, including three faculty members from the graduate program, and one member external to the graduate program from academia and/or industry who is approved by the graduate program. Acceptance into the full-time PhD program is generally accompanied by program financial support, teaching or research assistantships. Accelerated placement in the PhD (OD/PhD) program for OD/MS students is also offered. Applying to UHCO | University Eye Institute | The Surgery Center | Academic Programs NBEO Pass Rates | 2025 OD Class Profile | Current Research Studies | Faculty Directory | Administration | Continuing Education ©2022 University of Houston College of Optometry. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies