Skip to main content Menu Resources Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply or Give Apply Now Make a Gift Institutional Effectiveness Anthology at Clemson University Welcome to the home for Anthology at Clemson University! The Anthology platform is a robust, web-based assessment and accreditation software that supports various functions including strategic planning, campus-wide assessment, outcomes assessment for General Education courses, program review and accreditation compliance. Over 1,000 higher education institutions across the United States, Canada, and internationally utilize this platform. At Clemson University, this platform is intended to be a one-stop-shop for all assessment and accreditation functions. Please note, as of July 7, 2020, Campus Labs has become known as Anthology. Please read here for more information. While we do not anticipate a disruption in services, more information will be posted on this page as we learn what this means for Clemson University. Access Anthology If you are exploring the different options offered by Anthology, please refer to the module descriptions below. Baseline Baseline is the data collection module within Anthology. It has the ability to collect data via surveys, rubrics, and instant response system. Like Qualtrics, it is approved for use by the University for data collection. Access to data can be by department or at the project level. TigerQuest (Engage) TigerQuest is your online gateway to involvement in student organizations at Clemson University. This platform hosts almost 500 student organizations. It enables students to join clubs, register organizations, log service hours, promote events, communicate with club members, and much more. To learn more, please visit here. Outcomes To evaluate their impact, take a deeper dive into your outcomes data. With Anthology Outcomes, you can gain clearer views of campus-wide progress and opportunities for continuous improvement, even as you simplify the assessment and reporting process. Planning Planning is the strategic planning, campus-wide assessment, and outcomes assessment module within Campus Labs. Not to be confused with the Outcomes module, Planning is the primary tool for annual assessment reporting. For more information, please visit here. If you are interested in learning more about any of the modules, please complete this form and someone will reach out to you. Campus Resources User Access Request Report Issues with Anthology to OIA Official Anthology Support Page University Data-Related Policies and Procedures Academic Programs & Procedures Accreditation Collaborative Academic Agreements and Contracts Metrics and Reports Resources Organization Chart Contact Home Related Links Institutional Research Institutional Assessment Academic Common Market Academic Analytics Anthology (formerly Campus Labs) ClemsonForward Student Achievement Measures Federal College Scorecard Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram