Skip to Main Content Boston University More Publications University Publications Bostonia BU-Today The Brink Other Publications The Brink Sections Search Pioneering Research from Boston University City Trees and Soil Are Sucking More Carbon Out of the Atmosphere Than Previously Thought Trees and forests in cities like Boston are absorbing a significant amount of carbon dioxide released from burning fossil fuels, providing “an incredible service to our planet,” says BU ecologist Lucy Hutyra. Photo by iStock/CraigStocks Forest Edges City Trees and Soil Are Sucking More Carbon Out of the Atmosphere Than Previously Thought Researchers found that trees and soils on the outermost edge of forests may have a role in fighting climate change—but the benefits might not last February 16, 2022 2 Jessica Colarossi Twitter Facebook They may not have lungs like we do, but the soil and trees are breathing in and out all of the time. Trees take in carbon dioxide (CO2), release oxygen by way of photosynthesis, and store carbon in their trunks. And when the leaves land on the ground, soil microbes work to decompose the leaves and other organic matter, which releases carbon dioxide. Lucy Hutyra, a CAS professor of earth and environment. Photo by Jackie Ricciardi Forests actually store more carbon dioxide than they release, which is great news for us: about 30 percent of carbon emissions from burning fossil fuels are taken in by forests, an effect called the terrestrial carbon sink. “That’s CO2 that’s not in the atmosphere,” says Boston University biogeochemist and ecologist Lucy Hutyra. “We’re not feeling the full effects of climate change because of the terrestrial climate sink. These forests are doing an incredible service to our planet.” For more than a decade, Hutyra has been investigating what happens to the planet’s “lungs” when large forests are cut down into smaller patches, a process researchers call forest fragmentation. “We think about forests as big landscapes, but really they are chopped up into all these little segments because of the human world,” says Hutyra, a BU College of Arts & Sciences professor of earth and environment. Forests get cut into smaller parcels, as chunks are taken down to make space for roads, buildings, agriculture, and solar farms—one of the biggest drivers of forest loss in Massachusetts. These alterations to forests create more areas called forest edges—literally, the trees at the outermost edge of a forest. A forest edge in Newton, Mass., where researchers consistently measured and monitored the soil to determine how much carbon is being released. Photo by Sarah Garvey It has long been assumed that these forest edges release and store carbon at similar rates as forest interiors, but Hutyra and researchers in her lab at BU have discovered this isn’t true. Soils and trees in temperate forest edges in the Northeast United States are acting differently than those farther away from people. In two recent research papers, Hutyra’s team found edge trees grow faster than their country cousins deep in the forest, and that soil in urban areas can hoard more carbon dioxide than previously thought. Their results can challenge current ideas about conservation and the value of urban forests as more than places for recreation. Breathing in CO2 In one of the most detailed looks at temperate forest edges to date, Hutyra and her research team, including collaborators at the Harvard Forest, examined the growth rates of edge trees compared to the rest of the forest. Using data from the US Department of Agriculture’s Forest Inventory and Analysis program—which monitors tree size, growth, and land use across the country—Hutyra’s team looked at more than 48,000 forest plots in the Northeast United States. They found trees on the edges grow nearly twice as fast as interior trees—those roughly 100 feet away from the edge. PhD candidate Luca Morreale quantified the percent of forest area within 100 feet of an edge. One finding: there are more temperate forest edges than tropical forest edges in the world, shown in the map above. Previous research has found that forest clearing and fragmentation leads to the demise of tropical trees, the opposite of temperate forest edges. Courtesy of Morreale, L.L., Thompson, J.R., Tang, X. et al./Nature Communications, 12, 7181 (2021), https://doi.org/10.1038 “This is likely because the trees on the edge don’t have competition with interior forest, so they get more light,” says Luca Morreale, a PhD candidate in Hutyra’s lab and lead author on the paper, published in Nature Communications, outlining the findings. And the more a tree grows, the more carbon it is taking in. This is good news, considering over 25 percent of the landscape in the Northeast United States is covered by an edge. But this doesn’t mean that more forest fragmentation is a solution for sucking more carbon out of the atmosphere; carbon storage along the edges of fragmented areas does not come close to offsetting the negative side effects of losing forests—like releasing carbon long stored underground back into the atmosphere. According to Morreale and Hutyra, their study instead points to the need to better understand and conserve existing forest edges, which are typically seen as more disposable. “We are underestimating how much carbon is being taken up by temperate forest edges,” Hutyra says. “We also need to think about how susceptible they might be in the future to climate change,” because previous studies have shown that even though these trees are growing faster from more sunlight, hotter temperatures cause growth rates of edge trees to plummet. Breathing out CO2 In a second related study, Hutyra teamed up with BU biologist Pamela Templer to find that soils at the forest edge felt the effects of forest fragmentation, just like the trees. “Soils contain wild amounts of bacteria, fungi, roots, and microorganisms, and just the way we breathe out CO2 when working and being active, they respire CO2, as well,” says Sarah Garvey, a PhD candidate in Hutyra’s lab and lead author of a paper on forest edge soils published in Global Change Biology. “With soil, there is more there than meets the eye.” Sarah Garvey taking soil measurements at the Arnold Arboretum, Boston. Photo by Hristiana Stoynova Garvey found that not only does forest edge soil release more carbon than interior forest soil, but that the soil is acting dramatically differently in rural and urban forests. She visited eight field sites in developed and undeveloped areas of Massachusetts every two weeks for a year and a half (skipping the winter, when the ground is covered in ice) to measure the levels of carbon being released from the soils. She and her team would take a snapshot of the temperature and moisture levels of the soil at the forest edge, and then walk about 300 feet into the forest to take measurements again. They saw that in rural areas with fewer people and buildings, warmer temperatures at the edge of the forest caused leaves and organic matter to decompose faster, forcing the soil microorganisms to work harder and release more carbon dioxide than their cooler, more shaded peers in the forest interior. But, in urban forests, where the ground was significantly hotter and drier, those soils stopped releasing as much carbon. “It’s so hot and dry that the microbes are not happy and they’re not doing their thing,” Hutyra says. The long-term effect of unhappy soil is uncertain, but the findings also mean that urban soils, like those in Franklin Park, the largest public park in Boston, could have a greater capacity to store carbon than previously expected, says Garvey. Her next project will look deeper into the possible mechanisms behind the different carbon release and storage rates. This device, called a LI-COR LI‐8100A, allowed the researchers to measure soil temperature, moisture, and carbon release at the various sites across Massachusetts. This one is pictured at a forest edge in the Arnold Arboretum. Photo by Sarah Garvey Luca Morreale doing research at a forest edge at the Arnold Arboretum. Photo by Sarah Garvey Critical for Our Future Although discovering that urban trees and soils store more carbon might seem like “a double whammy of a good thing,” Hutyra says, it’s unclear if this boost in carbon uptake will last as the planet continues to warm. Climate change could exacerbate carbon losses from soil, and the trees at the edge of forests in rural or urban areas could be more vulnerable to extreme heat and drought. “Forests store almost half of their carbon below ground,” Garvey says. “Which is why understanding the relationships between the soil and the plant life is so vital to understanding the bigger picture of how forests store carbon for the long term.” Sarah Garvey walks toward an urban research site in Newton, Mass., LI-COR device in hand. Photo by Luca Morreale With cities and countries making commitments to plant more trees in an effort to curb the impacts of climate change, the researchers in Hutyra’s lab all agree that thinking about the greater context of the trees and soils, and where new trees are planted, is extremely important. Factoring in the elevated amounts of carbon stored by forest edges should be taken into account when looking at long-term projections of climate change, as well. “We need to think about that as we [decide] what areas to conserve, what to develop, and how to tackle climate change solutions,” Hutyra says. “Is a place like Franklin Park where there’s tons of foot traffic just as valuable to save as a remote forest in Maine where three people visit? There’s no easy answer.” This work was funded by the National Science Foundation and the United States Department of Agriculture. Explore Related Topics: Boston Climate Change Ecology Environment & Ecology Environmental Health Local Sustainability Share this story 2 Comments Add Share City Trees and Soil Are Sucking More Carbon Out of the Atmosphere Than Previously Thought Share Twitter Facebook Reddit LinkedIn Email Print Copy URL: Copy Jessica Colarossi Science Writer Twitter Profile Jessica Colarossi is a science writer for The Brink. She graduated with a BS in journalism from Emerson College in 2016, with focuses on environmental studies and publishing. While a student, she interned at ThinkProgress in Washington, D.C., where she wrote over 30 stories, most of them relating to climate change, coral reefs, and women’s health. Profile Comments & Discussion Boston University moderates comments to facilitate an informed, substantive, civil conversation. Abusive, profane, self-promotional, misleading, incoherent or off-topic comments will be rejected. Moderators are staffed during regular business hours (EST) and can only accept comments written in English. Statistics or facts must include a citation or a link to the citation. There are 2 comments on City Trees and Soil Are Sucking More Carbon Out of the Atmosphere Than Previously Thought Tim Benton February 17, 2022 at 9:35 am Trees grow faster without competition, but rapid growth is weak. Trees that grow fast die fast. Old growth is the best solution. Unfortunately, I don’t think there are any shortcuts or alternatives to a human presence with a much less injurious footprint on nature. Reply Link Victor capelli February 17, 2022 at 1:25 pm In Pittsfield Berkshire County we have an urban forest in Springside Park which provides a tremendous amount of carbon sequestration and storage in the 231 acres of oak hickory and maple. But the eco-services being provided by this Urban Forest are being threatened by mountain bikers which are dismantling the trails, scaring away wildlife and fragmenting the forest ecology. Reply Link Post a comment. Cancel reply Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Comment* view guidelines Name * Email * Submit Comment Related Stories Earth & Environment As Climate Change Gets Worse, Science Provides Hope and Possibility April 21, 2022 Climate Change Northern Forest Fires Could Accelerate Climate Change April 29, 2021 Cutting Carbon How the US Can Cut Carbon Emissions in Half by 2030, with or without Congress May 27, 2021 Blue Carbon Empowering Citizen Scientists to Study and Protect Coastal Wetlands March 3, 2022 Latest from The Brink Heart Health The Quest for a Heart Attack Cure School Shootings How Should Teachers and Parents Talk about the Uvalde School Shooting with Their Children? Monkeypox How Worried Should We Be about Monkeypox? CTE in Sports 8 Major Findings and Headlines from BU CTE Researchers in the Past Year Antibiotic Resistance Can We Prevent Antibiotic Resistance? Space Science Seeing through the Fog—Pinpointing Young Stars and Their Protoplanetary Disks Black Holes The First Black Hole Image from the Milky Way Is Here COVID-19 Deaths COVID-19 Death Toll Could Be 20 Percent Higher than Official Tally Accolades Engineer Xin Zhang Awarded 2022 Guggenheim Foundation Fellowship Technology Development Biotech Developing “Tissue Therapeutics” to Treat Diseased Organs Launches from BU and MIT Labs Cognitive Health Living Near Greenery Could Give You a Brain Boost—and Reduce Dementia Risk COVID-19 Why Do Some People Get Sicker than Others from COVID? Heart Health New Miniature Heart Could Help Speed Heart Disease Cures College Student Mental Health Mental Health of College Students Is Getting Worse Oral Cancer Could Blocking or Deleting a Protein Help Prevent Common Oral Cancers? Earth & Environment As Climate Change Gets Worse, Science Provides Hope and Possibility Equal Pay New Wage Gap Calculator Aims to Help Close Earnings Gap Job Burnout Work Burnout Signs: What to Look for and What to Do about It Space Physics NASA Gives Boost to BU-led Effort to Model Solar System’s Protective Bubble COVID-19 Is Five Days of COVID Isolation Enough? New BU Study Has Some Answers Section navigation Sections Notable Videos About Us Topics Archive Subscribe to Newsletter Explore Our Publications Bostonia Boston University’s Alumni Magazine BU-Today News, Opinion, Community The Brink Pioneering Research from Boston University Search The Brink… Twitter Facebook Youtube Linked-In © Boston University. All rights reserved. www.bu.edu © 2022 Trustees of Boston UniversityPrivacy StatementAccessibility Boston University Notice of Non-Discrimination: Boston University policy prohibits discrimination against any individual on the basis of race, color, religion, sex, age, national origin, physical or mental disability, sexual orientation, gender identity, genetic information, military service, pregnancy or pregnancy-related condition, or because of marital, parental, or veteran status, and acts in conformity with all applicable state and federal laws. This policy extends to all rights, privileges, programs and activities, including admissions, financial assistance, educational and athletic programs, housing, employment, compensation, employee benefits, and the providing of, or access to, University services or facilities. See BU’s Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action Policy. Close Search Search for: Search Boston University Masterplate Send to Email Address Your Name Your Email Address Cancel Post was not sent - check your email addresses! Email check failed, please try again Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email. City Trees and Soil Are Sucking More Carbon Out of the Atmosphere Than Previously Thought 2 share this