Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Division of Administration and Finance Administration and Finance right arrow down arrow About right arrow down arrow Leadership Units Policies Business right arrow down arrow Business Core Systems right arrow down arrow Catalyst UC Flex Community Development Travel Resources right arrow down arrow Concur Travel and Expense Management Concur Training right arrow down arrow Concur FAQs Best Practice Guide Training Guides and Videos Concur SSO Login Travel Resources Contacts Policy and Travel Tools Travel Cancellation Guidance Concur Guest Account Login Environmental Health & Safety right arrow down arrow Waste Management Training right arrow down arrow Advanced Laboratory Safety Training Animal Care Safety Training Defensive Driving Training Facilities Mgmt/Construction Training Laboratory Compliance Training Principal Investigators Training Orientation & Informational Courses Emergency Procedures right arrow down arrow Work-related Injuries & Illnesses Lab Safety Resources & Documents right arrow down arrow Advisories Additional Information Frequently Asked Questions Our Mission right arrow down arrow Laboratory Safety with an Attitude Programs right arrow down arrow Occupational Safety right arrow down arrow IACUC Information Hazardous Materials Management Environmental Engineering right arrow down arrow Pollution Control Asbestos/Lead Abatement Industrial Hygiene Health & Safety Administration Contact Us Facilities Management right arrow down arrow Departments right arrow down arrow Central Receiving Grounds Housekeeping Mail Services Maintenance & Operations Moving Services Project Services Transportation Services right arrow down arrow Shuttle Services UC*Metro Program Charters and Rentals Utilities right arrow down arrow Utilities: Production Utilities: Distribution Dashboards Energy Conservation Recycling @ UC COVID-19 Information right arrow down arrow Cleaning right arrow down arrow Classroom Cleaning Office Cleaning Hand Sanitizer Stations Specialized Cleaning Tools Physical Space right arrow down arrow HVAC - Indoor Air Quality Sneeze Guard Request Process Safe Work Environment and Wellness Resources Contact Us right arrow down arrow Service Requests Join Our Team Announcements Finance right arrow down arrow Vice President for Finance Office of the Controller right arrow down arrow Accounting & Reporting Accounts Payable right arrow down arrow Vendor Form Information Purchasing & Non-Purchasing Information Asset Management Capital Finance Payroll Operations right arrow down arrow Employee Self Service (ESS) for Former Employees Payroll Calendars Stop Payment Request Form W-2 Information Office of the Treasurer right arrow down arrow Debt Management Investment Operations Tax Compliance Treasury Operations Budget Management Investment Office right arrow down arrow Endowment Impact Stories Contact Us right arrow down arrow Karl Scheer | Chief Investment Officer Sam Ekis | Investment Director Tony Caccomo | Senior Investment Analyst Doreen Clark | Investment Operations Administrator Investment Intern Program History Planning + Design + Construction right arrow down arrow Maps and Space Management right arrow down arrow Scheduling Events at the Reading Campus 2021 Intermediate Space Survey User Guide Sustainability right arrow down arrow Get Involved right arrow down arrow Committees & Organizations Events & Programming Environmental Literacy Campus Initiatives right arrow down arrow Built Environment Energy Food Landscape Transportation Water Management Waste Diversion Purchasing Carbon Inventory & Climate Action Plan Links & Resources right arrow down arrow On-Campus Resources Off-Campus Resources Tools & Guides Partners In The News Naming right arrow down arrow General Criteria Monetary Guidelines Design Standards Naming Committee Naming Request Form Vendor Information Purchasing right arrow down arrow Purchasing Contacts Information for Suppliers Contract Compliance Supplier Diversity Home » About UC » Admin & Finance » Planning + Design + Construction » Maps and Space Management Set Navigation title in component Scheduling Events at the Reading Campus 2021 Intermediate Space Survey User Guide Maps and Space Management Campus Maps Uptown East + West Campus 2022 - 11x17 Uptown West Campus 2022 Uptown East Campus 2022 Victory Parkway 2022 UC Clermont 2022 UC Blue Ash 2022 Reading 2022 Center Hill 2022 All Campus Vicinity 2022 Space Management About The Space Management department serves as the central repository for information regarding the university’s institutional space. This information comes in many different forms including floors and data available from the University of Cincinnati Space Management System (UCSMS), data related to our exterior infrastructure which is maintained in the University of Cincinnati Geographic Information System (UCGIS) and the large scale floor plans (blue prints) and other documents maintained in UC Plan Room. We are also system administration for the Series 25 Scheduling software. Our mission is to maintain the most accurate possible institutional space data and make that data available to the university community as a resource for making decisions that positively impact our university. In addition to maintaining the data, Space Management also works in conjunction with Campus Planning + Design + Construction and other university departments to use the data to make the best possible decisions regarding the university’s built environment. Enter University of Cincinnati Space Management System (UCSMS) Definitions of UCSMS Terms UCSMS terms are defined in the following section and the printable PDFs below: Room Type Definitions Square Footage Definitions Hood Definitions Function Definitions Academic Function Definitions Non-Academic Room Type Definitions right arrow down arrow Classrooms (100) | Not specially equipped | Scheduled instruction right arrow down arrow Classroom - 110 right arrow down arrow Auditorium (Auditorium) - 110-03 A large room used primarily for scheduled classes of multiple academic disciplines with a seating capacity of 200 or more. Auditoriums may also serve non-instructional purposes, but only to a minor or incidental extent. Description: Rooms typically have a multi-media audio-visual system, with seats oriented towards the front of the room, and writing surfaces for each student. They do not have specialpurpose equipment for student use, such as that found in a teaching laboratory, that would make the room unusable for multiple academic disciplines. Limitation: Excluded are theaters, concert halls, and places of assembly, which are not used primarily for instructional purposes and typically do not have writing surfaces near each seat. Classroom (Classroom) - 110-01 A room used primarily for scheduled classes of multiple academic disciplines with a seating capacity of 21 to 199 students. Classrooms may also serve non-instructional purposes, but only to a minor or incidental extent. Description: Rooms typically have a multi-media audio-visual system, with seats oriented towards the front of the room, and writing surfaces for each student. They do not have specialpurpose equipment for student use, such as that found in a teaching laboratory, that would make the room unusable for multiple disciplines. Distance Learning (Distance Learning) - 110-04 A classroom, seminar room, or auditorium with special audio-visual and communications equipment that allows the instructor to communicate visually and orally with persons located outside of the room. Description: Includes cameras, microphones, and visual display devices such as large screens or monitors to facilitate communication with students and other instructors located outside the room. Others are designed to send and receive communications and accommodate students to provide optimum flexibility and increase use rates. Varied technologies are used. Limitation: Rooms that are used typically to broadcast to other locations and have no students are considered Media Rooms (see Room Type - 530 in the Special Use Section - 500). Seminar (Seminar) - 110-02 A room used primarily for scheduled classed of multiple academic disciplines with a seating capacity of about 10 to 22 students. Seminar rooms may also serve non-instructional purposes, but only to a minor or incidental extent. Description: Rooms typically have a multi-media audio-visual system, with seats and tables oriented so that students and instructors can easily interact with each other. They do not have special-purpose equipment for student use, such as that found in a teaching laboratory, that would make the room unusable for multiple disciplines. Limitation: Excludes conference rooms, which may have similar design features but are primarily used for faculty/staff meetings. Classroom Service - 115 right arrow down arrow Classroom Service (Classroom Svc) - 115 A room that directly serves one or more Auditoria, Classrooms, or Seminar Rooms as an extension of the activities in those rooms. Description: Includes projection rooms, control booths, preparation rooms, coat rooms, closets, or storage areas, etc. General Use right arrow down arrow Assembly (Assembly) - 610 A room designed and equipped for the assembly of many persons for such events as dramatic, musical, or commencement activities. The room may also serve instructional purposes but only to a minor or incidental extent. Description: Includes theaters, concert halls, and arenas, that are used primarily for general presentations (speakers), or performances (dramatic, musical, or dance). Limitations: Areas used primarily for instruction or practice (dance, music, or drama) are typically coded as laboratory space. Assembly facilities that are used primarily for instruction are classified as Auditoria (see Room Type – 110-03 in Classroom Section - 100). Assembly Service (Assembly Svc) - 615 A room that directly serves an assembly facility as an extension of the activities in that facility. Description: Includes check rooms, coat rooms, ticket booths, dressing rooms, projection booths, property storage, make-up rooms, costume and scenery shops and storage, green rooms, multimedia and telecommunications control rooms, etc. Limitations: Entrance lobbies and other circulation areas outside of the primary assembly room are classified as circulation space (See Section - 020). A concession stand in an assembly facility is classified as Retail (See Room Type – 660-01 in this section). Lounges that are remote from the assembly area within an assembly facility are classified by the appropriate service code or lounge code. Day Care (Day Care) - 640 A room used to provide day or night, child or elderly adult care as a non-medical service to members of the institutional community. Description: Includes all primary activity rooms that provide oversight, supervision, developmental training and general personal care for assigned children or adults (e.g., play areas, non-staff eating areas, and child training rooms). This type of facility serves as a central service center for faculty, staff and students with members of the community being served as needed. This is not a medical care facility (i.e., medical attention is strictly limited to maintaining prescribed medication schedules and providing first aid). Limitations: Does not include day care facilities used as teaching laboratories or research laboratories. (see Laboratory Section - 200) that directly support instruction (e.g., vocational training programs for parent education and early childhood education) or research (e.g., childhood behavior). Day Care Service (Day Care Svc) - 645 A room that directly serves a primary activity room in a day care facility as an extension of the activities in that room. Description: Includes storage rooms, closets, kitchens, pantries, private or staff rest rooms, and other typical service rooms that support a primary activity area. Limitations: Staff offices in Day Care Facilities should be coded as Office of Modular (see Office Section 300). Dining (Dining) - 630 A room used for eating food including cafeterias, restaurants, and similar eating areas, in such places as residence halls or faculty clubs, etc. Description: This category includes facilities open to students, faculty, staff, or the public at large. The primary distinction of a Food Facility is the availability of some form of accommodation (seating, counters, tables) for eating and drinking. This is, therefore, an area intended for the actual consumption of food and drink. Vending areas with seating, counters or tables and sitdown lunch or vending rooms that serve a shop facility are intended in this category. Limitations: Vending areas not provided with seating, counters or tables are classified as Vending Areas (See Room Type – 660-02 in this section) or with the appropriate service code if the vending directly supports or is a adjacent to a specific room for consuming the products. Dining Service (Dining Svc) - 635 A room that directly serves a food facility as an extension of the activities in that facility. Description: Includes kitchens and other preparation rooms, cold storage and freezer refrigeration rooms, dishwashing rooms, food serving areas, cleaning areas, etc. Includes vending areas directly serving food facilities, or adjacent to an eating area. Limitations: Does not include any type of food preparation room which does not serve a food facility or eating area. Kitchenettes in residence facilities that serve a dining area are classified under the appropriate service code. Service areas for vending are classified as Retail Service (See Room Type - 665 in this section). Exhibition (Exhibition) - 620 A room used for exhibition of materials, works of art, artifacts, anthropological, botanical, or geological specimens etc., and intended for viewing by faculty, students, staff, and the public. Limitations: Collections not primarily for general exhibition, such as departmental displays, should be classified under an appropriate laboratory category (see Laboratory Section - 200). Exhibition Service (Exhibition Svc) - 625 A room that directly serves an exhibition facility as an extension of the activities in that facility. Description: Includes preparation workrooms, storage, vaults, etc., that serve general exhibition areas. Lounge (Lounge) - 650 A room used for rest and relaxation that is not restricted to a specific group of people, unit, or area. Description: A lounge is typically equipped with furniture and may include vending machines. A general use lounge differs from an office area or break room lounge by virtue of its public availability. If a room is open for use by people visiting or passing though a building or area, it is coded Lounge. Such a room may have vending machines if the primary use of the room is rest, relaxation, informal socializing and not eating. Lounge Service (Lounge Svc) - 655 A room that directly serves as a general use lounge, such as a locker room, kitchenette, or private lavatory. Retail (Retail) – 660-01 A room used to sell products or services. Description: Includes product and service sales areas such as bookstores, student supply stores, campus food stores, and central ticket outlets serving multiple facilities or activities. Limitations: Does not include restaurants and similar Dining areas (see Room Types - 630 and 635 in this section). Does not include areas that are primarily designed for walk away vending purchases. (See Room Type – 660-02 in this section). Retail Service (Retail Svc) - 665 A room that directly serves a retail facility as an extension of the activities in that facility. Description: Includes storage rooms and closets, sorting rooms, private rest rooms, and other support rooms if they directly serve a retail facility. Recreation (Recreation) - 670 A room used by students, staff, or the public for recreational purposes. Description: Includes exercise and general fitness rooms, billiards rooms, game and arcade rooms, swimming pools, bowling alleys, table tennis rooms, reading (nonstudy) rooms, and music listening rooms that are used for recreation and amusement and not for instructional purposes. Recreation rooms and areas are used for relaxation, amusement-type activities, whereas Athletic or Physical Education facilities are typically used for the more vigorous pursuits within physical education, intercollegiate athletics, and intramural programs. Recreation Service (Recreation Svc) - 675 A room that directly serves a recreational facility as an extension of the activities in that facility. Description: Includes storage rooms and closets, equipment issue rooms, cashiers' desks, first aid, and other support areas that directly serve a Recreation Facility. Vending (Vending) - 660-02 A room whose primary use is to house vending machines that sell products to be consumed or used in another area. Limitations: Vending areas with seating, counters or tables and sit-down lunch or vending rooms that serve a shop facility are not intended in this category. (see Room Types - 630 and 635 in this section). Health Care (800) right arrow down arrow Diagnostic Laboratory (Diagnostic Lab) - 860 A room used to provide diagnostic services. Description: Includes pathology, pharmacy, autopsy, isotope rooms or labs, etc., providing such services as hematology, chemistry tissue, bacteriology, serology, blood bank and basal metabolism. This service is performed on cadavers, tissue or fluid samples. Limitations: Rooms of this nature used solely to support teaching and/or research should be coded under the appropriate teaching or research laboratory category. (See Laboratory section – 200) Diagnostic Laboratory Service (Diagnostic Lab Svc) - 865 A room that directly serves a diagnostic laboratory as an extension of the activities in that facility. Description: Included are cadaver storage rooms, morgues, autoclave and centrifuge rooms, environmental rooms, locker, scrub and gown rooms, special processing rooms, and supply and storage areas that directly serve one or more diagnostic laboratories. Limitations: Rooms of this nature used solely to support teaching and/or research should be coded under the appropriate teaching or research laboratory service category. (See Laboratory section - 200) On-Call (On-Call) - 890 A room or quarters used by health care staff to rest or sleep while on-call to assigned duties within a health care facility. Description: Includes areas or rooms used by doctors, nurses, emergency medical technicians, flight care crews, etc., to rest or sleep while on-call to specific duties within the facility. Limitations: On-call rooms or quarters differ from lounges (See Room Type - 650 in the General Use Section 600) in that specific provisions are made for sleeping and use is restricted to staff who typically work a long shift. On-Call Service (On-Call Svc) – 895 A room that directly serves a staff on-call room as an extension of the activities in that facility. Description: Includes kitchens, baths, laundry rooms, lounges, closets, storage rooms, and other service areas that directly serve the on-call quarters. Treatment/Examination (Treatment/Exam) - 850 A room used for diagnostic and therapeutic treatment. Description: Included are rooms used for radiology, fluoroscopy, angiography, physical and occupational therapy, dialysis, body (e.g., CAT, MRI, PET, ultrasound, scanning), cardiac Room Definitions Secure.doc 04/16/02 Page 12 of 47 catheterization, pulmonary function and vascular testing, EEG, ECG, EMC, EMR, and linear acceleration. Also includes combined doctor’s office and treatment/examination rooms. Limitations: This room type requires the presence of a living patient. If only diagnostic activity is performed room should be coded as Diagnostic Laboratory. (See Room Type - 860 in this Section) Limitations: Rooms of this nature used solely to support teaching and/or research should be coded under the appropriate teaching or research laboratory category. (See Laboratory section - 200) Treatment/Examination Service (Treatment/Exam Svc) - 855 A room that directly serves a treatment/examination room as an extension of the activities in that facility. Description: Included are dressing rooms, x-ray and film reading or viewing rooms, film processing rooms, dark rooms, work preparation areas, equipment and supply storage areas, sound proof rooms, and clean and dirty linen rooms. Limitations: Rooms of this nature used solely to support teaching and/or research should be coded under the appropriate teaching or research laboratory service category. (See Laboratory section - 200) Waiting Room (Waiting Room) - 880 A room used for patients and/or visitors for diagnostic services or treatment/examination. Limitations: Reception/Waiting areas that are part of an office suite and are not used in a health care related setting should be codes as Reception/Waiting 315-08 located in the Office Service room category. Laboratories (200) | Specially Equipped right arrow down arrow Scheduled Instruction Lab - 210 (Instruction) right arrow down arrow Scheduled Instruction Laboratory - 210 A room used primarily by regularly scheduled classes with University course numbers that requires special-purpose equipment for student participation, experimentation, observation, or practice in a field of study. Description: An Instructional Laboratory is specially equipped to serve the needs of a particular discipline for group instruction in regularly scheduled classes. The design of and/or equipment in such a room normally limits or precludes its use by other disciplines. Examples would be rooms in which a class or a lab section of a course is held. Included in this category are rooms generally referred to as art studios, design labs, band rooms, choral rooms, (group) music practice rooms, computer and language laboratories, (group) studios, and similarly specially designed and/or equipped rooms. Art Instruction Laboratory (Art Instr Lab) - 210-01 A room used primarily for scheduled instruction in art. Specialized equipment such as easels, pottery wheels, kilns, worktables or benches or elevated platforms for models or subjects may be present. Computer Instruction Laboratory (Computer Instr Lab) - 210-02 A room used primarily for scheduled instruction using computers. These rooms have computer workstations for students. Design Instruction Laboratory (Design Instr Lab) - 210-03 A room used primarily for scheduled instruction in various kinds of design. Disciplines such as architecture, graphic arts and mechanical design may use this type of room. Specialized equipment and furniture such as layout tables are present in these rooms. Instrument Instruction Laboratory (Instrument Instr Lab) - 210-04 A room used primarily for scheduled instruction in various scientific disciplines. These rooms are specially equipped with electronic devices designed for precise calibration, measurement and analysis. Instrument labs generally do not include the use of gases, chemicals, biohazardous materials or water. A hand-washing sink may be present. Language Instruction Laboratory (Language Instr Lab) - 210-05 A room used primarily for scheduled instruction of languages. Specialized equipment such as recording and playback devices, microphones and headphones are present in these rooms. Other Instruction Laboratory (Other Instr Lab) - 210-06 A room used primarily for scheduled instruction that has specialized equipment and is not otherwise defined in this category. Performance Instruction Laboratory (Performance Instr Lab) - 210-07 A room used primarily for scheduled instruction in one the performance arts such as dance, music or drama. Specialized equipment such as audio equipment, special lighting or acoustic equipment or specialized flooring may be present in these rooms. Wet Instruction Laboratory (Wet Instr Lab) - 210-08 A room used primarily for scheduled instruction of one of the physical sciences (e.g., biology or chemistry). Specialized equipment and furniture such as lab benches, fume hoods and gas valves may be present in these rooms. Access to water is required in this type of lab. Unscheduled Study Lab - 220 (Instruction) right arrow down arrow Unscheduled Study Laboratory - 220 A room used primarily by informally (or irregularly) scheduled classes that is specially equipped for student participation, experimentation, observation, or practice in a field of study. The design of and/or equipment in such a room normally limits or precludes its use for other areas of study. Description: Study laboratories typically (but not necessarily or exclusively) include such rooms as computer and language laboratories, (group) music practice rooms, (group) studios, etc., if they are used primarily for practice/study or informally (or irregularly) scheduled classes. Limitations: The criteria for differentiating between Study Laboratories and Teaching Laboratories is the regularity of the scheduling, and not the specialization of the equipment or instruction. Not included are gymnasia, pools, and similar facilities that are included under special use facilities. (See section 600) Art Study Laboratory (Unsch) (Art Study Lab (Unsch)) - 220-01 A room used primarily for unscheduled practice/study in art. Specialized equipment such as easels, pottery wheels, kilns, worktables or benches or elevated platforms for models or subjects may be present. Computer Study Laboratory (Unsch) (Computer Study Lab (Unsch)) - 220-02 A room used primarily for unscheduled practice/study using computers. These rooms have computer workstations for students. Design Study Laboratory (Unsch) (Design Study Laboratory (Unsch)) - 220-03 A room used primarily for unscheduled practice/study in various kinds of design. Disciplines such as architecture, graphic arts and mechanical design may use this type of room. Specialized equipment and furniture such as layout tables are present in these rooms. Language Study Laboratory (Unsch)(Language Study Laboratory (Unsch)) - 220-04 A room used primarily for unscheduled practice/study of languages. Specialized equipment such as recording and playback devices, microphones and headphones are present in these rooms. Other Study Laboratory (Unsch) (Other Study Lab (Unsch)) - 220-05 A room used primarily for unscheduled practice/study that has specialized equipment and is not otherwise defined in this category. Performance Study Laboratory (Unsch) (Performance Study Lab (Unsch)) - 220-06 A room used primarily for unscheduled practice/study in one the performance arts such as dance, music or drama. Specialized equipment such as audio equipment, special lighting or acoustic equipment or specialized flooring may be present in these rooms. Wet Study Laboratory (Unsch) (Wet Study Lab (Unsch)) - 220-07 A room used primarily for unscheduled practice/study of one of the physical sciences (e.g., biology or chemistry). Specialized equipment and furniture such as lab benches, fume hoods and gas valves may be present in these rooms. Access to water is required in this type of lab. Research Lab - 250 (Research) right arrow down arrow Research Laboratory - 250 A room used primarily for laboratory experimentation, research, or training in research methods; or professional research and observation. Description: The room is furnished with special-purpose equipment for staff or student participation or observation. Data Laboratory (Data Lab) - 250-01 A room used primarily for laboratory experimentation, research, or training in research methods; or professional research and observation. Description: These rooms are equipped for data analysis, modeling, or simulation research. Standard equipment includes computers or terminals, network connections, desks or tables, printer and data storage space. Additional power sources or HVAC may be present. Instrument Laboratory (Instrument Lab) - 250-02 A room used primarily for laboratory experimentation, research, or training in research methods; or professional research and observation. Description: These rooms are equipped for equipment, device or electronics research. Standard equipment includes counterspace, storage and equipment space. This type of research generally does not include the use of scientific gases or deionized water, chemicals or biohazardous materials. A handwashing sink may be present. Special Research Laboratory (Special Research Lab) - 250-03 A room used primarily for laboratory experimentation, research, or training in research methods; or professional research and observation. Description: These rooms contain pieces or equipment or house research experiments that need specialized operating environments (e.g., MRI, NMR, or clean room facilities). There is not a standard set-up or fit-out for this type of laboratory. Wet Laboratory (Wet Lab) - 250-04 A room used primarily for laboratory experimentation, research, or training in research methods; or professional research and observation. Description: These rooms are equipped for biohazardous materials and/ or chemical research. Standard equipment includes benches, fume hoods, scientific gas, air and vacuum. Access to deionized water is required. Chemicals and hazardous materials are generally in use. Laboratories (200) (Service) | Specially Equipped right arrow down arrow Instruction/Study Lab Service - 215 right arrow down arrow Instruction/Study Laboratory Service - 215 A room that serves as an extension of the activities in one or more Instruction Laboratories. Cold Room - Instruction (Cold Room Instr) - 215-01 A room constructed or equipped for specimen or material storage at low, but not freezing temperatures. This room serves as an extension of the activities in one or more Instruction Laboratories. Darkroom - Instruction (Darkroom Instr) - 215-02 A room constructed or equipped for processing photographic materials. This room serves as an extension of the activities in one or more Instruction Laboratories. Equipment Room - Instruction (Equipment Room Instr) - 215-03 A room whose primary use is to house specialized equipment used in an Instruction Laboratory. Laboratory Circulation - Instruction (Lab Circ Instr) - 215-04 Circulation area contained within a suite or collection of Instruction or Study Laboratories that is not accessible to the general public. Description: Space may include incidental service activities such as equipment or chemical storage carts if they are not in separately identified areas. The primary use of this space must be internal circulation, not laboratory support activities. The noncirculation areas should be designated as appropriate laboratory’s service areas. Other Laboratory Service - Instruction (Other Lab Svc Instr) - 215-05 A room that serves one or more Instruction Laboratories as an extension of the activities in those rooms and is not otherwise defined in this category. Prep Room - Instruction (Prep Room Instr) - 215-06 A room used to prepare materials, specimens and/or equipment for use in an Instruction Laboratory. Wet Laboratory Service - Instruction (Wet Lab Svc Instr) - 215-07 A room that serves as an extension of the activities in one or more Wet Instruction Laboratories. Research Lab Service - 255 right arrow down arrow Research Laboratory Service - 255 A room that serves as an extension of the activities in one or more research laboratories. Autoclave (Autoclave) - 255-01 A room constructed for or equipped with autoclaves and serves as an extension of the activities of one or more Research Laboratories. Cold Procedure (Cold Procedure) - 255-02 A room constructed or equipped for experimentation at low, but not freezing temperatures and serves as an extension of the activities of one or more Research Laboratories. Cold Room (Cold Room) - 255-03 A room constructed or equipped for specimen or material storage at in low, but not freezing temperatures and serves as an extension of the activities of one or more Research Laboratories. Constant Temperature (Constant Temperature) - 255-04 A room constructed or equipped to maintain a constant temperature and serves as an extension of the activities of one or more Research Laboratories. Containment Facility (Containment Facility) - 255-05 A room constructed or equipped to safely contain hazardous materials and serves as an extension of the activities of one or more Research Laboratories. Darkroom - Research (Darkroom Rsch) - 255-06 A room constructed or equipped for processing photographic materials and serves as an extension of the activities in one or more Research Laboratories. Data Laboratory Service (Data Lab Svc) - 255-07 A room that serves as an extension of the activities in Data Laboratories and is not otherwise defined in this category. Equipment (Equipment) - 255-08 A room whose primary use is to house specialized equipment used in a Research Laboratory. Gas Storage (Gas Storage) - 255-09 A room used for the storage of gas cylinders that provide gas to one or more Research Laboratories. Glasswashing (Glasswashing) - 255-10 A room constructed for or equipped with glass washing equipment and serves as an extension of the activities of one or more Research Laboratories. Hot Room (Hot Room) – 255-11 A room constructed or equipped for storage and experimentation with radioactive materials and serves as an extension of the activities of one or more Research Laboratories. Instrument Laboratory Service (Instrument Lab Svc) - 255-12 A room that serves as an extension of the activities in Instrument Laboratories and is not otherwise defined in this category. Laboratory Circulation - Research (Lab Circ Rsch) - 255-13 Circulation area contained within a suite or collection of Research laboratories that is not accessible to the general public. Description: Space may include incidental service activities such as equipment or chemical storage carts if they are not in separately identified areas. The primary use of this space must be internal circulation, not laboratory support activities. Non-Circulation areas should be designated as the appropriate laboratory’s service area. Other Laboratory Service - Research (Other Lab Svc Rsch) - 255-14 A room that serves one or more Research Laboratories as an extension of the activities in those rooms and is not otherwise defined in this category. Prep Room - Research (Prep Room Rsch) – 255-15 A room used to prepare materials, specimens or equipment for use in one or more Research Laboratories. Special Research Laboratory Service (Special Rsch Lab Svc) - 255-16 A room that serves one or more Special Research Laboratories as an extension of the activities in those rooms and is not otherwise defined in this category. Subzero Temperature (Subzero Temperature) – 255-17 A room constructed or equipped for specimen or material storage at temperatures below freezing and serves as an extension of the activities of one or more Research Laboratories. Tissue Culture (Tissue Culture) - 255-18 A room constructed or equipped for growth or experimentation with tissue or other cultures and serves as an extension of the activities of one or more Research Laboratories. Warm Procedure (Warm Procedure) - 255-19 A room constructed or equipped for experimental procedures at warm temperatures and serves as an extension of the activities of one or more Research Laboratories. Warm Room (Warm Room) - 255-20 A room constructed or equipped for specimen or material storage at warm Temperatures and serves as an extension of the activities of one or more Research Laboratories. Wet Laboratory Service (Wet Lab Svc) - 255-21 A room that serves as an extension of the activities in Wet Laboratories and is not otherwise defined in this category. Library & Study (400) right arrow down arrow Carrel (Carrel) - 410-02 A study desk used by individuals to study at their convenience, which is not restricted to a particular subject or discipline by specialized equipment. Description: Includes carrels located in libraries, residential facilities, academic or student service facilities which are intended for general study purposes. Circulation & Reserve (Circulation & Reserve) - 440-02 A room or area used for circulation functions or reserve items. Closed Stack (Closed Stack) - 420 A room used to house arranged collections of educational and research materials for use as a study or research resource. Description: Stacks typically appear in central, branch, or departmental libraries and are characterized by accessible, arranged, and managed collections. Collections can include books, periodicals, journals, monographs, microforms, non-print resources (e.g., tapes, disks, slides, etc.), musical scores, maps, and other educational and research materials. Current Periodicals (Current Periodicals) - 430-02 A room or area used to house unbound periodicals in the current volume and/or year. Library Service (Library Svc) - 455 A room that directly serves study rooms, open-stack study rooms, or processing rooms as a direct extension of the activities in those rooms. Description: Includes storage rooms, copy rooms, closets, locker rooms, coat rooms, and other typical service areas that support a primary study facilities room. Limitations: Does not include Processing Rooms that house specific library support processes and operations (e.g., bookbinding rooms, multimedia processing rooms). (See Room Type – 440-01 in this section) Open Stack, Study & Reading (Open Stack, Study & Reading) - 430-01 A combination study/reading room and stack, generally without physical boundaries between the stack and study areas. Description: Seating areas include those types of seating arrangements described under Study Room as well as card catalogs and publicly accessible computers used for online research or bibliographic access. The stack areas of these rooms may include any of the educational, and research material collections described under Closed Stack. Limitations: Does not include Study Rooms that have no stack areas. As with Closed Stack and Processing Rooms, Open-Stack, Study and Reading Rooms appear in central, branch, and departmental libraries. Processing (Processing) - 440-01 A room devoted to processes and operations in support of library functions. Description: A processing room is intended for specific library operations that support the overall library mission. Included are card catalog shelflists; on-line catalog and on-line search areas; bookbinding rooms; on-line search rooms; multimedia materials processing areas; interlibrary loan processing areas; and other areas with a specific process or operation in support of library functions and not found in any other existing category in this series. Reference (Reference) - 430-03 A room or area used for reference service as well as reference items not intended to be checked out. Study Room (Study Room) - 410-01 A room used by individuals to study at their convenience, which is not restricted to a particular subject or discipline by specialized equipment. Description: Includes study or reading rooms located in libraries, residential facilities, academic or student service facilities, study carrel and booth areas, and similar rooms which are intended for general study purposes. Study areas may be grouped, as in library reading rooms, or individualized, as in a carrel. Study areas may include microcomputers, typewriters, computer terminals, micro-form/film/fiche readers, or other multimedia equipment. Office (300) right arrow down arrow Office - 310 right arrow down arrow Office - 310 A room housing people working at one or more desks, tables, or workstations. Limitations: Any other rooms, such as glass shops, printing shops, study rooms, classrooms, research laboratories, etc., that incidentally contain desk space for a technician or staff member, are classified according to the primary use of the room. Modular (Modular) - 310-01 A single workstation designed as a primary workspace for an individual, built with modular systems furniture and having modular partitions as divider. Limitations: Spaces built with modular systems furniture that are not being used as an individual’s primary workspace are to be classified as Office Service and assigned to whichever Office Service room type with which the space is most closely associated. Office (Office) - 310-02 A room built with permanent partitions used as primary workspace for one or more occupants. Office Service - 315 right arrow down arrow Office Service - 315 A room or modular system workstation that directly serves an office or group of offices as an extension of the activities in those rooms. Description: Includes file rooms, break rooms, kitchenettes serving office areas, copy/mail rooms, closets, office supply rooms, first aid rooms, vaults, student counseling rooms, and testing (non-discipline-related) rooms. Limitations: Waiting, interview, and testing rooms are included as office service if the serve a specific office or office area and not a classroom or laboratory; a student counseling or testing room should be coded as Office Service. Lounges which serve specific office areas and which are not generally available to the public should be coded as Office Service. Break Room (Break Room) - 315-01 A room that directly serves an office or group of offices and is used primarily for taking breaks and/or for storage and preparation of coffee and other food items. These rooms are normally furnished with tables and seating and/or are equipped with a sink, microwave oven and refrigerator. Copy/Mail (Copy/Mail) - 315-02 A room that directly serves an office or group of offices and contains copy machines, fax machines, printers, and/or supports the sending or receiving of internal and external mail. Counseling/Testing (Counseling/Testing) - 315-03 A room predominantly used to test or counsel prospective or current students or employees. Testing in these rooms may require specialized furniture or equipment. File/Supply (File/Supply) - 315-04 A room that directly serves an office or group of offices and contains commonly accessed office supplies and/or file cabinets or shelves holding such items as files, drawings or maps. Internal Office Circulation (Internal Office Circ) - 315-05 Circulation area contained within a suite or collection of offices that is not accessible to the general public. Description: Space may include incidental service activities such as a copier, fax machine, coffee station if they are not in separately identified areas. The primary use of this space must be internal circulation, not office support activities. Limitations: Building areas and corridors accessible to the general public should be classified as Corridors. Office Service - Other (Office Svc Other) - 315-06 A room that directly serves an office or group of offices as an extension of the activities in those rooms and is not otherwise defined in this category. Examples include audio/visual equipment and coat storage. Private Restroom (Private Restroom) - 315-07 A restroom that is contained within a suite or collection of offices that is not accessible to the general public. Reception/Waiting (Reception/Waiting) - 315-08 A room or distinct area that directly serves an office or group of offices and is used as a reception point into the office or group of offices. Workroom (Workroom) - 315-09 A room that directly serves an office or group of offices and is predominantly used for various support activities such as collating, assembling, sorting and organizing documents or other office related activities. Conference Room - 350 right arrow down arrow Conference (Conference) - 350 A room used primarily for meetings. Description: A conference room is typically equipped with tables and chairs. Conference rooms can be assigned to a specific department or can be used for general purposes such as community or campus group meetings not associated with a particular department. A conference room is distinguished from a classroom or seminar room because it is used primarily for activities other than scheduled classes. Limitations: Does not include classrooms, seminar rooms, auditoria (see Classroom Section - 100), assembly rooms, or lounges (see General Use Room Section - 600). Conference Service (Conference Svc) - 355 A room that directly serves one or more Conference Rooms as an extension of the activities in those rooms. Description: Includes kitchenettes, storage rooms, telecommunications control booths, production rooms, sound equipment rooms, etc., if they serve conference rooms. Residential (900) right arrow down arrow Apartment - 950 right arrow down arrow Apartment - 950 A complete living unit, with private cooking facilities that is not a separate structure. This is a basic module or group of rooms designed as a complete housekeeping unit (i.e., it contains bedroom(s), living room(s), kitchen, and toilet facilities). It is not intended that individual rooms be specifically identified within the apartment, but only that the total interior space be included. Apartments need not be located in a residential building. A duplex unit should be classified as an Apartment because it is not a separate, freestanding structure. Apartment - One-Bedroom - 950-03 A living unit with a maximum occupancy of three adults or two adults and two children. This apartment consists of a living room, kitchen, bedroom and bath. All one bedroom apartments have balconies. Apartment - Penthouse- 950-05 A living unit with a maximum occupancy of four adults or two adults and three children. This apartment, normally reserved for faculty and staff, consists of a living room, dining room, kitchen, two bedrooms, two full baths, laundry room and large patio. Apartment - Two-Bedroom - 950-04 A living unit with a maximum occupancy of four adults or two adults and three children. This apartment, normally reserved for families w/children, consists of a living/dining room, kitchen, bath and two separate bedrooms. All two bedrooms have balconies. Efficiency w/Balcony - 950-02 A living unit with a maximum occupancy of two adults and one child under two years of age. This unit consists of one large room that serves as the living room and bedroom. There is a kitchen, bathroom and dressing area that is separate. There is also a balcony as part of this unit. Efficiency w/o Balcony - 950-01 A living unit with a maximum occupancy of two adults and one child under two years of age. This unit consists of one large room that serves as the living room and bedroom. There is a kitchen, bathroom and dressing area that is separate. Bedroom Room w/ Lavatory - 920 A sleep and study room generally containing a bed, desk, and related furnishings and adjoining lavatory. Bedroom w/o Lavatory - 910 A sleep and study room generally containing a bed, desk, and related furnishings without an adjoining lavatory. House - 970 A complete living unit, with private cooking facilities, which is a separate structure. Should include fraternities and sorority houses only if owned or controlled by the institution. This is a basic module or group of rooms designed as a complete housekeeping unit (i.e., it contains bedroom(s), living room(s), kitchen, and toilet facilities). It is not intended that individual rooms be specifically identified within the structure, but only that the total interior space be accounted for. Residential Service right arrow down arrow Kitchen – 917 An area not contained within a residential room or suite of rooms that contains a stove, refrigerator, sink and other necessary items for the preparation of food with access to all residents on a floor or in suites of rooms. Residential Lavatory - 919 A room providing toilet and/or shower facilities for the occupant(s) of a residential apartment, room or suite of rooms. Residential Room Service - 935 A room centrally located with access to all residents providing facilities such as storage or laundry. Special Use (500) right arrow down arrow Animal Cage Washing (Animal Cage Washing) - 575-01 A room equipped with the equipment necessary to wash cages. Animal Operating Room (Animal OR) - 570-01 A room used for animal surgery. Description: Included in this category are major and minor surgery and special procedures rooms and operating rooms for large and small animals. These rooms are typically equipped with operating room tables, sterile lights, anesthesia machines and various types of monitoring equipment. Animal Operating Room Service (Animal OR Svc) - 575-02 A room that directly serves an animal operating room as an extension of the activities in that facility. Description: Included are recovery rooms, special support equipment rooms (e.g., anesthesia, heart, lung, x-ray, etc.), dictation booths, scrub rooms, gown rooms, locker rooms, instrument cleanup and storage rooms, animal prep and clean up rooms, monitor rooms, gas, and gurney storage areas, postoperative and operating room repair rooms, clean and dirty linen areas. Also, includes animal holding areas if they directly service the surgical area. Animal Procedure (Animal Procedure) - 570-02 A room equipped to perform research or experimental procedures on animals. Animal Quarters (Animal Quarters) - 570-03 A room that houses laboratory animals maintained by the institution for research and/or instructional purposes. Animal Quarters Service (Animal Quarters Svc) - 575-03 A room that directly serves an animal quarters facility as an extension of the activity in that facility. Athletic (Athletic) - 520 A room used by students, staff, or the public for athletic/physical education activities (e.g., gymnasia, swimming pools, wrestling rooms, etc.). Limitations: Recreational areas used for amusement or relaxation activities are classified Recreation (see Room Type - 670 in the General Use Section - 600) Athletic Locker/Shower (Athletic Locker/Shower) - 525-01 A room equipped with showers and/or lockers servicing an athletic facility. Restroom facilities in this space are included in the Athletic Locker/Shower room. Athletic Seating (Athletic Seating) - 525-02 A fixed seating area in an athletic or physical education facility. Athletic Service (Athletic Svc) - 525-03 A room that directly serves an athletic or physical education facility as an extension of the activity in that facility (e.g., coaches rooms, equipment rooms, etc.). Clinic (Clinic) - 540 A room used for the diagnosis and/or treatment of patients in a program other than medicine, dentistry, and student health care. Clinics are typically associated with such educational areas as dental hygiene, psychology, speech, hearing, and physical therapy. Clinics are generally outfitted specialized equipment or furnishings. Clinic Service (Clinic Svc) - 545 A room that directly serves a clinic as an extension of the activity in that facility. Darkroom (Darkroom) - 535-01 A room constructed or equipped for processing photographic materials and serves as an extension of the activities in a Media room. Greenhouse (Greenhouse) - 580 A building or room, usually composed chiefly of glass or other light-transmitting materials, for the cultivation and/or protection of plants. Greenhouse Service (Greenhouse Svc) - 585 A room that directly serves a greenhouse facility as an extension of the activity in that facility. Locker (Locker) - 590 A room that contains lockers for clothing, books or supplies and is not more appropriately classified within the service category of the room it directly serves. Media (Media) - 530 A room or group of rooms used for the production and distribution of audiovisual, radio, and television materials, and for the operation of equipment for the communication of these materials. Media Service (Media Svc) - 535-02 A room that directly serves a media production facility as an extension of the activity in that facility. Limitations: This room type does not include Darkrooms that serve as an extension to a Media room. (see Room Type – 535-01 in this Section) Support (700) right arrow down arrow Central Service (Central Svc) - 750 A room that is used for the processing, preparation, or delivery of a complex-central or campuswide support service. Description: The central service may be provided by special equipment, human activity, the special availability of space, or any combination of these elements. Includes central facilities for printing and duplicating services, laundry, central mail facilities, central stores, shipping and receiving areas, if they serve the occupants and activities of more than one building. Central Storage (Central Storage) - 730 A room that is used to store equipment or materials (i.e., warehouse) and serves multiple room use categories, organizational units, or buildings. Description: The concept of central or general is key to applying this code correctly. The vast majority of storage rooms on campus are service rooms that directly support a primary activity room or room group; for example, a paper storage room can serve several offices in an area and would accordingly be classified as office service. Service storage rooms are somewhat close to the areas they serve and are used more than occasionally. Central storage areas include areas commonly called warehouses, or central campus supply or storage. It also includes rooms in a building or building area that serve multiple room use categories and which are used for general or surplus (e.g., furniture, equipment) collection or storage. The Storage category can usually be used for all storage areas that do not qualify as service rooms. Computer/Telecommunication (Computer/Telecommunication) - 710 A room used as a computer-based data processing or telecommunications center that is specially constructed (i.e., raised floor, halon system, special HVAC) with applications that are broad enough to serve the overall administrative or academic primary equipment needs of a wide range of users in a department, college, school, or entire institution. Personnel are in the room on a regular basis, but are not generally stationed there. Limitations: Does not include office space assigned to programmers, analysts, engineers, data entry personnel, and other technical staff even though these rooms usually contain an access terminal. Also, this does not include Telecommunications/Data Rooms that are rooms used as part of the building infrastructure system similar to a mechanical or electric room (see Room Type Telecommunication/Data Room - 034 in Section Mechanical - 030.) This room type does not include Computer Laboratories (see Laboratory Section - 200). Computer/Telecommunication Service (Computer/Telecommunication Svc) - 715 A room that directly serves a computer or telecommunications facility as an extension of the activities in that facility. Description: Includes paper and forms storage, off-line tapes and disk storage, separate control or console rooms or booth, tool and parts rooms, bursting and decollating rooms, areas used to store only inactive support equipment and separate areas used for delivering tapes or picking up printouts. Hazardous Materials (Haz Mat) - 760 A centralized facility for the temporary storage of hazardous or toxic waste materials prior to disposal at an offsite location. Description: Hazardous or toxic materials include any materials (including biohazardous and radioactive) which have been designated for specific or formal regulation or control on the basis of a potential harm to plant or animal life. Parking (Parking) - 740 A room or structure (i.e., garage) that is used to park vehicles. Description: Includes only the area devoted to parking spaces, access lanes, walkways and driving areas. The definition of "vehicle" is broadly interpreted here to include forklifts, moving equipment, and other powered transport devices or equipment. Shop (Shop) - 720 A room used for the assembly, construction, fabrication, repair or maintenance of products or equipment. Description: Includes carpenter, plumbing, HVAC, electrical, and painting shops, vehicle repair and similar physical plant maintenance facilities. This category also includes centralized shops for construction or repair of research or instructional equipment, and repair and maintenance of computer or multimedia equipment and related devices. Special purpose shops such as glass blowing or machining supporting multiple rooms for scientific instruction and research are included in this category. Shop Service (Shop Svc) - 725 A room that directly serves a shop facility as an extension of the activities in that facility. Description: Includes tool storage rooms, materials storage rooms, and similar equipment or material supply or storage rooms. Locker rooms, shower, first aid, and similar nonpublic areas that serve the shop facility should also be included. Non-Assignable (000) right arrow down arrow Building Services - 035 right arrow down arrow Custodial Area (Custodial Area) - 011 A room or space used for the care and maintenance of the building (e.g., custodian’s closets, locker rooms, showers, and storage rooms). Restroom Female (Restroom Female) - 035-01 A Restroom for women that is open to the public. Limitation: Restrooms that are contained within private office suites are classified as Private Restroom (see Room Type - 317 in Office Section - 300). Restroom Male (Restroom Male) - 035-02 A Restroom for men that is open to the public. Limitation: Restrooms that are contained within private office suites are classified as Private Restroom (see Room Type - 317 in Office Section - 300). Restroom Unisex (Restroom Unisex) - 035-03 A Restroom specifically equipped for persons with physical disabilities. These rooms are generally not differentiated between male and female lavatories. Limitation: Restrooms that are contained within private office suites are classified as Private Restroom (see Room Type - 317 in Office Section - 300). Circulation - 020 right arrow down arrow Other right arrow down arrow Atrium (Atrium) - 020-01 A discreet, covered common area primarily used for circulation. Such areas typically include a glass roof or skylights. Limitations: A covered common area primarily used for circulation should be defined by that use. Loading (Loading) - 020-07 A raised, covered platform, typically on the exterior of a building, for the loading and unloading of goods, usually adjacent to or near an indoor receiving area. Lobby (Lobby) - 020-08 Public gathering space usually near a building entrance or large meeting area. Rescue Assistance Area (Rescue Area) 020-09 Room or area used to temporarily accommodate people with disabilities during emergency situations. Rooms remain locked until emergency alarms sound. Horizontal right arrow down arrow Bridge (Bridge) - 020-02 An elevated passageway that is undercover and connects two or more buildings or one section of a building to another. Corridor (Corridor) - 020-03 Pedestrian circulation space that is generally open to the public during normal business hours. Limitations: Non-public corridors contained within office or laboratory suites should be classified as office or laboratory circulation. (see Room Type – 315-05 in Office Service Section – 315, Room Type – 215-04 in Instruction/Study Laboratory Service Section – 215, and Room Type – 255-13 in Research Laboratory Service Section – 255) Exterior Circulation (Exterior Circulation) - 020-06 Covered public access passageways that are outside the building. Tunnel (Tunnel) - 020-12 An underground passageway between buildings primarily used for circulation. Vertical right arrow down arrow Dumbwaiter (Dumbwaiter) - 020-04 Shaft space used for vertical transportation of material rather than people. Elevator Passenger (Elevator) - 020-05 Shaft space used for vertical transportation of people and materials. Elevator Service (Service Elevator) - 020-10 Shaft space primarily used for vertical transportation of materials. Stair (Stair) - 020-11 Floor space occupied by stairs, stairwells, and escalators including landings. Utilities - 030 right arrow down arrow General Limitation: Does not include areas accessible through crawlspaces and less than 5’5” in height. IT right arrow down arrow Building Communication Room (BCR) - 030-02 Sometimes referred to as the Intermediate Distribution Frame, Intermediate Cross-Connect Room or Building Equipment Room. There is normally only one of these rooms per building. This room may also serve as a Floor Communication Room (refer to that definition). Description: These rooms will be shared with computers, telephone equipment and data network equipment and racks. An approved 5-pound halon type fire extinguisher must be provided for each room. Limitations: Electrical panels, other than those exclusively servicing the telecommunication room in which it is located, are strictly prohibited in telecommunications rooms. Services that are not telecommunication related are not allowed in these rooms including, but not limited to, janitorial services, supply storage, etc. However, fire and other alarm panels are permitted. Floor Communication Room (FCR) - 030-06 Sometimes called the Telecommunications Room, Wiring Closet or Horizontal Cross-connect. There is at least one of these rooms per floor. Description: These rooms may be shared with computers, telephone equipment and data network equipment and racks. An approved 5-pound halon type fire extinguisher must be provided for each room. Limitations: Electrical panels, other than those exclusively servicing the telecommunication room in which it is located, are strictly prohibited in telecommunications rooms. Services that are not telecommunication related are not allowed in these rooms including, but not limited to, janitorial services, supply storage, etc. However, fire and other alarm panels are permitted. Node Room (Node Room) - 030-03 Sometimes referred to as the Main Distribution Frame or Main Cross-Connect Room. There is normally only one of these rooms per group of buildings. This room serves as what is sometimes called the node room and houses PBX and/or backbone network related electronic equipment. This room may also serve as a Building or Floor Communication Room (refer to those definitions). Description: These rooms will be shared with computers, telephone equipment and data network equipment and racks. An approved 5-pound halon type fire extinguisher must be provided for each room. Limitations: Electrical panels, other than those exclusively servicing the telecommunication room in which it is located, are strictly prohibited in telecommunications rooms. Services that are not telecommunication related are not allowed in these rooms including, but not limited to, janitorial services, supply storage, etc. However, fire and other alarm panels are permitted. Electrical Room (Electrical) - 030-01 A room housing patch panels and/or circuit boxes needed to provide power or lighting to a building. Mechanical Room (Mechanical) - 030-04 A room housing mechanical and/or utility equipment needed for providing heating, cooling, plumbing, or lighting to a building. Shaft Space (Shaft Space) - 030-05 A vertical passage within a wall that may or may not contain wiring or piping used in servicing the building. Limitations: Void/non-functional space between walls or created by architectural features is not considered shaft space. Utility Tunnel (Utility Tunnel) - 030-07 An underground passageway between buildings used primarily for utility lines and maintenance personnel. Square Footage Definitions right arrow down arrow Gross Square Footage (GSF) The Gross Square Footage is calculated from the outside of the exterior walls and is inclusive of all space within minus areas that are open to below. Net Square Footage (NSF) The Net Square Footage is the total square footage of all the rooms/areas on a floor. This includes assignable and non-assignable rooms. Note: NSF calculations do not include wall thickness or space that is open to below. Net Assignable Square Footage (NASF) The Net Assignable Square Footage of a floor is calculated by adding all the rooms on a floor, excluding public corridors, elevators, stairwells, and all types of mechanical rooms, public bathrooms, custodial rooms, and shaft spaces. Note: NASF calculations do not include wall thickness or space that is open to below. Hood Definitions right arrow down arrow Biosafety Cabinet A cabinet designed to contain biohazardous material experiments and is hooked into the building exhaust system. This category does not include portable units with recirculating air filters. Canopy Similar to a range hood that pulls air up into it and into the building exhaust system. A canopy may be affixed to a flexible duct which allows it to be brought closer to an object for venting. This is not a closed system as a biosafety cabinet or fume hood would be. Fume Hood A cabinet designed for experiments which produce hazardous or noxious fumes or by-products that is hooked directly into the building exhaust system. Hazardous Storage A cabinet designed for the storage of hazardous materials and is hooked into the building exhaust system. Vent Similar to a vent in a bathroom that you can switch on and off, but is part of the building exhaust system. A vent could be on either a wall or in the ceiling and pulls the air out of the room. Function Definitions right arrow down arrow Academic Department Functions right arrow down arrow Functions are assigned to rooms as a means to classify the activities that take place in University space for federal and state reporting purposes. Research Organized Research – External (OREXT) Space related to all research and development activities sponsored by Federal and non-Federal agencies external to the University and organizations (e.g., grants and contracts) that are separately budgeted and accounted for by the University. Instruction Instruction (INS) Space devoted to teaching and training activities offered for credits toward a degree. This includes space where any activity takes place where the organization, administration and presentation of instruction takes place. Continuing Education (INSCT) Space devoted to making available to the general public instruction on a non-credit basis. This includes space used to create publications or other media associated with this type of “continuing education” or “extension” classes. Departmental Research (INSDP) Research, development and scholarly activities that are not separately budgeted and accounted for. This can also include bridge funding for researchers in between research projects and start-up funding. Departmental research is funded from budgets that are not restricted to a specific project. Other Sponsored Activities Clinical Trials (OSACT) Space devoted to clinical trials/drug studies which are defined as the investigation of new therapeutic agents and provide data required to demonstrate safety and efficiency. Space related to clinical trials/drug studies should be identified as such where the sponsor has obtained FDA approval to proceed and has been issued an investigational drug or device number. Clinical trial/drug studies are typically sponsored by industry, but may also be sponsored by government, foundations and organizations. Other Sponsored Activities – Public Service (OSAPS) Space devoted to programs financed by Federal and non-Federal agencies and organizations which involve the performance of work other than Organized Research (external and internal), Instruction (including Continuing Education). Examples of such activities include Health Service Projects and Community Service Programs. Note: When the University undertakes any of these activities without outside support they should be classified as Other Institutional Activities if there is a fee paid for by the consumer of the activity. If no fee paid then the activity should be assigned to General Administration. Department Administration Department Administration - Dean (DAD) Space devoted to administrative and supporting services provided by the Office of the Dean at each College that benefit common or joint academic departmental activities. Department Administration – Other (DAO) Space devoted to administrative and supporting services provided at the college department level college that benefit common or joint academic departmental activities. This category includes space (offices, offices service areas) used by department chair, staff or faculty used for administrative activities as opposed to Instruction activities. Library Library (LIB) Space devoted to all departments under the University Libraries or space inside academic departments used to establish and departmental library. Vacant Vacant – Inactive (VACI) Space that is not currently in use and is not under construction. Vacant – Construction (VACC) Space that is not in use because it is under construction. Hospital/Patient Care Hospital/Patient Care (PAT) Space devoted to providing medical care or treatment including medical residency. Generally, this would include all activities associated with a hospital. This also includes space devoted to the patient care activities of the medical practice plan. Non Institutional use Non Intuitional Use (NIU) Space devoted to functions related to public and/or private agencies not under supervision or control of the university but which occupy university space. Administrative Department Functions right arrow down arrow General Administration General Administration (GA) Space devoted to supervisory or managerial functions related to institutional administration. This category includes such departments as the President’s Office, General Council, Financial Departments, Human Resources Departments, IT services, and Shipping and Receiving. As a general rule: this category includes space assigned to departments in the Administrative and Finance Division that is not appropriately associated with Operation and Maintenance activities. See Function Operations and Maintenance (O&M) for further clarification. Sponsored Project Administration Sponsored Project Administration (SPA) Space devoted to a separate unit established primarily to administer sponsored projects (Federal or non‐Federal). Student Services Administration Student Services Administration (SSA) Space devoted to the administration of student affairs and services for students including functions of the Vice President of Student Affairs, Admissions, Registrar, Student Advisors, Counseling, and Placement Services. Student Services Administration – Student Health Services (SSASHS) Space devoted to space used for health services provided to students. Note: Space used to employee health initiatives should be assigned to General Administration (GA). Operation and Maintenance Operation and Maintenance (O&M) Space utilized for operations and maintenance, supervision, preservation and protection of the university’s grounds and physical facilities. This includes space used for such activities as janitorial, utility services; repair and ordinary alterations of buildings; care of grounds, security, environmental safety, hazardous waste, etc. Other Institutional Activity Other Institutional Activity (OIA) Space devoted to activities that are of an income producing nature. This includes residence halls and dining halls, student unions, intercollegiate athletics, bookstores, theaters, public museums and similar auxiliary enterprises. Also included are costs that are “allowable” to sponsored agreements, unless specifically agreed to under terms on the contract or grant. Specialized Service Facilities ‐ Utilities Specialized Service Facilities (SSFU) Space assigned to Utilities service center. Specialized Service Facilities ‐ UCIT Specialized Service Facilities (SSFI) Space assigned to any UCit department. Instruction Continuing Education (INSCT) Space devoted to making available to the general public instruction on a non‐credit basis. This includes space used to create publications or other media associated with this type of “continuing education” or “extension” classes. Vacant Vacant – Inactive (VACI) Space that is not currently in use and is not under construction. Vacant – Construction (VACC) Space that is not in use because it is under construction. Non Institutional Use Non Intuitional Use (NIU) Space devoted to functions related to public and/or private agencies not under supervision or control of the university but which occupy university space. Scheduling Non Class Events 25Live is the scheduling system for non class events at the university for Conference and Event Services and many colleges. Classes are also imported into this system for view only purposes. The entire UC community can view 25Live. All have the ability to: Check availability of rooms View information about the rooms (location, capacity, seating, AV equipment, more) Find events that have been entered into 25Live For those of you who have a UC ID and password, you can request space in university shared spaces. These spaces include event spaces in TUC, outdoor spaces and some classrooms (after they are released by Classroom Scheduling). Sign into 25Live by clicking on “Sign In” at the top of the page inside the red band and click the Event Form to enter an event. These spaces are managed by Conference and Event Services (CES); if you have questions, email CES or call them at 513-558-1810. For those who do not have a UC ID and password, email Conference and Event Services or call them at 513-558-1810 to arrange to rent space at UC. For colleges that use 25Live for scheduling of space within their college, you can log into 25Live to request use of space. Check with your college to see if 25Live is used for scheduling. We continue to increase the functionality of 25Live and welcome your suggestions and feedback. To learn more about scheduling with 25Live or to send suggestions or feedback, please contact us. Click here for instructions on requesting an event/location in 25Live. Division of Administration and Finance University Pavilion, Suite 630 2618 McMicken Circle PO Box 210620 Cincinnati, OH 45221-0620 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Division of Administration and Finance University Pavilion, Suite 630 2618 McMicken Circle PO Box 210620 Cincinnati, OH 45221-0620 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top