Skip to content Columbia University Irving Medical Center Find People Events Faculty and Staff Resources Give Now Search About Us About Us Facts and Figures Explore CUIMC Events Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion at CUIMC Community Development and Alumni Explore CUIMC Leadership and Administration A-Z Listing Affiliated Hospitals Campus Map and Directions Campus Resources Contact CUIMC Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion At CUIMC, we are committed to continuous improvement in providing culturally inclusive medical education and clinical care. Learn About Our Commitment Education Education Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Mailman School of Public Health School of Nursing College of Dental Medicine VP&S Columbia Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons is dedicated to developing the next generation of leaders in medicine Learn About Our Academic Programs Research Research The Louisa Gross Horwitz Prize Columbia Technology Ventures Research Administration Columbia Clinical Innovation Lab Patient Care Patient Care ColumbiaDoctors Children's Health Columbia Primary Care Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Digital Health Services at Columbia Find a Doctor Search for a provider by specialty, expertise, location and insurance. Schedule an appointment online. Find a Doctor News News For the Media Share Your News CUIMC Update CUIMC Celebrates Columbia Medicine Read the latest news stories about CUIMC faculty, research, and events Explore Our News COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Information for Patients COVID-19 Campus Safety for Employees and Students COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students COVID-19 Information and Resources for Clinical Staff COVID-19 Vaccine Information Learn about COVID-19 vaccine availability and requirements for employees and students at CUIMC Get the Latest Information Neurology Topics Campus News Research Medical School Public Health Cancer Mental Health Infectious Diseases Neurology Neuroscience Education Heart Health Pediatrics View All Topics Search All News Keywords News Subtopics: Alzheimer's Epilepsy Parkinson's Stroke Top Stories Missing Link Between Alzheimer’s and Vascular Disease Found? A gene called FMNL2 may explain why people with hypertension, diabetes, heart disease, or obesity have a greater risk of developing Alzheimer's disease. Topic Alzheimer's Transient Ischemic Attacks May Be Brief But Need Serious Attention A transient ischemic attack (TIA) is a stroke that usually lasts under five minutes and resolves on its own, but just because the symptoms disappear, does not mean a TIA should be ignored. New Initiative to Develop Personalized Therapies for People with Rare Genetic Forms of ALS A new initiative led by Columbia University and the n-Lorem Foundation will develop personalized therapies for individuals with "nano-rare" genetic forms of ALS and treat them for free, for life. Topic Campus News Genetic Testing for Parkinson’s Disease: What You Need to Know Parkinson’s patients and their families are increasingly turning to genetic testing to learn more about their disease or risk of passing it on. But testing is complex, and counseling is advised. Topic Campus News Latest News Spinal Fluid Test Offers Reliable Way to Diagnose Alzheimer’s September 26, 2018 Columbia neurologists found that a test used to measure Alzheimer's disease proteins in spinal fluid can be used to determine whether patients have the disease or other forms of dementia. Topic Alzheimer's Established Alzheimer's Risk Gene Has a New Role September 18, 2018 A newly discovered function for the ApoE4 gene, the strongest genetic risk factor for Alzheimer’s disease, may help explain how the gene causes cognitive decline. Topic Alzheimer's New Drug Shows Promise for Progressive Form of MS September 18, 2018 A new anti-inflammatory drug may offer hope for people with a progressive form of MS. In a phase 2 trial, the drug slowed brain atrophy in people with the disease. Topic Medical School Memory Peaks in Late Summer in Older Adults September 5, 2018 A new study suggests that, among older adults, cognitive performance changes with the seasons and peaks in late summer. Topic Neuroscience Prenatal DDT Exposure Associated with Greater Risk of Autism August 21, 2018 A Mailman study of more than 1 million pregnancies in Finland reports that prenatal exposure to elevated levels of DDT is associated with an increased risk for autism. Topic Public Health Popular Alzheimer’s Drug Not Effective for Patients with Depression August 2, 2018 A new clinical trial suggests that donepezil does not improve cognitive performance in people with mild cognitive impairment who also have clinical depression. Topic Alzheimer's More Epilepsy Cases Linked to the Mosaic Brain June 25, 2018 Mutations that only occur in some brain cells may account for a significant fraction of specific types of epilepsy, according to a new Columbia study. Topic Precision Medicine What Do We Know about Heading and Concussions? June 22, 2018 As the World Cup games continue, we talked to neurologist James Noble, MD, about the known—and unknown—risks of heading in soccer. Topic Medical School Alzheimer Drugs Keep Failing, Can Big Data Help? June 15, 2018 In one of the first studies of its kind, Columbia’s Philip De Jager shows how "big data" analyses may lead to new treatment strategies for Alzheimer's disease. Topic Alzheimer's Even Old Brains Can Make New Neurons, Study Finds April 5, 2018 Scientists at Columbia University Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons present the most definitive evidence to date that the human brain makes new neurons throughout life. Topic Neuroscience Pages first previous 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 … next last Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian About Us Careers News Education Patient Care Research Resources at CUIMC Columbia University Irving Medical Center 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Back to top