Skip to main content Skip to site menu Skip to Brown menu Skip to site search Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Enter search keyword About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Office of the Chaplains and Religious Life Amir A. Toft, PhD Office of the Chaplains and Religious Life Amir A. Toft, PhD Associate Chaplain of the University for the Muslim Community Contact Information Office Location Office Hours or Schedule a Meeting [email protected] 401-863-1820 Page-Robinson Hall, Room 417 Informal office hours: Wednesdays, 11 am to 1 pm. Stop by for as little or as long as you like to check in or just chat. Freshly brewed tea, and maybe some tea treats, will usually be on offer. For more personal matters, or just to speak one on one, please email me to schedule a meeting. **Due to the Ramadan fast, tea will not be available on April 6, 13, 20, 27 Imam Amir Toft serves as the Associate Chaplain of the University for the Muslim Community. His primary roles are to provide pastoral care and administrative support to the Muslim community at Brown and, in frequent collaboration with the MSA, to promote religious literacy among Muslims and the broader campus community. This community includes not only undergraduates but also graduate and professional students, faculty and staff, and members of the medical campus. Imam Amir grew up in the Chicago area. Before joining Brown in 2020, he earned his PhD in Islamic history and thought at the University of Chicago, and before that he completed an ‘Alimiyya degree at the Institute of Islamic Education, a Chicagoland Muslim seminary, where he memorized the Qur’an and received advanced training in Arabic and core classical Islamic disciplines. Over the course of his seminary and graduate studies, he served in multiple communities as a teacher and imam. At Brown, Imam Amir hopes to draw on his education and experience, at both the seminary and the university, to further enrich Muslim Life at Brown with tailored opportunities for learning and spiritual development. More information about his scholarly profile may be found here. Home About News & Events Religious Communities and Services Programs & Projects Places: To Pray, to Gather, to Meet Resources on Campus Print this Page Share this Page Office of the Chaplains and Religious Life Brown University Box 1931 Page Robinson Building (formerly J. Walter Wilson), Room 410 69 Brown Street Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401-863-2344 Fax 401-863-9359 [email protected] Calendar Sep 6 All Day Opening Convocation at 4:00 p.m.EDT Sep 7 All Day Classes of the first semester begin. Oct 10 All Day Indigenous Peoples’ Day. No University exercises. Nov 8 All Day United States Election Day. No University exercises. Nov 23 All Day Thanksgiving recess beginning Wednesday at noon EST. View full calendar > Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory