<form runat="server"></form>
<WebPartPages:SPWebPartManager runat="server"/>
 Skip to Main Content HBS Home About Academic Programs Alumni Faculty & Research Baker Library Giving Harvard Business Review Initiatives News Recruit Map / Directions MBA FAQ Introduce Yourself Blog Visit Apply Academic Experience Entrepreneurship Student Life Career Path Admissions Financial Aid …→ Harvard Business School→ MBA→ Student Life Student Life Activities, Government & Clubs Campus People Community Values The First-Year Experience The Second Year Experience The HBS Community → People→ Perspectives Perspectives Megan Maloney MBA 2022 Video Video Home Region Bedford, NY Undergrad Education Columbia University in the City of New York, BA, 2013 Previous Experience Mindstrong, General Catalyst, Morgan Stanley “I want to inspire people that look like me to pursue careers in finance and technology.” Why did you choose this path at this point in time? I prayed about it a lot and went with my gut. Like so many, I want to positively impact the world. It felt like a good time to come up for air and surround myself with brilliant, future leaders who would push my thinking on important issues. Coming to HBS is like... ...diving into an ice cold bath after a long, hard workout. It stings at first but your mind adjusts, your muscles heal and you leave better than when you entered it. Being part of the HBS community is like... ...going to The Wizarding World of Harry Potter and realizing that not only is the park incredible, but the people are even better! As a kid, what did you want to be when you grew up? I wanted to be a famous singer. Then when my sibling told me I couldn’t sing (as all siblings do), I wanted to be a cardiologist (also didn’t work out). What is your favorite childhood memory? The sound of Stevie Wonder’s Hotter than July playing as my parents hosted summer BBQs for our neighbors and friends. Who is one person from your life that you admire the most today? My grandmothers. I know that’s two but they are both incredible. One is an immigrant and the other grew up in Jim Crow south. What’s the best thing about your home town? Watching our high school soccer or basketball team and then grabbing a bagel with cream cheese from the Bagel Emporium. Home Region Bedford, NY Undergrad Education Columbia University in the City of New York, BA, 2013 Previous Experience Mindstrong, General Catalyst, Morgan Stanley ǁ MBA Admissions Harvard Business School Spangler Welcome Center (Spangler 107) Boston, MA 02163 Phone: 1.617.495.6128 Email: admissions@hbs.edu →Map & Directions →More Contact Information Make a Gift Site Map Jobs Harvard University Trademarks Policies Digital Accessibility Copyright © President & Fellows of Harvard College