Skip to main content Navigation Academics Admissions Research Locations Student Life Alumni & Giving Athletics Apply Now Bachelor of Science in Entertainment Management, BS Pair Business Acumen with Creativity to Lead Successful Entertainment Products Program at a Glance Program Bachelor College(s) Rosen College of Hospitality Management Department(s) Tourism, Events and Attraction 4 Years In State Tuition Out of State Tuition $212.28 per credit hour $748.89 per credit hour Learn more about program tuition and fees. Evoke Expression Through Entertainment The B.S. in Entertainment Management immerses you in the industry — providing you with the hands-on knowledge and skills needed to succeed. An educational partnership between the Rosen College of Hospitality Management and the College of Arts and Humanities, our program connects hospitality management and entertainment management. Here, we’re building the leaders of tomorrow who will go on and make a positive difference right here in our community and around the nation. The courses that you’ll take along the way help strengthen your core business skills and acumen in key areas such as design, engineering, operations, finance and marketing. This experience prepares you to identify, create and manage successful entertainment products. Additionally, your time here will allow you to develop management skills including leadership, communication, critical thinking, problem solving and teamwork. Every step of the way, you’ll learn from experienced faculty — many of whom have worked many years in the industry. They bring real-world, practical experience to the classroom to share with you how things are and ways to differentiate yourself from the competition. Upon graduating with your entertainment management degree, you’ll be ready to choose a career path that best suits your passion and long-term goals. The Rosen College’s location and industry relationships prove beneficial for those looking to gain first-hand experience through internships and job placement opportunities. Graduates go on to work in a variety of areas, including live performances and events, historical/cultural/educational exhibits, digital media, film enterprises, tourism attractions, experiential hospitality-related products, special events, sporting events and recreational or leisure activities. Related Programs: Event Management Hospitality Management Restaurant and Foodservice Management Highlights Ranked in the top 5 among best colleges for hospitality and tourism in the world by CEOWorld magazine and in the ShanghaiRankings for research. Rosen grads have a 97% placement rate upon graduation — working for top industry employers, including Disney, Universal, Hilton, Marriott and the Orange County Convention Center. More than $225,000 in scholarships are awarded annually to provide students with access to affordable hospitality education. Study-abroad programs offer partnerships with 21 international universities, including Austria, Australia, Japan, China and the Netherlands. Students complete 3 internship courses — gaining valuable work experience prior to graduation in progressively more responsible, career-driven positions. Undergraduate Application Deadlines Freshmen Transfers International Fall May 1 Spring November 1 Summer March 1 Fall July 1 Spring November 1 Summer March 1 Fall March 1 Spring September 1 Summer January 1 Ready to get started? Apply Today Start Your Application Today Ready to get started? Take the next step to save your spot at UCF. 1 Check out your application requirements. See what freshmen and transfer students need to apply. 2 Short on time? You can start your application today and come back later to finish. Apply Today Course Overview Entertainment Business The course examines business models in the various subsectors of the entertainment industry with a focus on financial, marketing, human resources and value proposition. Entertainment Law and Ethics The course focuses on the main legal and ethical issues affecting the entertainment industry. Consumer Behavior in Entertainment The course explores entertainment consumption, influenced by personal, psychological, social, and cultural factors within the context of macro-environmental factors and marketing practices. View All Entertainment Management Courses You’ll Take Entertainment Management Skills You'll Learn Focus on managerial aspects of the entertainment business Identify, create and manage successful entertainment products Benefit from exposure to national and global entertainment leaders Explore a wide range of skills that complement a variety of other disciplines Create a better, more harmonious world through the arts Career Opportunities Event Manager Production Coordinator Brand Manager Concert Promoter Producer Teacher Talent Manager Arts and Entertainment Business Manager Rosen College of Hospitality Management News Check out more stories Colleges & Campus Turning Events into Careers UCF’s new master’s program in event leadership will bring a world of experience to the epicenter of this fast-growing industry. Colleges & Campus 2022 UCF Medical Grad Putting Service at Forefront in Medicine As part of the UCF College of Medicine’s 10th graduating class, Michael Chiang ’20MS is the first Knight to earn a dual degree in medicine and… Science & Technology New Tool from UCF-led Team Shows Homeowners and Renters the True Cost of Disasters The tool can provide disaster readiness reports for 13.3 million addresses in 196 counties along the Gulf of Mexico — including all of Florida, and… Colleges & Campus Knights Do That: Where Medicine and Hospitality Intersect Michael Chiang ’20MS, the first UCF student to graduate with a master’s in hospitality and a M.D. in emergency medicine, shares how he plans to… Degree Search Rosen College of Hospitality Management programs Bachelors Entertainment Management (BS) University of Central Florida Colleges Burnett Honors Arts and Humanities Business Community Innovation and Education Engineering and Computer Science Graduate Studies Health Professions and Sciences Medicine Nursing Optics and Photonics Sciences Undergraduate Studies × The B.S. in Entertainment Management is an educational partnership between Rosen College and UCF’s College of Arts and Humanities. Students will take classes in both colleges to complete the 120-credit-hour program, which complements a variety of other disciplines. Graduates may pursue careers in a variety of areas related to the entertainment industry, including live performances and events, historical/cultural/educational exhibits, digital media, film enterprises, tourism attractions, experiential hospitality-related products, special events, sporting events and recreational or leisure activities. Degree Requirements Students must earn a minimum 2.0 overall GPA in course work taken within the Rosen College of Hospitality Management, and a minimum 2.0 GPA in all courses listed in the common program prerequisites, the basic and advanced core courses, and the restricted electives. Students must earn a "C" (2.0) or better in each course listed in the common program prerequisites, the basic and advanced cores, and the restricted electives. Degree Requirements Hospitality Core 12 Total Credits Complete the following: HFT2401 - Hospitality Industry Financial Accounting (3) HFT2750 - The Event Industry (3) HFT3540 - Guest Services Management I (3) HFT4755 - Theme Park and Attraction Management (3) Entertainment Management Core 30 Total Credits Complete the following: HFT2563 - Digital Marketing in Entertainment (3) HFT3375 - Entertainment Business (3) HFT3395 - Entertainment Technology and Innovation (3) HFT3593 - Consumer Behavior in Entertainment (3) HFT3795 - Leading in the Entertainment Industry (3) HFT4377 - Entertainment Production Management (3) HFT4378 - Entertainment Portfolio Management (3) HFT4469 - Financial Performance in Entertainment (3) HFT4623 - Entertainment Law and Ethics (3) HFT3463 - Revenue Strategies in the Entertainment Industry (3) Internship 3 Total Credits Complete all of the following Earn at least 1 credits from the following: HFT3940 - Internship I (1 - 99) Earn at least 1 credits from the following: HFT4941 - Internship II (1 - 99) Earn at least 1 credits from the following: HFT4944 - Internship III (1 - 99) Entertainment Management Performing Arts courses 6 Total Credits Complete the following: MUS4320 - Music Business and Industry (3) THE3082 - Theatre Careers (3) Restricted Electives 12 Total Credits Complete at least 4 of the following: HFT3357 - Sport and Club Event Operations (3) HFT3364 - Dynamic Marketing of Sporting Events (3) HFT3391 - Experiences in Sporting Events (3) HFT3512 - Event Promotion (3) HFT3594 - Entertainment Brand Relations and Publicity (3) HFT3785 - Management of Gaming Enterprises (3) HFT3798 - Fairs and Festivals (3) HFT4398 - Entertainment Entrepreneurship (3) HFT4626 - Public Policy Issues in the Entertainment Industry (3) HFT4752 - Managing the Guest Experience in the Theme Park and Attraction Industry (3) HFT4759 - Product Development in Theme Parks and Attractions (3) HFT4795 - Entertainment Arts and Events (3) HFT4796 - International Events (3) PLA4825 - Entertainment Law (3) PLA4825 - Entertainment Law (3) THE3240 - Evolution of Musical Theatre (3) THE3383 - Taboo Theatre: Sex & Violence on Stage (3) THE3272 - Shakespeare to RuPaul: Drag in Entertainment (3) TPA3183 - The Themed Experience (3) TPA4400 - Theatre Management (3) Grand Total Credits: 63 University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida