Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Human Resources Human Resources Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links Office for Institutional Diversity Menu Main Nav Office for Institutional Diversity Contact Back Back Close About Overview Message from the AVP Diversity and Inclusion Statement Allies of Diversity AHANA Faculty, Advisors, & Mentors History OID Newsletter Contact Related Links Notice of Nondiscrimination Programs New Employees Thrive @ BC Overview Affinity Groups Self-Identification Forms Programs Overview Cultural Competence Engagement Modules (CCEM) Diversity and Inclusion Summit Living Out the Jesuit Mission Table Talk Diversity Series University Affiliates Program Voices of Diversity and Inclusion Forum Policies & Compliance Overview Discriminatory Harassment EEO and Affirmative Action Employee Grievance Procedures Federal & State Laws Hate Crimes and Bias-Related Incidents Protocol Notice of Nondiscrimination Reasonable Accommodation for People with Disabilities Title IX Boston College Related Links Self Identification Forms BC Employee Handbook BC Policies Events Contact Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Human Resources Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Hate Crimes and Bias-Related Incidents Protocol Home Policies & Compliance Hate Crimes and Bias-Related Incidents Protocol Policies & Compliance Discriminatory Harassment EEO and Affirmative Action Employee Grievance Procedures Federal & State Laws Hate Crimes and Bias-Related Incidents Protocol Notice of Nondiscrimination Reasonable Accommodation for People with Disabilities Title IX Boston College This protocol was developed to provide members of the Boston College community with information on the process for reporting a hate crime or bias-related incidents and on the available resources. Introduction to the protocol Definitions of a hate crime and a bias-related incident If you have been a witness of a hate crime or bias-related incident How the University will respond when a hate crime or bias-related incident is reported What the University is doing to prevent hate crimes and bias-related incidents List of support resources with contact information How to report a hate crime to an authority that will take action and give you support: If you have been a target of a hate crime If you have been a witness of a hate crime How to report a bias-related incident: Use the button at the top of the page to acccess the Incident Reporting Form. Incidents reported on this form will be recorded in a database maintained by the Office for Institutional Diversity. Reports will be kept confidential to the extent possible unless it requires judicial or administrative action. The purpose of the database is to tally incidents and track details related to them. We expect to use this information to prevent and better respond to future incidents, and reassure the community that campus authorities are attentive to incident reports. This form is not necessary if you have reported the incident to another campus authority (BCPD, ODSD, Res Life, HR, Deans, etc.) because those reports will automatically be included in the database. Boston College Bias-Related Incident Report Form Boston College Hate Crimes and Bias Related Incidents Protocol For Hate Crimes and Bias Related Incidents (Students impacting Students) visit the Office of Student Conduct Introduction Incident Reporting Form Definitions Target of Hate Crime Witness of Hate Crime University Responses Education and Prevention Related University Policies FAQ Support Resources Introduction The following statement made by William P. Leahy, S.J., president of Boston College, in The Heights on November 13, 2006, embodies the University's goal of maintaining an environment free of discrimination and all forms of harassment and intimidation: "As a university and an institution committed to Jesuit, Catholic beliefs and values, Boston College expects members of its community to treat one another with respect, dignity, and compassion. Acts of prejudice, hatred, and discrimination especially conflict with BC's institutional standards and ethos, and such behavior cannot and will not be tolerated here. Violations of campus conduct policies will be investigated, and parties found responsible will receive appropriate sanctions. It is important that offensive conduct be reported and that due process be followed so that we can maintain the rights and integrity of our campus community. I ask that all of us rededicate ourselves to helping BC live up to its heritage and ideals." At Boston College we must vigorously pursue an academic, work, and social environment that is fair and founded upon mutual respect and trust. It is our hope that all individuals within the broad University community share this aspiration and its attendant responsibilities. This protocol was developed to provide members of the Boston College community with information on the process for reporting a hate crime or bias-related incidents and on the resources available to those who have been the targets of hate. An open and interactive community is an essential characteristic of a Jesuit and Catholic university. Respect is fundamental to the free exchange of ideas at the core of an environment that cultivates learning and discovery. This protocol is a dynamic document designed to change as necessary to improve our ability to respond to the needs of our community. Incident Reporting Form Boston College is committed to addressing incidents of bias and appreciates your assistance in bringing these incidents to our attention. Please use the button at the top of the page to report information about bias-related incidents. Our goal is to document incidents to educate our community and ultimately to better enable the University to prevent this kind of behavior and to address it properly when it occurs. If you believe that you have been a target or witness to a hate crime we encourage you to contact the Boston College Police (BCPD) or other designated authorities before using the form. See either the “If you have been a target of hate” or the “If you have been a witness” section of the Hate Crime and Bias-Related Incident Protocol for further information about what should be reported and how to do so. Information collected by the BCPD or designated authorities for the purpose of investigating allegations of hate crimes are subject to federal and state criminal investigation protocols. Reports will be kept confidential to the extent possible unless it requires judicial or administrative action. If you have any questions about the form, its use, or the Hate Crimes and Bias-Related Incident Protocol, please contact Patricia Lowe, Associate Vice President, Office for Institutional Diversity at patricia.lowe@bc.edu. Incident Reporting Form Definitions This protocol deals with two overlapping categories of hateful behavior that threaten an environment of mutual respect: "hate crimes" and "bias-related incident." Hate Crimes Hate crimes are not separate, distinct crimes, but rather traditional criminal offenses under federal or state law that are motivated in whole or in part by the offender's bias toward the victim's race, religion, disability, sexual orientation, nationality, gender or ethnicity. Because there is always an "underlying" criminal offense involved in a hate crime, the perpetrator is subject to criminal prosecution. It can be difficult to ascertain an offender's subjective motivation, so characterizing a criminal act as a hate crime may sometimes require a detailed investigation to uncover objective facts to lead a reasonable and prudent person to conclude that the offender's actions were motivated by bias. Hate crimes may include threatened, attempted, or actual crimes; and may include assault and battery, vandalism, or other destruction of property, or verbal threats of physical harm. Harassment or intimidation may also be a hate crime when used to deprive or interfere with a person's exercise of civil rights. Bias-Related Incident Not all hateful behavior rises to the level of a crime for which the offender may be prosecuted, and not all reported hate crimes are actually prosecuted. This protocol uses the term "bias-related incident" to refer to behavior that, whether or not criminal, constitutes a violation of behavioral standards and policies listed in the Student Guide and Professional Standards of Boston College, and that is motivated in whole or in part by the offender's bias toward the victim's race, religion, disability, sexual orientation, nationality, gender or ethnicity. Because these policies prohibit criminal as well as some noncriminal behavior, the definitions of and the University response to "hate crime" and "bias-related incident" will overlap. Students accused of committing bias-related incidents are subject to discipline in accordance with the procedures established by the Office of Student Conduct, and if found responsible may face sanctions up to and including suspension or dismissal from the University. Faculty and staff accused of bias-related incidents are subject to disciplinary action in accordance with the Boston College Employee Handbook, the Policy on Discriminatory Harassment, the University Statutes, and other appropriate policies. Target of a Hate Crime If you believe that you may have been the target of a hate crime, there are several steps you should follow: If necessary, obtain medical attention, and if you feel unsafe call the BC Police Department (BCPD) emergency number (617-552-4444) immediately. If possible, preserve any evidence and document the incident as thoroughly as possible (graffiti, phone call recording, e-mail message, letter, and so forth) by taking pictures, videotaping, and writing down everything you or witnesses remember, and keeping the contact information of any witnesses. Report the incident to the appropriate authority. Anyone may report offensive conduct to the Boston College Police non-emergency number (617-552-4440). Students may also report offensive conduct to the Office of the Dean for Student Development (617-552-3470) or a professional staff member in Residential Life (617-552-3060). If after hours, BCPD can contact a professional staff member or the administrator on call. Faculty or staff may report an incident to the Department of Human Resources (617-552-3330) or to the office of the Academic Dean or Harassment Counselor (617-552-0486), as appropriate. If you are not sure whether or not offensive conduct may be a hate crime, report it anyway. The Boston College Police, and the offices listed in #3 above, will listen to your story and provide any resources or services that may be necessary, including a full investigation. It is best to report an incident as early as possible to facilitate the investigation. The Boston College Police, and other offices listed in #3 above, or persons or offices listed in the Support Resources Section, will be able to refer you to a variety of support resources both on and off campus that will be helpful. Please do not hesitate to request this information at any time. It is important to talk to someone if you experience or witness an incident of hate. Witness of Hate Crime Why it is important to report hate crimes and bias-related incidents The police and the University need to know the number, type, and range of hate crimes and bias-related incidents that affects a member of our community. Reporting these offenses will help Boston College identify the problem areas to improve services that deal with this type of victimization. As a witness to a hate crime or bias-related incident, you have a unique opportunity to play a vital role in the internal and/or external justice system. By reporting the offense, information you provide will help the police and University ensure that offenders answer for their offenses and will help resolve larger issues. The information you give by reporting a hate crime or bias-related incident you may witness will: Help bring the perpetrator to justice—this could prevent further occurrences and protect other BC community members; Help you—you may find it beneficial to talk about what has happened and your feelings about it; Help the BC community—all such offenses have a negative effect on our community and should be pursued actively. Simply call the Boston College Police non-emergency number (617-552-4440), 24 hours a day, to report any hate crime and bias-related incidents or contact a University official listed in the Support Resources Section if you feel you have been a witness. If the incident happened off campus, these same people can assist you with local authorities. University Responses The process for determining whether an incident is indeed a crime and possibly a hate crime is a complicated legal matter to be determined by the Boston College Police Department. Therefore, department administrators, faculty, staff, or students who receive reports of these incidents shall report them to the BCPD for investigation and referral. Once the initial report of an incident is made, an investigation will begin according to BCPD procedures. BCPD may refer the matter to an appropriate University official for follow-up and/or to seek prosecution. BC Police Harassment Counselor Human Resources Office of Student Conduct The following chart may be useful to outline the appropriate reporting and follow-up process under this protocol: Target Perpetrator Report to Follow-up and adjudication may include Target support Student *If in residence hall Student BC Police or the Office of Student Conduct *Residence Life the Office of Student Conduct or Residence Life The Office of Student Conduct or Support Resources Student Faculty or Staff BC Police or Academic Dean or HR or Harassment Counselor or Resources Network or the Office of Student Conduct HR or Harassment Counselor or Academic Dean The Office of Student Conduct or Support Resources Faculty or Staff Faculty or Staff BC Police or Academic Dean or HR or Harassment Counselor or Resources Network HR or Harassment Counselor HR or Support Resources or Academic Dean Faculty or Staff Student BC Police or the Office of Student Conduct The Office of Student Conduct or Harassment Counselor HR or Harassment Counselor or Resources Network or Faculty Staff Assistance Program or Academic Dean Student or Faculty or Staff Outsider BC Police or the Office of Student Conduct Non-BC police agencies The Office of Student Conduct or HR or Harassment Counselor or Resources Network or Faculty Staff Assistance Program or Academic Dean Outsider Student BC Police or the Office of Student Conduct The Office of Student Conduct Outsider Faculty or Staff BC Police or HR HR Student-Related Matters Boston College students may report any suspected violations of the University's "bias-related incident" policy that involves other students by calling the Office of Student Conduct at 617-552-3470 or by filling out a Report an Alleged Violation of the Code of Conduct. Discriminatory Harassment—If the offensive conduct involves a form of discriminatory harassment, it should be reported to the Harassment Counselor or to a member of the Harassment Resources Network. Range of Sanctions (for student perpetrators)—Student sanctions may range from educational sanctions/community service up to and including suspension of housing privileges or dismissal from the University. Concerns about bias grading—If bias is perceived to exist in grading or work assignments from the instructor the student should contact the instructor and, failing to get a satisfactory outcome should follow the procedure for appealing a course grade. Concerns about bias in the classroom—In the case where there is no individually directed bias against a student, but a faculty member speaks or behaves in a way that creates an uneasy or hostile climate, the student should report the matter to the Dean of the School or to the Harassment Counselor. Faculty and Staff-Related Matters Part of police procedures for addressing faculty-/staff-related complaints include communication and referral to the Office of Human Resources. If you are a faculty or staff member, you may choose to initiate a complaint through the Boston College Police Department, the Department of Human Resources (553-3330), the Office for Institutional Diversity (552-2323), the Boston College Harassment Counselor Linda Riley (552-0486) or the academic dean of the appropriate school. Complaints lodged in any of these offices will be referred for further investigation, as appropriate, to the Boston College Police. Discriminatory Harassment—If the offensive conduct involves a form of discriminatory harassment, it should be reported to the Harassment Counselor. Concerns about bias in the office environment—Offensive conduct in the office environment should be reported to your manager/supervisor and to the Department of Human Resources, or if appropriate, to the Harassment Counselor. Communication Although a hate crime or bias-related incidents may take the form of a violation against a single individual or a number of individuals, in a close community, such conduct can offend and impact the entire community. For that reason, communication to the broader community about the crime or offensive conduct and the University response may be required. The targeted person will be consulted to determine the appropriate communication to the community. As a University guided by the Jesuit and Catholic philosophy of cura personalis (care for the individual), Boston College's first responsibility is to care for its students, faculty, and staff. We value all members of our community, and feel an obligation to protect them in all cases, including their privacy and reputation whenever possible. Boston College's communication policy mirrors this commitment. As a result, the University will only report information once facts are gathered properly and the release of information becomes appropriate. Administrators from Student Affairs, ODSD, Boston College Police, Office of University Communications, and/or other offices, as appropriate, will share information and make a determination regarding the appropriate communications course of action, including the means to disseminate information, such as BCInfo, e-mail, and campus safety posters. Specifically, in the case of a campus-wide safety issue, the University will immediately post a safety notice on the BC website to inform the community of what Boston, Newton, Massachusetts State Police, or BC Police deem a "threat to the community." Safety notices will provide pertinent information about the incident, such as location of the incident and the numbers of individuals involved. The University also recognizes the need to manage rumors and misinformation that often accompany hate crimes and bias-motivated offenses. The University will disseminate information, as it becomes known, by the most appropriate and effective means that the situation dictates. BCPD Response The Boston College Police Department will investigate any report concerning a hate crime and has established a zero-tolerance policy toward these offenses or any bias-related incident. Once reported, a uniformed member of the department will respond to the scene, talk to the victim, arrange to have the area photographed, preserve any evidence, arrange for cleaning or covering offensive material, and file an initial intake report. Uniformed supervisory staff will respond as needed to oversee the initial investigation and help to ensure victims have the support they may need from the University. The initial written intake report and any supporting documentation is then turned over to the commanding officer of the detective unit where a specially trained BCPD detective and hate crime investigator will be assigned the case. This officer will reach out to the victim and any witnesses to discuss the case once they feel comfortable doing so and will further investigate the incident as determined by the nature of the offense. Note: Any hate incident is logged and initially investigated as a hate crime; the final determination, for state and federal reporting purposes, is completed later. The investigating detective will look for similar offenses over a period of time, identify modus operandi or the manner of operation, especially the characteristic method employed by a person in completing such a hate incident. The detective will attempt to identify suspects and additional witnesses and will readily consult with off-campus criminal systems experts as needed. All such reports are forwarded to ODSD for review and internal action as warranted. Any court prosecution will be determined after consultation with the appropriate district attorney's office and only if the victim feels comfortable doing so. Education and Prevention Boston College supports a number of programs that seek to educate the BC community about the importance of diversity and inclusiveness and to help foster a positive campus climate for students, faculty, staff. These programs are supported by various departments and student organizations on campus. African and African Diaspora Studies Program* The African and African Diaspora Studies Program (AADS) considers the history, culture, and politics of Africans on the subcontinent and African-descended peoples in the U.S., the Caribbean, South America, Europe, Asia, and the Middle East. Covering a vast historical period and geographical expanse, African and African Diaspora Studies acquaints students with the multiplicity and diversity of the African diaspora and the world in which we all live. Using an interdisciplinary and comparative approach, the program draws on a broad range of methodologies in the Humanities and Social Sciences including those in English, History, Sociology, Philosophy, Theology, and Communications. These diverse methodologies help reveal the deep roots and diverse routes that have shaped African and African-descended peoples and continue to inform their lives today. Asian Studies Program* The Asian Studies Program draws faculty from several departments to provide students with an interdisciplinary introduction to this vast and complex region. The program is also an intellectual center at Boston College for the study of Asia with lectures, films, and seminars for both faculty and students. Courage To Know* This course is part of the Cornerstone Program sponsored by the First Year Experience Program. It is an introduction to college life in which students investigate personal and social development in the college years. Topics include the nature of learning, diversity, social justice, human sexuality, intimacy, addiction, and career and professional discernment, among others. Institute for the Study and Promotion of Race and Culture* The purpose of the institute is to promote the assets and address the societal conflicts associated with race or culture in theory, and research, mental health practice, education, business, and society at large. Every year the institute sponsors the Diversity Challenge Conference. AHANA Student Activities International Clubs The AHANA student population is a growing community within the Boston College community. Celebrating the richness of myriad cultures and histories, AHANA student clubs/organizations coordinate numerous events/activities. For instance, there are the annual culture shows hosted by a number of clubs -- the Asian Caucus, South Asian Students Association. Jewish Studies* The Jewish Studies Program seeks to examine the multiple dimensions and complexities of Jewish civilization throughout its broad chronological and geographical range. In so doing, the program contributes to Boston College's efforts to internationalize and enrich its curriculum by creating a space for reflection on an ethnically and religiously diverse campus. Latin American Studies Program* The program draws from faculty from several departments to provide students with an interdisciplinary introduction to Latin America. Islamic Civilization and Societies Program* The World of Islam, encompassing one and a half billion people in 55 countries, represents a culture of extraordinary depth, richness and diversity. National and International Service and Immersion Trips Students immerse themselves in other communities to learn about the realities, hopes, and struggles of those living in situations of economic, political, or social marginalization. Campus Ministry and different academic departments sponsor these trips. Women's Center The center plans programs for the campus community to raise awareness about issues affecting women at Boston College and to celebrate women's accomplishments in the community and in the world. World Fiesta Day It is a day of crafts, typical foods, costumes, videos, games, posters, and related literature and brochures. The BC community is invited to provide live campus performers and to promote the talents of all groups. The day also is meant to promote BC's international and multicultural character and bring about cross-cultural awareness. World Fiesta is the only event that brings together at one time the graduate and undergraduate student bodies with all international programs, intercultural clubs, relevant departments from throughout the campus, and outside vendors. Benjamin E. Mays Mentoring Program The Mays Mentoring Program is designed to provide AHANA students with an opportunity to have a personal connection with a faculty member or administrator who can guide them through the college environment. The Benjamin E. Mays Mentoring Program attempts to ameliorate potential isolation and loneliness that are often experienced by AHANA students by pairing them with a mentor who is willing and dedicated to develop a relationship with AHANA students and to follow them through their undergraduate career at Boston College. By working with students beginning in the first year, mentors assist protégés in building solid foundations that help to ensure the successful achievement of their goals. Mentors provide encouragement and support as students develop habits and attitudes that lead to academic and personal success. Boston College Affinity Groups Boston College Affinity Groups are volunteer, employee-managed groups that promote the interests of their respective constituencies. Undergraduate Government of Boston College (UGBC) Within the UGBC, the AHANA Leadership Council works to strengthen the relationship among various AHANA culture-specific groups, and to create greater multicultural awareness on campus through retreats, lectures, and other special events. "The GLBTQ Leadership Council is committed to bettering the quality of life for all students at Boston College who identify as gay, lesbian, bisexual, transgender, queer, or questioning. " http://bc.orgsync.com/org/ugbc1/ *Academic programs Related University Policies Residential Life Policies RA Procedure - This protocol will be used when addressing incidents of intolerance. These include but are not limited to hate speech, acts of bias-motivated violence, and inflammatory graffiti. The purpose of this protocol is to ensure that Residential Life responds to the needs of the students involved in the incident as well as responding to the needs of the immediate community. Graffiti Attempt to cover, but not disturb, offensive material (if applicable) Page the RDOC or contact your Resident Director Support the student(s): Make the student feel safe and follow up with the student as long as necessary. If appropriate, assist the student in finding support groups or contacting University Counseling Services. Also, encourage the student to enlist the help/support of family and friends. While BCPD and RDOC investigate the incident: Attempt to ascertain the following: How do the residents in the room/on floor feel? Are there witnesses? What was written, said, or done? Where was the inflammatory material written/placed/expressed? Who is responsible? If the party is known, what is the relationship, if any, to the victim? What is the intent of the inflammatory material? (i.e., was it intended to cause pain/harm?) Write the appropriate incident report/background report(s) Resolution: The SAOC, director, and associate director, upon consultation with the RDOC and the duty RA, will make a decision as to how extensive the level of community notification will be (floor-wide, building-wide, area-wide, campus-wide) and how community notification will be implemented (floor/building meetings, letters, campus e-mail). If the manner of notification is by letter, all resident assistants will be notified, regardless of the location of the incident. Follow-up with Community: It may be necessary for continual follow-up with the community focusing on the needs of the students and attempts to control rumors. It will be important for the RA to help determine if there are students who are affected but have not received the proper resources. Note: If the incident occurs on a weekday between 9 a.m. – 5 p.m., the RA should contact the resident director or assistant director. If they are not available, then contact the main office at 552-3060. General Procedure - This protocol will be used when addressing incidents of intolerance. These include but are not limited to hate speech, acts of bias-motivated violence, and inflammatory graffiti. The purpose of this protocol is to ensure that Residential Life is responding to the needs of the students involved in the incident as well as responding to the needs of the immediate community. In all incidents, the Boston College Police Department MUST be called to respond to the scene to conduct a proper investigation. The administrator on call must respond in person to the site of the incident. Once on the scene, the administrator on call along with the BCPD gathers information: How do the people in the room/on the floor feel? Are there any witnesses? What was written, said, or committed? Where was it written, said, or committed? Do we know who is responsible? If so, what is the perpetrator's relationship to the victim? What do you believe is the intent? Was it intended to cause harm? Is it aimed at a particular person? In the event that the incident involves inflammatory graffiti, attempt to cover, but not disturb, the offensive material. Support the student Make the student feel safe Offer to relocate students if necessary Offer stay-away orders when appropriate Offer to speak with parents of students involved Help the student find an appropriate resource for support at the scene whether it be University Counseling, Campus Ministry, or Health Services. Encourage the student to enlist the help/support of family and friends. Consult The administrator on site should consult with the senior administrator on call to ensure the needs of the student are met. The administrator on call will submit a very clear and detailed incident report. Resolution The senior administrator on call in consultation with the director, associate director, and assistant director of Residential Life will meet to determine the severity of the incident and how extensive the community notification will be (floor, building, area, or campus) and how it will be implemented (floor meetings, letters, e-mail) When deemed necessary by the above-mentioned staff members, all RAs on campus will be notified. The resident assistant and the resident director will follow up with the students involved with the incident focusing on: Offering continued support Offering any services that might be necessary Talking with concerned parents Working to control rumors in the community Potentially meeting with the affected community to offer services and to discuss how members are dealing with the incident. Incidents that are not deemed severe (such as students writing inappropriate statements on one another's white boards as a joke), must be followed up in person by the resident director for that building to educate students about inappropriate language and how their insensitivity has an effect on the community. Appealing a Course Grade: All students have the right to be graded fairly and equitably in a course, to understand how a course grade is calculated, and to understand why an instructor has evaluated their coursework. It is, however, the instructor's right and responsibility to set the grading standards for a course and to use their own best judgment in evaluating and grading individual students' work. Grading by its nature involves judgment. The grade received may not always be directly related to the amount of effort a student has expended. An instructor and a student may legitimately disagree on the quality of a piece of work, in which case the instructor's judgment prevails. Thus, such disagreements may not be the sole basis of an appeal. However, for students who feel that their final course grades have been determined inaccurately or unfairly, there are formal appeals policies/processes for each school. Students are urged to contact their respective Deans for further information. Dean's office of each school Boston College Law School 617-552-4340 College of Arts and Sciences 617-552-2393 Carroll School of Management 617-552-8420 Connell School of Nursing 617-552-1710 Graduate School of Social Work 617-552-4020 Lynch School of Education 617-552-4200 Woods College of Advancing Studies 617-552-3900 See other policy information: Discriminatory Harassment Policy—Boston College Policies and Procedures Manual Professional Standards and Business Conduct—Use of University Technological and Information Resources—Boston College Policies and Procedures Manual Professional Standards and Business Conduct—General Policy (Employer/Employee Relationships)—Boston College Policies and Procedures Manual FAQ How is the University working to prevent hate crimes and bias-relate incidents? Boston College supports a number of programs that seek to educate the BC community about the importance of diversity and inclusiveness and to help foster a positive campus climate for students, faculty, staff. These programs are supported by various departments and student organizations on campus. Find more information about these initiatives on our Education and Prevention tab. Who can I contact for support if I want to talk about a hate crime or bias-related incidents? There are many resources on campus who are trained and equipped to talk about different issues pertaining to hate crimes and bias-related incidents. If you feel like you have witnessed or experiences an incident, we encourage you to contact the Boston College Police (BCPD) or other designated authorities. After doing so, you may submit an incident reporting form at the top of the page to report information about bias-related incidents. What is the protocol for Student-Related Matters? See previous tabs. What is the protocol for matters related to faculty and staff? Part of police procedures for addressing faculty-/staff-related complaints include communication and referral to the Office of Human Resources. If you are a faculty or staff member, you may choose to initiate a complaint through the Boston College Police Department, the Department of Human Resources (553-3330), the Office for Institutional Diversity (552-2323), the Boston College Harassment Counselor Mary Ellen Fulton (552-4200) or the academic dean of the appropriate school. Complaints lodged in any of these offices will be referred for further investigation, as appropriate, to the Boston College Police. How does the University communicate to the campus community about hate crimes and bias-related incidents? Communication to the broader community about the crime or offensive conduct and the University response may be required. The targeted person will be consulted to determine the appropriate communication to the community. Read more about communication about hate crimes and bias-related incidents. Where can I find more information about the policies? Boston College rejects and condemns all forms of harassment, wrongful discrimination and disrespect. It has developed procedures to respond to incidents of harassment whatever the basis or circumstance. Moreover, it is the policy of Boston College, while reserving its lawful rights where appropriate to take actions designed to promote the Jesuit, Catholic principles that sustain its mission and heritage, to comply with all state and federal laws prohibiting discrimination in employment and in its educational programs on the basis of a persons race, color, national origin, sex, religion, disability, age, marital or parental status, genetic information or family medical history, or military status, and to comply with state law prohibiting discrimination on the basis of a person's sexual orientation. Read more about our notice of non-discrimination at Boston College. Use the resources for Related University Policies to learn about other policies that exist beyond the Office for Institutional Diversity. How do I report a hate crime or bias-related incidents? If you have been a target of a hate crime or bias-related incidents, please first seek safety and receive any medical attention, if necessary. Then, refer to the following page for information about reporting: target of an incident If you have been a witness of a hate crime or bias-related incidents, refer to the following page for information about reporting: witness of an incident What is the Boston College Police Department investigation procedure? The Boston College Police Department will investigate any report concerning a hate crime and has established a zero-tolerance policy toward these offenses or any bias-related incident. Read more about BCPD investigation procedures. What is the purpose of the Hate Crime and Bias-Related Incident Reporting Form? Incidents reported on the form will be recorded in a database maintained by the Office for Institutional Diversity. OID will use the information in the database to publish an annual report on hate crimes and bias-related incidents. This form is not necessary if you have reported the incident to another campus authority (BCPD, ODSD, Res Life, HR, Deans, etc.) because those reports will be included in the database. Why should I complete the Hate Crime and Bias-Related Incident Reporting Form? Use the button at the top of the page to complete the Hate Crime and Bias-Related Incident Form. Our goal is to document incidents to educate our community and ultimately to better enable the University to prevent this kind of behavior and to address it properly when it occurs. How do I submit the Hate Crime and Bias-Related Incident Reporting Form? The form will ask you to report details about the incident, which will then be submitted to the essential personnel. For further questions about the form, its use, or the Hate Crimes and Bias-Related Incident Protocol, please contact Patricia Lowe, Associate Vice President, Office for Institutional Diversity, at patricia.lowe@bc.edu. Boston College Bias-Related Incident Report Form In addition to the resources listed on the University Responses page, there are many other supportive offices, staff, and faculty at Boston College who provide additional resources and comfort to students experiencing bias-related incidents beyond reporting the event. Please refer to following resources for guidance and support: Counseling Services Gasson 001 617-552-3310 Health Services St. Thomas Moore 2150 Commonwealth Ave. 617-552-3225 Faculty Staff Assistance Program—Human Resources Department Marie Elena Gioiella, marie.elena.gioiella@bc.edu 129 Lake St, Brighton Campus 617-552-3340 Office of International Students and Scholars 72 College Road 617-552-8005 Office of International Programs Hovey House 617-552-3827 Sexual Assault Network Helpline: 617-552-BC11 (2211), available 24/7 Office of AHANA Student Programs Thea Bowman AHANA and Intercultural Center (BAIC) Maloney Hall, Suite 455 617-552-3358 Campus Ministry McElroy Room 233 617-552-3475 Women's Center Maloney Hall, Suite 441 617-552-3489 Dean's Office of each School Boston College Law School 617-552-4340 College of Arts and Sciences 617-552-2393 Carroll School of Management 617-552-8420 Connell School of Nursing 617-552-1710 Graduate School of Social Work 617-552-4020 Lynch School of Education 617-552-4200 School of Theology and Ministry 617-552-6509 Woods College of Advancing Studies 617-552-3900 Vice Presidents' offices Office of The Provost and Dean of Faculties 617-552-3260 Human Resources 617-552-3330 Student Affairs 617-552-3280 University Mission & Ministry 617-552-1603 Back To Top Back To Top Office for Institutional Diversity 129 Lake Street, Room 211 Brighton Campus 617-552-2323 About Thrive @ BC Programs Policies & Compliance Events Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College