Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Music Therapy Jazz Major You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Music Therapy Jazz Major Apply Visit Request More Info Music Therapy Jazz Major Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Ensembles & Performance Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Undergraduate Audition Requirements Bachelor of Music in Music Therapy Jazz Develop the foundation for helping aid and rehabilitate patients through music with a Bachelor of Music (BM) in Music Therapy Jazz from Temple's Boyer College of Music and Dance. This four-year, 130-credit undergraduate degree program provides a sequence of academic coursework and clinical training including a supervised post-academic clinical internship. Graduates of this degree program are prepared to apply for professional certification to practice music therapy in a variety of settings, including general hospitals, geriatric facilities, hospice programs, prisons, private practice, psychiatric facilities, rehabilitation centers, schools, and community settings. The Music Therapy Jazz program is fully accredited by the American Music Therapy Association. You’ll learn how jazz can assist with emotional and physical recovery in patients. In addition to fieldwork experience through supervised internships, program courses in applied music, music history, music theory and psychology emphasize clinical skills and musicianship. Music therapy classes focus on ethics, methods and research used in practice. Over four and a half years, you’ll become eligible to take the national examination of the Certification Board for Music Therapists and subsequently qualify for certification. Explore Boyer Faculty Faculty Discover music therapy faculty in the Boyer College of Music and Dance. Explore Boyer Faculty See faculty members in Boyer music therapy degree programs. Classes & Curriculum Music therapy classes focus on ethics, methods and research used in practice. Your curriculum will cover four core areas: general education studies, music, clinical studies and music therapy. Courses include Developmental Music Therapy, Jazz Secondary Piano, Music Therapy Research and Psychiatric Music Therapy. Learn more about required courses for the Bachelor of Music in Music Therapy / Jazz. Related Graduate Degrees Music Technology MS Music Therapy MMT Music Therapy/Equivalency MMT Music Therapy PhD Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, the Bachelor of Music offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. Learn more about our tuition and fees. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $19,032.00 per year Out-of-state: $33,408.00 per year Our Academic Advisors The Center for the Performing and Cinematic Arts has a centralized advising office with five staff members. This advising team serves all undergraduate students in the Boyer School of Music and Dance and the School of Theater, Film and Media Arts. Advisors help students navigate the undergraduate curriculum for each degree program. The academic advising team for Music, Dance, Theater, and Film and Media Arts majors is located in Mitten Hall, Suite 200 West. To schedule an advising appointment based on your individual needs or for more help, contact the advising team. Phone: 215-204-8301 Schedule an advising appointment. Program Contact Helen Shoemark is the coordinator of the Undergraduate Music Therapy Program. Phone: 215-204-8311 Email: helen.shoemark@temple.edu Darlene Brooks is the director of the Music Therapy Program. Phone: 215-204-8340 Email: darlene.brooks@temple.edu Alison Reynolds is the chair of the Department of Music Education and Therapy. Phone: 215-204-1660 Email: alison.reynolds@temple.edu Student Clubs & Organizations Participating in student groups provides peer support and future professional contacts. There are more than 200 student organizations at Temple University. Music Therapy Club raises money for charity organizations and performs community service projects. The club also raises funds to send students to the American Music Therapy Association Mid-Atlantic Conference. National Association for Music Education is a conservatory chapter of the national organization of music educators. Semester activities include creating projects, presenting guest speakers and workshops, attending the PMEA All-State conference, participating in outreach activities, and learning to use various online music education resources. OwlCappella is a coed a cappella group—one of seven student-run a cappella ensembles on campus—that provides a musical outlet for non-music and music majors alike. Learn more about clubs and organizations. Study Away Conservatorium van Amsterdam Jazz students can exchange places with a student from the Netherlands and study at the Conservatorium van Amsterdam. While conservatory students study at Temple, immerse yourself for a semester or academic year in a historical city and at an institution that is more than 130 years old. Accreditation The Boyer College of Music and Dance is accredited by the American Music Therapy Association, National Association of Schools of Music, National Association of Schools of Dance and Pennsylvania Department of Education. Concentrations You can focus on Music Therapy Jazz or you can take one of the following concentrations. Bassoon Cello Clarinet Double Bass Euphonium Flute French Horn Guitar Oboe Percussion Piano Saxophone Trombone Trumpet Tuba Viola Violin Voice BC-MTHJ-BMUS Additional Program Information School/College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Music Therapy Jazz Major Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Ensembles & Performance Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Undergraduate Audition Requirements Apply Visit Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Visit Request More Info