Skip to main content Navigation Academics Admissions Research Locations Student Life Alumni & Giving Athletics Apply Now Hospitality Management (PhD) Request Info Program at a Glance Program Doctorate College(s) Rosen College of Hospitality Management Department(s) Dean's Office HSPMG In State Tuition Out of State Tuition $369.65 per credit hour $1,194.05 per credit hour Learn more about program tuition and fees. The PhD in Hospitality Management prepares individuals for teaching and research-based careers in academia or as practitioner researchers and field consultants in hospitality and tourism enterprises. Request Information View Full Description Application Deadlines Domestic International Fall February 1 Fall January 15 Ready to get started? Apply Today Career Opportunities UCF prepares you for life beyond the classroom. Here, you’ll experience a wide range of opportunity, like learning diverse skills from world-renowned faculty to networking with top employers across Central Florida to gaining first-hand experience in internships nearby. Achieve your degree and more as a Knight. Banquet Director Banquet Manager Bed and Breakfast Innkeeper Boardinghouse Keeper Cafeteria Director Food Service Director Food Service Manager Food and Beverage Manager Hotel Director Hotel Manager Hotel Operations Manager Innkeeper Lodging Facilities Manager Restaurant General Manager Tavern Operator Show More Career Opportunities Degree Search Rosen College of Hospitality Management programs Doctorates Hospitality Management (PhD) University of Central Florida Colleges Burnett Honors Arts and Humanities Business Community Innovation and Education Engineering and Computer Science Graduate Studies Health Professions and Sciences Medicine Nursing Optics and Photonics Sciences Undergraduate Studies Request Information × Enter your information below to receive more information about the Hospitality Management (PhD) program offered at UCF. Loading... × The PhD in Hospitality Management prepares individuals for teaching and research-based careers in academia or as practitioner researchers and field consultants in hospitality and tourism enterprises. Program Prerequisites Applicants to this program must have an earned Masters Degree. The total credit hours to complete this program are beyond the masters. Degree Requirements Required Courses 16 Total Credits Core Courses Complete all of the following Complete the following: HMG7587 - Foundations in Hospitality and Tourism Research (3) HMG7589 - Advanced Research Methods in Hospitality and Tourism (3) HMG7588 - Research Seminar in Hospitality and Tourism (1) PAF7804 - Advanced Statistics for Public Affairs I: Multivariate Analysis (3) HMG7295 - Theories in Hospitality and Tourism (3) Complete at least 1 of the following: PAF7802 - Advanced Research Methodology for Public Affairs (3) HMG6586 - Research Methods in Hospitality and Tourism (3) Specialization 27 Total Credits Complete all of the following Strategies and Tactics Complete at least 2 of the following: HMG7258 - Strategies and Tactics: Lodging (3) HMG7546 - Strategies and Tactics: Guest Service Management (3) HMG7715 - Strategies and Tactics: Travel and Tourism (3) HMG7876 - Strategies and Tactics: Foodservice (3) Research Electives Earn at least 9 credits from the following: HMG6918 - Directed Research (1 - 99) PAF7805 - Advanced Statistics for Public Affairs II: Survey of Statistical Methods (3) PAF7820 - Qualitative Methods for Public Affairs (3) EDF7475 - Qualitative Research in Education (3) EDF7463 - Analysis of Survey, Record, and Other Qualitative Data (3) EDF7406 - Multivariate Statistics in Education (3) 6000/7000 Level Electives Earn at least 12 credits from the following: FSS6365 - Management of Food Service Operations (3) HMG6227 - Advanced Training and Development in the Hospitality Industry (3) HMG6228 - Critical Issues in Hospitality Human Resources (3) HMG6245 - Managing Hospitality and Guest Services Organizations (3) HMG6251 - The Management of Lodging Operations (3) HMG6267 - Case Studies in Restaurant Management (3) HMG6296 - Hospitality/Tourism Strategic Issues (3) HMG6347 - Contemporary Issues in the Resort Industry (3) HMG6446 - Hospitality/Tourism Information Technology (3) HMG6466 - Applied Revenue Management Techniques in Hospitality (3) HMG6476 - Feasibility Studies for the Hospitality/Tourism Enterprises (3) HMG6477 - Financial Analysis of Hospitality Enterprises (3) HMG6528 - Convention and Conference Sales and Services (3) HMG6529 - Contemporary Issues in Resort Sales Management (3) HMG6533 - Hospitality/Tourism Industry Brand Management (3) HMG6556 - Digital Marketing and Big Data Management for Hospitality and Tourism (3) HMG6565 - Social Media in Hospitality and Tourism (3) HMG6566 - Principles of Destination Marketing and Management (3) HMG6585 - Data Analysis in Hospitality and Tourism Research (3) HMG6596 - Strategic Marketing in Hospitality and Tourism (3) HMG6710 - International Tourism Management (3) HMG6738 - Tourism Industry Analysis (3) HMG6756 - Mega-Events (3) HMG6797 - Event Administration (3) At least 6 credit hours should be from HMG 7XXX level courses. Course selection should be based on the student's area of interest in consultation with the major adviser and approved by the PhD Program Coordinator. Dissertation 15 Total Credits Complete all of the following Earn at least 15 credits from the following: HMG7980 - Dissertation (1 - 99) Doctoral students must present a prospectus for the dissertation to the doctoral adviser, prepare a proposal and present it to the dissertation committee, and defend the final research submission with the dissertation committee. Grand Total Credits: 58 Application Requirements For information on general UCF graduate admissions requirements that apply to all prospective students, please visit the Admissions section of the Graduate Catalog. Applicants must apply online. All requested materials must be submitted by the established deadline. In addition to the general UCF graduate application requirements, applicants to this program must provide: One official transcript (in a sealed envelope) from each college/university attended. A master's degree in a closely related field. Official, competitive GRE or GMAT score taken within the last five years. Three letters of recommendation. Goal statement (This is your opportunity to outline in 500 words why you wish to come to the program, what you think you will contribute to the program and how you feel the program will enhance you both personally and professionally). Résumé Applicants applying to this program who have attended a college/university outside the United States must provide a course-by-course credential evaluation with GPA calculation. Credential evaluations are accepted from World Education Services (WES) or Josef Silny and Associates, Inc. only. Application Deadlines Hospitality Management PhD *Fall Priority Fall Spring Summer Domestic Applicants Jan 15 Feb 1 International Applicants Jan 15 Jan 15 *Applicants who plan to enroll full time in a degree program and who wish to be considered for university fellowships or assistantships should apply by the Fall Priority date. Financial Information Graduate students may receive financial assistance through fellowships, assistantships, tuition support, or loans. For more information, see the College of Graduate Studies Funding website, which describes the types of financial assistance available at UCF and provides general guidance in planning your graduate finances. The Financial Information section of the Graduate Catalog is another key resource. Fellowship Information Fellowships are awarded based on academic merit to highly qualified students. They are paid to students through the Office of Student Financial Assistance, based on instructions provided by the College of Graduate Studies. Fellowships are given to support a student's graduate study and do not have a work obligation. For more information, see UCF Graduate Fellowships, which includes descriptions of university fellowships and what you should do to be considered for a fellowship. University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida