Skip to main content Toggle navigation Search Global dropdown menu Research Support Subject Librarians Reach out to a librarian for specialized help in a discipline. Library Catalog Find books, audio and video, music scores, maps and more. Research Guides Use the best resources we have, picked by librarians. Databases There's a wealth of information to be found through our database subscriptions. Collections Print and digital collections serve as extensions of our teaching and research facilities. Research Services We're available throughout all stages of your research. Quick Links Library Search JSTOR PubMed Make an Appointment Newspapers Journals Collections Program Borrow & Renew Library Catalog Find books, audio and video, music scores, maps and more in the catalog. Borrowing & Requesting Learn how to borrow materials at Dartmouth and from other libraries via BorrowDirect or DartDoc. Tech Loans We've got everything from chargers to a professional portable recording studio. Alumni Access and Resources How to access resources, on and off-campus. Media Discover an extensive range of movies, television series, documentaries, educational programs, audio and more. Off-Campus Access Students, staff, and faculty can access most of our electronic resources off-campus. Quick Links BorrowDirect DartDoc Course Reserves for Faculty Course Reserves for Students Libraries & Spaces Study and Meeting Spaces Book a meeting room for a group or sign up to use a private study room. Hours and Locations Our hours, holiday closings, street addresses and contact information. Baker-Berry Library Our main library houses the humanities, mathematics, music, physical sciences and social sciences collections Biomedical Libraries The Dana and Matthews-Fuller libraries support the disciplines of health and life sciences. Evans Map Room Houses thousands of sheet maps, mapping software, atlases, globes & more. Feldberg Business & Engineering Library Offers support for the Tuck School of Business & Thayer School of Engineering. Jones Media Center Provides facilities & collections for researching, viewing & producing media. Rauner Special Collections Library Includes rare books, manuscripts & more. Sherman Art Library Supports the departments of Art History, Studio Art, as well as the Hood Museum of Art. About Us Hours and Locations Events Latest News Privacy Policy Dean’s Council for Equity and Inclusion Strategic Objectives Visiting & Exhibits Help Library Search Learn about signing into your account, search options and tips, getting to resources and working with citations. Research Support We're committed to partnering with you to enhance and showcase your research. Publishing Support We provide consultation focusing on opportunities in digital publishing and scholarship. Subject Librarians We have a subject librarian for your major who wants to help! Teaching Support We have librarians who specializes in your subject area and can support your students’ learning. Workshops & Events We offer a variety of events to assist you in developing skills ranging from research to programming. Quick Links Contact Us FAQs Off-Campus Access Send Us Feedback Staff Directory Login Students, Faculty & Staff DHMC & Guests Alumni BorrowDirect DartDoc Search Global dropdown menu Research Support Borrow & Renew Libraries & Spaces Help Login Students, Faculty & Staff DHMC & Guests Alumni BorrowDirect DartDoc Dean's Council for Equity and Inclusion Charge The Dean’s Council for Equity and Inclusion (DCEI) develops and implements equity, diversity, inclusion, and accessibility (EDIA) initiatives in the library. The DCEI recognizes that this work requires both individual effort towards greater understanding of the issues and systemic barriers faced by Black, Indigenous, and people of color, and also a high-level commitment to change the policies and structures that may perpetuate inequities or exclusion. As education without action will be frustrating and action without education will be ineffective, the DCEI has four primary goals: Propose recommendations and solutions for equity, diversity, inclusion, and access issues that arise within the Library Foster a culture of learning, curiosity, and growth in topics related to equity, diversity, inclusion, and accessibility; curate resources, organize trainings, discussions, and other events for employees across the Dartmouth Library system Partner with Dean Mehrer and the Library Leadership Team (LLT) to advance the Library’s goals related to equity, diversity, inclusion, and accessibility Develop methods to assess the library’s organizational culture with respect to equity, diversity, inclusion and accessibility, and track progress over time. News & Events EDI Reading Group The Dartmouth Library EDI Reading Group is open to all Dartmouth Library employees. Meetings are for one hour approximately every three weeks. For past topics and materials, see this list. For meeting details or more information about the group, contact Stephen Krueger, Myranda Fuentes, or Jill Baron. Working Groups Culture and Practices The Culture and Practices subgroup of the DCEI is intended to work on policy recommendations relating to issues of equity, diversity, inclusivity, and accessibility. The work of the subgroup is to understand where the Library and the College currently stand on these issues, and find ways to advocate for improvements. The group's work is aimed at finding concrete actions that the Library and library staff can take to ensure that we hire and retain a diverse set of people to work at the library. This work is necessary in order to push back against the tendency of most institutions to perpetuate systemic injustices (racism, sexism, classism, ableism and many more). Outreach The Outreach subgroup communicates information about the DCEI's work inside and outside the library. It also supports other EDI-related outreach to Dartmouth Library patrons and employees. Spaces The DCEI spaces subgroup is working to audit the Library’s physical and digital spaces, identify areas that could be improved, and make recommendations based on EDI considerations. Elections The Elections subgroup coordinates nominations and voting for new members of the DCEI. Special Projects: EDI History This is a project to research the history of diversity initiatives in the Dartmouth Library using the records of Rauner Special Collections Library and consultation with other library staff. The project's main purpose is to take stock of the work towards diversity and inclusion that has been done previously, how that work was accomplished (e.g., self-started or institution-mandated), and (if possible) why former committees disbanded or suspended their EDI work. Contact Us If you would like to bring an issue relating to equity, diversity, or inclusion to our attention, please contact us through email our our anonymous feedback form. Email: library.dean's.council.for.equity.and.inclusion@dartmouth.edu Anonymous feedback form Campus Resources Office of Institutional Diversity and Equity Office of Pluralism and Leadership Office of Human Resources Employee Accessibility Resources Employee Resource Networks (including the Black Caucus, LGBTQIA+ Employee Network, and Asian and Pacific Islander Caucus) Historical Accountability Student Research Program Dartmouth Library Baker-Berry Library Book Arts Workshop Evans Map Room Jones Media Center Biomedical Libraries Feldberg Business & Engineering Library Rauner Special Collections Library Records Management Sherman Art Library About Us Strategic Objectives Staff & Departments Subject Librarians Alumni Services Visiting & History Accessibility Library Catalog Careers Friends of the Library More About Us Contact Us 25 North Main Street Hanover, NH, USA 03755 Phone: 603-646-2567 Contact Us Give Us Feedback Connect with Us Facebook Instagram YouTube Footer copyright Dartmouth Copyright © 2020 Trustees of Dartmouth College Privacy