Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Public Safety Public Safety right arrow down arrow About right arrow down arrow Contact Us FAQ Executive Team Newsroom right arrow down arrow Blog Posts Safety and Reform News Media Department Policies Safety Services right arrow down arrow Access Control & Physical Security Automated External Defibrillators Background Checks / Finger Prints right arrow down arrow FAQ Bicycle Registration Bearcat Guardian Crime Prevention right arrow down arrow Preventing theft from auto and auto theft Preventing theft and burglary Online and phone scams Housing Rental Scams Keys & Badges Lost & Found Mind What Matters NightRide Special Events right arrow down arrow Event Security Cost Estimate Special Events FAQ Be A Good Neighbor Police right arrow down arrow 911 Communications Leadership Community Engagement Team Crime Statistics Job Shadowing Mission, Vision and Values Bias Free Policing and Contact Cards Records and Reports Recruitment Victim Services right arrow down arrow What Are My Options? Harassment, Stalking and Dating Violence Sex Crimes K-9 Unit Request for Investigation University Threat Assessment Group Reform right arrow down arrow Board of Trustees' Resolution Community Compliance Council right arrow down arrow Meetings, Minutes and Materials Guiding Principles Values Members Resources External Reports and Voluntary Monitorship Clery Act right arrow down arrow Clery Notices Daily Crime Log Campus Security Authorities Annual Security Report Fire Prevention and Protection Units right arrow down arrow Fire Extinguisher Training Fire Drills and Smoke Detectors Areas of Rescue Assistance Fire Log Fire Alarm Construction Standards Emergency Management right arrow down arrow Emergency Procedures Safety Notifications Emergency Plans Bearcat Notifications Home » About UC » Public Safety » About » Newsroom » Safety and Reform News Set Navigation title in component Contact Us FAQ Executive Team Newsroom Blog Posts Safety and Reform News Media Department Policies Reform News Events following the July 19, 2015 shooting death of Samuel DuBose by former UC Police Officer Ray Tensing, as well as subsequent actions taken by the university, have been widely covered by news media. The university is providing all legally allowable information to the public. University leaders have met with students, members of the wider community, and family members of Mr. Samuel DuBose. Below is an archive of news and information. 2017 January Jan. 17, 2017 - Leadership Provides UCPD Reform Update to Cincinnati City Council's Law & Public Safety Committee Presentation: Law & Public Safety Committee (Jan. 17, 2017) Media Coverage: WVXU - Crime Declines Around UC Campus; Fewer Citations And Arrests 2016 October Oct. 10, 2016 - How has UCPD changed since DuBose shooting? Media Coverage: Cincinnati.com - How has UCPD changed since DuBose shooting? Oct. 19, 2016 - UC Office of Safety and Reform Hosts Community Breakfast to Update Community Leaders About Reform Efforts of UCPD Media Coverage: WLWT - UC discusses changes to policing at forum WVXU - UC To Hire Police Department Monitor WXIX - Here's how UCPD has changed since DuBose shooting Channel 12 - University of Cincinnati hosts community breakfast Oct. 21, 2016 - UC Hires Exiger to Serve as Indepentent External Monitor Press Release: In Unprecedented Move, UC Board Approves Policy on Policing Standards; Hires Independent Monitor to Oversee Police Reforms Media Coverage: Cincinnati.com - UC hires outside monitor for its police force PR Newswire.com - Exiger Chosen as the Independent Monitor Of the University of Cincinnati Police Department MySA - University hires monitor for police reform after fatal stop Harold-Review.com - University hires monitor for police reform after fatal stop (No longer available online) September Sept. 16, 2016 UC Issues Request for Proposals (RFP) for External Monitor to Oversee Implementation of UCPD Reform. Press Release: UC Issues RFP for Independent Monitor to Assess Implementation of Police Department Reforms Media Coverage: CH 5: University of Cincinnati begins accepting proposals for external monitor (No longer available online) News Record: UCPD seeks reform monitor to pursue change after DuBose shooting Cincinnati.com: Third independent agency sought by UC after DuBose shooting July July 30, 2016 - UC Hosts 10th Annual Peace Bowl Press Release: UC Helps Cincinnati Youth Tackle More Than Football Media coverage: Peace Bowl at UC About More Than Just Football Football Tournament Brings Community Together July 19, 2016 - Interfaith Community Holds Unity Vigil on One Year Anniversary of Samuel DuBose's Death Media Coverage: Vigil called for community and nation to create change through unity Prayer vigil offers healing on year anniversary of Sam DuBose's death June June 7, 2016 - University of Cincinnati Releases Exiger Final Report Following Comprehensive Review of UC Police Press Release: UC Releases Comprehensive Report of University Police Department Media Coverage: Local 12 - UC Releases Review and Recommendations for its Police Department Fox 19 - UCPD Review - Bring Back Tasers, Limit Traffic and Pedestrian Stops WLWT - Independent Review: UCPD Fell Short of Best Practices WCPO - UCPD Review: Increase Diversity, Consider Bringing Back Tasers (No longer available online) WVXU - External Report Makes Reform Recommendations for UC Police Associated Press: Consultant Recommends Reforms for UC Police (No longer available online) June 2, 2016 - UC Announces New Chief of Police, Assistant Chief of Police Press Release: UC Public Safety Announces New Police Chief, Assistant Chief Media Coverage: Cincinnati.com - UC names new top cop, assistant chief Cincinnati.com - New UC police chief named WCPO - University of Cincinnati names new police chief, assistant chief Local 12 - University of Cincinnati chooses new police chief, assistant chief WLWT - Meet UC's new police chief, assistant chief WVXU - UC Names New Police Chief, Assistant Chief May May 29, 2016 - Dr. Robin S. Engel, Vice President for the Office of Safety and Reform, Appears on 12WKRC's Newsmakers with Dan Hurley Media Coverage: Local 12 - Newsmakers: May 29, 2016 May 24, 2016 - Open Forum: UCPD Chief of Police Candidate, 4-5 p.m., 417 ABC Tangeman University Center (TUC) May 24, 2016 - Open Forum: UCPD Assistant Chief of Police Candidate, 11:15 a.m.-12:15 p.m., 400C Tangeman University Center (TUC) May 24, 2016 - Students, faculty and staff are encouraged to meet with EXIGER UC Statement: June 7 Community Forum to Provide Update Regarding Reform Efforts of UC Police May 23, 2016 - Open Forum: UCPD Assistant Chief of Police Candidate, 4-5 May 23, 2016 - Open Forum: UCPD Chief of Police Candidate, 10-11 a.m., 407 Teachers College May 19, 2016 - Community Encouraged to Meet Finalists Vying for Police Chief and Assistant Police Chief positions Press Release: UC Community Encouraged to Meet Finalists for Police Chief, Assistant Police Chief Positions Media Coverage: Fox 19 - Public can weigh in on UCPD police chief, assistant chief search May 3, 2016 - UC Seeks Community Input Regarding Future Leadership of UC Public Safety Media Coverage: Cincinnati.com - UC Wants Community Input in Hiring Police Chief April April 25, 2016 - Presentation to City Council's Law & Public Safety Committee. UC Safety and Reform Presentation April 24, 2016 - Public Safety Director Jim Whalen Appears on 12WKRC's Newsmakers with Dan Hurley. Media Coverage: Local 12 - Newsmakers: April 24, 2016 April 12, 2016 - The university is searching for a diverse pool of highly-qualified candidates that reflects communities that UC Police serves Press Release: UC Launches Search for New Chief of Police, Assistant Chief of Police March March 16, 2016 - "Policing and Protecting Black Lives in the 21st Century"€ Lecture from UC alumna and Stanford University faculty member Jennifer Eberhardt Press Release: UC Alum, Stanford Professor Talks Race and Policing At April 7 Lecture March 2, 2016 - The UC community was invited to meet EXIGER, the external consulting team hired to conduct a comprehensive review of UCPD, and share thoughts and perspectives regarding UC Police. Press Release: UC Police Reform Focus of March 2 Community Forum March 2nd Community Forum Video February Feb 12, 2016 - EXIGER will be part of a community forum at 6:30 p.m., Monday, Feb. 15 in the Gwen L. Robinson Conference Hall at the Cincinnati-Hamilton County Community Action Media Coverage: Cincinnati.com - UC hosts policing forum Monday night EXIGER Team Bios Feb. 3, 2016 - In consultation with Community Advisory Council, UC selects Exiger to conduct comprehensive review of university police. Press Release: UC Selects Exiger to Conduct Comprehensive Review of UC Police January Jan. 18, 2016 - Settlement Between DuBose Family and University Media Coverage: The New York Times - University of Cincinnati to Pay $4.85 Million to Family of Man Killed by Officer Associated Press - Family, University Reach $5.3 Million Deal in Cincinnati Traffic Stop Death Chicago Tribune - Samuel DuBose's Family, University of Cincinnati Reach $5.3 Million Deal in Traffic Stop Death Christian Science Monitor - University of Cincinnati Pays Family $5.3 Million After Cop Shoots Black Man WKRC - University of Cincinnati Settles $5.3 Million for DuBose Family Over Traffic Stop Death WLWT - University of Cincinnati, Family of Sam DuBose Reach Settlement The Cincinnati Enquirer: UC, Sam DuBose Family Reach Settlement DuBose Sister: Settlement Not About Money UC's Decision to Mediate Came from the Top WCPO.com - Family of Samuel DuBose Settles with UC (No longer available online) Jan. 27, 2016 - UC Holds Form on Policing and Race Media Coverage: UC forum to examine where policing meets race 2015 December Dec. 17, 2015 - Year-end update on safety and reform efforts at the Univeresity of Cincinnati Police Department (UCPD) Year-end Update Email Dec. 8, 2015 - Robin Engel, vice president for safety and reform, and S. Gregory Baker, director of police-community relations, provide and update to the community. Media Coverage: WLWT - UC Holds Community Meeting to Talk Police Reform WVXU - Diversity Work and Discussion Continue at UC November Nov. 19, 2015 - UC Issues Request for Proposals to Conduct Top-to-Bottom Police Department Review Press Release: UC issued a request for proposals (RFP) seeking a top-to-bottom review of its police department and the department's policies, procedures and practices Nov. 9, 2015 - UC and City Leaders Present to Cincinnati City Council's Law and Public Safety Committee Press Release: UC and City Leaders Present to Cincinnati City Council's Law and Public Safety Committee, Give Joint Statement on Development of Policing MOU Media Coverage: WCPO.com - UC and CPD: 'Memorandum of Understanding' should be completed by spring (No longer available online) WVXU.com - Cincinnati/UC Still Working on Revamped Off-Campus Policing Agreement WLWT.com - Racial Concerns Lead to Overhaul of UC's Police Department Cincinnati Enquirer - Include Frats, Sororities in UC Police Review October Oct. 27, 2015 - UC establishes Safety and Reform Community Advisory Council. Press Release: UC Establishes Safety and Reform Community Advisory Council Media Coverage: Cincinnati Enquirer: UC Police Reform Council Holds First Meeting New UC Council Has Large Responsibility Following DuBose Shooting WLWT - UC Working to Better Police Department Following Officer-Involved Shooting Fox 19 - UC's Safety and Reform Community Advisory Council Meets for the First Time Sun Times - UC's Safety and Reform Community Advisory Council Meets for the First Time (No longer available online) The News Record - Cincinnati Community Members Gather for First Community Advisory Council Oct. 22, 2015 - UC upgrades nearly 400 lights surrounding Uptown campus as part of an ongoing plan to improve campus and community safety Press Release: Phase II Lighting Improvements Around UC's Uptown Campus Underway Oct. 8, 2015 - Visiting scholar Lorie Fridell will give a presentation on "Fair and Impartial Policing" on Monday, Oct. 12 from 7-9 p.m. Press Release: Oct. 12 Presentation Focuses on Fair, Impartial Policing Media Coverage: The Science of Bias Policing, Training on Implicit Bias Offered at UC Video excerpt of public presentation on training related on fair, impartial policing Oct. 6, 2015 - Irate8 Syllabus Irate8 Syllabus, crowd-sourced syllabus by faculty at the University of Cincinnati September Sept. 21, 2015 - Launch of Sam DuBose Week at UC Media Coverage: WLWT - Organizers of the Irate8 launch Sam DuBose Week at UC Video from opening forum of Sam DuBose Week Video from Sept. 24 forum held during Sam DuBose Week Sept. 18, 2015 - University of Cincinnati revising policies following officer-involved shooting near campus Media Coverage: University Business Magazine - Researcher brings credibility to campus police reform Sept. 11, 2015 - UC released an independent report by Kroll Inc. of the July 19 Officer-Involved Shooting Kroll Inc. Report Press Release: UC Releases Independent Investigative Report on July 19 Officer-Involved Shooting Media Coverage: WLWT UC News Conference on Sam DuBose Shooting Report Tensing Made Critical Errors in Judgment Before Shooting DuBose, Report Says WKRC - Outside Report Issued on Fatal Shooting by UC Police Officer WVWU.com - UC Releases External Report on DuBose Shooting WCPO.com - UC Independent Investigation Decries Fatal Shooting of Sam DuBose by Officer Ray Tensing (No longer available online) Cincinnati Enquirer Unvarnished Review Will Improve UCPD Sam DuBose Shooting Entirely Preventable The News Record - Kroll Inc. Releases DuBose Report August Aug. 27, 2015 - College-Conservatory of Music Perform in the Draw exhibit space Performance Video Aug. 24, 2015 - Local 12 interview on safety with students and with Robin Engel, vice president for safety and reform Media Coverage: First day of classes at UC; officials work to keep a safe campus Aug. 18, 2015 - Listen as UC's Robin Engel, new VP for Safety and Reform, and S. Gregory Baker, incoming director of Police Community Relations Media Coverage: The Reform Of The University Of Cincinnati Police Department Aug. 14, 2015 - UC Police will resume off-campus patrols in accordance with Cincinnati City Council's most recent actions, which restrict proactive traffic enforcement Press Release: UC Police to Implement Interim Patrol Plan Aug. 13, 2015 - Aug. 18 panel presentation and community discussion by UC's College of Law will examine "Law, Democracy, and the Struggle for Criminal Justice Reform" Press Release: College of Law Program Examines Struggle for Criminal Justice Reform Aug. 10, 2015 - Press Conference with with new Director of Public Safety and new Director of Police Community Relations Press Release: UC Makes New Appointments to Focus on Police Reform and Community Relations Media Coverage: WKRC For Safety and Reform: Police Reform at UC UC Introduces Team Promising Change in Policing WCPO - University of Cincinnati Makes Major Department of Public Safety Changes (No longer available online) WLWT - UC Discusses New Public Safety Changes after Fatal Traffic Stop WVWX - UC Creating Collaborative Policing Plan Aug. 9, 2015 - Community's rose memorial placed on campus. Media Coverage: WCPO - Family, Friends and Strangers Honor Sam DuBose with 6,000 Roses on UC's Campus (No longer available online) WLWT - Memorial of Roses Created on UC Campus to Honor Sam DuBose Cincinnati Enquirer - Samuel DuBose Rose Memorial Placed on UC Campus WKRC - Yoga Vigil, Rose Ceremony Held for Sam DuBose Aug. 7, 2015 - Leadership appointments to focus on police reform efforts and community relations Public Safety Document Media Coverage: Business Courier - UC makes two more appointments in response to police shooting Aug. 6, 2015 - UC Announces Key Leadership Appointments UC Announces Key Leadership Appointments Aug. 5, 2015 - Time-Lapse View of Installation of "Drawn" Installation Time-Laspe Video UC Statement: UC Statement on Today's City Council Ordinance Aug. 4, 2015 - Robin Engel, an internationally respected criminal justice researcher and professor, named UC's New VP for Safety and Reform Press Release: Internationally Respected Criminal Justice Researcher Named UC's New VP for Safety and Reform First Day on the Job Media Coverage: Cincinnati Enquirer New UC VP Faces Big Job: Reform Campus Cops In Wake of DuBose Shooting, UC Appoints VP to Head Safety, Police Reform WKRC.com - UC Announces Hiring of New VP for Safety Reform Associated Press - University Creates Role to Oversee Efforts Its Police Reform Efforts (No longer available online) WLWT - UC Creates New VP for Safety and Reform Position after Fatal Shooting WCPO.com - University of Cincinnati Creates Vice President for Safety and Reform (No longer available online) Fox 19 - Police Shooting Prompts New Safety VP at UC MSNBC - University of Cincinnati Takes Step Toward Police Reform Reuters/Yahoo.com - University Creates Safety Post after Fatal Shooting CBS News - University of Cincinnati Names Appointee to Head PD Investigations Aug. 3, 2015 - Meyers Gallery in the heart of MainStreet will serve as an interactive communal space to promote understanding and encourage dialogue among all members of our community Press Release: Meyers Gallery on UC's MainStreet Serves as Space for Community to Gather and Engage Aug. 2, 2015 - UCPD Release a FAQ about the Department and about the July 19 Officer-Involved Shooting FAQ: University of Cincinnati Police FAQ: July 19 Officer Involved Shooting July July 31, 2015 - Update on Community Safety E-Mail: Jason Goodrich, UC Chief of Police and Director of Public Safety University of Cincinnati Hires Kroll, Inc., for Internal Review of Officer-Involved Shooting UCPD Traffic Stop Summary July 30, 2015 - Interview with University President about July 19th Shooting Media Coverage: WKRC: University President Says UC Police Will Not Be Disbanded WLWT: Extended Interview: Santa Ono on UC Campus Safety July 29, 2015 - University Closure on July 29 Email: Update on Shooting: Officer Tensing Dismissed UC Closes Uptown Campus UCMC & All Clinics Open for Business University to Resume Normal Operations Youth Camp Pickup Information - 7/29/15 UC Statement: University Spokesperson's Statement on UC's Closing on July 29 Media Coverage: Body cam video: Fatal shooting of Sam DuBose - VIEWER DISCRETION ADVISED July 27, 2015 - UC's President and several members of the university leadership team met with the City Manager's Advisory Group Press Release: President Ono's Statement on Meeting with City Manager's Advisory Group Media Coverage: University of Cincinnati Police get same training as all other Ohio officers (No longer available online) July 26, 2015 - Demonstration on University's campus Email: Demonstration Email from C. Jason Goodrich, Director of Public Safety, Chief of Police July 24, 2015 - UC President Santa Ono releases a statement concerning changes to UC Police patrols Email: President Ono's Statement UC Statement: President Ono's Statement on UC Patrol Changes July 23, 2015 - UC patrol changes have been made following the officer-involved shooting on July 19 Press Release: UC Police Patrol Changes Announced Following Officer-Involved Shooting Emergency Communications Radio Traffic: 911 calls related to July 19 shooting UC Dispatch: Radio traffic related to July 19 shooting (audio and text) Timeline: Computer-Aided UC Dispatch timeline University of Cincinnati Police Report: Report on July 19 Shooting July 22, 2015 - UC's President met with Cincinnati Mayor John Cranley to discuss the July 19 officer-involved shooting Email: Update on Officer-Involved Shooting Press Release: President Ono Meets with Mayor, Holds News Conference Media Coverage: UC President Santa Ono, Mayor John Cranley hold news conference July 21, 2015 - UC Police Chief Jason Goodrich meets with students and members of the community. UC Statement: President Santa J. Ono's Statement July 20, 2015 - UC Press Conference on the Cincinnati Police Department Investigation UC Memorandum of Understanding with Cincinnati Police Department Media Coverage: Raw: Officials discuss events leading up to UC officer-involved fatal shooting July 19, 2015 - UC Public Safety E-Mail to UC Community Email: July 19th Shooting Department of Public Safety 51 West Corry Boulevard Cincinnati, OH 45221-0215 Main Number: 513-556-4900 Background Checks, Keys and IDs: 513-556-4925 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Department of Public Safety 51 West Corry Boulevard Cincinnati, OH 45221-0215 Main Number: 513-556-4900 Background Checks, Keys and IDs: 513-556-4925 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top