COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW HLC Accreditation FAQs Section Menu HLC Accreditation Home Accreditation FAQ Specialty Accreditation Assessment Faculty Senate Higher Learning Commission Open Pathway Overview Kansas Board of Regents Performance Agreement Program Review WSU / WATC Affiliation University Mission and Values Academic Affairs Home Accreditation FAQ's What is the Higher Learning Commission (HLC)? The Higher Learning Commission (HLC) is responsible for the accreditation of colleges, universities and other institutions of higher learning. The HLC is one of six regional associations that accredit schools and colleges in the United States. The other five are the Middle States, New England, Northwest, Southern and Western Associations. Although most of the colleges and universities that the HLC accredits are in the upper Midwest, its geographical range extends from West Virginia to Arizona. What is HLC accreditation? While many academic agencies accredit particular programs of study (education, engineering, and physician assistant, etc.), the Higher Learning Commission and other regional accrediting agencies are responsible for assuring that colleges and universities meet certain standards in terms of their missions, operations, and activities in teaching and student learning, discovery and promotion of knowledge, and service. Accreditation is an assurance to the public that an institution is properly prepared to do its job. On a more practical level, the HLC and the other accrediting agencies have been designated as the "gatekeepers" for federal funds in higher education including financial aid. Unaccredited schools are not eligible for many kinds of federal support. For more information, see http://www.hlcommission.org. What does the HLC look for when it accredits colleges and universities? The HLC has adopted five criteria areas to evaluate colleges and universities: Mission Integrity: Ethical and Responsible Conduct Teaching and Learning: Quality, Resources, and Support Teaching and Learning: Evaluation and Improvement Resources, Planning, and Institutional Effectiveness When is Wichita State's next accreditation site visit? Wichita State successfully completed its most recent accreditation evaluation in 2016. The next comprehensive evaluation is scheduled for 2026-2027. 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©