Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Explore Brown University Search Global Navigation Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Brown Real Estate Home Auxiliary Housing Undergraduate Student Housing Graduate Student Housing Visiting Scholar Housing Off Campus Housing Service Relocation Assistance Organizational Chart Contact Us Brown to Brown Program Properties Program Guidelines Eligibility and Allocation Appraisal Process Revised Purchase % Resources How to Express Interest Commercial About Us Directory Leadership Organizational chart Site Navigation Home Auxiliary Housing Undergraduate Student Housing Listings Forms Graduate Student Housing Listings Forms Visiting Scholar Housing Listings Forms Off Campus Housing Service Guide to Off-Campus Housing Forms Relocation Assistance Organizational Chart Contact Us Brown to Brown Program Properties Program Guidelines Eligibility and Allocation Appraisal Process Revised Purchase % Resources How to Express Interest Commercial Available Properties South Street Landing Contact Contact About Us Directory Leadership Organizational chart Leadership John Luipold, Vice President of Real Estate & Strategic Initiatives John oversees all aspects of the University’s real estate operations and provide leadership for the acquisition, development, disposal and management of Brown’s real estate holdings. He collaborates with other senior staff and appropriate committees to lead real estate plans in support of Brown’s mission and institutional master plan. John also works with senior and departmental leaders across the University to develop and implement strategies to increase the effectiveness and efficiency of the University’s operations and to improve alignment within and across departments. After experience with several Fortune 500 companies, John came to Brown as a Director of Real Estate in 2007 to specifically be part of a mission driven institution. He was promoted to Assistant Vice President in 2013 before assuming an interim leadership role in 2017 during the recent VP FM transition. John holds Bachelor’s and Master’s Degrees in Economics from Trinity College in Hartford, CT. John also earned a Master of Business Administration degree, graduating Summa Cum Laude, from IE Business School as part of the IE-Brown Executive MBA program. Lidia Pierce, Director, Strategy & Finance Lidia oversees the lease administration and property management activities related to Brown’s commercial real estate portfolio, Auxiliary Housing and the Haffenreffer Estate, located in Bristol, Rhode Island. She remains responsible for the financial management for all Real Estate's operations, as well as directing the technology and systems that are employed and deployed in the Real Estate Department. Lidia has been at been Brown since 2016. She holds a B.S. in Accounting from the University of Connecticut School of Business. Prior to joining Brown, Lidia served as Controller at two manufacturing firms in RI and was also previously employed by Hasbro, Inc. in various accounting and budgeting related roles. John Arzoomanian, Building Operations Manager John is responsible for the operations of over 200,000 square feet of Brown’s occupied area, which accommodates eleven internal departments. He oversees other Brown owned and leased buildings, working closely with their respective management teams to ensure that the operational standards of Brown are met. He also cultivates and supports all third party vendor relationships. John came to Brown with over 15 years of experience in commercial property management and a solid history of success, including oversight of multimillion-dollar properties. The job opportunity with Brown University was quite desirable as his late father, Leonard Arzoomanian, also worked for Brown for over 20 years. John, a retired Police Commander for the North Providence Police Department, has a Bachelor's Degree from Roger Williams University as well as his Massachusetts Real Estate License. He is an active member of BOMA. He began the role of Building Operations Manager in September 2017. Donn Hamilton, Transaction Manager Donn Hamilton is responsible for commercial real estate transactions, including the purchase, sale, and leasing of property throughout greater Providence. Donn has been working with Brown since 2017. Prior to 2017, Donn was employed by CVS Pharmacy as the Senior Real Estate Manager responsible for Surplus Real Estate Disposition and Subtenant Lease Administration. Donn and his team successfully completed 1,400 transactions during his tenor at CVS. Donn began his Commercial Real Estate career in 1997 as a Real Estate Manager at Brooks Pharmacy. Donn is an avid sailor and participates in numerous sailing regattas each year on Narragansett Bay and down the East Coast. Donn and his wife have two grown children and reside in Cumberland, RI. John Luipold Vice President of Real Estate & Strategic Initiatives Read full profile Lidia Pierce Read full profile About Us Directory Leadership Organizational chart Real Estate Office Main Office: Brown University, 350 Eddy Street, Providence, RI 02903 Mailing Address: Box 1902, Providence, RI 02912 Phone: (401) 863-5482 Fax: (401) 863-1058 Auxiliary Housing Office Phone: (401) 863-2016 Location: 125-127 Waterman Street (Rear entrance door) Mailing address: Box 1900 Providence, RI 02912 Facilities Service Response: Phone: (401) 863-7800 Brown Public Safety: Phone: (401) 863-3322 (Non-Emergency/Lockouts) Phone: (401) 863-4111 (Emergency) Brown University Giving to Brown Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA 401-863-1000 Contact Us Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility All Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top