Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu Division of Information Technology Common Management Systems (CMS) Main Navigation Project Office CFS Human Resources (CHRS) Campus Solutions Training & Support FAQs PROJECT OFFICE CMS Project Documents Calendar & Timelines Committees FAQs Meet the Team News & Updates CMS PROJECT Contact & Support Resources & Links Glossary CMS Project The CMS (Common Management System) Project The CMS Project, known as the Common Management System, is a CSU system-wide project which mandates that all 23 campuses implement CMS HR, Finance and Campus Solutions (formerly known as Student Administration) by 2008. The mission of the CSU's CMS project is to provide efficient, effective and high quality service to students, faculty and staff. CMS is an Oracle/PeopleSoft software application, fully web-based, running on common hardware shared by all CSU’s. Chris Manriquez, CMS Project Director and Interim Associate CITO, stated that “Here at CSUF, CMS is a campus-wide project. We want to ensure that CMS is implemented in the most cost effective manner and that the best business practices are developed.” CMS Project Updates Finance - The CMS Finance System Release 8.4 was implemented on July 1, 2007 and upgraded to Release 9.0 on March 10, 2009. The CFS (Consolidated Finance System) implementation project is currently underway with a scheduled implementation date of July 2010. Human Resources – HR has been live with PeopleSoft version 8.9 since 2007 and has rolled out key modules including Workforce Administration, Base Benefits, Leave Accounting, Part Time Faculty, Student Worker Processing, Self Service, Labor Cost Distribution, and Academic Personnel System. The team continues to improve the system through fixes and enhancements and strives to provide the campus with a quality tool to assist with daily HR operations. CMS HR is currently working on implementing a Data Warehouse, which will provide the campus with a reporting tool to easily extract the data from the Human Resources system. In 2010, CMS HR will implement and introduce Absence Management and Benefits Administration to the campus. Campus Solutions – CS PeopleSoft version 8.9 has been fully implemented as of January 2009 and replaces SIS+ and Old Titan Online (student self-service web access to SIS+). Campus Solutions functionality includes admissions, records (class schedule, registration, grading, transcripts), student financials and financial aid. Extended Education is also supported by Campus Solutions. Degree audit reporting is handled by DARWin and is fully interfaced with PeopleSoft in real-time. Campus Solutions provides 24/7 access to PeopleSoft. Campus Community During all phases of the CMS Project, the campus community is involved --- from the CMS Steering Committee, CMS Management Teams, CMS Divisional Coordinators and Divisional Support Groups, CMS Module Teams (comprised of business analysts, divisional technical and functional staff), to the CMS User Work Teams (comprised of end-users from all Divisions and faculty / student representatives) to the help desk For specific details related to each of the applications, click on the appropriate links at the top of the page or click on the links to the right to read about the current project news and updates. CMS Project Goals The CMS Project at CSU Fullerton seeks to accomplish the following goals as part of its ongoing implementation and upgrades of the PeopleSoft applications: Resolve long standing or currently identified issues with business functions through process or technical developments; Map business processes to facilitate central and distributed change in business operations; Provide all campus users tools and applications capable of limiting the number of systems on campus used to perform business functions or those that house protected data; and Provide all campus users (central and distributed) an opportunity to voice their concerns and suggestions for process improvement. NEWS & UPDATES New Titan Online CMS HR Labor Cost Distribution Implementation CMS Campus Solutions Go- Live Schedule CMS Steering Committee New Project Document: CMS Project Structure Roadmap This site is maintained by Division of Information Technology. Last Published 4/5/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact cmsproject@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.10 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.