Skip to main content Information For: Current Students Alumni Harvard Undergraduates Educators Recruiters Media Apply Give to HGSE Search Apply for Degree Programs Apply for Professional Education Donate Give back to HGSE and support the next generation of passionate educators and innovative leaders. Keywords Close Menu Degree Programs Professional Education Faculty & Research Usable Knowledge Keywords About HGSE About the Dean Dean's Welcome Messages from the Dean Commentary and Media Dean's Office History of HGSE Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Our Impact Campus and Facilities Office Directory Virtual Tour Gutman Conference Center Reservation Request Form Capacities and Cost Floor Plan Catering Policies Audio Visual Directions, Parking, and Hotels Map of HGSE Directions to HGSE History of HGSE Buildings Faculty & Staff Directory Work at HGSE Title IX Information Doctoral Degree Programs Doctor of Education Leadership Doctor of Philosophy in Education Brochures Academic Calendar Academic Catalog Doctoral Viewbook Master's Degree Program Master's in Education Programs Education Leadership, Organizations, and Entrepreneurship Education Policy and Analysis Human Development and Education Learning Design, Innovation, and Technology Teaching and Teacher Leadership Concentrations Arts and Learning Early Childhood Global, International, and Comparative Education Higher Education Identity, Power, and Justice in Education Literacy and Languages A Personalized Approach Online Master's in Education Leadership Foundations Brochures Academic Catalog Academic Calendar Academic Year 2020-22 Programs Professional Education About Us Programs Early Childhood K-12 Higher Education Online Programs For Organizations Group and Team Enrollment Custom Programs Admissions Payment & Tuition Assistance Refunds & Withdrawals Policies and Accessibility Campus Experience On-Campus Program Health and Safety Policies FAQs Events Contact Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Centers, Projects and Initiatives Faculty Recruitment Faculty Experts Admissions Introduce Yourself Explore Find the Right Program Brochures Life at HGSE Connect Apply Refer a Candidate Frequently Asked Questions Financial Aid HGSE & Harvard University Consumer Information Tuition & Costs Applying for Aid Incoming Students Incoming International Students Continuing Students Scholarships, Fellowships & Grants Need-Based Grant Awards HGSE Fellowships Additional Fellowships External Fellowships Student Loans Student Work International Students International Applicant FAQ Funding Sources Students with Families Financial Aid Appeals Presentations & Publications Budgeting & Financial Literacy Budget Calculator Registrar News & Events Harvard Edcast Education Now Askwith Education Forum Upcoming Events Submit an Event Usable Knowledge Ed. Magazine Harvard Education Publishing Group Information for Media Education Now Usable Knowledge Usable Knowledge Harvard EdCast Ed. Magazine HGSE Centennial Community Learning Beyond the Classroom Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Organizations and Initiatives Community Events and Action Resources Teaching and Learning Gutman Library Services Alumni Services Collections Special Collections Request for Library Purchase Library Hours Websites for Educators About the Library Facilities & Equipment Contact Information Coronavirus Response Information Directory Calendar Alumni Network & Connect Get Involved Learn & Grow Benefits & Services my.harvard Student Handbook Introduction Welcome to HGSE Preface Commitment to Diversity Part 1: Enrollment Policies Academic Programs and Affiliations Registration and Enrollment Policies Tuition and Fees Financial Aid Student Health Insurance Grading Part 2: Student Supports Advising HGSE Supports University Supports Campus Safety and Security Part 3: Program Policies Academic Governance Doctor of Education (Ed.D.) Program Policies Doctor of Philosophy in Education (Ph.D.) Program Policies Doctor of Education Leadership (Ed.L.D.) Program Policies Master of Education (Ed.M.) Program Policies Part 4: Academic Integrity and Standards of Conduct Resolution on Rights and Responsibilities Academic Standards and Integrity Standards of Conduct in the Harvard Community Committee on Rights and Responsibilities Policies on Harassment and Discrimination Policy on Consensual Romantic Relationships Policy on Physical Violence Policy on Misrepresentation of Status Policy on Illicit Substances Policy on Hazing Policy on Threats Part 5: Copyright and Publishing Policies Copyright Disclosure Use of the Harvard Name Information For Current Students Alumni Harvard Undergraduates Educators Recruiters Media Connect with HGSE Facebook Twitter Linked In LinkedIn Symbols Created with Sketch. Instagram Student Handbook Student Handbook: HGSE Supports Office of Student Affairs The Office of Student Affairs (OSA) supports student success by providing a variety of services, programs, and activities. Some of the programs and services OSA offers and supports includes: Orientation Student Events Diversity & Inclusion Student Support Services Academic Coaching Access and Accommodations Sexual & Gender-Based Harassment Commencement More information about our supports and services can be found at: https://osa.gse.harvard.edu/ Accommodations: Process and Supports Harvard Graduate School of Education is committed to making all courses and related programs available to all students. As part of this mission, we welcome and provide assistance to qualified students with documented disabilities who are among our community, which is guided by the principles of inclusivity. An eligibility is approval to receive assistance based on documentation and conversations with Student Support Services. An accommodation is an eligibility requested for a specific class for a specific term. There is no one-to-one correspondence of disability to accommodation. Consideration is given to the student’s disability, history, experience, and the unique characteristics of the course, program, or requirement to determine whether a specific accommodation is reasonable. A clear understanding of how the disability impacts the student establishes the reasonableness of the accommodation for that individual. Reasonable accommodations are modifications or adjustments to the tasks, environment, or to the way things are usually done that enables individuals with disabilities to have an equal opportunity to participate in an academic program. Ensuring that accommodations provide effective access requires a deliberate and collaborative process that is responsive to each individual’s unique experience. Engaging in a structured conversation around the disability, history, experience, and the unique characteristics of course enrollment is necessary to have an equal opportunity to participate in an academic program. This is true even if the student has never received formal accommodations or recently acquired a disability and is seeking guidance to determine accommodations that might be effective. The process of requesting an eligibility and accommodations is as follows: Student completes the Disability Identification Form and submits documentation via email to Student Support Services Student Support Services reviews documentation to determine eligibility Once the eligibility for accommodations is established, Student Support Services emails student to confirm the student’s registration with Student Support Services and eligibility. Student makes an appointment with the Senior Associate Director of Student Support Services, to review/discuss accommodations and policies and procedures Student receives Accommodation Letter by email in 3-5 business days After receiving the Accommodation Letter, student schedules a meeting with faculty and teaching fellows for each course to discuss the implementation/expectations of the accommodations in the context of each course. In some cases, a conference among the student, the faculty member, and Student Support Services may be necessary for optimal support. It is important that all parties engage in this work with the understanding that, according to federal educational laws, accommodations are provided in order to ensure access to the curriculum and learning opportunities consistent with the program and degree requirements. Students with accommodations whose home institution is HGSE and who are cross-registered must notify the Senior Associate Director of Student Support Services to ensure the accommodations are communicated to the host school. In addition, for specific housing accommodations related to disability, students must complete the Housing Form for consideration. For additional support, contact the Senior Associate Director of Student Support Services. Individual/Office Primary Responsibilities Office of Student Affairs (including Student Support Services and International Student Supports) Provides Academic Coaching and counseling and support related to academic progress; discusses needs with student; reviews and assesses eligibility for accommodations; determines appropriate supports/accommodations and makes referrals to appropriate resources. Provides counseling and support related to academic progress and integrity; supports international students in understanding the accommodations process. Faculty Program Directors/Co-Chairs and Concentration Co-Chairs May identify need for student support and refer student to the Office of Student Affairs Teaching Faculty and Teaching Fellows Review course level performance and report any integrity concerns to the Degree Programs Office Degree Programs Office (Ed.M., Ed.D., Ph.D., Ed.L.D.) Manages any initial concerns related to academic progress or integrity, reporting alleged violations to the academic dean Academic Dean Reviews all complaints and decides on a course of resolution Records pertaining to requests for accommodation are maintained separately from academic records and both are treated confidentially, with information shared only on a strict “need to know” basis. If a student receiving accommodations is not making sufficient academic progress towards program and degree requirements, this issue is taken up with the HGSE Degree Programs Office. In these cases, Student Support Services may serve as a support or resource to the student; however, Student Support Services does not oversee academic progress or make determinations or decisions about academic progress and/or requirements. If a student with a disability disagrees with a determination of academic or non-academic accommodations (pursuant to the procedures described below), the student may request reconsideration of the decision by following the Harvard University Student Disability Grievance Policy and Procedure. If a student with a disability wishes to resolve complaints concerning discrimination, they should follow the procedures laid out on the University Accessibility website. HGSE Academic Coaching Academic Coaching is a personalized research-based service used to help students overcome academic challenges. A list of services is provided on the Office of Student Affairs Website. Students interested in Academic Coaching, please fill out the Academic Coaching Request Form. I Notice/I Care Form The I Notice/I Care Form (INIC) provides an opportunity for anyone who is concerned about the well-being of a student to raise those concerns. All submissions to the INIC are followed up on by the appropriate office and students are connected with resources aligned with their needs. Use of the INIC creates a culture of personal well-being, belonging, and academic success and aids school administration in becoming aware of a student who may be distressed and responding in a supportive, proactive, and individualized manner. HGSE Academic Writing Center and Communications Lab 617-496-3894 | https://communicate.gse.harvard.edu/ Academic Writing Center and Communications Lab ("CommLab"), supported by Gutman Library, is designed to assist HGSE students in the acquisition of clear and cogent writing and oral communication skills. Appointments are provided by HGSE Teaching Fellows (TFs) with backgrounds in academic writing and communication. The Writing Center TFs provide students with the tools necessary to respond effectively to assignments, organize short papers and lengthy research projects, and develop working drafts into publishable products. The CommLab TFs offer students strategies to develop an academic presentation, create a research poster, prepare an entrepreneur pitch or practice a doctoral defense. Academic Writing Center and CommLab services are available by appointment using this website. In this section Student Handbook Introduction Welcome to HGSE Preface Commitment to Diversity Part 1: Enrollment Policies Academic Programs and Affiliations Registration and Enrollment Policies Tuition and Fees Financial Aid Student Health Insurance Grading Part 2: Student Supports Advising HGSE Supports University Supports Campus Safety and Security Part 3: Program Policies Academic Governance Doctor of Education (Ed.D.) Program Policies Doctor of Philosophy in Education (Ph.D.) Program Policies Doctor of Education Leadership (Ed.L.D.) Program Policies Master of Education (Ed.M.) Program Policies Part 4: Academic Integrity and Standards of Conduct Resolution on Rights and Responsibilities Academic Standards and Integrity Standards of Conduct in the Harvard Community Committee on Rights and Responsibilities Policies on Harassment and Discrimination Policy on Consensual Romantic Relationships Policy on Physical Violence Policy on Misrepresentation of Status Policy on Illicit Substances Policy on Hazing Policy on Threats Part 5: Copyright and Publishing Policies Copyright Disclosure Use of the Harvard Name Student Handbook Student Handbook Introduction Welcome to HGSE Preface Commitment to Diversity Part 1: Enrollment Policies Academic Programs and Affiliations Registration and Enrollment Policies Tuition and Fees Financial Aid Student Health Insurance Grading Part 2: Student Supports Advising HGSE Supports University Supports Campus Safety and Security Part 3: Program Policies Academic Governance Doctor of Education (Ed.D.) Program Policies Doctor of Philosophy in Education (Ph.D.) Program Policies Doctor of Education Leadership (Ed.L.D.) Program Policies Master of Education (Ed.M.) Program Policies Part 4: Academic Integrity and Standards of Conduct Resolution on Rights and Responsibilities Academic Standards and Integrity Standards of Conduct in the Harvard Community Committee on Rights and Responsibilities Policies on Harassment and Discrimination Policy on Consensual Romantic Relationships Policy on Physical Violence Policy on Misrepresentation of Status Policy on Illicit Substances Policy on Hazing Policy on Threats Part 5: Copyright and Publishing Policies Copyright Disclosure Use of the Harvard Name Sign up for our newsletters to get the latest from the Harvard Graduate School of Education. Sign Up Now Artboard 1 13 Appian Way | Cambridge, MA 02138 Centennial Contact Us Directory Directions Harvard University ©2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College Linked In Symbols Created with Sketch. Youtube RSS Podcast HGSE Publishing Policies & Disclaimers Digital Accessibility Policy Privacy Policy Trademark Notice