Skip to main content Skip to main content Faculty Resources Polices & Procedures Skip to main content Log In Log In Schedule Appointment Schedule Appointment Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content SMU Abroad Get Started Get Started Dates & Deadlines FAQs Cost & Aid Cost & Aid Tuition and Financial Aid Calculator Scholarships Fellowships Programs Programs Courses Resources Resources Before You Go During Program Returning to SMU Faculty Resources Policies & Procedures Health & Safety Contact Us Give ☰ SMU SMU Abroad Get World Ready and study abroad. Expand your worldview by studying, interning, and researching abroad. Explore programs Get Started Schedule Advising Log In SMU Abroad continues to closely monitor the status of the COVID-19 pandemic. You will be notified of any change in the status of your study abroad program. Please check your SMU email and the Mustang Strong website for updates. Why Study Abroad? See the world and experience new cultures. SMU Abroad offers program options in all regions of the world. Learn More Advance your academic goals. Education is the centerpiece of SMU Abroad programs. We offer a variety of courses designed to meet your academic goals. Learn More Sharpen your language skills. Experience language immersion through our faculty-led programs and well-established study abroad providers. Learn More Develop your personal goals. Global exploration fosters independence and leadership. Learn about a new culture and yourself at the same time! Learn More Advance your career opportunities. Like future employers, graduate school admissions boards encourage study abroad experiences. Learn More Follow us on Instagram Upcoming Events Advising Profile Cost & Aid Tuition Calculator Health & Safety Previous Next pause play hide show Contact Us Blanton 216 214-768-2338 abroad@smu.edu Advising Monday - Friday Walk-In Hours: 2:00 - 4:00 pm Schedule Appointment Business Hours Monday - Friday 8:30 am - 12:00 pm 1:00 - 5:00 pm Follow us on Instagram Apply Visit School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share