Skip to Navigation Skip to Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links For information about COVID-19 policies and restrictions on campus, please visit the UCLA COVID-19 resources website. Events Newsroom Magazine Alumni Arts Give About About About Overview General Info Facts & Figures Rankings Leadership History Mission & Values Mission & Values Strategic Plan Equity, Diversity and Inclusion Impact Contributions & Discoveries Global Engagement Recognition Awards & Honors Athletic Championships & Medals Notable Alumni UCLA Ranked No. 1 Public University UCLA tops all public universities in the 2021 U.S. News & World Report rankings. Admission Admission Admission Overview Undergraduate Undergraduate Admission Undergraduate Tuition & Fees Undergraduate Financial Aid Undergraduate Tours Graduate Graduate Admission Graduate Tuition & Fees Graduate Funding Graduate Tours Additional Information International Applicants Extension Program Summer Sessions Academics Academics Academics Overview Explore Degree Programs & Majors College & Professional Schools Education Undergraduate Education Graduate & Professional Education Extension Courses & Certificates Summer Sessions Study Abroad Continuing Education Support Career Preparation Academic Advising First Generation New Student Programs Honors & Advanced Study Resources Libraries Academic Calendar Course Schedule Course Catalogue Research Research Research Campus Resources Research Across Campus Technology & Innovation Investments & Partnerships Libraries Student Research Graduate Research Undergraduate Research Campus Life Campus Life Campus Life Overview Campus Housing Residential Life Dining Health & Wellness Sustainability Student Life Clubs & Organizations Sports & Recreation Arts & Performance Volunteering & Service Directory Academic Calendar Maps & Directions Parking Campus Shuttles Public Transit Newsroom Magazine Alumni Arts Give Open Search Home Exploring Campus Life at UCLA Clubs, Organizations and Recreation Clubs, Organizations and Recreation Something extraordinary for everyone. UCLA is a mosaic of culture and activity. With more than 1,200 clubs and student organizations, you’ll find ample opportunities to discover new interests and make friends with like-minded Bruins. Search Clubs & Organizations Sports and Recreation Whether it’s for competition or simply for fun, students are active in just about every imaginable sport or recreational activity. With 15 multipurpose workout facilities and six pools spread throughout campus, UCLA Recreation sponsors instructional classes, an intramural sports program that consists of 30 leagues, tournaments, meets and special events, and 50 club sports. The UCLA Marina Aquatic Center, located in Marina Del Rey, offers instruction and equipment for rowing, kayaking, sailing, surfing, windsurfing and paddleboarding. Visit UCLA Recreation Student Government UCLA is home to a strong tradition of student government, and students play an active role in determining what happens on campus. The Undergraduate Students Association and the Graduate Student Association empower students to allocate budgets, found new clubs and develop a campus that reflects their values. 74% of undergraduates participate in student clubs or organizations Arts and Culture There are myriad ways to get involved in arts and culture on campus, as a spectator and as a creator. Students are DJs for Campus Radio, they’re writers and editors at the Daily Bruin, and they enjoy films together at Melnitz Movies, a student-run repertory cinema program. The Student Committee for the Arts at UCLA is the student branch of the world-renowned Center for the Art of Performance at UCLA. Students involved with SCA work frequently with the CAP UCLA staff to promote the performing arts on campus and produce events that showcase student artists. Business and Entrepreneurship UCLA students are the driving force behind a vibrant culture of business and entrepreneurship. With an annual membership of over 5,000, the Undergraduate Business Society is the largest student organization at UCLA. Students have many opportunities to gain real-world knowledge and experience, including Startup UCLA’s Summer Accelerator, a 10-week program designed to help entrepreneurial students succeed at developing their own businesses. Volunteering Through the UCLA Volunteer Center, Bruins embody one of UCLA’s core values: service. Volunteer Day event kicks off the academic year with more than 5,000 Bruins serving at sites across Los Angeles. Throughout the year, Bruin volunteers partner with local organizations to support our community in a multitude of ways, from providing healthcare and services to the homeless to serving meals to veterans on Thanksgiving. Sign up for news, stories, and events from UCLA Strategic Communications Email First Name Last Name Zip Code Your email was submitted. Please check your inbox to complete your registration. You may unsubscribe at any time. Zip code is used to improve the content we share. Refer to our Terms of Use for more information on how we store and protect your data. Los Angeles 90095(310) 825-4321 Contact Directory Academic Calendar Careers Contact Us Media & Journalists Campus Campus Map Parking Campus Shuttles Public Transit Community Alumni Parents & Families Faculty Staff Emeriti & Retirees Venue & Events Conference Center & Hotel Film Production Event Planning Related Sites Athletics Extension Health Store Giving Centennial The Arts Arts Gateway Hammer Museum Fowler Museum Center for the Art of Performance Facebook Instagram Linked Twitter Youtube TikTok Snapchat © 2022 Regents of the University of California Emergency Accessibility Report Misconduct Privacy & Terms of Use Cookie Policy We use cookies to understand how you use our site and to improve your experience, including personalizing content and to store your content preferences. If you would prefer, you may set your browser to refuse cookies or alert you when cookies are being sent; however, it is possible that some parts of our sites will not function properly if you do so. By continuing to use our sites, you accept our use of cookies and revised Privacy Policy. I Accept