<form runat="server"></form>
<WebPartPages:SPWebPartManager runat="server"/>
 Skip to Main Content HBS Home About Academic Programs Alumni Faculty & Research Baker Library Giving Harvard Business Review Initiatives News Recruit Map / Directions Alumni Login Volunteer Clubs Reunions Bulletin Class Notes Help Give Now Stories Alumni Directory Lifelong Learning Careers Programs & Events Giving …→ Harvard Business School→ Alumni→ Giving→ How to Give How to Give Ways to Give Today Planned Giving FAQ → Ways to Give Today→ Giving Ways to Give Today Why Give Why Your Gift Matters Why Your Gift Matters What You Can Support HBS Fund HBS Fund Diversity & Equity Diversity & Equity Educational Innovation Educational Innovation Faculty & Research Faculty & Research Global Activities Global Activities HBS-Harvard Collaborations HBS-Harvard Collaborations Student Financial Aid Student Financial Aid What You Can Support HBS Fund HBS Fund Diversity & Equity Diversity & Equity Educational Innovation Educational Innovation Faculty & Research Faculty & Research Global Activities Global Activities HBS-Harvard Collaborations HBS-Harvard Collaborations Student Financial Aid Student Financial Aid Recognizing Our Donors Annual Contributors Report Annual Contributors Report Donor Societies Donor Societies Recognizing Our Donors Annual Contributors Report Annual Contributors Report Donor Societies Donor Societies A Tradition of Philanthropy A Tradition of Philanthropy Why Your Gift Matters Why Your Gift Matters What You Can Support HBS Fund HBS Fund Diversity & Equity Diversity & Equity Educational Innovation Educational Innovation Faculty & Research Faculty & Research Global Activities Global Activities HBS-Harvard Collaborations HBS-Harvard Collaborations Student Financial Aid Student Financial Aid What You Can Support HBS Fund HBS Fund Diversity & Equity Diversity & Equity Educational Innovation Educational Innovation Faculty & Research Faculty & Research Global Activities Global Activities HBS-Harvard Collaborations HBS-Harvard Collaborations Student Financial Aid Student Financial Aid Recognizing Our Donors Annual Contributors Report Annual Contributors Report Donor Societies Donor Societies Recognizing Our Donors Annual Contributors Report Annual Contributors Report Donor Societies Donor Societies A Tradition of Philanthropy A Tradition of Philanthropy How to Give Ways to Give Today Ways to Give Today By Credit Card By Credit Card By Check By Check By Wire Transfer By Wire Transfer With Stock With Stock Donor-Advised Fund Donor-Advised Fund From Your IRA From Your IRA International Giving International Giving Planned Giving Planned Giving FAQ FAQ Ways to Give Today Ways to Give Today By Credit Card By Credit Card By Check By Check By Wire Transfer By Wire Transfer With Stock With Stock Donor-Advised Fund Donor-Advised Fund From Your IRA From Your IRA International Giving International Giving Planned Giving Planned Giving FAQ FAQ Giving Why Give Why Your Gift Matters Why Your Gift Matters What You Can Support HBS Fund HBS Fund Diversity & Equity Diversity & Equity Educational Innovation Educational Innovation Faculty & Research Faculty & Research Global Activities Global Activities HBS-Harvard Collaborations HBS-Harvard Collaborations Student Financial Aid Student Financial Aid What You Can Support HBS Fund HBS Fund Diversity & Equity Diversity & Equity Educational Innovation Educational Innovation Faculty & Research Faculty & Research Global Activities Global Activities HBS-Harvard Collaborations HBS-Harvard Collaborations Student Financial Aid Student Financial Aid Recognizing Our Donors Annual Contributors Report Annual Contributors Report Donor Societies Donor Societies Recognizing Our Donors Annual Contributors Report Annual Contributors Report Donor Societies Donor Societies A Tradition of Philanthropy A Tradition of Philanthropy Why Your Gift Matters Why Your Gift Matters What You Can Support HBS Fund HBS Fund Diversity & Equity Diversity & Equity Educational Innovation Educational Innovation Faculty & Research Faculty & Research Global Activities Global Activities HBS-Harvard Collaborations HBS-Harvard Collaborations Student Financial Aid Student Financial Aid What You Can Support HBS Fund HBS Fund Diversity & Equity Diversity & Equity Educational Innovation Educational Innovation Faculty & Research Faculty & Research Global Activities Global Activities HBS-Harvard Collaborations HBS-Harvard Collaborations Student Financial Aid Student Financial Aid Recognizing Our Donors Annual Contributors Report Annual Contributors Report Donor Societies Donor Societies Recognizing Our Donors Annual Contributors Report Annual Contributors Report Donor Societies Donor Societies A Tradition of Philanthropy A Tradition of Philanthropy How to Give Ways to Give Today Ways to Give Today By Credit Card By Credit Card By Check By Check By Wire Transfer By Wire Transfer With Stock With Stock Donor-Advised Fund Donor-Advised Fund From Your IRA From Your IRA International Giving International Giving Planned Giving Planned Giving FAQ FAQ Ways to Give Today Ways to Give Today By Credit Card By Credit Card By Check By Check By Wire Transfer By Wire Transfer With Stock With Stock Donor-Advised Fund Donor-Advised Fund From Your IRA From Your IRA International Giving International Giving Planned Giving Planned Giving FAQ FAQ Ways to Give Today Show Your Support There are many ways to make your gift to Harvard Business School Your Gift Matters $250$500$1,000$5,000Other Give Login to view your giving history View Your Giving History See your recent gifts/pledges as well as any outstanding pledge balances. Log In Now Questions? Email or call 617.495.6207 Give with Your Credit Card HBS accepts MasterCard, Visa, American Express, and Discover. Online Give Online Give online via Harvard's secure donation form Online LOG IN TO GIVE Recommended for all alumni and required for international credit card gifts Give Without Login For US-based donors only—no personal information will be pre-filled By Phone Alumni & Development Services 617.495.1750 Send a Check Make your check payable to Harvard Business School. Mail check to: Harvard Business School P.O. Box 412275 Boston, MA 02241-2275 If using FedEx, UPS, DHL, or any other service that cannot deliver to a P.O. box, mail check to: Bank of America Lockbox Services HBS-ADS 412275 MA5-527-02-07 2 Morrissey Boulevard Dorchester, MA 02125 Maximize Your Gift Employer Matching To find out if your company matches employee gifts, use our online search tool. Upon receipt, all matching gifts count toward a donor’s total giving. Recurring Giving Support HBS automatically—on a monthly or annual basis—via credit card. This will ensure that you are counted as a donor every year and help HBS to plan more effectively. Wire Transfer You can wire funds directly to HBS from your bank using the information provided below. To ensure proper crediting, please include your name and intended gift purpose. Receiving Bank: Bank of America, 100 Federal Street, Boston, MA 02110 Beneficiary Legal Account: President & Fellows of Harvard College, ADS Account Account #: 9429263621 ACH Routing #: 011000138 Wire Routing #: 026009593 Swift Code (International donors): BOFAUS3N Memo/Reference: Donor name, degree/year, and intended gift purpose (fund name) Stock Transfer When giving long-term appreciated stock to HBS, donors may take a charitable income tax deduction for its mean fair market value on the date of the gift and avoid capital gains tax. To make a gift of stock, please contact: Alumni and Development Services - Trust Administration 866.845.6596 donorsecuritygifts@harvard.edu To ensure proper crediting of your gift, please use our online form to notify us of your stock transfer. Donor-Advised Fund There are two ways you can make a gift through your donor-advised fund: Support HBS now by recommending a grant to Harvard Business School (legal name: “President and Fellows of Harvard College”). Support HBS in the future by designating Harvard Business School as the final beneficiary of all or a portion of the fund value upon the termination of the fund. Contact your fund administrator to request a grant recommendation or beneficiary designation form or download the appropriate form(s) from your administrator's website. If you include Harvard Business School in your plans, please let us know and use our legal name and federal tax ID: Legal Name: President and Fellows of Harvard College Address: Harvard Business School, P.O. Box 412275, Boston, MA 02241-2275 Federal Tax ID Number: 04–2103580 Learn about establishing a donor-advised fund at Harvard University. From Your IRA If you are at least 70½ years old, you can use your individual retirement account (IRA) to make a gift to HBS—up to $100,000 per year. Your gift, which must be transferred directly from your IRA to HBS, can be excluded from your federal taxable income. Once you turn 72 years old, your gift also counts toward the IRS’s required minimum distribution. To initiate a transfer, contact your IRA administrator. To ensure proper crediting at HBS, you will also need to notify Harvard University. Downloadable sample letters are provided below for your convenience. For more information, please contact Harvard University Planned Giving at pgo@harvard.edu or 800.446.1277. Sample Request from Donor to IRA Administrator This letter contains transfer instructions from you to your IRA administrator. Sample Letter from Donor Informing Harvard of IRA Distribution This letter informs Harvard University that you wish to direct your gift to HBS and ensures appropriate class credit for alumni. International Giving Gifts to HBS from alumni and friends living outside the United States may be directed to one of our affiliated charitable entities in order to qualify for a tax deduction or a tax credit. FRANCE Centre de Recherche Européen de la Harvard Business School The Europe Research Center is a nonprofit association that supports the European research, case writing, and course development activities of Harvard Business School faculty. It makes available to the public at large in France and in Europe the intellectual output it has helped the HBS faculty produce. The Center satisfies Section 200-1 b and 238 bis-1 a of the French Tax Code. Residents of France who contribute to the Center will have the right to a tax credit against income tax within the limits set by French law and will be provided with a "reçu dons aux oeuvres" (tax receipt) to that effect. Class Crediting Contributions from HBS alumni will receive class credit. How to Make a Gift Checks should be made payable to Centre de Recherche Européen de la HBS and sent to the association office located at: Centre de Recherche Européen de la Harvard Business School 62, rue François 1er 75008 Paris, France Telephone: 33 (01) 42 25 73 73 Fax: 33 (01) 42 25 15 45 For wire transfer instructions, please call the Center at the number above or email Oksana Sichi at osichi@hbs.edu GERMANY Harvard Business School Foundation of Germany A gemeinnützige Körperschaft (tax exempt organization), the principal purpose of which is to provide scholarships for German students in need to attend HBS. Gifts can also be made for the benefit of HBS. Alumni who reside in Germany can deduct the full amount of a contribution to the Foundation from his or her gross income. Since the marginal tax rate is approximately 50%, this means that basically half of the contribution is “paid” by the tax authorities. Class Crediting Contributions from HBS alumni will receive class credit. How to Make a Gift Money transfers may be made to: Harvard Business School Foundation of Germany IBAN DE95 5007 0010 0696 4316 00 BIC DEUTDEFF Bank: Deutsche Bank Please make sure to mention your name and address to receive a tax-deductible confirmation letter. For questions, please contact: Stefan Eishold (MBA 1994) Tel: 49 163 611 5000 Email: eishold@arcuscapital.de INDIA The Harvard Business School India Research Center (IRC) The primary mission of the IRC is to contribute to the growth of knowledge and facilitate the exchange of ideas—bringing the best of Harvard to India and the best of India to Harvard. The IRC supports research, case writing, Executive Education, and other activities of Harvard Business School faculty and staff in India. The IRC qualifies as a charitable not-for-profit, and gifts made to the IRC in India may qualify for personal tax deductions. Under Section 80-G of the Indian Income Tax Act, donors will receive a 50% deduction on donations made to the IRC. Upon receipt of a gift, the IRC will issue the required 80-G certificate to the donor. Class Crediting Contributions from HBS alumni will receive class credit. How to Make a Gift Checks and bank drafts should be made payable to Harvard Business School India Research Center and sent, along with a letter indicating that the gift is for general purposes, to: Harvard Business School India Research Center c/o Ms. Anthea D'Souza Piramal Tower, 7th Floor Peninsula Corporate Park Ganpatrao Kadam Marg Lower Parel, Mumbai 400 013 India Tel: +91 22 2493 1624 Fax: +91 22 2490 0724 UNITED KINGDOM Gifts to HBS can be made through either the Friends of Harvard University (UK) or the British Friends of Harvard Business School, which are registered UK charities. In both cases, donations from UK taxpayers, regardless of nationality, are deductible against UK tax. Donors may benefit from Gift Aid and/or company payroll giving schemes if they pay sufficient UK tax. Class Crediting Contributions from HBS alumni via either entity will receive class credit. Friends of Harvard University (UK) Donors can direct their gift to HBS or to any Harvard school or program. How to Make a Gift Contact: Sandra Fernandes Friends of Harvard UK 1 Mulgrave Chambers 26-28 Mulgrave Road Sutton Surrey SM2 6LE Telephone: 020 8642 3077 Email: sandra@sfernandes.com The necessary forms for Gift Aid self-declaration will be sent to the donor. British Friends of Harvard Business School British Friends provides scholarships for British students with financial need to attend HBS. Donors can choose to support these scholarships or to direct their gift to the School for the benefit of HBS students, faculty, and programs. In the latter case, a fee may be applied. How to Make a Gift Contact: Jacky Laney British Friends of Harvard Business School Devonshire House 60 Goswell Road London EC1M 7AD Telephone: 44 020 7025 1611 Email: info@bfhbs.org The necessary forms for Gift Aid self-declaration will be sent to the donor. Please specify whether the gift will support the Scholarship Fund or HBS. PLANNED GIVING By using different assets and planned giving strategies, you can support HBS and fulfill your financial goals. Learn More FAQ What is the School’s Federal Tax Identification Number? HBS gifts are managed under the umbrella of Harvard University’s Federal Tax Identification Number, which is 04–2103580. Harvard University’s legal name is President and Fellows of Harvard College. When will I receive a tax receipt for my gift? You can expect to receive an official receipt via mail 10–15 business days after HBS receives your gift. How can I get a duplicate tax receipt for my gift? To request a duplicate receipt, contact Harvard Alumni and Development Services at 617.495.1750 or ads@harvard.edu. Will my gift to HBS be credited to my class automatically? Yes. Will my spouse and I both receive credit for a gift to HBS? Joint crediting does not happen automatically. Alumni couples must indicate—on the online giving form or gift reply slip—if they would like their gift to be credited jointly. In that case, the amount will be split 50/50 for tax purposes but each person will receive class credit and recognition for the full amount of the gift. Contact HBS Gift Management at 617.495.6207 or gifts@hbs.edu if you have additional questions about crediting. How do I make a pledge? To pledge a gift that you will fulfill at a later date, please call HBS Development at 617.495.6881 (toll free: 877.448.3864). Will I be recognized for pledge payments? All donors are recognized in HBS’s annual Contributors Report for the full amount of any gifts and pledges made during the fiscal year (July 1–June 30), and for pledge payments as they are received. When do I need to fulfill my pledge? Guidelines for payments differ for reunion and non-reunion (annual giving) pledges. Reunion Pledges: For the 5th, 10th, 15th, 20th, 50th, and beyond: Pledges must be made by June 30 following the reunion and should be fulfilled by the following December 31. For the 25th, 30th, 35th, 40th, and 45th: Pledges must be made by December 31 following the reunion and should be fulfilled by the following June 30. Non-Reunion (Annual Giving) Pledges: Pledges must be paid by the end of the fiscal year, June 30, to be counted in that year’s giving totals and listed in the HBS's annual Contributors Report. For questions about an existing pledge or payment schedule adjustments, please contact HBS Gift Management at gifts@hbs.edu or 617.495.6207. Is my pledge legally binding? Most standard (non-bequest) pledges are not legally binding. If your pledge is legally binding, the gift intention agreement will include the following language (or similar): “It is my intention that the Agreement shall create obligations that are binding and enforceable against me, my heirs, executors, administrators, representatives, assigns, and estates.” How can I make a gift in honor or in memory of someone? Use this form and check the box labeled “This gift is in honor or memorial of someone,” or mail a check to Harvard Business School, P.O. Box 412275, Boston, MA 02241-2275. HBS will attempt to contact the person being honored/memorialized—or someone close to them—to inform them of your gift (without reference to the specific gift amount), so please provide relevant contact information and any other pertinent details. How do I make a gift via a donor-advised fund? Contact your fund administrator to request a distribution or beneficiary form or download the appropriate form(s) from your administrator’s website. Please refer to the following information when contacting your administrator: Legal Name: President and Fellows of Harvard College Address: Harvard Business School, P.O. Box 412275, Boston, MA 02241-2275 Federal Tax ID Number: 04–2103580 More Frequently Asked Questions ǁ External Relations Harvard Business School Teele Hall Soldiers Field Boston, MA 02163 Phone: 1.617.495.6890 Email: alumni+hbs.edu →Map & Directions →More Contact Information Make a Gift Site Map Jobs Harvard University Trademarks Policies Digital Accessibility Terms of Use Copyright © President & Fellows of Harvard College