Skip to main content SMU Explore SMU Academics Undergraduate Admission Student Affairs About News Athletics Events Calendar Bush Center Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Apply to SMUGIVE NOW Giving Ways to Give Your gifts at work Give now Menu Search SMU Giving Impact Alumni Giving Alumni Giving After the Hilltop, many alumni continue the giving legacy that made their SMU education possible. Tuition only covers 70% of an SMU education. Alumni who donate help close the gap between the true cost of an SMU education and the price of tuition. Their generous support helps sustain the next generation of Mustangs and shows the world how much they value their SMU experience. In fiscal year 2021, more than 7,500 undergraduate alumni contributed more than $38 million, dedicating nearly half of their support to scholarships, research, programs and other University current-use needs. Many of the remaining gifts bolster and expand student learning and development as well as faculty teaching and research. Ultimately, these gifts empower more Mustangs to think big and do good in ways that create positive change in local communities, our country and the world. “As a recipient of athletic and academic scholarships, I recognize the value of the opportunity to attend SMU standing on the shoulders of those who came before me,” said Kristin W. Henderson ’82, 2021 – 2023 SMU Alumni Board chair. Kristin still spends time each year with her SMU swim team coach, Vicki Veris, who helped her earn three scholarships that facilitated her coming to the Hilltop. (In the 1970s, female athletes were not accustomed to earning a full ride.) And although they didn’t date until they were both working in banking in downtown Dallas, Kristin first met her husband Stewart Henderson ’81 on the Hilltop. “Stewart and I give to SMU to enable young men and women to have the opportunity to come to the Hilltop to experience all our incredible school has to offer to become the best version of themselves preparing them to embark on their life journey and be world changers.” Today, Kristin is still setting world records with her U.S. Masters Swimming relay team. “Stewart and I give to SMU to enable young men and women to have the opportunity to come to the Hilltop to experience all our incredible school has to offer to become the best version of themselves preparing them to embark on their life journey and be world changers.” — Kristin W. Henderson ’82, 2021-2023 SMU Alumni Board Chair Alumni Giving Since tuition only covers about three-quarters of an SMU education, our students rely on the generosity of alumni, parents and friends who make current-use contributions. These current-use gifts provide annual support for academic programs, student experiences, and faculty members who shape a new generation of world changers. GIVE NOW Ways to giveGive now Back to top Schools and areas Scholarships Endowed faculty positions Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Athletics Libraries Student Affairs Cox School renovation and expansion Hughes-Trigg renovation Owen Arts Center transformation Ways to Give Endowment giving Current-use giving Capital giving Planned giving University-wide initiatives School and unit giving Contact Us Office of the Vice President for Development and External Affairs Principal and Major Gifts School and Project Development Athletics © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 Give now SMU Ignited: Boldly Shaping Tomorrow Impact Your gifts at work Annual Report Alumni Giving Parent Giving Student Giving Faculty and Staff Giving Recognition Giving Societies SMU Ignited Gifts Donor Spotlights Resources Why support SMU Ways to Give Frequently Asked Questions Contact us Office of Donor Relations Give now Menu Search Search Submit Popular Searches Current Students Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission Faculty & Staff Majors & Minors Alumni COVID-19 Information (Mustang Strong) Did you know? SMU's singular approach to integrating rigorous learning with hands-on experience will prepare you to achieve your educational goals and expand your world in ways you never imagined. Ours is a community of people forging their own paths. We'd like to help you shape yours. Plan your visit Menu Search