Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Department of Psychology Undergraduate Graduate People Centers Research DEI Initiatives Resources Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact People Program Contacts Faculty Mollie Anderson Frank Andrasik Karen Linville Baker J. Gayle Beck Kristoffer S. Berlin Jeffrey S. Berman Cheryl Bowers Gina Caucci Robert Cohen Melloni N. Cook Thomas K. Fagan Randy G. Floyd Arthur C. Graesser Latasha R. Holden Kathryn H. Howell Xiangen Hu Stephanie Huette Sarah M. Irby Roger J. Kreuz Mark LeDoux Deranda Lester Brook A. Marcks Meghan McDevitt-Murphy Elizabeth B. Meisinger Andrew W. Meyers James G. Murphy Andrew M. Olney Philip I. Pavlik Jr. Leslie A. Robinson M. David Rudd Helen J. K. Sable Robert J. Seals Nicholas W. Simon James P. Whelan William H. Zachry Jia Wei Zhang Staff Staff Personnel Take Action Psychology Advanced Degrees Academic Advising & Resource Center (AARC) The Psychological Services Center Teaching Take-Out Facebook Home Department of Psychology People Randy G. Floyd, Ph.D. Randy G. Floyd, Ph.D. Chair, Professor Phone 901.678.2146 Email rgfloyd@memphis.edu Fax 901.678.2579 Office Psychology Building, Room 202 Office Hours Contact PRONOUNS: he/him/his CV Education Ph.D., Indiana State University M.Ed., Indiana State University B.A., Hendrix College Research Interests Assessment of Intelligence, Achievement, and Externalizing Behaviors Identification of Reading, Mathematics, and Writing Aptitudes The Process of Professional Publication Selected Publications Dr. Floyd enjoys researching, writing, and publishing with students in the school psychology program and department as whole, as evident in the selected publications below. Student co-authors are highlighted (with *s) in these references, and a more exhaustive list of student co-authored publications can be found here. Many of these publications with student co-authors are products of student milestone (i.e., thesis or dissertation) projects and projects coordinated through his research laboratory. His publications, related citations, and collaborators are evident on his Google Scholar page. Books Floyd, R. G. (Ed.). (2018). Publishing in school psychology and related fields: An insider's guide. New York, NY: Routledge. Briesch, A. M., Volpe, R. J., & Floyd, R. G. (2018). School-based observation: A practical guide to assessing student behavior. New York, NY: Guilford Press. Kranzler, J. H., & Floyd, R. G. (2013). Assessing intelligence in children and adolescents: A practical guide. New York, NY: Guilford Press. Journal Articles *Farmer, R. L., Floyd, R. G., Reynolds, M. R., & Berlin, K. S. (2019). How can general intelligence composites most accurately index psychometric g and what might be good enough? Contemporary School Psychology. doi: 10.1007/s40688-019-00244-1. Kranzler, J. H., Gilbert, K., Robert, C., Floyd, R. G., & Benson, N. F. (2019). Further examination of a critical assumption underlying the dual discrepancy/consistency approach to SLD identification. School Psychology Review, 48, 207–221. Benson, N. F., Floyd, R. G., Kranzler, J. H., Eckert, T. L., Fefer, S. A., & Morgan, G. B. (2019). Test use and assessment practices of school psychologists in the United States: Findings from the 2017 National Survey. Journal of School Psychology, 72, 29–48. Benson, N., Kranzler, J. H., & Floyd, R. G. (2018). Exploratory and confirmatory factor analysis of the Universal Nonverbal Intelligence Test-Second Edition: Testing dimensionality and invariance across age, gender, race, and ethnicity. Assessment. doi: 10.1177/1073191118786584. *Woods, I. L., Floyd, R. G., *Singh, L. J., *Hawkins, H. K., *Norfolk, P. A., & *Farmer, R. L. (2018). What’s in a name? A historical review of intelligence test score labels. Journal of Psychoeducational Assessment. DOI: 10.1177/0734282918786651. *McNicholas, P. J., Floyd, R. G., *Woods, I. L., *Singh, L. J., *Manguno, M. S., & Maki, K. E. (2018). State special education criteria for identifying intellectual disability: A review following revised diagnostic criteria and Rosa’s Law. School Psychology Quarterly, 33, 75–82.*Irby, S. M., & Floyd, R. G. (2017). Exchangeability of brief intelligence tests: Illuminating error variance components' influence on IQs for children with intellectual giftedness. Psychology in the Schools, 54, 1064-1078. Kranzler, J. H., Benson, N., & Floyd, R. G. (2016). Intellectual assessment of children and youth in the United States of America: Past, present, and future. International Journal of School and Educational Psychology, 4, 276–282. Benson, N., Kranzler, J. H., & Floyd, R. G. (2016). Examining the integrity of measurement of cognitive abilities in the prediction of achievement: Comparisons and contrasts across variables from higher-order and bifactor models. Journal of School Psychology, 58, 1–19. *Taylor, C. D., Meisinger, E. B., & Floyd, R. G. (2016). Disentangling verbal instructions, experimental design, and sample characteristics: Results of Curriculum-based Measurement of Reading research. School Psychology Review, 45, 53–72. *Norfolk, P. A., & Floyd, R. G. (2016). Detecting parental deception using a behavior rating scale during assessment of attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder: An experimental study. Psychology in the Schools, 53, 158–172. Kranzler, J. H., Benson, N., & Floyd, R. G. (2015). Using estimated factor scores from a bifactor analysis to examine the unique effects of the latent variables measured by the WAIS-IV on academic achievement. Psychological Assessment, 27, 1402–1416. Maki, K. E., Floyd, R. G., & *Roberson, T. (2015). State learning disability eligibility criteria: A comprehensive review. School Psychology Quarterly, 30, 457–469. *Norfolk, P. A., *Farmer, R. L., Floyd, R. G., *Woods, I. L., *Hawkins, H. K., & *Irby, S. M. (2015). Norm block sample sizes: A review of 17 individually administered intelligence tests. Journal of Psychoeducational Assessment, 33, 544–555. Selected Service Dr. Floyd was the Editor-in-Chief of the Journal of School Psychology from 2011 through 2014 and continues his service to this journal as Consulting Editor. Dr. Floyd currently serves on the editorial boards of the Journal of Psychoeducational Assessment, School Psychology International, and School Psychology Review. Dr. Floyd is committed to understanding and addressing issues of human diversity and their impact. He co-chairs the Department of Psychology's Diversity Committee, co-leads the department's Welcoming Diversity Forum, and serves to support several diversity initiatives across campus. Selected Honors At the national level, Dr. Floyd is a Fellow of the American Psychological Association Division 16 (Division of School Psychology) and an elected member of the Society for the Study of School Psychology. At the university level, Dr. Floyd has received the University of Memphis Alumni Association Distinguished Teaching Award and been honored with the Department of Psychology Graduate Student Coordinating Committee Outstanding Mentoring Award three times. Courses Taught Dr. Floyd has taught an array of courses at the graduate and undergraduate levels. These courses generally focus on measurement and psychological assessment practices and research methods applied to the behaviors, cognitions, and emotions of children and adolescents and their families. These courses include the following: PSYC 7803/8803 Psychoeductional Assessment I: Cognitive and Achievement Assessment PSYC 7804/8804 Psychoeducational Assessment II: Behavioral and Emotional Assessment PSYC 7304/8304 Measurement Theory and Psychometrics PSYC 7207/8207 Developmental Psychology PSYC 7430/8430 Clinical Assessment: Ability and Achievement PSYC 7614/8614 Practicum in Psychoeducational Assessment PSYC 4020 Abnormal Child Psychology PSYC 3000 Introduction to Psychological Research PSYC 3010 Research and Statistics I Learn more about the University of Memphis School Psychology Programs here. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 1/4/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.