Skip to main site navigation Skip to main content Return to Anneberg School for Communication Homepage Open the main menu People Faculty, Lecturers & Researchers Graduate Students Staff Graduate Ph.D. Program How to Apply Financial Support Curriculum and Milestones Courses Graduate Faculty Joint Degrees & Certificates Student Life Careers & Outcomes Undergraduate Major in Communication Declaring the Major Major Requirements Courses Academic Opportunities Advising Appointments Careers & Outcomes Research Research Areas Topics Centers & Groups Annenberg School Library Executive Education News & Events News Events In the Media About Message from the Dean Mission & History Leadership & Governance Diversity & Inclusion Location & Facilities Careers at Annenberg Contact Us Open the search panel Search Site Alumni Policies & Resources News & Events From innovative publications to engaging events, there is always something going on at the Annenberg School. Each semester, the Annenberg School sponsors dozens of events, many of which are open to the entire Penn community and to the public. Our scholars are continually producing fascinating research to explain our world, and many are frequently quoted by the media. Explore a sampling of the Annenberg School's news and events below, and then click through to see more. There is always a lot going on! Media Contact: Julie Sloane, (215) 746-1798 Annenberg School for Communication News All Annenberg News News MIC Center Recruiting a Postdoctoral Researcher The MIC Center Is Recruiting a Post-doctoral Researcher to Focus on the Political Economy of Local Media. Watch the Video Undergraduate News 26 May 2022 Jo Piazza (C'02) Delivers 2022 Communication Major Graduation Speech Watch the Video Faculty News 24 May 2022 At Commencement, Jamieson Hails Penn’s Role in Fighting Pandemic Research 23 May 2022 Are Republicans and Democrats Driven By Hatred of One Another? Less Than You Think. News 19 May 2022 Global Media Scholar Juan Llamas-Rodriguez to Join Annenberg Faculty Events at Annenberg There's always something going on at the Annenberg School! See all of our upcoming events, both virtual and in-person. See All Annenberg Events Annenberg School for Communication In the Media More In the Media 27 May 2022 The Daily Beast: Monkeypox Is Here and COVID Truthers Are Losing It 25 May 2022 We Can’t Even Agree on What Is Tearing Us Apart 22 May 2022 Philadelphia Inquirer: Finally, the Class of 2020 gets its in-person commencement ceremonies at Penn, Haverford and Penn State Our Research Centers Many of our events are sponsored by our research centers. Scroll through and learn more about our centers. The Media, Inequality & Change Center (MIC) explores the future of media, work, and democracy. See upcoming MIC events. The Center for Advanced Research in Global Communication (CARGC) explores media from around the world. See all upcoming CARGC events. The Center for Media at Risk connects scholars and practitioners to combat threats against journalists. Check out the center's upcoming events. The Center on Digital Culture and Society (CDCS) supports interdisciplinary scholarship and dialogue on digital culture, technology, and society. See CDCS events. See previous slide See next slide More in News & Events Click to Open News & Events News Events In the Media Stay Engaged with Annenberg Sign up for our monthly newsletter, Annenberg NOW, and occasional updates on events, news, and more. Sign Up University of Pennsylvania Homepage Annenberg School for Communication 3620 Walnut Street Philadelphia, PA 19104 (215) 898-7041 contact@asc.upenn.edu Contact Us Support Annenberg Privacy Copyright Information Disclaimer Report Accessibility Issues & Get Help Engage With Uson social media Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Copyright © 2022 Annenberg School for Communication at the University of Pennsylvania