Skip to Main Content Brown University News from Brown Site Navigation Featured Events For Journalists Search Menu The Warren Alpert Medical School’s Class of 2024 celebrated at their white coat ceremony, an annual rite of passage for students pursuing a career in medicine and health care. (All photos: David DelPoio) Topics Health and Medicine Date May 3, 2022 2022-05-03 Media Contact Corrie Pikul [email protected] 401-863-1862 All News Share Facebook Twitter Linkedin Email ‘This was our moment’ — medical students embrace non-traditional timing for long-standing white coat tradition The Warren Alpert Medical School’s Class of 2024 celebrated together at an in-person white coat ceremony that was held two years later than usual, but still felt timely. PROVIDENCE, R.I. [Brown University] — Smiling and celebrating — a few even strutting — members of the Warren Alpert Medical School’s Class of 2024 received their white medical coats at a special ceremony nearly two years after they started at Brown. The white coat ceremony, formally known as the Ceremony of Commitment to Medicine, is typically held in the fall of the students’ first year of medical school. It’s a way to acknowledge the effort and dedication that brought the future physicians to medical school and to welcome them into the profession. “When you don your white coat, it’s the symbolization of not just the educational part of medicine, but also the patient care aspect,” said Dr. Roxanne Vrees, associate dean for student affairs at the Warren Alpert Medical School. “It all becomes real in that moment.” But when members of the Class of 2024 arrived at Brown in Fall 2020, the COVID-19 pandemic was at a peak. To protect health and adhere to state and campus safety protocols, most classes and school events were held virtually. While medical students did receive a white doctor’s coat, their celebration took place online and mostly individually. It wasn’t until their second year that the public health situation improved to the point that they were able to gather in larger groups. Meanwhile, school leaders heard from students that it was important for this class to have their own in-person celebration when conditions allowed. “It was a no-brainer that we should do this for the students,” Vrees said. 1 of 6 Brown medical students from the class of 2024 received their white coats just days before starting clinical rotations in the hospitals. 2 of 6 During the white coat ceremony, Dr. Mukesh K. Jain, dean of medicine and biological sciences, presented each student with a physician's jacket. 3 of 6 Although the students already had a virtual white coat ceremony in 2020, many said that having the opportunity to celebrate together in person felt meaningful and special. 4 of 6 Friends and family members were invited to join class of 2024 medical students at the spring celebration. 5 of 6 The M.D. class of 2024 has been learning, working, studying and getting to know each other since the fall of 2020, when they started medical school at Brown. 6 of 6 When medical students were called on stage to receive their white coats, audience members shouted, cheered and clapped. The spring celebration, held on Saturday, April 30, and hosted by the Brown Medical Alumni Association, took place outdoors under a festively decorated tent two days before students started the clinical portion of their training — the second half of the medical school experience, during which they spend significant amounts of time in the hospitals and around patients, wearing their white coats. Each student was called up on stage and formally coated by the new dean of the medical school, Dr. Mukesh K. Jain. Several members of this year’s class chose to strike a pose when donning their jacket. The crowd was boisterous, cheering loudly and clapping enthusiastically as their classmates’ names were called. Over the past two years of medical school, this group had the chance to develop a significant sense of camaraderie, said Christopher Bayston, a member of the Class of 2024. Bayston said that while they appreciated the creative format of the virtual white coat ceremony, they were grateful for the chance to celebrate in-person with family members and classmates. “For some celebrations that have been delayed, it kind of feels a little too late,” Bayston said. “But for this white coat ceremony, I really appreciated the opportunity — and I think a lot of other students did, too. It gave us a chance to celebrate ourselves. We haven’t had a lot of these special moments as a class, so this was our moment.” Bayston noted the auspicious timing of the event. “To be together in-person, after studying for our exams, and to look in each other’s faces before we go out into the clinical environment, was really meaningful.” Idowu Olugbade, another member of the class, agreed that the timing worked in the students’ favor — although she hadn’t always felt that way. When Olugbade first heard about the in-person white coat ceremony, she said it felt a bit redundant; “the moment had been lost,” she said. She even considered skipping the event. But then came the intense study period, and a grueling exam, and Olugbade realized that she felt eager to celebrate the milestone with the rest of her class and commemorate what they’d already experienced together. “This was a really nice way to end the preclinical years and to look ahead to what’s next,” Olugbade said. “Students were cheering each other on, validating our hard work over the past two years. It was definitely an emotional moment.” Olugbade talked about how she’d developed relationships with classmates as well as medical school faculty and deans, and it was fun and freeing to finally have the chance to interact with them in a relaxed and social way. “With my sister there and some of my family watching online, I got to meet the parents and family members of my classmates and celebrate together with other students,” she said. “Being together felt like being part of this big family — this medical school family.” Tags Warren Alpert Medical School Related news: Health and Medicine Brown physician, medical student urge stronger federal support for overdose prevention centers May 23, 2022 Elizabeth Samuels, an assistant professor at the Warren Alpert Medical School, and medical student Aneeqah Naeem argued for federal action supporting harm reduction centers such as those authorized in Rhode Island. Read Article Open details for Brown physician, medical student urge stronger federal support for overdose prevention centers Health and Medicine In student address, medical school graduate to reflect on finding strength in uncertainty May 16, 2022 Adriel Barrios-Anderson, who served as a student orator upon earning his bachelor’s degree from Brown in 2017, hopes to inspire newly minted M.D.s to feel confident about embracing the uncertainty of the future. Read Article Open details for In student address, medical school graduate to reflect on finding strength in uncertainty Health and Medicine Celebrating 50 years of medicine at Brown, by honoring the past and embracing the future April 29, 2022 Members of the Warren Alpert Medical School community, including graduates from classes ranging from 1972 to 2022, gathered to commemorate the history and look to the future of Rhode Island’s first and only medical school. Read Article Open details for Celebrating 50 years of medicine at Brown, by honoring the past and embracing the future Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Snapchat Twitter YouTube Social Media Directory © Brown University Brown University For You Current Students Faculty Staff Parents & Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Featured Events For Journalists Topics Arts and Humanities Environment Health and Medicine News and Events Science and Technology Social Sciences Student Life University Initiatives Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events For You Give to Brown All of Brown.edu People News Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search ‘This was our moment’ — medical students embrace non-traditional timing for long-standing white coat tradition Open details for ‘This was our moment’ — medical students embrace non-traditional timing for long-standing white coat tradition Bookmark this Page