Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Apply Visit Give Information For Incoming Students – Summer 2022 Current Students Employers Alumni Veterans Search BC.edu Links Menu Main Nav Back Back Close About Overview Dean's Message Mission & History STM Values Facts & Figures STM Global Diversity at STM Contact Us and Staff Directory Accreditation and Educational Effectiveness Related Links Strategic Plan STM News About BC Admission Overview Why Choose STM? How To Apply Funding Your Studies Scholarships & Assistantships Federal Financial Aid Webinars and Campus Visits Request Information Meet the Admissions Team Partnerships Related Links Living in Boston Facts & Figures FAQ New Student Information Academics Overview Programs Master of Divinity (M.Div.) Master of Arts in Theology and Ministry (M.A.) Master of Theological Studies (M.T.S.) Hybrid M.A. in Theology and Ministry Master of Theology (Th.M.) Ph.D. in Theology and Education Doctorate in Sacred Theology (S.T.D.) Licentiate in Sacred Theology (S.T.L.) Bachelor of Sacred Theology (S.T.B.) Certificate in Theology and Ministry Certificate in Hispanic Ministry Certificate in Religious Education Post-Master's Certificate Certificate in Christian Spirituality Certificate in Ignatian Spirituality Certificate in Spiritual and Pastoral Care Hispanic Ministry Programs Dual Program with M.S.W. Dual Program with M.B.A. Dual Program in Counseling Nondegree Coursework Summer at STM Intensive on the 19th Annotation for Spiritual Directors Courses Summer at STM Summer at Linz Summer at STM Supervised Ministry Spirituality Studies Programs in Hispanic Theology and Ministry STM From a Distance Related Links Current Student Resources Dual Degrees Boston Theological Interreligious Consortium Arts at STM Certificates & Nondegree Faculty & Research Overview Faculty Directory Jeffrey Von Arx, S.J. John F. Baldovin, S.J. André Brouillette, S.J. Francine Cardman Vicente Chong, S.J. Richard J. Clifford, S.J. Andrew R. Davis Daniel J. Daly Dominic F. Doyle Brian Dunkle, S.J. Angela Kim Harkins Colleen M. Griffith Margaret Eletta Guider, O.S.F. Barton T. Geger, S.J. Franklin T. Harkins Thomas H. Groome Mary Jo Iozzio David W. Jorgensen Maria Kakavas L. Callid Keefe-Perry Melissa Kelley Richard Lennan Rafael Luciani Christopher R. Matthews Catherine Mooney Matthew S. Monnig, S.J. Hosffman Ospino Theresa A. O'Keefe Félix Palazzi Andrea Ponzone, J.C.D., LL.B. William D. Roozeboom Jane E. Regan Walter J. Smith, S.J., Ph.D. Thomas D. Stegman, S.J. Judith A. Talvacchia O. Ernesto Valiente Benjamin Valentin Andrea Vicini, S.J. Joseph E. Weiss, S.J. Faculty Expertise New Testament Abstracts Student Research International Fellows Theology and Ministry Library Related Links BC Theology Department Lumen et Vita (STM Student Journal) Institute for Advanced Jesuit Studies Ricci Institute for Chinese-Western Cultural History Center for Teaching Excellence Community Overview Liturgy & Worship Diversity & Dialogue Formation Living in Boston Our Spaces Career Development Student Forum Related Links Current Student Resources BC Campus Ministry BC Graduate Student Life STM Alumni Resources Continuing Ed Overview Crossroads Formación Continua Campus Events / Webinars Registration Instructions STM Webinar Zoom Help Encore The Journey Continues Calling Out From the Depths Related Links BC Global Diversity & Dialogue Formación Continua Institute for Advanced Jesuit Studies BTI Certificate in International Mission and Ecumenism Close Directory A to Z Listing Search STM site Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Incoming Students – Summer 2022 Current Students Employers Alumni Veterans BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Home About STM Global About Dean's Message Mission & History STM Values Facts & Figures STM Global Diversity at STM Contact Us and Staff Directory Accreditation and Educational Effectiveness STM Global STM serves as a global center of Catholic thought and action, reflecting Boston College’s goal—and the enduring Jesuit ideal—to work for the transformation of the world. Through a range of programming, we reflect an ever-evolving Church and work to provide resources that meet the needs of all of our students. Immersion trips, supervised ministry placements, and coursework allow students to venture to a variety of places, from Latin America and the Caribbean to Rwanda, Uganda, and the Holy Land. We also welcome international fellows to research with us, and in 2017 we hosted a first-of-its-kind gathering: Hispanic theologians from the U.S. and scholars from Latin America and Spain convened to discuss theology within the contexts of globalization, socioeconomics, and cultural integration. Throughout everything we do, we endeavor to be a truly international community that informs conversations and challenges students to continuously examine their values and actions as our world becomes increasingly global. Related Links BC Global Diversity & Dialogue Formación Continua Institute for Advanced Jesuit Studies BTI Certificate in International Mission and Ecumenism Global Footprint “Our formation is enriched by the different geographies, histories, and challenges that our international offerings bring to the STM. The diverse tapestry of these experiences inform theological inquiries and ministerial priorities that reflect an authentic global church and respond to the realities of our multicultural world.” O. Ernesto Valiente, Associate Professor of Systematic Theology Summer at Linz The STM is delighted to partner with the Katholische Privatuniversität Linz (KU Linz) in Linz, Austria to offer STM students an opportunity to enrich your theological education by studying at an institution that has been doing theology for 300 years. Boston College STM Summer at Linz is comprised of 2 three-week sessions. Offerings through this program are interdisciplinary in nature, team taught by theology, church history, and art and art history faculty. Sample Courses: German for Theologians Religion, Theology, and Aesthetics A Theology of Witness(ing) STM News from around the World Papal appointment School of Theology and Ministry student Sister Nathalie Becquart is the first woman to be appointed undersecretary of the Synod of Bishops. Global advancements New international partnerships and initiatives enhance BC's global engagement under the direction of Vice Provost James Keenan, S.J. STM and JRS Develop Reconciliation Training in Uganda A team from BC, working in close collaboration with JRS, spent months designing a five-day workshop to build capacity for reconciliation and peace-building among refugees. Historic gathering Theologians from Latin America, Spain, and the U.S. meet to discuss Pope Francis' vision for the Church. Peace and reconciliation in post-genocide Rwanda BC Jesuit priest co-organizes an international conference that seeks to reimagine the Church in the African nation Faithful engagement The School of Theology and Ministry's Spanish-language virtual courses are drawing participants throughout Latin America and beyond. Cavalieri Visiting Jesuit Professor Ecuadorian scholar and School of Theology and Ministry alumnus Vicente Chong, S.J., returns to STM as the inaugural chairholder. BC seminar on impact of migrants The School of Theology and Ministry event will examine migrants’ contributions to social development and innovation. Global Voices With students, faculty, and other scholars from all over the world, the STM family comprises a diversity of voices. Explore how they contribute to our community and reach new heights. See the World While Studying It Through our integrated courses and programs, students journey to a variety of places, from Latin America and the Caribbean to Rwanda, Uganda, and the Holy Land to serve communities and strengthen their pastoral skills. Back To Top Back To Top School of Theology and Ministry Simboli Hall 9 Lake Street Brighton, MA 02135-3841 617-552-6501 About Admission Academics Faculty & Research Continuing Ed/Formación Continua Community Apply Visit Give Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube LinkedIn Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College