Skip to content Columbia University Irving Medical Center Find People Events Faculty and Staff Resources Give Now Search About Us About Us Facts and Figures Explore CUIMC Events Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion at CUIMC Community Development and Alumni Explore CUIMC Leadership and Administration A-Z Listing Affiliated Hospitals Campus Map and Directions Campus Resources Contact CUIMC Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion At CUIMC, we are committed to continuous improvement in providing culturally inclusive medical education and clinical care. Learn About Our Commitment Education Education Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Mailman School of Public Health School of Nursing College of Dental Medicine VP&S Columbia Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons is dedicated to developing the next generation of leaders in medicine Learn About Our Academic Programs Research Research The Louisa Gross Horwitz Prize Columbia Technology Ventures Research Administration Columbia Clinical Innovation Lab Patient Care Patient Care ColumbiaDoctors Children's Health Columbia Primary Care Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Digital Health Services at Columbia Find a Doctor Search for a provider by specialty, expertise, location and insurance. Schedule an appointment online. Find a Doctor News News For the Media Share Your News CUIMC Update CUIMC Celebrates Columbia Medicine Read the latest news stories about CUIMC faculty, research, and events Explore Our News COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Information for Patients COVID-19 Campus Safety for Employees and Students COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students COVID-19 Information and Resources for Clinical Staff COVID-19 Vaccine Information Learn about COVID-19 vaccine availability and requirements for employees and students at CUIMC Get the Latest Information You are here Home > COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC > COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students > December 14, 2021: COVID-19 Booster shots COVID-19 Information for Patients COVID-19 Campus Safety for Employees and Students COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students COVID-19 Information and Resources for Clinical Staff December 14, 2021: COVID-19 Booster shots Dear Colleague: Last week the CDC reiterated the importance of booster shots as well as an expansion of the ages of eligible individuals. There are accumulating data that support the value of COVID-19 booster dosing. Studies indicate that the protective immune response achieved after booster doses is superior when compared to after the primary vaccination schedule, including in a small study that examined this against the omicron variant. In addition, recent findings indicate that booster doses were associated with a substantial decrease in deaths when compared to individuals who had only received the primary vaccination doses. In view of these findings, Columbia University would like to assist you in finding appointments with the following resources as noted below. Columbia Primary Care If you are a Columbia Primary Care patient, make an appointment with a nurse for your booster by calling 844-387-2273 (844-387-CARE). If you would like to become a Columbia Primary Care patient, please schedule a visit to address a health care concern or for preventive care. During your appointment, Columbia Primary Care providers are happy to also provide a booster. Schedule your visit through the website or call 844-387-2273 (844-387-CARE). Locations include: Manhattan 601W. 113th Street 180 Fort Washington Avenue 2702 Broadway 51 W. 51 Street Nurse Practitioner Clinic located at 51 W 51 St, Manhattan Booster sessions will be offered at ColumbiaDoctors Midtown during select dates in December. For appointments, go to MyConnectnyc.org. Session information is provided below. Vaccination Date Appointments Will Be Available Starting Thursday, 12/16 Tuesday, 12/14, at 12pm Friday, 12/17 Tuesday, 12/14, at 12pm Wednesday, 12/22 Monday, 12/20, at 8:00am Tuesday, 12/28 Thursday, 12/23, at 8:00am Wednesday, 12/29 Thursday, 12/23, at 8:00am Additional availability will be opened in January 2022. We’ll communicate scheduling details as information becomes available. Outside of Columbia The COVID Vaccine Finder by State can help you find a convenient location in your community. You may also text your local zip code to 438829 (GETVAX) from your cell phone. You will receive a text with a link re: COVID Vax location information. Please bring your CDC card with you so that the booster may be entered. If you use the Excelsior Plus app, this will automatically become part of your record. With appreciation, Donna Lynne Senior Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, CUIMC University COVID Director Gerry Rosberg Senior Executive Vice President Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian About Us Careers News Education Patient Care Research Resources at CUIMC Columbia University Irving Medical Center 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Back to top