Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index Hispanic Serving Institution Menu Search TTU Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Office of Institutional Diversity HSI About HSI Texas Tech RAISE Committee President Schovanec's charge to the RAISE Committee is to: focus on providing support to all students of color and first-generation students so that they can achieve their goal of receiving a quality education, identify current and future grants for which Texas Tech will be eligible for or entitled to, and ensure members of the Texas Tech community fully understand the research, funding, and other opportunities that HSI designation brings. RAISE Committee Members Dr. Carol A. Sumner Vice President Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Chair, RAISE Committee Carol A. Sumner was appointed Vice President of the Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion on June 18, 2018. Before her appointment, Sumner served as the senior associate dean of students at Arizona State University. She arrived at the Phoenix campus of ASU in 2006 and served in several positions with the university, including working as a member of the TRIO Student Support Services program and as director of the University Academic Success Programs (UASP) at the West campus and founding director of the same programs at the Downtown Phoenix campus. Sumner also served as an associate dean in the Office of the Dean of Students at the Tempe campus of ASU and was the university lead for Culture@ASU, which identifies and celebrates a diverse and multifaceted university culture through art, food, music, lectures and the celebration of traditions, among other things. She led the University International Student Service Committee and served as university chair for the Committee for Campus Inclusion, as a member of the ASU Commission on the Status of Women (CSW) and as a member of the ASU Martin Luther King, Jr. Committee. Her career in higher education prior to ASU includes positions at Washington University in St. Louis, Missouri; Illinois State University; and Wilberforce University. Sumner earned her bachelor's degree in public relations with a minor in Spanish, and her master's degree in higher and postsecondary education at Illinois State University. She earned her doctorate in higher and postsecondary education from ASU. Dr. Michael Ballou Associate Dean for Research College of Agricultural Sciences and Natural Resources Dr. Michael Ballou serves as an Associate Professor in the Department of Animal and Food Sciences. Dr. Ballou provides primary leadership for CASNR's graduate and research program development including graduate student recruiting initiatives, responses to request for proposals, and research team building. Dr. Jaclyn Cañas-Carrell Analytical Toxicology and Environmental Chemistry College of Arts & Sciences, Environmental Toxicology Associate Professor Dr. Cañas-Carrell teaches courses in Analytical Toxicology and Chemical Sources and Fate. She is also involved in STEM Education. She is an Associate Director of the Texas Tech University STEM Center for Outreach, Research, and Education. She is the Director of the Plains Bridges to the Baccalaureate Program (funded by the National Institutes of Health), which supports underrepresented minority community college students who are interested in science. Dr. Dominick Casadonte Minnie Stevens Piper Professor College of Arts & Sciences, Dept. of Chemistry and Biochemistry Dr. Dominick Casadonte's research interests focus on the dynamics of unusual excited state processes, as well as the fabrication of novel nanomaterial and molecular systems with potential applications as molecular photodevices, energy storage systems, catalysts, and environmental remediants. Professor Casadonte has an active interest in several areas of chemical education. A current research focus in the area of chemical education in the Casadonte group focuses on the exploration of the integration of mathematics and science into the K-12 curriculum. Sofia Chapman, Ph.D. Director Office of Student Conduct Dr. Sofia Chapman has over 18 years of educational experience in various roles in both the elementary education arena as well as in the higher education arena. Currently, Dr. Chapman is the Managing Director of the Office of Student Conduct at Texas Tech University in which she oversees campus discipline. Dr. Chapman has served in various administrative roles dealing with issues related to admissions and recruitment, judicial/conduct affairs, Greek life, leadership programs, volunteer programming, financial aid, new student orientation, alcohol education, managing distressed students, multicultural affairs, as well as oversight of auxiliary areas such Student Union facilities. Dr. Chapman graduated in 2012 with her Ph.D. in Higher Education from Texas Tech University in which her research consisted of assessing the success of Latinas who completed the terminal degree process. Dr. Chapman also serves as an adjunct faculty member in the Higher Education program. Esther De León University Libraries Esther Medina De León is an assistant librarian for electronic resources at University Libraries. She earned her master's in Library Science from the University of North Texas in Denton and her undergraduate degree in Humanities with a minor in Spanish from Lubbock Christian University. De León is an active member in TTU's Latino Hispanic Faculty and Staff Association (LFHSA) and Hispanic Association of Women (HAW), and serves as the current adviser of Unidos por un Mismo Idioma (UMI). Dr. Idoia Elola Associate Professor of Spanish and Applied Linguistics College of Arts and Sciences; Department of Classical & Modern Languages & Literatures Dr. Elola's research focuses on second language writing and digital literacies among second and Spanish heritage language learners. She investigates areas such as students' writing processes, collaborative work using social tools, and instructional practices that enhance students' second and heritage language learning. She also works on the area of "linguistic landscapes" which creates linguistic mapping of monolingual and bilingual English-Spanish signage in the U.S. Dr. Elola is the Academic Director for the Spanish study abroad program at the Texas Tech University Center in Seville, Spain. Dr. Kelli M. Frias Marketing and Supply Chain Management Rawls College of Business Administration Assistant Professor Dr. Kellilynn M. Frias is an Assistant Professor at Texas Tech University. Her research agenda focuses on understanding the factors that impact a firm's decision on "where to participate in the value chain" or "what to sell". She studies these fundamental strategic options – called product-form choice – and the impact of key technology, firm-level and environmental factors on this decision. Her work has been published in Organization Science. Her teaching interests include marketing strategy, business-to-business marketing, marketing of innovations and new product development, and marketing and law. Dr. Annette Hernandez Uddameri Associate Dean for Undergraduate Studies Whitacre College of Engineering Associate Professor Dr. Annette Hernandez Uddameri serves as Associate Dean for Undergraduate Studies in the College of Engineering. Her research interests include sustainable watershed management through the development of scientifically rigorous consensus-driven decision making tools. David J. Isern Director of Communications & Outreach, Visiting Assistant Professor Visiting Assistant Professor Mr. David J. Isern serves as the Director of Communications and Outreach and a Visiting Assistant Professor at Texas Tech University, College of Architecture (TTU CoA). As Director of Communications and Outreach, David oversees the communications, branding, social networking, and all printed and digital media for the CoA. From 2014-2016, David was part of the administration team and Coordinator for the 2016 CoA NAAB Digital Accreditation. This accreditation was the first all-in-house digital process in the state of Texas and one of the first of its kind nationwide. The results of this accreditation granted the CoA an eight-year accreditation. Dr. Miguel Levario U.S. History, Borderlands History, Race, Immigration, Chicana/Mexican American History College of Arts & Sciences, Dept. of History Associate Professor Dr. Miguel A. Levario specializes in U.S.-Mexico Borderlands, with emphasis on the twentieth century. His research focuses on the transnational context of immigration, militarization, and race in the U.S. West and Northern Mexico. Avery Martinez SGA External Vice President Avery Martinez is a Political Science major here at Texas Tech University. As SGA's External Vice President, Avery represents the students of Texas Tech to the city of Lubbock, the Texas Tech Alumni Association, the State of Texas, the U.S. Government, and other state and national institutions. Her main goal is to ensure that every Texas Tech student is safe and adequately represented on and off campus. Elizabeth Massengale, Ph.D. Managing Director & Assistant Dean of Students Parent Relations Dr. Elizabeth Massengale serves as the Managing Director, Parent and Family Relations and an Assistant Dean of Students. She provides support and guidance for students and families in various capacities throughout their time at Texas Tech University. She has experience with Fraternity and Sorority Life, Student Involvement, Red to Black Peer Financial Coaching, and various other Student Affairs projects and programs. Jorge Ramirez J.D. Walter and Anne Huffman Professor of Law Associate Dean for International Programs School of Law Professor Jorge Ramirez was admitted to practice in Texas, U.S. Court of Appeals, Fifth Circuit, and U.S. District Courts for the Southern and Western Districts of Texas. He also administers the international study abroad programs in Mexico, France, Lithuania, Denmark and Australia. His responsibilities include teaching international law courses at the TTU Summer Law Institute in Guanajuato, Mexico. Dr. Lauryn Salazar Assistant Professor, Musicology Director, Mariachi Los Matadores de TTU J.T. & Margaret Talkington College of Visual &Performing Arts School of Music Dr. Lauryn Salazar is an ethnomusicologist whose research focuses on mariachi music in Mexico and the United States and its institutionalization vis-à-vis American academic programs at the primary, secondary, and collegiate levels. Utilizing the frameworks of postcolonial and practice theories, her research explores the ramifications of mariachi's formalization in terms of pedagogy, performance practice, and meaning. She also directs Mariachi Los Matadores a student ensemble of the Vernacular Music Center. When not teaching, she performs regularly as the harpist for the all-female Two-Time Grammy Awarding Winning Mariachi Divas de Cindy Shea based out of Los Angeles. Dr. Kristy Soloski Assistant Professor College of Human Sciences, Dept. of Marriage & Family Therapy Assistant Professor Dr. Kristy Soloski's research focuses on family processes related to substance use trajectories and culturally sensitive clinical and research practices. Among other courses, she teaches Diversity in Marriage and Family Therapy and a Senior Seminar in Grant Writing. Suzanne Tapp Executive Director Teaching, Learning, and Professional Development Center Suzanne Tapp is the Executive Director of the Teaching, Learning, and Professional Development Center (TLPDC). Her research interests include organizational development as related to centers for teaching and learning, the Transparency in Learning and Teaching Project (TILT), STEM teaching reform in undergraduate education, and inclusive teaching practices. Suzanne served on the Core Committee (the Board of Directors) for the Professional and Organizational Development Network for Higher Education (POD), and is the past chair and a founding member of the Texas Faculty Development Network. Her most recent publications include a chapter in Adjunct Faculty Voices and articles in journals such as To Improve the Academy, The Journal on Centers of Teaching and Learning, Studies in Graduate and Professional Student Development and the Journal for the Advancement of Marketing Education. Dr. Kay Tindle Managing Director, Research Development Team Office of the Vice President for Research Dr. Kay Tindle currently serves as the Managing Director for the Research Development Team (RDT) in the Office of the Vice President for Research. The RDT manages limited submissions competitions, provides editorial services for grant proposals, develops strategies for resubmissions, and offers early-stage proposal development assistance for large-scale, center-like proposals and for new faculty or first time submissions. Dr. Fernando Valle Associate Professor College of Education, Dept. of Educational Psychology and Leadership Associate Professor Dr. Fernando Valle leads $12 million in U.S. Department of Education federal grants including the i3 Innovation and Supporting Effective Educator Development (SEED) TAP Connect National Pilot and the LIFT Program which seek to improve classroom practice, instructional coaching and instructional leadership. Dr. Valle collaborates with scholars nationally to mentor and develop Latina/o Leaders and research Latina/os across the Educational Leadership pipeline. Dr. Kent Wilkinson Director, Harris Institute for Hispanic and International Communication College of Media & Communication; Dept. of Journalism & Electronic Media Dr. Kent Wilkinson's research focuses on international communication, Hispanic-oriented media in the U.S., and Hispanic health communication. He studies how language, culture and economics interact in national, regional and global media markets. Dr. Aliza Wong Director of European Studies Honors College, Associate Dean Dr. Wong is an Associate Professor of History and the Director of European Studies. She is also the co-director and co-founder of the Open Teaching Concept: Teaching Diversity Across the Curriculum Program at Texas Tech. Dr. Wong is a specialist in modern Italian history with a concentration on southern question discourse, race, nationalism, and identity. Dr. Ashley Gonzales Director Division of Diversity, Equity, & Inclusion Dr. Ashley Gonzales is responsible for contributing to the development of diversity engagement and learning experiences for students, faculty, and staff from multiple colleges and departments and to provide inter-professional practice and educational leadership that will enhance inclusion and diversity for the greater Texas Tech University community and beyond. In addition, the Director represents the unit, division and university partnerships and initiatives related to the Office of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion. Contact TTU Contact Contact TTUContact Contact TTU News News for NewsNews for News Events EventsEvents Hispanic Serving Institution Like Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion on FacebookLike Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion on Facebook Follow Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion on twitterFollow Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion on twitter Subscribe to Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion on YouTubeSubscribe to Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion on YouTube Follow Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion on InstagramFollow Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion on Instagram Address P.O. Box 5024 Lubbock, Texas, 79409-5024; Admin Building, Suite 233 Phone 806-742-7025 Email diversity@ttu.edu Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock, Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversityOct 15, 2020 10:44 AM Hispanic Serving Institution About Hispanic Serving Institution Back About HSI Hispanic Serving Institution About HSI Back What is HSI? Glossary of Terms Programs & Initiatives Development, Resource & Professional Affiliations Hispanic Faculty at Texas Tech Data Hispanic Serving Institution Back Historical Enrollment Data Rankings The History of Achieving HSI status Hispanic Serving Institution The History of Achieving HSI status Back Achieving HSI Status HSI Timeline RAISE Committee Message from the President Message from the Provost Opportunities & Events Hispanic Serving Institution Back Students Hispanic Serving Institution Back Scholarships Resources Grants Hispanic Serving Institution Back Students Research/Outreach Frequently Asked Questions News & Events Hispanic Serving Institution Back Events News Releases Community Profiles Additional Resources Hispanic Serving Institution Back TTU Resources Hispanic Serving Institution Back DDEI website Harris Institute Latino Hispanic Faculty & Staff Association External Resources Hispanic Serving Institution External Resources Back Texas HSI Consortium DOE HSI website HACU Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index