Skip to Main Content Brown University Graduate Programs Search Menu Graduate Programs BioMed: Neuroscience Ph.D. division Division of Biology & Medicine Inquire Apply All Graduate Programs Navigate This Page Navigate This Page About the Program Admission Information Completion Requirements Alumni Outcomes Leadership Contact and Location The Neuroscience graduate program promotes interdisciplinary research that crosses traditional discipline and department boundaries, while at the same time providing a strong foundation in the core concepts of neuroscience. The graduate program in Neuroscience provides an intensive, multidisciplinary education in neuroscience. Our core curriculum provides instruction about molecular, cellular, systems, cognitive, and translational neuroscience, and diseases of the nervous system. At all stages of instruction, we integrate skills that are essential for successful, independent research careers in neuroscience. Research in our program encompasses genes, molecules, cells, networks, systems, and behavior. A wide variety of experimental approaches are represented and used in our faculty trainers' laboratories. All interested applicants should apply through the Apply link on the Graduate School website. Students receive their Ph.D.s after satisfying Program requirements and completing a significant body of original research. The Neuroscience Graduate Program is also in partnership with the National Institutes of Health (NIH). Students in the NIH/GPP complete their first-year course work at Brown and then complete up to four years of thesis research at NIH. They receive their Ph.D.s from Brown. Additional Resources Faculty committees advise students throughout their studies. Core course work is taken in the first year of study, and additional specialized course work is available in the second year. Students also attend weekly journal clubs, research seminars, and skills workshops. Laboratory research involves diverse modern technologies, including structural NMR, genetic engineering, electrophysiology, molecular and cell biological methods, two photon microscopy, high–dimensional simultaneous microelectrode recording, behavioral neurophysiology, psychophysical and behavioral analyses, functional MRI, mathematical modeling and computer simulation of neural systems, and brain–machine interfaces. Admission Information Inquire Apply Admission Requirements GRE Subject: Not required GRE General: Not required Dates/Deadlines Admission Deadline December 1, 2021 Completion Requirements Proficiency in subject matter of core neuroscience courses, participation in weekly seminar series, comprehensive examination, preliminary examination, and dissertation. Alumni Careers Learn More Leadership Department Chair Anne Hart anne_hart@brown.edu Director of Graduate Studies David Sheinberg David_Sheinberg@brown.edu Director of Graduate Studies Gilad Barnea gilad_barnea@brown.edu Contact and Location Department of Neuroscience Mailing Address Brown University Box G-LN NSGP@brown.edu 401-863-1054 Visit the Department of Neuroscience Resources Program Faculty Program Handbook Graduate School Handbook Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Graduate School School of Engineering School of Professional Studies School of Public Health Warren Alpert Medical School This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search BioMed: Neuroscience Open details for BioMed: Neuroscience Bookmark this Page