Skip to content Clemson University Clemson University Search Menu Close Sorry, your browser does not support inline SVG. Sorry, your browser does not support inline SVG. Apply Giving News Resources for Students Faculty & Staff Parents Alumni Clemson University Academics Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Academics Home Employment Opportunities Apply for Admission Colleges College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business College of Education College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences College of Science Graduate School Academic Resources Academic Calendar Registrar Division of Undergraduate Studies Center for Career and Professional Development Academic Success Center GRAD 360° Libraries Outside the Classroom PEER/WISE Call Me MISTER® Creative Inquiry and Undergraduate Research Cooperative Education University Professional Internship and Co-op Program (UPIC) Study Abroad Admissions Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Admissions Home Schedule a Tour Apply for Admission Applying to Clemson First-Year Undergraduate Transfer Undergraduate International Undergraduate Graduate Students Academic Opportunities Majors Graduate Programs Online Graduate Programs Scholar Programs Paths to Graduate School Honors College Experiential Learning Financial Aid Tuition and Fee Calculator Undergraduate Financial Aid Graduate Fellowships and Awards Residency Requirements Campus Life Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Campus Life Home Club Sports Brooks Center for the Performing Arts Join Your Clemson Family Finding Your Community Living-Learning Communities Student Veterans Multicultural Programs FIRST Army ROTC Air Force ROTC Services On Campus Housing & Dining Campus Recreation Parking and Transportation Student Health Services TigerOne Card Services Clemson Athletics Get Involved Clubs and Organizations Fraternity and Sorority Life Orientation Ambassadors Tiger Media Graduate Student Government Undergraduate Student Government Research Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Research Home Clemson University Research Foundation (CURF) Division of Research Research Opportunities Student Research at Clemson Creative Inquiry Research Facilities Postdoctoral Affairs Serving South Carolina Through Research School of Health Research Public Service and Agriculture Clemson Experimental Forest Clemson Extension Clemson Research and Education Centers Public Service and Agriculture Research Farm Services Innovation and Economic Development Corporate Partnerships and Strategic Initiatives Clemson University International Center for Automotive Research (CU-ICAR) Clemson University Restoration Institute (CURI) Clemson University Biomedical Engineering Innovation Campus (CUBEInC) Center for Human Genetics Innovation Campus and Technology Park About Clemson Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back About Clemson Home Clemson News Clemson Athletics For Tigers Applying to Clemson Working at Clemson Traditions Military Heritage Things To Do in Clemson Visit Clemson Campus Resources Employment Opportunities Home and Garden Information Center Brand Guidelines CCIT Academic Calendar Training ClemsonForward Campus Leadership Board of Trustees President Academic Affairs and Provost Inclusion and Equity Student Affairs Faculty Senate Staff Senate Search Resources for Current Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Communication Degrees Forward Arrow Degrees Communication, B.A. Sports Communication, B.A. Communication, M.A. Back Arrow Back Students Forward Arrow Students Student Awards Student Opportunities Back Arrow Back Research Centers Forward Arrow Centers Social Media Listening Center Communication Center Back Arrow Back Alumni & Friends Apply Giving News Sikes Hall Icon Main Menu Forward Arrow Icon Back Arrow Icon Back Clemson University Academics Academics Home Employment Opportunities Apply for Admission Colleges College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business College of Education College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences College of Science Graduate School Academic Resources Academic Calendar Registrar Division of Undergraduate Studies Center for Career and Professional Development Academic Success Center GRAD 360° Libraries Outside the Classroom PEER/WISE Call Me MISTER® Creative Inquiry and Undergraduate Research Cooperative Education University Professional Internship and Co-op Program (UPIC) Study Abroad Admissions Admissions Home Schedule a Tour Apply for Admission Applying to Clemson First-Year Undergraduate Transfer Undergraduate International Undergraduate Graduate Students Academic Opportunities Majors Graduate Programs Online Graduate Programs Scholar Programs Paths to Graduate School Honors College Experiential Learning Financial Aid Tuition and Fee Calculator Undergraduate Financial Aid Graduate Fellowships and Awards Residency Requirements Campus Life Campus Life Home Club Sports Brooks Center for the Performing Arts Join Your Clemson Family Finding Your Community Living-Learning Communities Student Veterans Multicultural Programs FIRST Army ROTC Air Force ROTC Services On Campus Housing & Dining Campus Recreation Parking and Transportation Student Health Services TigerOne Card Services Clemson Athletics Get Involved Clubs and Organizations Fraternity and Sorority Life Orientation Ambassadors Tiger Media Graduate Student Government Undergraduate Student Government Research Research Home Clemson University Research Foundation (CURF) Division of Research Research Opportunities Student Research at Clemson Creative Inquiry Research Facilities Postdoctoral Affairs Serving South Carolina Through Research School of Health Research Public Service and Agriculture Clemson Experimental Forest Clemson Extension Clemson Research and Education Centers Public Service and Agriculture Research Farm Services Innovation and Economic Development Corporate Partnerships and Strategic Initiatives Clemson University International Center for Automotive Research (CU-ICAR) Clemson University Restoration Institute (CURI) Clemson University Biomedical Engineering Innovation Campus (CUBEInC) Center for Human Genetics Innovation Campus and Technology Park About Clemson About Clemson Home Clemson News Clemson Athletics For Tigers Applying to Clemson Working at Clemson Traditions Military Heritage Things To Do in Clemson Visit Clemson Campus Resources Employment Opportunities Home and Garden Information Center Brand Guidelines CCIT Academic Calendar Training ClemsonForward Campus Leadership Board of Trustees President Academic Affairs and Provost Inclusion and Equity Student Affairs Faculty Senate Staff Senate Search close Communication Degrees show submenu for Degrees Communication, B.A. Sports Communication, B.A. Communication, M.A. Students show submenu for Students Student Awards Student Opportunities Research Centers show submenu for Centers Social Media Listening Center Communication Center Alumni & Friends Clemson Home College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Academics Communication Degrees Current: Sports Communication, B.A. Bachelor of Arts in Sports Communication Our undergraduate program features an innovative curriculum that prepares our majors for careers in the 21st century. From core courses in communication theory and methods, to emphasis areas such as media and mass communication, health communication, and strategic communication, the curriculum is forward-thinking and prepares students to compete for careers in the communication profession or to continue their education in graduate school. Our majors develop an integrated skill set in oral, visual, and written communication and learn how to present information and interact in a digital communication environment. This diverse skill set enables students to meet the challenges of the rapidly evolving communication profession. Communication plays an integral part in the sports world, and it is imperative for sports professionals to have a strong communication foundation in order to be successful and competitive. Clemson’s sports communication major provides a multi-faceted and diverse approach to sports communication through examining areas such as social media, public relations, organizational communication and interpersonal communication. Our students gain a strong theoretical foundation that allows them to understand why certain messages work, and how to optimize communication in the sports context. During your time in this degree program, you’ll be enabled to develop a customized study plan that allows you to focus on your areas of interest. Our program also provides extensive opportunities to network with people who work in the sports communication industry. Focused Plans of Study Students collaborate with faculty to prepare a focused plan of study in such contexts as: Interpersonal Communication: The study of communication behaviors in dyads (pairs) and their impact on personal relationships. Organizational Communication: The study and assessment of networks within organizations, including the design of training to improve supervisor-employee communication. Media and Mass Communication: The study of the uses, processes, and effects of mediated communication. Health Communication: The study of provider-client interaction as well as the diffusion of health information through public health campaigns. Public Relations: The study of the management of communication between an organization and its audiences. Career Options Graduates from our program have found jobs in: Development (fundraising, grant writing) Media Production Political Communication/Campaign Management Public Relations Radio and Television Production Sales and Management Special Events Coordination Sports Production and Promotion Organizational Training and Development Hospitality and Leisure Human Resources Allied Health Social Work and Counseling Apply Thank you for your interest in our sports communication major in the communication department. Our goal is to maintain our number of students to that which can be well served by our faculty resources. We strive not for quantity, but for quality in our group of student majors. The information detailed on this page applies only to currently enrolled Clemson University students who are seeking a change of major (e.g., changing from undeclared to communication, changing from psychology to communication, etc.). We provide a comprehensive and diverse sports communication education, but tailor our program to individual students’ interests and talents. This requires our undergraduate students to have clear, compelling reasons for majoring in sports communication, while pursuing a variety of minors. As a potential applicant, you should carefully consider whether a sports communication minor (which requires no application) or major is right for you. Application Process A committee of faculty members will review applications twice a year, according to the schedule printed below. Late applications will not be considered. Semester: Spring 2022 Application Deadline: Monday, January 17 at 4:30 PM Decision Date: Mid-February Semester: Fall 2022 Application Deadline: Monday, August 22 at 4:30 PM Decision Date: Mid-September Minimum Requirements to Apply To be eligible to apply for admission to the Department of Communication, applicants must have completed 15 credit hours, including ENGL 1030 and COMM 2010 (with a B or better). Students must have a minimum GPR of 3.0 to apply. However, a GPR in that range is typically not competitive in the application process. In order for an application to be considered by the department’s Undergraduate Admissions Committee, it must include a completed online application, statement of purpose (a quality response to the prompt requesting an explanation for interest in pursuing a major in communication), a brief writing sample (e.g., a completed paper from a previous class with the grade removed), and an up-to-date resume. By providing all information listed in the application, the applicant agrees to a full review of all materials, including their transcript to verify the minimum course/GPA requirements are met. It is the student’s responsibility to ensure that the application is complete. The Undergraduate Admissions Committee will not consider incomplete applications. The department will mail notification of acceptance or rejection to students on or about the appropriate decision date noted above. If there are any questions about this process, please contact Lori Pindar, Ph.D., at 864-656-5747 or lorip@clemson.edu. Curriculum Map Freshman Year First Semester (14 Credit Hours) 1 – COMM 1010 Communication Academic and Professional Development I 3 – ENGL 1030 Accelerated Composition 4 – Foreign Language Requirement 3 – Mathematics Requirement 3 – Social Science Requirement Second Semester (17 Credit Hours) 4 – COMM 2010 Intro. to Communication 3 – COMM 2500 Public Speaking 4 – Foreign Language Requirementi 3 – Mathematics or Natural Science Requirementiii 3 – Elective Sophomore Year First Semester (16 Credit Hours) 3 – Arts and Humanities (Non-Lit.) Requirementiii 3 – Emphasis Area Requirement 3 – Foreign Language Requirementi 4 – Natural Science Requirementiii 3 – Social Science Requirementiii Second Semester (15 Credit Hours) 3 – COMM 3010 Communication Theory or COMM 3020 Mass Comm. Theory or Critical Discourse Theory 3 – Arts and Humanities (Literature) Requirementiii 3 – Foreign Language Requirementi 6 – Elective Junior Year First Semester (15 Credit Hours) 3 – COMM 3240 – Sport, Communication, and Society 3 – Emphasis Area Requirementiv 6 – Minor Requirement 3 – Elective Second Semester (15 Credit Hours) 3 – COMM 3060 Discourse, Criticism and Soc. or COMM 3100 Quantitative Research Methods in Communication or COMM 3110 Qualitative Research Methods in Communication 3 – COMM 3250 – Survey of Sports Communication 3 – Minor Requirement 3 – Emphasis Area Requirementiv 3 – Elective Senior Year First Semester (15 Credit Hours) 3 – Emphasis Area Requirementiv 3 – Minor Requirement 3 – COMM 4250 – Advanced Sports Communication 6 – Elective Second Semester (13 Credit Hours) 3 – COMM 4950 Senior Capstone Seminar 1 – COMM 4980 Communication Academic and Professional Development II 3 – Minor Requirement 6 – Elective 120 Total Semester Hours i The foreign language requirement is a proficiency requirement. Students must complete through 2020 in Arabic, Chinese, French, German, Italian, Japanese, Latin, Portuguese, Russian, or Spanish. ii EX ST 2220 or 3010 or MTHSC 2030 iii See General Education Requirements. Six of these credit hours must also satisfy the Cross-Cultural Awareness Requirement and, if EX ST 2220 is not selected, the Science and Technology in Society Requirement. iv See advisor. Emphasis area courses consist of 12 credit hours at the 3000/4000-level that fit an approved theme. [6 or 9] credit hours must be Sports Communication courses. Assessment of Student Learning Outcomes Upon graduation with a B.A. in sports communication, students will demonstrate mastery of the following: The history and distinguishing characteristics of the sports communication field. Relevant communication theory and its applications to sports contexts. Range of research methods used in sports communication research. Communication law and ethics as they apply to sports communication. How communication in sports contexts may be used to pursue long-term professional goals in communication within the student’s context of interest (e.g., mass media, public relations, workplace/business, etc.) Academic and professional writing characterized by elegance in presentation (i.e., mechanics and style) as well as intellectual and practical sophistication appropriate to a graduate of a B.A. program at a major research university. Course List COMM 3240: Communication, Sport and Society (3 Credit Hours): Covers the cultural influence of communication about sports on society. Explores how communication enables cultural meaning and values to become associated and established within sports. Exposes students to the ways that factors such as race, gender and nationalism manifest and perpetuate via communication about sports. Preq: COMM 2010 with a Cor better. COMM 3250: Survey of Sports Communication (3 Credit Hours): Covers fundamentals of communicating in a sports environment. Includes the basics of communicating for print and broadcast news, as well as communicating for sports information. Also covers ethical considerations in sports communication. Preq: COMM 2010 with a Cor better. COMM 3260: Public Relations in Sports (3 Credit Hours): Focuses on the preparation of professional sports communication materials for both internal and external audiences. Topics include the mechanics of creating press releases and other materials, as well as techniques in managing crises. Preq: COMM 2010 with a C or better. COMM 3270: Sports Media Criticism (3 Credit Hours): Students gain in-depth understanding of sports communication issues through critically analyzing actual media coverage of sporting events, addressing social issues involved in college and professional sports, and developing an understanding of sports promotion and advertising. Preq: COMM 2010 with a C or better. COMM 4250: Advanced Sports Communication (3 Credit Hours): Combination seminar and primary research class that explores contemporary sports communication issues. Students write position papers on seminar topics and conduct primary research on sports communication topics of their choice. Preq: COMM 3250. COMM 4260: Social Media and Sport Communication (3 Credit Hours): Covers the influence of communication and social media in sports and how these technologies are changing the communicative infrastructure of sports. Students will explore how social media is re-configuring sports media, how sports organizations are managing social media, and how social media affects fan behavior and athlete communication. Preq: COMM 2010 with a C or better. COMM 4270: Communication in Sports Organizations (3 Credit Hours): Examines communication dynamics in sports organizations. Among other topics, may include identifying how sports organizations manage crisis communication, communication with stakeholders, sexual harassment, ethical issues, and dissent. Preq: COMM 2010 with a Cor better. COMM 4280: Interpersonal/Family Communication and Sports (3 Credit Hours): Examines how communication functions in interpersonal and family contexts as it pertains to sports. Exposes students to positive and negative communitive behavior with athletes, coaches, and families. Challenges students to identify ways that sports can be a healthy rather than destructive, communicative topic for families and interpersonal relationships. Preq: COMM 2010 with a Cor better. Academic Advising Our academic advisors work with freshmen, sophomores, students changing majors, and transfer students. Services include: Academic advisement Course selection Transferability of courses; and Completion of various academic forms. Academic advisors are also available to meet with prospective students considering various majors within the colleges. All students are encouraged to make appointments with an advisor in their intended major. Academic Advising Communication Academic Advising Checksheet Change of Major Application In order for your application to be considered, all information must be submitted/uploaded by the.... DEADLINE - January 17 at 4:30 PM IMPORTANT At the bottom of this page is a link to a form to submit for your change of major request. BEFORE filling out the form, you must submit a Statement of Purpose, Writing Sample and Resume. After uploading these documents, please fill out the form below. Submit Your Statement of Purpose Your statement of purpose should be no longer than 500 words. Your statement should make a detailed, compelling argument for your admission that addresses: your reasons for applying to the Communication/Sports Communication major, your coursework, employment, extracurricular activity, and/or community service in Communication/Sports Communication or related fields to date, your professional and/or personal aspirations that would be well-served by a Communication/Sports Communication education, your plan of study if admitted to the major (i.e., courses of interest to you), and your unique contributions to the department, if admitted. Submit a PDF file of your Writing Sample in the following format: LastNameFirstNameYearSOP.pdf Submit Your Writing Sample Submit a PDF file of your Writing Sample in the following format: LastNameFirstNameYearWS.pdf Please note ONLY ONE WRITING SAMPLE is permitted. Submit Your Resume Submit a PDF file of your Resume in the following format: LastNameFirstNameYearResume.pdf Once you have submitted your Statement of Purpose, Writing Samples and Resume, please Fill Out and Submit This Form Department of Communication Copyright © Clemson University Department of Communication | 408 Strode Tower 864-656-1567 | Email Us | Website Updates intro-arrow Engage With Us Through Facebook Twitter Clemson University Facebook Instagram Twitter Linkedin Youtube Tiktok Policy/Terms of Use Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Copyright © 2022 Clemson University • Clemson, South Carolina 29634 Clemson University Facebook Instagram Twitter Linkedin Youtube Tiktok Resources A-Z Index Campus Map CU Safety Directory Webcams Apply to Clemson