Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Environmental Engineering MS You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Environmental Engineering MS Apply Request More Info Environmental Engineering MS Admissions Information Careers & Opportunities Labs & Research Our Faculty Required Courses Scholarships & Financial Aid Environmental Engineering Master of Science Understand and interpret the dynamics of man-made and natural pollutants, environmental systems, and the sustainability of natural resources in the Environmental Engineering Master of Science (MS) program in the College of Engineering at Temple University. Prepare to execute projects that model the flow, use and disposal of resources to address climate, environmental and sustainability issues. Combine in-class learning with research and practical work for a robust educational experience. The Environmental Engineering master’s program offers a great deal of flexibility: Classes are offered in the evenings, allowing you to fit your academic commitments around your personal and professional responsibilities. Tailor the curriculum to your interests and professional career path with specialized electives and courses. For example, if you are interested in leadership, you might choose to take a course in Engineering Management. Or, you might study Stormwater Management by focusing your coursework on this topic. The Civil and Environmental Engineering Department has a substantial group of faculty members who represent diverse interests including biological, chemical and physical processes. Water and wastewater management are disciplinary strengths of the program—not to mention highly relevant fields in the job market. Credit Requirements The Environmental Engineering MS requires a minimum of 30 credit hours. Classes & Curriculum Many students finish their requirements for the master’s program in the span of two years, though the time limit for completion is five years. Some enter the master’s program directly from undergraduate, completing the program on a full-time basis. Many students work in industry while completing their degree part time. The diversity of faculty expertise means a great variety of course topics. Take a number of core courses in the biology, chemistry and physics of environmental systems before delving into elective course work. Electives in Environmental Engineering include Advanced Physical/Chemical Processes, Aquatic Toxicology in Environmental Engineering, Biological Processes, Contaminant Dynamics in Urban Streams, Engineering Hydrology, Environmental Hydrology, Fate of Pollutants in Subsurface Environments, Urban Streams and Stormwater Management, and Water And Wastewater Systems Design. Take a look at the full list of required courses for the Environmental Engineering Master of Science. Choose to complete your degree with a thesis, project or advanced coursework. You’ll choose one of three tracks. Thesis 24 credits of course work six credits of thesis work Project 27 credits of didactic course work three credits of project work Course work 30 credits of didactic course work Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Master of Science in Environmental Engineering offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $1,184.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,546.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Student Diversity The College of Engineering reflects the diversity that has always been a hallmark of life at Temple. With students from all 50 states, 129 countries and with cultural backgrounds of all kinds, Temple’s classrooms are enriched with countless perspectives, giving students a global point of view across disciplines and fields, and strengthening bonds that encourage success among students. As a community, Temple’s shared responsibility is to enhance the quality of life for all members of the Temple community, providing a safe, supportive and welcoming environment in which to learn, work and grow. Related Graduate Degrees Environmental Engineering PhD Student Clubs & Organizations From Engineers Without Borders to Temple Robotics to professional and honor societies, student clubs in the College of Engineering provide numerous ways to network, socialize and excel outside the classroom. Learn more about the College of Engineering’s student clubs and organizations. Our Advisors A faculty advisor will guide you in navigating the curriculum and selecting the appropriate coursework to achieve your academic and professional goals. A graduate student advisor will also be available to help you with scheduling, policies and procedures to assure your smooth passage through the program. EN-ENVE-MSEN Additional Program Information Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Environmental Engineering MS Admissions Information Careers & Opportunities Labs & Research Our Faculty Required Courses Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info