Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site More Sites Main College College News About Us College Leadership Dean's Message Vision & Mission Strategic Plan College Services Contact Us Academics Undergraduate Studies Graduate Studies Departments and Programs Honors Programs Dual Degree Programs Cooper Fellows Student Awards and Accomplishments Research & Outreach Centers & Institutes Resources for Researchers Faculty Support Young Scholars Program Research News Resources Find your Advisor Student Life Parents Resources Faculty and Staff A&S Academic Continuity Plan News & Events Events & Calendar Social Media Directory A&S Magazine Faculty Awards and Fellowships New Faculty Give About Us Academics Research & Outreach Resources News & Events Give Search About Us College Leadership Dean's Message Vision & Mission Strategic Plan College Services Contact Us Academics Undergraduate Studies Graduate Studies Departments and Programs Honors Programs Dual Degree Programs Cooper Fellows Student Awards and Accomplishments Research & Outreach Centers & Institutes Resources for Researchers Faculty Support Young Scholars Program Research News Resources Find your Advisor Student Life Parents Resources Faculty and Staff A&S Academic Continuity Plan News & Events Events & Calendar Social Media Directory A&S Magazine Faculty Awards and Fellowships New Faculty Give More Sites Main College College News Centers & Institutes Resources for Researchers Faculty Support Young Scholars Program Research News About Us Academics Research & Outreach Resources News & Events Giving Home Research & Outreach Young Scholars Program AAA Young Scholars Program (YSP) The Young Scholars Program (YSP) is a unique experiential learning summer program that pairs high school students with faculty mentors within the College of Arts and Sciences, so that they may participate in high-level research and scholarly work in a real, working laboratory. Many students who have completed the Young Scholar Program go on to enroll at the University of Miami’s College of Arts & Sciences, continuing the tradition of welcoming outstanding students to the university. Please note: the YSP program is not for credit. Requirements for admission to the YSP: All applicants must: have completed his/her sophomore year of high school in the United States be in good academic standing be at least sixteen years old as of June 1, 2022 be a U.S. Citizen or Permanent Resident must agree to comply with safety protocols, including COVID-19 preventive measures To apply, please complete the initial application form below. Upon receipt of an application, participants will be contacted by a staff member and required to submit a resume, copy of their driver’s license (front and pack) or passport, copy of their Social Security card (front and back), COVID-19 Vaccination card OR weekly COVID test results, and parental consent form*. Participants may also be subjected to a background check. While the Young Scholars Program is open to out-of-town students, we do not provide housing or any stipends to the participants. COVID-19 protocols: Prior to the approval of a YSP assignment, participants must comply with all University policies, including those that govern our testing and tracing efforts to reduce COVID transmission, including: Providing proof of COVID vaccination by submitting a copy of the vaccine card (with booster, if eligible), OR Taking a weekly COVID test at a local testing facility and providing results once a week to the supervisor. The tests may be PCR or antigen (no home test results will be accepted). Supervisor will maintain proof of record in a secure location Any YSP participant who tests positive for COVID must report the results to their faculty mentor and to (305) 243-ONEU and is required to participate in contact tracing. The YSP participant must show proof of negative test result before returning to campus. If unvaccinated and exposed to COVID, participants must quarantine for 7 days and test 5-6 days post exposure. The YSP participant must show proof of negative test result before returning to campus. Requirements for completion of the YSP: Successful completion of the program requires a minimum of 40 hours of supervised laboratory research and a 500-750 words essay summarizing their experience. Upon completion, students will receive a Certificate of Participation from the College of Arts and Sciences. For any questions about this program, please contact the Office of the Interdisciplinary and Professional Studies at 305-284-8783 or ysp@miami.edu. APPLICATION DEADLINE for SUMMER 2022: Friday, May 20, 2022 *Upon acceptance to the program, prior to beginning your YSP placement, an original signed copy of the Consent, Waiver and Release Agreement form must be delivered or mailed to Dr. Maryann Tobin, Assistant Dean, Office of the Interdisciplinary and Professional Studies, College of Arts and Sciences, University of Miami, 1300 Campo Sano Avenue, Suite 215, Coral Gables, FL 33146. Fill out my online form. University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 College of Arts and Sciences 1252 Memorial Drive Ashe Building - Rm # 227 Coral Gables, FL 33146 305- 284-4117 305- 284-4117 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard WebMail Leave Feedback UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Library Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Contact Us Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices