Skip to main content Navigation Academics Admissions Research Locations Student Life Alumni & Giving Athletics Apply Now Get to Know Us. About UCF Orlando, FL 90ºF Knights Do Things Differently The University of Central Florida (UCF) is a metropolitan research university built to make a better future for our students and society. We solve tomorrow’s greatest challenges through a commitment to academic, inclusive and operational excellence. Leveraging innovative learning, discovery and partnerships, we foster social mobility while developing the skilled talent needed to advance industry for our region, state and beyond. Discover what it’s all about to be a Knight. June 10, 1963 Founded Orlando, Florida Main Campus Alexander N. Cartwright UCF President Since April 13, 2020 A Foundation for Success Founded in 1963 to provide talent for Central Florida and the growing U.S. space program, UCF has been making an impact on the state, the nation — and outer space — ever since. With 13 colleges and more than 230 degree programs, follow your passion at one of our campus locations designed to help you succeed. From the main campus in east Orlando to UCF Downtown and Rosen College of Hospitality Management to the Academic Health Sciences Campus, you’ll have the opportunity to learn in the heart of your industry. UCF also has multiple regional locations and fully online programs — including online bachelor’s degrees, online graduate degrees, online certificates and more — to ensure that you can achieve your dreams whenever and wherever you want. 70,406Enrollment 57%First-time-in-college Students Graduate with No Educational Debt 49.1%Students are Minorities Fall 2021 Admissions questions? We can help. Learn more about your next steps. Our undergraduate admissions counselors cover everything you need to know. Sign up for an info session One of the Best Colleges in the U.S. UCF is an academic, partnership and research leader in numerous fields, such as optics and lasers, modeling and simulation, engineering and computer science, business, public administration, education, hospitality management, healthcare and video game design. In fact, in addition to being recognized as one of the best national universities in 2020 by Washington Monthly, UCF consistently appears in U.S. News and World Report’s best college rankings. Explore several of our academic programs that regularly rank among the top in the nation — and the world: No. 1 graduate game design program in North America in 2020, according to The Princeton Review and PC Gamer No. 2 emergency and crisis management graduate program in the nation in 2020, according to U.S. News & World Report No. 4 hospitality school in the world, according to CEOWORLD magazine No. 5 nonprofit management graduate program in the nation in 2020, according to U.S. News & World Report Ranked among the top 30 cybersecurity programs in the nation, according to cyberdegreesedu.org Students from across the globe come to UCF to experience academic achievement — getting hands-on experience inside and outside of the classroom before graduation. Leave here prepared for a rewarding lifelong career, and make a difference in the community and beyond. At UCF, excellence is in everything we do. 238 Degree Programs 382,857 Degrees Conferred as of Aug. 2021 $211.7 million Funded Research Fiscal Year 2021 Knight Life Home to the Bounce House and the Addition Financial Arena, UCF hosts a variety of concerts and shows, plus NCAA sports and cultural events. You’ll have access to an array of student services, more than 650 student clubs and organizations and dedicated academic resources to help you succeed in school. Plus, with hundreds of events and activities outside the classroom, there are seemingly endless ways to make friends, make memories and make the most of your college experience. From Spirit Splash to UCF Celebrates the Arts, these time-honored and fan-favorite traditions are just a few of our top Knight life picks. Orlando’s Hometown Team Athletics NCAA Division I, American Athletic Conference Mascot Knights Intercollegiate Sports Baseball, Men’s Basketball, Women’s Basketball, Cheerleading, Women’s Cross Country, Football, Men’s Golf, Women’s Golf, Women’s Rowing, Men’s Soccer, Women’s Soccer, Softball, Men’s Tennis, Women’s Tennis, Women’s Track & Field, Women’s Volleyball By the Numbers UCF offers 106 bachelor’s, 95 master’s, 34 doctoral and three specialist degree programs, and it leads all universities in Florida by conferring more than 18,000 degrees a year. In Fall 2021, the freshman class had an average SAT two-score of 1325, The Burnett Honors College enrolled 491 new students, and the number of incoming National Merit Scholars ranked UCF among the top 40 colleges and universities. View the Full List of UCF Facts 4.25 Average High School GPA Fall 2021 Freshmen 357 National Merit Scholars Fall 2021 12,500+ Faculty and Staff Learning Charges On Through dynamic change and unprecedented challenges, UCF supports you as you move forward. Whether you’re on campus or online, we are here to prepare you for meaningful achievements and a rewarding future. Together, we’ll continue to Charge On. Succeed in Online Learning Let’s Get Social Find ways to get involved and stay connected. Follow UCF social media for student life, updates and more. ucf.edu/social Like us on Facebook Follow us on Twitter Find us on Instagram View our LinkedIn page Follow us on YouTube Follow us on TikTok Thirteen colleges. Unlimited possibilities. At UCF, we offer an array of academic options for just about every interest. Check out our 230+ degree programs, award-winning faculty and groundbreaking research. You’ll quickly discover all there is to experience and get inspired by at one of the nation’s largest universities. Arts and Humanities Business Burnett Honors Community Innovation and Education Engineering and Computer Science Health Professions and Sciences Medicine Nursing Optics and Photonics Rosen College of Hospitality Management Sciences Graduate Studies Undergraduate Studies University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida