COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Alert Blackboard-ready Freedom of Expression curriculum packet available The Office of Instructional Resources has partnered with other university offices to create freedom of expression curriculum packet available for use in any Blackboard course. The curriculum is entirely customizable and can be fit to different class needs. Learn More Policies and Resources Section Menu Free Expression Home Our History 2021 Free Expression Resolution Free Expression Working Group Policies and Resources Free Speech FAQs Upcoming Events and Lectures Add a Freedom of Expression unit to your class KBOR Statement on Freedom of Expression Blackboard-ready Curriculum Packet Available The Office of Instructional Resources has partnered with other university offices to create freedom of expression curriculum packet available for use in any Blackboard course. The curriculum is entirely customizable and can be fit to different class needs. Wichita State University instructors can request that OIR upload this content directly into Blackboard course areas, and interested instructors from WSU Tech and other colleges and universities that use Blackboard will receive the Blackboard-ready curriculum as a .zip file via email. Learn More University Policies Free Expression Activities This policy articulates the university's long-standing commitment to freedom of expression activities on our campus. Read full policy 2021 Resolution On January 12, 2021, Wichita State University adopted a resolution concerning free speech, free expression and academic inquiry at the university. See the resolution Student Academic Integrity University expectations for the responsible acquisition, discovery, and application of knowledge by WSU students. Read full policy 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©