Skip to main content Toggle subitems Main navigation Meet Princeton Toggle sub-items In Service of Humanity Facts & Figures History Honors & Awards Contact Us Visit Us Our Faculty Our Students Our Alumni Our Staff Our Leadership Academic Freedom and Free Expression Academics Toggle sub-items Studying at Princeton Library Areas of Study Humanities Social Sciences Engineering Natural Sciences Advising Academic Calendar Course Tools Learning Abroad Career Development Continuing Education Innovative Learning Research Toggle sub-items Engineering & Applied Science Humanities Natural Sciences Social Sciences Interdisciplinary Approach Dean for Research Office External Partnerships Facilities & Labs One Community Toggle sub-items Lifelong Connections Student Life Arts & Culture Athletics Living in Princeton, N.J. Housing & Dining Activities & Organizations Cultural & Affinity Groups Health & Wellness Religious Life Serving the Public Good Families Admission & Aid Toggle sub-items Affordable for All About Financial Aid Current Undergraduate Financial Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission For International Students Utility menu News Events Work at Princeton Services & Resources Work-Life Balance Links for Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Giving Search Sites & People × Services & Resources Overview Benefit Plans Employee Resource Groups Housing Dining Thrive at Princeton Campus Recreation Credit Union Lifelong Learning Overview When you make a commitment to our teaching and research mission, you will have access to the University’s world-renowned resources to help you succeed at work and in life. Discover the exceptional benefits and unique opportunities we offer as part of our commitment to you. View some of these benefits below, and to learn more details, visit our websites for academic and administrative jobs. Benefit Plans Photo by Denise Applewhite, Office of Communications Princeton presents world-renowned unique opportunities and outstanding resources to those who join our teaching and research mission. The University offers competitive salaries and exceptional benefits — financial, medical and more — to members of the faculty and staff. Employee Resource Groups Photo by Denise Applewhite, Office of Communications The Office of Human Resources supports several Employee Resource Groups of staff members who share a common background and interests. These groups help to enhance employee engagement, productivity, job satisfaction and retention. Housing Courtesy of the Office of Communicaitons Faculty and Staff Options Princeton takes great pride in being a residential learning community, and the University thus offers many housing opportunities for faculty and staff. They include on- and off-campus apartment and house rentals, short-term housing, and for some eligible faculty and staff, home ownership assistance. Dining Photo by Denise Applewhite, Office of Communications Cafés and Eateries on Campus If you live close to campus or commute from afar, dining options are plentiful for employees. Most offices have kitchenettes or coffee stations, several cafes dot the campus, and faculty and staff have a special dining room and "tap room" at Prospect House. Nearby Palmer Square has a wide range of dining options morning, noon and night. Thrive at Princeton Princeton University is committed to providing a range of resources that assist and support our dedicated faculty and staff in attending to personal and family needs. Explore a wide range of benefits from travel and commuting programs to health and wellness resources to employee discounts. Campus Recreation Courtesy of the Office of Athletics Whether it's swimming a few laps over the lunch hour or working with a personal trainer preparing for a long-distance run, Campus Recreation serves faculty, staff and students with many options. The 8,000-square-foot Stephens Fitness Center offers an abundance of exercise equipment for spinning, lifting, stretching and more. Credit Union Princeton Federal Credit Union was chartered in 1972 by the faculty and staff of Princeton University. The not-for-profit credit union is federally insured and offers its members a full range of financial services. Lifelong Learning Photo by David Kelly Crow Learning and Development The Office of Human Resources has a Learning & Development Team that supports the University's mission by growing the capability of managers and employees to build a motivated, engaged and high-performing workforce. Through the Office of the Dean of the Faculty, the University also offers learning and development opportunities for faculty and academic professionals. Staff Educational Assistance Plan Princeton University encourages you to further your education by reimbursing a portion of your undergraduate or graduate school expenses. Continuing Education Program Princeton’s Program in Continuing Education admits qualified area residents, K-12 New Jersey teachers, as well as University employees, employees' spouses, same-sex domestic partners and dependents, and graduate students' spouses and same-sex domestic partners to University undergraduate and graduate courses. Community Auditing Program Princeton University's Community Auditing Program (CAP) enables members of the community, high school graduates ages 18 and above, to audit, or sit in on, University lectures as listeners on a non-credit basis for $200 per course unless otherwise noted. On average, 150-175 classes are available each semester for auditing. Princeton Public Lectures For over a century, Princeton University has presented public lectures featuring intellectuals, academics, artists and writers. These events are free and open to the public. Contact links Contact Us Accessibility Advanced People Search Media Inquiries Website Feedback Visiting links Plan a Visit Maps & Shuttles Varsity Athletics Giving to Princeton Academic links Library Academic Calendar Student Links Faculty & Staff Links Footer social media Facebook Twitter Instagram Snapchat LinkedIn YouTube Social Media Directory Equal Opportunity and Nondiscrimination at Princeton University: Princeton University believes that commitment to principles of fairness and respect for all is favorable to the free and open exchange of ideas, and the University seeks to reach out as widely as possible in order to attract the ablest individuals as students, faculty, and staff. In applying this policy, the University is committed to nondiscrimination on the basis of personal beliefs or characteristics such as political views, religion, national or ethnic origin, race, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, pregnancy, age, marital or domestic partnership status, veteran status, disability, genetic information and/or other characteristics protected by applicable law in any phase of its education or employment programs or activities. In addition, pursuant to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 and supporting regulations, Princeton does not discriminate on the basis of sex in the education programs or activities that it operates; this extends to admission and employment. Inquiries about the application of Title IX and its supporting regulations may be directed to the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, Office for Civil Rights, U.S. Department of Education or to the University's Sexual Misconduct/Title IX Coordinator. See Princeton’s full Equal Opportunity Policy and Nondiscrimination Statement. Princeton University Princeton, NJ 08544 Operator: (609) 258-3000 © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Subfooter links Copyright Infringement Privacy Notice