Skip to content Enter search text All the UW Current site Search scope All the UW Current site MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links Menu Home My Husky is a . . . Transfer student International student Out-of-state student First-generation student First-year student Sophomore/Junior Graduating student Resources Parent & Family Guide Student Life Academics Health & Safety Living & Dining Finances Transportation Move In Resources Talk with your Husky Husky Huddle-up podcast Forms, releases, and accounts Common Questions Events All events UW Family Weekend Connect Support Parents & Families Academics A world-class education UW students have the opportunity to pursue one or more of over 180 majors. No matter what your Husky chooses, they’ll get a great education from one of the world’s top universities. As your student enters the next stage in their academic journey, they may change majors or struggle to figure out how their interests fit in with their career plans. That’s OK! The UW academic and advising programs will be here to support them every step of the way. You can help your student by encouraging them to form good study habits, and to seek tutoring and academic support when they need it. Talk with your Husky Spending two hours studying for every hour spent in class How general-education courses can help uncover career options Remote learning needs (if applicable): technology, workspace, etc. Using MyPlan to explore majors and track degree progress Explore more conversation topics Advising to fit their needs Your student’s academic journey begins with general advising from Undergraduate Academic Affairs. General advisers help students plan course schedules and clarify academic and personal goals. Advisors are working to accommodate both in-person and virtual appointments. Specialized advising is also available through the Office of Minority Affairs & Diversity. About academic advising Extra help is here One-on-one help is invaluable as students transition to the full demands of college-level coursework. Encourage your Husky to seek out tutoring at the beginning of the quarter, so they can stay on track and develop strong study skills. Students can visit the Center for Learning and Undergraduate Education (CLUE), The Odegaard Writing & Research Center, or the Office of Minority Affairs & Diversity for drop-in tutoring. Find academic support More to explore Choosing a major A degree is the credential a student earns by succeeding in their overall education, while the major is their specific area of study. Some UW majors are open admission — meaning students in good academic standing are admitted at any time — while other majors have capacity limits and a separate application process. Overview on UW majors First-Year Interest Groups (FIGs) Learning is more fun with friends. Through FIGs, small groups of students take a series of courses together. FIG courses facilitate small-group learning, and FIG students often form study groups outside of class. FIGs at UW Careers and internships Pursuing a major at the UW opens up many career paths and directions that a student might not have considered or even heard of before. The Career & Internship Center offers drop-in coaching, resume assistance, career fairs and more. UW Career & Internship Center University Libraries Connecting students to the resources they need is a key mission of the UW Libraries. When your student needs to do research for a class, the Libraries will have the best scholarly and credible sources for them to use. The Libraries provide safe spaces for students to study alone or with a group and help is always available in person and online. UW Libraries Undergraduate Research Program Working one-to-one with faculty and research mentors in all fields. Exploring career interests and discovering new knowledge. Sharpening critical and analytical thinking skills. Those are just a few of the benefits of participating in undergraduate research. Undergraduate Research Campus contacts Undergraduate Advising Mary Gates Hall 141 206-543-2550 advice@uw.edu Academic Support Programs (ASP) Mary Gates Hall 161 206-543-5755 aspuw@uw.edu Career & Internship Center 206-543-0535 askcic@uw.edu Disability Resources for Students Mary Gates Hall 011 206-543-8924 (Voice & Relay) uwdrs@uw.edu UW Libraries 206-543-0242 Contact Us University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA