Skip to main content Menu Discover Majors and Careers Admissions and Aid Campus Life Spirit and Traditions Athletics Raleigh, N.C. Apply Visit Give About NC State 101 Chancellor Rankings and Facts Think and Do Education Undergraduate Graduate Online Colleges and Departments Innovation Research Partnerships Centennial Campus Entrepreneurship Community Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Global Engagement Outreach and Extension Philanthropy and Giving Apply Visit Give Information For: Students Faculty and Staff Parents and Families Alumni NC State Resources NC State 101 Welcome to one of the world's leading public research universities. NC State University is based in Raleigh, North Carolina, about halfway down the East Coast of the United States. Since 1887, we’ve strived to offer world-class teaching and research. Today, we’re ranked in the top 1% of universities on the planet. NC State is a land-grant institution, which means we have a duty to open the doors of education for everyone. We’re a Research 1 university, recognized worldwide for our big ideas and bigger impact. And we’re a public university — one that believes in community, equity, sharing what we learn and serving the greater good. Play Video Top 1% of Universities Worldwide NC State is among the best globally, says the Center for World University Rankings. #2 Public College in North Carolina According to Money magazine, we’re one of the smartest investments around. Start Your Journey At NC State, you get all the opportunities and resources you’d expect from the largest university in North Carolina — without sacrificing the attention and care of a smaller school. And we’re consistently ranked as one of the best-value colleges in the country. When you start here, you can’t be stopped. Discover NC State Majors and Careers Explore everything you can do at NC State — and where it can take you. Admissions and Aid Learn what it takes to get here; we’ll help you every step of the way. Campus Life Get a glimpse of the diverse communities that make NC State special. Spirit and Traditions See the places and rituals, old and new, that our students and alumni love. Athletics Root for the NC State Wolfpack, a powerhouse of ACC and NCAA Division I sports. Raleigh, N.C. Discover one of the nation’s most-awarded cities — and your future home. Education for Everyone NC State excels in science, technology, engineering and math. We’re also at the forefront of teaching and research in agriculture, business, design, education, humanities and social sciences, natural resources, textiles, and veterinary medicine. This is a comprehensive research university, consisting of 12 colleges and 68 departments, and we’re open to lifelong learners from all around the world. Academics Undergraduate Discover why an NC State education will prepare you for life — and for any career you want. Graduate Explore our full range of more than 200 master’s and doctoral programs. Online Choose from more than 100 online academic programs — and more than 1,000 courses. Bright Ideas, Brought to Life NC State is a vibrant hub for discovery, innovation and partnership. We help talented people join forces to tackle the challenges facing our world. It’s what we were built to do. Our award-winning Centennial Campus is one of the premier public-private research parks in North America. And NC State is one of just a handful of universities ranked in the top 15 for both undergraduate and graduate entrepreneurship by the Princeton Review and Entrepreneur magazine — making us the No. 1 entrepreneurship program in the Southeast. INNOVAtiON Research NC State is a venue for the curious, the creative and the compassionate to discover new things and share them with the wider world. See the future Partnership When the best in business or government need to get things done, they come to NC State. We’re the partner of choice for industry leaders and startups alike. Find out why Centennial Campus Our world-renowned research campus is home to scores of private, public and nonprofit partners — and thousands of our students. Explore the campus Entrepreneurship We’re one of a handful of national universities that excel at helping students breathe life into their ideas. If you’re a thinker and a doer, you belong here. Get started 190+ Startups and Spinoffs NC State research creates new companies, products, services and jobs. More stats and rankings One Wolfpack Above all, NC State is a place that cherishes people and their potential. As a public university, we’re committed to the pursuit and application of knowledge for everyone’s benefit. Together, we work to improve our communities — big and small, global and local — through teaching, research and outreach. Community Diversity and Equity Learn how we strive for diversity, equity, inclusion and justice at NC State. Global Engagement Explore the far-ranging connections among our students, faculty, alumni and the world. Outreach and Extension See how NC State upholds its mission to serve state, national and global communities. More about nC State Chancellor Meet Randy Woodson, NC State’s 14th chancellor, who guides us forward. Rankings and Facts See how we stack up in academics, research and innovation, partnerships and more. Think and Do Find out why NC State is known for thinking big and getting things done. Home Raleigh, NC 27695 919.515.2011 Campus Map Academic Calendar Accessibility Apply Contact Copyright COVID-19 Updates Directory Emergency Information Free Speech Jobs Libraries MyPack Portal Policies Privacy Statement Resources Strategic Plan Connect With Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.