Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Division of Student Affairs Student Affairs Information for Employers Faculty and Staff Alumni Search BC.edu Links Career Center Menu Main Nav Career Center Meet With a Career Coach Back Back Close About Overview Meet Our Team Student Employment Contact and Visit Us Meet with a Career Coach Learning Outcomes Career Clusters Overview Career Exploration Business, Consulting, and Finance Communication, Arts, and Media Education, Nonprofit, and Social Service Government, Law, and Public Policy Healthcare and Nursing Science, Technology, and Engineering Jobs and Internships Overview Be Career Ready Internships Jobs Resumes Cover Letters Online Presence Networking Interviewing Evaluating an Offer and Salary Negotiation Graduate School Overview Applying to Graduate School Law School For Current Graduate Students Events and Programs Overview Event Calendar Careerfest Endeavor Schedule of Events Endeavor Fellows Endeavor Keynote Endeavor FAQs Information for Alumni Envision Designing Your Career Course Alumni Job Shadow Program Career Fairs and Networking Events Campus Recruitment Eagle Intern Fellowship Career Closet Praxis Summer Program Winter Break Challenge Illumination Awards Outcomes Resources Overview Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Handshake Guide Eagle Exchange Guide Meet With a Career Coach Close Directory A to Z Listing Search BC Career Center Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Employers Faculty and Staff Alumni BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Home Resources Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion A Letter From Our Team Dear Boston College Students, At the Boston College Career Center, we embrace and celebrate the diversity you bring to our campus and are committed to creating an inclusive environment where you are welcomed, respected, and supported. We collectively dedicate ourselves to providing services and resources that will help level the playing field for all BC students, realizing that not everyone has equal access to career-related opportunities and networks. Regardless of your background or identity, it is our hope that you feel equipped to explore, prepare for, and act on your career goals and contribute your rich ideas, skills, and values to the world. As a staff, we strive to collaborate with you in making those goals a reality. We welcome you to visit us early and often—please visit our website and make an appointment or stop by today! Your continuous feedback and engagement with our office is essential to the Career Center's mission of empowering all students to lead meaningful careers and lives, and we look forward to working with you! On behalf of the Boston College Career Team, Joseph Du Pont Associate Vice President, Student Affairs/Career Services Did You Know? The Career Center has developed a label system to help you identify inclusive employers in Handshake. You can now filter for: Inclusive workplace: BIPOC (AHANA) Inclusive workplace: LGBTQ+ Inclusive workplace: People with Disabilities Inclusive workplace: Women Inclusive workplace: Forbes100 Visit our Handshake Guide to learn how Discover Resources AHANA First Generation International Students LGBTQ+ Student Athletes Students with Disabilities Veterans Women Undocumented/DACAmented Students AHANA Resources We offer a variety of resources and tools specifically for students of AHANA (African-American, Hispanic, Asian, or Native American) heritage. We want to help you prepare to be career ready and acknowledge the background and story that has shaped your career goals. If you identify as AHANA, you may also encounter unique challenges in the workplace, such as not seeing people that look like you in leadership positions, finding a lack of understanding of your cultural background, or facing racial or cultural stereotypes. Because these issues may occur in the workplace, we encourage you to research the companies for which you would like to work and evaluate their commitment to diversity and inclusion. There are many companies that have expressed a commitment to diversity and value the unique perspective that you would offer to your internship or job. Your multicultural experience is an empowering differentiator to prospective employers We hope the resources provided below will help you find a career path that celebrates your heritage. We also invite you to make an appointment with a career coach to discuss your search. Color Blind or Color Brave? This TED talk by Mellody Hobson discusses the importance of having discussions around race. Hobson says, it's a "conversational third rail," but that's exactly why we need to start talking about it. In this engaging, persuasive talk, Hobson makes the case that speaking openly about race —particularly about diversity in hiring—makes for “better businesses and a better society.” Career Resources for AHANA Students There are a variety of diversity resources and opportunities that will help you in your career search. Please visit our office if you have any questions about the opportunities listed below. Diversity Reports Here’s What Companies Are Promising to Do to Fight Racism (The New York Times) The 50 best US companies for people of color in 2019 (Insider) 50+ Black-Owned and Led Companies for Students to Follow (Handshake) Industry-Specific Resources and Opportunities Business, Consulting, and Finance Black Economic Council of Massachusetts (BECMA) Mass. Black Expo Ebony 100 McKinsey & Company Sophomore Diversity Leaders Internship A 10 week program for Black, African American, Hispanic, Latino, and/or Native American Sophomores interested in learning more about consulting. Students who complete the program successfully can also be hired next summer as Summer Business Analysts. Boston Consulting Group Future Leaders Internship Program A 10 week program for sophomores of Black/African-American and Hispanic/Latino descent. At the end of the internship, can be hired for a full-time internship next summer. Also provides a mentorship, training, and development program. MLB Diversity Fellowship An opportunity for recent graduates to explore Major League Baseball. Open to candidates who identify as AHANA and Women. BRAG Retail and Related Fields Program This opportunity is an internship and professional development program for students of color interested in retail and related fields. EY Launch Internship For underrepresented groups in the profession and are accounting and/or related business majors who are two or more years from final graduation. Please contact the Career Center for more information on applying for this opportunity. Deloitte Pioneer Internship Program Freshmen interested in accounting, technology, or a related field. Black or African-American, Hispanic or Latino, American Indian or Alaska Native, Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander, or two or more races are strongly encouraged to apply. Deloitte Discovery Internship Rotational program for sophomores to work in different business sectors at Deloitte, including audit & Assurance, Risk and Financial Advisory, or Tax. Black or African-American, Hispanic or Latino, American Indian or Alaska Native, Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander, or two or more races are strongly encouraged to apply. Communication, Arts, and Media American Association for the Advancement of Science Minority Writers Science Internship An internship for minority students interested in science writing. Preference will be given to those majoring in English or Journalism. Emma Bowen Foundation Fellowship Program Fellowship program for AHANA identifying students interested in the business of media (sales, PR, human resources, marketing), the content of media (news production, journalism, digital media), the innovation of media (computer science, big data, technology of communications) NASCAR Diversity Internship Program A 10 week, paid summer internship that targets multicultural undergraduate and graduate students with high academic standing Diversity in Arts Leadership Internship Program Internship opportunity for students interested in the field of arts management. Targeted to undergraduate students from underrepresented backgrounds. The Getty Foundation Multicultural Undergraduate Internship Opportunity for underrepresented students interested in museums and visual arts organizations to gain experience in areas such as curatorship, conservation, education, publications, and related programmatic activities. Smithsonian Minority Awards Program Opportunity for undergraduate and graduate students who want experience in research and museums. Education, Nonprofit, and Social Service MIT Summer Research Program For students interested in graduate study and research. Underrepresented minorities and underserved (e.g. low socio-economic background, first generation) students are strongly encouraged to apply. Students interested in research enterprise in engineering, architecture, management, science, and humanities are encouraged to apply. William Randolph Hearst Endowed Fellowship for Minority Students Internship opportunity for students of color at the undergraduate and graduate level who are interested in nonprofit organizations, philanthropy, and the social sector. McNair Scholars Program Program to help students from underrepresented backgrounds pursue doctoral degrees and careers in research and academia. Students who are Boston College undergraduates who are both low-income and first-generation college participants and/or under-represented are encouraged to apply. Government, Law, and Public Policy Congressional Black Caucus Internship opportunity for students interested in working for congress Congressional Hispanic Caucus Internship opportunity for students interested in working for congress Rangel Fellowship Graduate school scholarship for students interested in working for the state department SEO Law Fellowship Program The SEO Law Fellowship Program offers scholarships, academic preparation, career development training and internship opportunities to talented, underrepresented incoming law students. Fellows spend two weeks in New York City receiving hands-on training from legal practitioners and academic instruction from law school professors, before embarking on an 8-week paid internship at a top corporate law firm - all before starting law school. Healthcare and Nursing John Hopkins Summer Internship Program For students from underrepresented backgrounds interested in careers in science, medicine and public health. CDC Minority Fellowship and Internships The Office of Minority Health and Health Equity has several internships and fellowships for students interested in public health Science, Technology, and Engineering MIT Summer Research Program For students interested in graduate study and research. Underrepresented minorities and underserved (e.g. low socio-economic background, first generation) students are strongly encouraged to apply. Students interested in research enterprise in engineering, architecture, management, science, and humanities are encouraged to apply. John Hopkins Summer Internship Program For students from underrepresented backgrounds interested in careers in science, medicine and public health. Department of Energy Minority Educational Institution Student Partnership Program For students interested in scientific research Financial Resources for AHANA Students Financial Resources for Black Students Financial Resources for Latinx Students Financial Resources for Asian American and Pacific Islander Students Financial Resources for Native American Students AHANA Organizations on Campus Take a look at some of the AHANA organizations on campus listed below. Joining campus organizations is a great way to connect with your peers and expose you to leadership and professional development opportunities. For additional AHANA resources please visit Thea Bowman AHANA and Intercultural Center. Organizations: African Student Organization (ASO) AHANA Management Academy (AMA) Arab Student Association (ASA) Asian Caucus (AS) Black Student Forum (BSF) Cape Verdean Student Association (CVSA) Caribbean Culture Club (CCC) Chinese Student Association (CSA) Dominican Association of BC (DABC) Iranian Culture Club (ICC) Korean Student Org. (KSA) Haitian Association (HA) Organization of Latin American Affairs (OLAA) Philippine Society (PS) South Asian Student Association (SASA) Southeast Asian Student Association (SESA) Taiwanese Culture Org. (TCO) United Front (UF) Vietnamese Student Org. (VSA) First Generation Resources According to the National Association of Colleges and Employers, first generation college students are students whose parents matriculated, but never graduated with a bachelor’s degree and those students whose parents never persisted past a high school diploma. If you identify as a first generation college student, we want to help you become career ready and provide you with the knowledge and skills necessary to reach your career goals. We hope the resources provided below will give you the information you need to explore career paths that align with your interests, skills, and values. We also invite you to make an appointment with a career coach to discuss your search. First Gen Career Mentorship Program We know that career development starts in your first year and continues throughout your college career (and beyond). We are committed to ensuring that every first generation student is not only aware of, but is also comfortable utilizing all of the services, resources, and programs that the Career Center offers. Are you an incoming first gen student? Consider participating in our First Gen Career Mentorship Program. Program participants are matched with a career mentor who you can engage with regularly, and who will keep you informed about relevant and exciting exploration opportunities throughout your first year at BC. Please feel free to contact Julianne Smith, Associate Director, Career Education, at julianne.smith@bc.edu with any questions. Express Interest Looking for a Job? Highlight Your Ability, Not Your Experience This TED talk by Jason Shen, Co-founder and CEO of Headlight, discusses how few of us hold jobs that line up directly with our past experiences or what we studied in college. In this quick, insightful talk about human potential, Shen shares some new thinking on how job seekers can make themselves more attractive — and why employers should look for ability over credentials. Career Information for First Generation College Students Find answers to your career questions. We have identified frequently asked questions and provided answers to assist you with navigating your career journey. Please visit our office to discuss these questions more in-depth. How can the Career Center help me on my career search? We do a lot of work to help students as they figure out which career is right for them. You can make an appointment with a Career Coach to help you during your career search. If you are still in the early stages of their career discovery, we encourage you to make an appointment with a career coach to help you identify your skills, values, and interests through self-assessment, explore options for your major, and investigate different career paths. If you have more of an idea of your career direction, make an appointment with a Career Coach to explore a specified field or industry, search for full-time and internship positions, prepare for interviews, and evaluate job offers. We encourage you to make an appointment with a Career Coach to have your career questions answered. I have no idea what I want to do. Can you help me? If you’re unsure of what you want to do, we have a few web resources that could help you. Since arriving at BC, you’ve probably been asked the three questions— what am I good at? what do I enjoy? and what does the world need? Take the time to discover the answer to these questions and explore more about your interests, skills, and values. After completing the assessments, make an appointment with one of our staff to have a conversation about what you’ve discovered. If you want to have a more in-depth conversation, make an appointment with one of our career exploration coaches. I know what I want to do, but not how to get there. Where do I start? If you’re ready to take the plunge and start searching for internships, we have several search strategies for you to use as you begin to find the internship that’s the perfect fit for you. We encourage you to begin by browsing our career cluster pages to find resources related to your area of interest. Join a cluster to receive customized emails from our career coaches with important resources and reminders. Make an appointment with a cluster coach for help with strategizing your search. I’m thinking about applying to graduate school. What are my first steps? We encourage you to begin by browsing our career cluster pages to find resources related to your area of interest. Join a cluster to receive customized emails from our career coaches with important resources. Make an appointment with a cluster coach for help with determining if graduate school is the right fit for you. If you’re ready to begin applying to graduate programs, we have resources to help you through the application process. I want to make some changes to my resume. What should I do? If you need some help improving your resume, we have several resources to help you, including sample resumes and instructions on how to write a resume. We can also review your resume for you during our weekly drop-in hours. Do you offer funding for unpaid internships? Yes! We offer rising sophomores, juniors, and seniors the opportunity to apply for the Eagle Intern Fellowship. If you are selected, you can receive $3,500 in fellowship money to support you during your unpaid summer internship. I’ve been offered my first full-time job! How do know if it’s a fair salary and how do I negotiate my offer? Congratulations on receiving the offer! Review our guide for students on how to evaluate your job offer and salary. We encourage you to make an appointment with a Career Coach if you have any questions about a job offer. How can I network as a first generation college student? Networking is a way to connect with professionals in your field of interest and learn about the professional world. Networking opportunities present themselves regularly. Take advantage of the resources and advantages available to you as a student to build your network throughout your experience. Don’t wait until you’re actively looking for a job to start making connections. Instead, take action now to grow your network. You can make valuable career connections through a variety of sources, including: For more information, please check out our tips on networking. Are there any more resources on campus that can help me? Learning To Learn is an office at BC dedicated to helping low-income, under represented, first generation college students, and students with disabilities succeed while they attend college. This office offers a lot of programs to help students who are first generation, and they would be happy to connect with you. Resources for International Students International students seeking jobs or internships in the United States have much to offer. Enhancing workplace diversity and bringing an array of different perspectives, international students have the ability to be competitive applicants to U.S.-based organizations. With an increased emphasis on globalization across all industries, proficiency in multiple languages, as well as familiarity with other cultures, have the potential to set international students apart in the career search. International students may come across unique challenges during the job search. Some of the challenges that you might be worried about may include your work eligibility in the U.S., employer commitment to hiring international students, and trying to find the right words to express yourself professionally. To help ease some of these worries, the Career Center at Boston College provides resources to help you with your job search and connect you to additional resources. We invite you to make an appointment with a career coach to discuss your search. We recognize the additional challenges our international students face when seeking a job or internship, and we want to work with you to help you understand and overcome these challenges whether you are looking for a position in the U.S. or elsewhere. As you go through your search, please feel free to schedule an appointment with a career coach to discuss your specific plans. Working in the U.S. First and foremost, before launching a U.S. job or internship search, it is critical for you to work with the Office of International Students and Scholars (OISS) to understand the rules and requirements around Curricular Practical Training (CPT) and Optional Practical Training (OPT), as well as the specifics related to the type of visa you hold. Please meet with OISS prior to scheduling a meeting with a career coach to discuss a job or internship search. In addition to the many resources available on the Career Center website to help you with your resume, cover letters, networking, interviewing skills, etc., following are resources that will help you understand U.S. work culture and recruitment practices. Also keep in mind that culture and hiring practices vary by career field, too, so be sure to research your fields of interest through our career cluster pages. GoinGlobal: The U.S. country career guide, as well as specific U.S. city career guides provide employment advice for those seeking jobs or internships in the U.S. This resource also includes information about potential H1B sponsors. Connors Family Learning Center: If English is not your first language, you can book an ESL Writing Appointment to have your cover letter checked for English grammar mistakes. Eagle Exchange: You can search for and connect with alumni who were international students to seek advice on how they found their positions. MyVisaJobs: This resource can help you identify companies who have sponsored H1B visas and green cards in the past. It also outlines the top industries that offer sponsorship. Working Outside the U.S. If you will be seeking employment in your home country or another country outside the U.S., you will want to seek out information about culture and hiring practices in that country. Following are resources to help you with that research and through which you can connect with BC alumni who have experience in and knowledge of your country of choice. GoinGlobal: Refer to your preferred country guide for information relevant to the job search in that country. Eagle Exchange: You can search for and connect with alumni who are working in your preferred country. Regardless of their career field and role, they may be able to share helpful information about searching for positions in that country. Boston College International Alumni Chapters: Check to see if BC has an alumni chapter in your country of choice and, if so, connect with them via social media. LGBTQ+ Resources As a student identifying as lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, or queer (LGBTQ+), you may face unique challenges within your job search. For many, it is important to find an employer that provides an open and supportive workplace culture. You may also be contemplating whether you want to come out in the workplace and, if so, how to come out or how to discuss this on your resume or in an interview. The Career Center provides resources to help you with your job search and connect you to additional resources. We hope the resources provided below will help you with your search. We invite you to make an appointment with a career coach to discuss your search. A variety of resources are available to support individuals identifying as LGBTQ+ as they search for jobs and advance their careers Human Rights Campaign: Explore an array of resources, including lists of best places to work for the LGBTQ+ community and advice on coming out in the workplace as transgender. Out & Equal Workplace Advocates: Out & Equal Workplace Advocates lists many programs and resources dedicated to creating safe and equitable workplaces for the LGBTQ+ community. Out For Undergrad: Out For Undergrad helps prepare students for different careers and offers annual conferences related to business, marketing, technology, and engineering. Out Professionals: This LGBTQ+ nonprofit network offers a free job bank that lists companies who value diversity. ProGayJobs: This site features companies with policies that cater to the LGBTQ+ community. Victory Institute: This site provides professional development opportunities for future LGBTQ+ leaders. Pride at Work: An organization tha trepresents LGBTQ+ union members and their allies. Pride in our Workplace: An organization that helps LGBTQ+ profesionals and allied businesses drive positive change in the workplace. Speak Out Boston: A community of speakers working to rid the world of homo-bi-transphobia and other forms of prejudice. LGBTQIA+ Play Book on Big Interview: This series of short videos discusses managing the intersection of your gender identity or sexual orientation with your identity as a professional. You will learn how to redirect questions from an interviewer that may be probing to prompt a candidate to self-disclose, how to research inclusive companies, how to generalize one's LGBTQIA+ work and volunteer experience, and how to feature diversity on your resume. ACLU Press Release regarding the SCOTUS decision (Bostock v. Clayton County: This press release will help you further understand employment protections for people who identify as LGBTQIA+. Open All Close All Should I express that I am LGBTQ+ in my resume or cover letter? The answer to this question will vary from person to person. It is important to ask yourself what you’re comfortable with sharing and if you want to be out within the workplace. If you’re comfortable, feel free to share skills that you’ve developed or enhanced during LGBTQ+ related experiences or activities. If you are not sure whether you want to be open about your sexuality with potential employers, you can start researching the organization to see if they are committed to supporting LGBTQ+ employees. You can utilize the resources on this webpage to conduct that research. If you’re not comfortable sharing your work with LGBTQ+ related organizations, you can change the name of an organization to something more broad. Instead of saying you volunteered at a LGBTQ+ rights organization, you can say you volunteered at a human rights organization. Can an interviewer ask me about my sexuality or gender identity? While it is illegal for an employer to ask you about your sexual orientation in an interview, it is still a possibility that they might ask you. If an interviewer does ask you about your LGBTQ+ identity, it is up to you to decide whether you are comfortable answering the question directly. Not all illegal questions are asked in an outright manner. Pay attention to the information for which you're being asked and be prepared for how you will answer if you are asked an illegal question. You can respond in four different ways: Address the question(s) directly by asking how that information affects your ability to do the job. Answer truthfully - it is your right to disclose that information, if you choose to do so. However, know now that it is open topic, interviewers can continue to ask you questions about the topic you've disclosed. Politely and professionally remind the interviewer that the question is illegal to ask in an interview setting. Don't answer the question(s), but answer the intent behind the question. Additionally, if the employer continues probing you with questions and is making you feel uncomfortable, you should consider whether the organization offers an environment in which you’d like to work. Resources: LGBTQIA+ Play Book on Big Interview This series of short videos discusses managing the intersection of your gender identity or sexual orientation with your identity as a professional. You will learn how to redirect questions from an interviewer that may be probing to prompt a candidate to self-disclose, how to research inclusive companies, how to generalize one's LGBTQIA+ work and volunteer experience, and how to feature diversity on your resume. ACLU Press Release regarding the SCOTUS decision (Bostock v. Clayton County This press release will help you further understand employment protections for people who identify as LGBTQIA+. How do I know if an organization supports LGBTQ+ employees? When looking for potential organizations for which you’d like to work, you may want to consider the company culture surrounding LGBTQ+ rights and support in the workplace. The below are a few things that you may want to consider. Most of the answers to these questions can be found on the company’s website or through sources in the media. Does the company have a diversity statement that includes initiatives for LGBTQ+ employees? What are their non-discrimination policies? Do they include gender identity and sexual orientation? What does their benefits package look like? Does it include Domestic Partner benefits? Do they provide training with awareness of LGBTQ+ issues? Do they have any professional LGBTQ+ groups? What are current employees saying about the work culture? How should I present myself in an interview if I am transitioning? As in any interview, you will want to present yourself in a professional manner. You should dress professionally for the gender with which you identify – this will help guide the interviewer to use correct pronouns. Alternatively, you can also dress in gender neutral professional attire. Ultimately, you should present yourself in whichever manner will make you feel most comfortable. Additional Resources & Organizations Below are some additional resources for LGBTQ+ students on campus, as well as campus organizations with which you may want to get involved. Joining campus organizations is a great way to connect with your peers and expose you to additional professional development opportunities. LGBT@BC Resources for Student Athletes If you are a student athlete preparing to enter the job market, it is important to remember that the skills and values you have gained over a lifetime of competing and mastering a sport are applicable and marketable in your search for a career. You are part of a unique group of people who had the opportunity to be student-ambassadors for Boston College while at school and these experiences and responsibilities will prove vital in finding a job where your skills and interests are able to align. We invite you to make an appointment with a career coach to discuss your search. Student-Athlete Resumes Athletic experience is best listed in the “experience” section if you didn’t hold a job or summer internship while during your time as a student-athelete, otherwise it belongs in the “activities” section. Include sport, years played, accomplishments, time devoted to training, and academic honors/awards If you received a full athletic scholarship, you may list it as one of your accomplishments. Use action words to describe the skills you’ve gained from participating in collegiate athletics (leadership skills, teamwork, time management, communication skills, commitment, and etc.). Strong ability to manage time and priorities; balanced varsity athletics and school Teamwork skills developed through varsity sports Excellent leadership and communication skills as a team captain Disciplined and responsible – demonstrated through athletic and academic success What Does Being an Athlete Say About You as a Job Candidate? You’re accountable for yourself and your goals, but you are also used to working as part of a team. You can balance academics and sports, and you’re used to managing your time. You have a strong work ethic and are dedicated to your goals. You’re used to the public spotlight, as well as the pressure and scrutiny that come with it. You have good mentoring and leadership skills, especially as a captain. You’re proficient with team dynamics and dealing with different personality types. You have mental toughness and are able to handle let-down and defeat. Resources for Students with Disabilities As a student with hearing or visual impairments, or who has cognitive, physical, or psychological disabilities, you may face a series of unique challenges during your job search. It is necessary to find an employer that provides a supportive workplace with reasonable accommodations for your individual disability. You may also wonder if and when you should disclose the specifics of your disability to an employer, what rights you have in the workplace, and how to request reasonable accommodations. The Boston College Career Center provides resources to help you with your job search and connect you to additional resources. We invite you to make an appointment with a career coach to discuss your search. Resources ETS Guidelines for Students with Disabilities: Resources for students regarding ETS accommodations for test taking (GRE, TOEFL etc.) Independent Living Research Utilization Job Announcements: Search for job opportunities across the country Job Accommodation Network: This consulting firm provides information on job accommodation, the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA), and employment opportunities. Americans with Disabilities Act: A guide for people with disabilities seeking employment Lime Connect: A resource for top talent in the disability space that prepares and connects highly accomplished individuals with disabilities for careers with the world’s leading corporations Work without limits: A statewide network of engaged employers and innovative, collaborative partners that aims to increase employment among individuals with disabilities. AAPD Summer Internship Program: AAPD is a national cross-disability civil rights organization that works to increase the political and economic power of people with disabilities. Workforce Recruitment Program: A recruitment and referral program that connects federal and private-sector employers nationwide with highly motivated college students and recent graduates with disabilities who are eager to demonstrate their abilities in the workplace through summer or permanent jobs Open All Close All What is a workplace accommodation? A workplace accommodation is a modification or adjustment to a job, the work environment, or the way in which a job is usually done that enables an individual with a disability, who is otherwise qualified to perform a job, to attain the same level of performance and to enjoy the same benefits and privileges of employment. What is a reasonable accommodation? Reasonable accommodations can apply to the duties of the job and/or where and how job tasks are performed. The accommodation should make it easier for the employee to successfully perform the duties of the position. Requests are considered on a case-by-case basis. To request reasonable accommodations: Look at the vacancy announcement Work directly with person arranging the interviews Contact the agency Selective Placement Program Coordinator Contact the hiring manager and engage in an interactive process to clarify what the person needs and identify reasonable accommodations Make an oral or written request; no special language is needed How do I go about disclosing a disability to an employer? Disclosure is a very personal decision, and a decision that takes thought and practice. Both young people with visible disabilities and those with hidden (not readily apparent to others) disabilities can benefit from accurate information on disclosure. The following information for young people, families, and youth service professionals can assist in determining appropriate methods of disclosure. Cyber Disclosure for Youth with Disabilities This document is a supplement to The 411 on Disability Disclosure: A Workbook for Youth with Disabilities, which helps youth learn about disability disclosure and what it means for them. Search sites like Google, social networking sites like Facebook, and micro-blogging sites like Twitter have added a new element to disclosure. Now it is possible to disclose disability status on the internet without even being aware of it. This can be as simple as a picture of a person using a wheelchair, a comment on a friend’s blog about disability, or a profile posted on a disability organization’s website. The goal of this document is to provide youth with suggestions on how to both make informed decisions about their own disability disclosure and manage their disclosures online. Helping Youth with Learning Disabilities Chart the Course: A Guide for Youth Service Professionals This InfoBrief describes challenges faced by youth and young adults with learning disabilities as they reach adulthood, while also highlighting strategies youth service professionals can implement to help youth to transition successfully into the workplace. The 411 on Disability Disclosure: A Workbook for Families, Educators, Youth Service Professionals, and Adult Allies Who Care About Youth with Disabilities Adults in the lives of young people with both visible disabilities and those with disabilities that are not apparent to others can benefit from using this workbook. This workbook helps adults make informed decisions about teaching a young man or woman about his or her rights and responsibilities in disclosing his or her disability – a decision that will affect the young person’s educational, employment, and social life. This workbook will help adults learn how to support a young person with a disability as he or she takes steps in becoming more independent and self-sufficient. In fact, making the personal decision to disclose a disability can make the young person more confident in himself or herself and the choices he or she makes. The 411 on Disability Disclosure: A Workbook for Youth with Disabilities This guide is designed for youth and adults working with them to learn about disability disclosure. This workbook helps young people make informed decisions about whether or not to disclose their disabilities and understand how that decision may impact their education, employment, and social lives. Youth and Disability Disclosure: The Role of Families and Advocates This InfoBrief highlights NCWD-Youth’s The 411 on Disability Disclosure and explores the role families and advocates play in helping youth understand the importance of appropriate disability disclosure. What is the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) and who is protected? The ADA is a federal civil rights law that prohibits discrimination against persons with disabilities. The employment provisions of the ADA prohibit employers from discriminating on the basis of disability and require employers to provide reasonable accommodations to individuals with disabilities who are qualified to perform a job. The ADA also requires public access and nondiscrimination by public entities, as well as enhances access to transportation and telecommunications. Disability is defined as a physical or mental impairment that limits one or more of a person's major life activities, such as seeing, hearing, walking, standing, sitting, or learning. Where can I find employers who have had successful experiences hiring individuals with disabilities? A good place to learn about private employers with a good track record of hiring and retaining people with disabilities in the United States Business Leadership Network (USBLN). This non-profit organization works to promote workplaces, as well as marketplaces and supply chains, that are inclusive of people with disabilities and serves as the collective voice for more than 60 state and local affiliates that represent more than 5,000 businesses across the country. Where can I access information about workplace accommodations? The Job Accommodation Network (JAN), funded by DOL's Office of Disability Employment Policy, is the leading source of free, expert and confidential guidance on workplace accommodations. JAN's website is AskJAN.org. Live phone service is also available 9:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. EST by calling (toll-free) 1-800-526-7234 (Voice) or 1-877-781-9403 (TTY). Additional Resources Joining campus organizations is a great way to connect with your peers and expose you to additional professional development opportunities. Boston College Disability Service Office Connors Family Learning Center Veterans Resources As a Veteran of any branch of the armed forces, you bring unique skills to the workplace. However, you may face unique challenges during your job search after reintegrating into civilian life. The Boston College Career Center can help you translate your military skills into a resume for the civilian workplace. It offers a variety of resources to support you as you start your job search and advance your career. We invite you to make an appointment with a career coach to discuss your search. Campus Resources Boston College Veterans Additional Job Search Resources Orion Talent: This website is aimed at helping veterans transition into civilian life by providing job opportunities as well as career tips, sample resumes, and other resume resources. FourBlock: A nation-wide community of veterans and employers dedicated to transforming the veteran transition process. Recruit Military: An organization that helps connect employers and veterans. Big Interview: An interview preparation tool. Big Interview has a specific practice session for veterans. Women's Resources As a woman entering the workforce, you may find yourself dealing with a unique set of challenges in your job search. Wondering how to research employers who are dedicated to gender equality within workplace interactions, pay, and promotions? The Boston College Career Center offers a variety of resources to support women as they start their job searches and advance their careers. We invite you to make an appointment with a career coach to discuss your search. A variety of resources are available to support women as they search for jobs and advance their careers Office of Women’s Advancement City of Boston Women for Hire: Women for Hire offers signature career fairs, an exceptional professional online network, speeches and seminars, customized marketing programs, an online job board, and more. Black Career Women’s Network American Association of University Women: The AAUW advances equality for women and girls through advocacy, education, and research. WAGE Project: WAGE inspires and helps working women to take the steps needed so that every woman is paid what she’s worth. Workplace Fairness: Workplace Fairness provides legal information about sexual and gender discrimination. WITI: WITI works to empower women worldwide to achieve unimagined possibilities and transformations through technology, leadership, and economic prosperity. Career Women: Career Women offers a job search engine to help qualified women find employment. Open All Close All How do I negotiate a salary? Negotiating a salary can be intimidating. It’s often hard to negotiate a salary when you are unsure about whether the number for which you’re asking is too high. Here are a few tips on how to prepare to negotiate your salary. Research the worth of your position combined with your experience. This will help you feel informed and confident in asking for a higher salary, bonuses, or vacation time. Let the employer make the first offer. Try not to disclose a specific number beforehand because this may result in you asking for a salary that is lower than an employer may have originally offered. Be confident in your ability to counter offer; you don’t have to take an employer's first offer. This does not necessarily have to only include base salary pay. You can negotiate bonuses, vacation days, your work schedule, or stock options. If an employer is offering you the job, you are qualified and have skills that are important to their company and the company should offer you a compensation relative to those skills. For more information on how to negotiate a salary, please visit women for hire. What things should I research about a company to see if they encompass an environment of gender equality? When looking for potential companies for which you may like to work, you may want to consider what the company culture is surrounding women in the workplace. Here are a few things that you may want to consider. Most of the answers to these questions can be found online, through on-campus employer information sessions or through informational interviews. What is the ratio of women to men at the company? What percentage of those women hold executive/managerial positions? Does the company have any diversity initiatives or commitment to gender equality on their website or in the media? What are their anti-discriminatory policies? What am I supposed to do if an employer asks me about my future plans to start a family or another intrusive personal question? Sometimes an interviewer will ask you questions that you feel are too personal or unrelated to the job. Most of the time interviewers who ask these sorts of questions are just trying to make small talk without actually thinking about the impact of how it may make the interviewee feel. While you’re in the interview you can try to decide what the interviewer's intent is in asking you a personal question, such as whether you’re planning on starting a family in the near future. If you feel comfortable doing so, you can also give them a short general answer and say, “Oh, why do you ask?”. By inquiring about their actual concerns, you may be able to address their specific questions, such as will you be reliable and come in to work on time, instead of feeling pressured to talk about your personal future plans. If you cannot find a way to answer an employer's questions in a manner that doesn’t make you feel like you’re being unfairly grilled about your personal life, you may want to ask yourself whether you would be comfortable working for that company. Women's Center Suggested Readings Lean In – Sheryl Sandberg How Remarkable Women Lead – Joanna Barsh & Susie Cranston The Confidence Code – Katty Kay & Claire Shipman #GirlBoss – Sophia Amoruso Knowing Your Value – Mika Brzezinski Presence: Bringing Your Boldest Self to your Biggest Challenges – Amy Cuddy Resources & Organizations Joining campus organizations is a great way to connect with your peers and expose you to additional professional development opportunities. Boston College Women’s Center Women in Business Women’s Law Center Resources for Undocumented/DACAmented Students Undocumented and DACAmented students are able to adapt, eager to learn, and determined to succeed because of their perseverance through the many unique circumstances that they face. As an undocumented student, you may encounter legal and financial struggles that may make it difficult to access career-related opportunities. We are here to walk with you throughout your career journey and will do our best to help you navigate the resources and opportunities available at BC and beyond. To speak with a coach we invite you to make an appointment. While the undocumented experience is a diverse one and students’ experiences may vary, we are also aware that some undocumented students may also be low-income, first-generation, and/or students of color. These intersectional identities may result in more challenges, but also in new opportunities. Employment What do I qualify for? While there are some limitations to accessing certain resources and opportunities, there are a growing number of internships, fellowships, scholarships, and graduate schools opening up their admission to undocumented students. What is work authorization? Any person with work authorization may legally work in the United States. DREAMers with DACA are able to get renewable work authorizations that allow them to work in the U.S. for two years at a time. An employer does not have to sponsor a DREAMer with DACA—they can hire them just as they would any U.S. citizen. It is unlawful for an employer to refuse to hire a DREAMer with a valid work authorization because of their DACA status. What is an EAD and how do I get it? An EAD is an employment authorization document (also known as a work permit or I-766) that tells your employer you are authorized to work in the U.S. It can also be used as an ID. The DACA application process includes applying for an EAD using Forms I-765 and I-765WS. After the government approves your application, you will be issued an EAD card. An EAD is not the same thing as a passport or a Social Security card. This document proves only that you may work legally in the U.S. TPS holders may also request employment authorization if it is provided as a benefit of DED: Temporary Protected Status and Deferred Enforced Departure. Resources Filling Out Job Applications as a DACAmented or Undocumented Student Employers Interested in Hiring DACA Students—compiled from a 2015 recruitment survey conducted by Penn and UCLA Alternatives to Employment There are other options for professional growth, skill development, and revenue-generating to consider as an undocumented student. Some options below are highlighted by TheDreamUs through their Career and Income Options for Undocumented Students webinar, which covers these topics more in depth. Funding A fellowship is typically a monetary award given to a student to pay for their academic, research, or professional pursuits. Funding at Boston College Eagle Intern Fellowship: We offer rising sophomores, juniors, and seniors the opportunity to apply. If you are selected, you can receive $3,500 in fellowship money to support you during your unpaid summer internship. Winston Center for Leadership and Ethics Student Grants Clough Center for the Study of Constitutional Democracy Civic Internship Grants African and African Diaspora Studies Amanda V. Houston Traveling Fellowship The Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Internship Grant for Unpaid Internships Institute for the Liberal Arts Council for Women at Boston College Colloquium Fellowship Search “fellowship” in Handshake for other opportunities at BC Funding Beyond Boston College Immigrants Rising: Offers a list of Undergraduate Fellowships and Graduate Fellowships that don’t require proof of U.S. Citizenship or legal permanent residency GrantForward Search Engine: Search for federal grants, foundation grants, and limited submission opportunities Resources for Undocumented Students, Scholarships, Grants & Internship: The Latino/a Studies Program at Cornell University have compiled a comprehensive but non-exhaustive list of scholarships, internships, and research opportunities available to undocumented and DACAmented students. Connect with academic departments, faculty, student organizations, and your professional network to explore alternative funding sources. Scholarships (Undergraduate and Graduate) MyUndocumented Life: Offers a list of college scholarships that are DREAMer eligible, and a list of scholarships & fellowships for undocumented or DACAmented graduate students Immigrants Rising: Offers an Undergraduate Scholarship List and a Graduate Scholarship List which don’t require proof of U.S. Citizenship or legal permanent residency The Paul and Daisy Soros New American Fellowship and the Ford Foundation Fellowship Program are open to DACAmented students. Scholarship databases like FastWeb and Unigo Additional Resources Legal Support For legal support, please contact GBLS (Greater Boston Legal Services). They provide free legal services and may be able to assist you. Please contact a lawyer if you have questions about your particular situation. For DACA applications and renewals, United We Dream has several resources and tools: First Time DACA Application and Renewal Resources. National Networks Immigrants Rising: Immigrants Rising empowers undocumented young people to achieve educational and career goals through personal, institutional and policy transformation. RAISE (Revolutionizing Asian American Immigrant Stories on the East Coast): This is a pan-Asian undocumented group based on the East Coast. Their grassroots work of political activism, leadership development, community education, and coalition building is grounded in personal experiences of being undocumented and Asian Pacific Islander (API). UndocuBlack Network: This is a grassroots, first-of-its kind space for black undocumented folks to heal, organize and be empowered by each other. UndocuUndergrads National Network: This national network of peer undocumented students aims to connect students with fellow prospective/current/former undocumented college students across the country to hare/receive helpful information and resources such as scholarships, internships, programs, and more. United We Dream: The largest immigrant youth-led community in the country. They create welcoming spaces for young people - regardless of immigration status—to support, engage, and empower. Families Resources for Undocumented Immigrants & Their Families During Covid-19: A list of important resources and news that can help undocumented and mixed-status families during the Covid-19 pandemic. It includes resources related to finances, health, and immigration policy updates. Quick Links Handshake Eagle Exchange Career Clusters Now Playing Interviewing in the U.S. for International Students Workshop This workshop discusses best practices for interviews in the United States with a focus on virtual interviewing. From the Career Center Blog Understanding Your AAPI Identity in the Workplace Everyone brings their own set of values and identities to their career and workplace. As someone who identifies as a April 25, 2022 BCCareerCenterTeam Should I Disclose My Disability During a Job Search? Many students with a disability struggle with the question of disclosure during the job and internship search process. “Will disclosure April 25, 2022 BCCareerCenterTeam Ways Companies Are Celebrating Black History Month at Work You may be aware of various celebrations and programs that take place here at Boston College that celebrate Equity and February 02, 2022 BCCareerCenterTeam Eleven Questions to Ask to Assess an Organization’s Commitment to Diversity “Conscious job seeking is searching for employment or contractor opportunities that align with your vision, mission, values, and goals,” explains January 31, 2022 BCCareerCenterTeam Personal Statement Tips for International Students If you’re applying to graduate school, you will need to write a personal statement as part of the application. The October 07, 2021 BCCareerCenterTeam How to Find Great Employers Looking to find employers you’ll love working for? It’s possible! You just need to do your research. Luckily, there are September 22, 2021 BCCareerCenterTeam Understanding Your AAPI Identity in the Workplace Everyone brings their own set of values and identities to their career and workplace. As someone who identifies as a April 25, 2022 BCCareerCenterTeam Should I Disclose My Disability During a Job Search? Many students with a disability struggle with the question of disclosure during the job and internship search process. “Will disclosure April 25, 2022 BCCareerCenterTeam Ways Companies Are Celebrating Black History Month at Work You may be aware of various celebrations and programs that take place here at Boston College that celebrate Equity and February 02, 2022 BCCareerCenterTeam VIEW MORE POSTS VIEW LESS POSTS Visit Blog Back To Top Back To Top Career Center Southwell Hall 38 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 617-552-3430 About Departments & Programs How can we help you? Events Division of Student Affairs Division of Student Affairs BAIC BC Bands Business Service Center Career Center Counseling Services Graduate Student Life Health Promotion Health Services Residential Life Robsham Theater Student Conduct Student Involvement Student Outreach & Support Women’s Center Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College