Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Office of Nationally Competitive Awards NCA right arrow down arrow About NCA right arrow down arrow Programs and Events Understanding Fellowships Frequently Asked Questions Contact Us News Awards right arrow down arrow Core Awards right arrow down arrow Fulbright U.S. Student Program Gaither Junior Fellows Program right arrow down arrow Gaither Info Session Goldwater Scholarship right arrow down arrow Goldwater Info Session Marshall Scholarship right arrow down arrow UK Awards Info Sessions Mitchell Scholarship right arrow down arrow UK Awards Info Sessions Rhodes Scholarship right arrow down arrow UK Awards Info Sessions Truman Scholarship right arrow down arrow Truman Info Session Udall Scholarship right arrow down arrow Udall Info Session Priority Awards right arrow down arrow Boren Awards right arrow down arrow Boren Info Session Critical Language Scholarship right arrow down arrow CLS Info Session Fulbright UK Summer Institutes right arrow down arrow Fulbright UKSI Session Gates Cambridge Scholarship right arrow down arrow UK Awards Info Sessions Knight-Hennessy Scholarship National Science Foundation Graduate Research Fellowship Paul & Daisy Soros Fellowships for New Americans Schwarzman Scholarship right arrow down arrow Schwarzman Scholarship Info Session Other Awards right arrow down arrow International Studies International Students Underrepresented and Minority Students Specific Interests or Disciplines Applying right arrow down arrow Deciding to Apply Preparing Your Application right arrow down arrow Recommendation Letters Essay Strategies Developing as a Candidate The Leadership Essay Student Spotlight right arrow down arrow 2021–22 Award Winners 2020–21 Award Winners 2019–20 Award Winners 2018–19 Award Winners NCA Ambassadors Fulbright@UC right arrow down arrow Info Session Recordings UC Fulbright Winners Fulbright Boot Camp Aspire Scholars For Faculty Home » Campus Life » Office of Nationally Competitive Awards » Applying » Deciding to Apply Set Navigation title in component Deciding to Apply Preparing Your Application Recommendation Letters Essay Strategies Developing as a Candidate The Leadership Essay Deciding to Apply Before You Apply As you decide whether to apply for a fellowship, we encourage you to carefully consider the following: Review the eligibility criteria Often, the eligibility criteria are quite straightforward. Note their rules regarding minimum GPA, citizenship, time from graduation, age, and so on. Also, note any preferences articulated by the scholarship foundation that go beyond the basic rules of eligibility. Review the selection criteria Beyond the basics of eligibility, the selection criteria define what makes a candidate competitive. Reading bios of past winners, if available, can be helpful here. Make an honest self-assessment of your strengths as a potential candidate. In the process, talk to trusted faculty, mentors, and advisors, including NCA. No one can make this decision for you, but it is always good to have sounding boards in this process. Assess the application timeline Compare the application timeline to your schedule of commitments. Will you be able to devote time to the application? Once You Decide to Apply Contact NCA If you are applying for a Core Award, NCA must have advance notice of your intent to apply so we can schedule your interview slot. Additionally, we ask anyone who works with our office to complete a records release form, which should be submitted to nca@uc.edu. Launch your online application Once the application is open, set up your profile. This allows you to see the current cycle’s essay prompts (these can change from year to year) and register your recommenders. Review all directions carefully, and mark all deadlines (internal and national) on your calendar. Establish a writing schedule Most writers need structure, so you should set up a writing timeline for yourself. NCA is happy to help you create a workable schedule for yourself. Share your tentative drafting plan with NCA. Also, if you want to apply for multiple awards at the same time, it becomes all the more important that you plan and prioritize. Decide which award is most important to you, and work on that one first. Office of Nationally Competitive Awards 707A Swift Hall 513-556-1003 nca@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Office of Nationally Competitive Awards 707A Swift Hall 513-556-1003 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top