Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Explore Brown University Search Global Navigation Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Department of Sociology Home News People Programs Courses Undergraduate Programs Ph.D. Program Master's in Social Analysis and Research 5th-Year MSAR Apply Now On The Market Colloquia Diversity & Inclusion Apply Now Site Navigation Home News People Faculty Office and TA Lab Hours Ph.D. Students Master's Students Staff Programs Courses Undergraduate Programs A.B. in Sociology Sc.B. in Social Analysis and Research Organizational Studies Track (S/OS) Honors Transfer Credit Department Undergraduate Group (DUG) Ph.D. Program Funding Ph.D. Year by Year Awards Student Resources Student Publications Student Placements Master's in Social Analysis and Research Student Placements 5th-Year MSAR Apply Now On The Market Colloquia Diversity & Inclusion Apply Now Applications FAQ Programs Undergraduate A.B. in Sociology Provides foundational skills to examine the intricacies of social systems through the norms, values, identities, power structures and institutions of which societies are organized. Details Sc.B. in Social Analysis & Research Provides conceptual and working knowledge of techniques for data collection and analysis for social research in academic & non-academic environments. Details Organizational Studies Track Builds on the core concentrations by cultivating expertise in sociological research on work, management, leadership and entrepreneurship. Details Migration Studies Certificate Promotes a multidisciplinary understanding of migration with emphasis on research methods and rigorous approaches to the study of migration. Details Engaged Scholarship Certificate Supports interdisciplinary inquiry into an issue of the student's choice, coupled with direct engagement with communities, organizations, and practitioners outside of the academy. Details Graduate Master's (Sc.M.) Program in Social Analysis and Research The Brown Sociology Master's Program prepares candidates for interpreting and understanding complex data utilizing a variety of advanced methods. Details 5th-Year Master's (Sc.M.) Program in Social Analysis and Research (For Brown Undergraduates) Undergraduates with a background in the social sciences get training in advanced statistical methods with direct application to behavioral and market research. Details Ph.D. Program in Sociology The Brown Sociology Graduate Program prepares candidates for the complexities of 21st century sociology. Details Programs Courses Undergraduate Programs Ph.D. Program Master's in Social Analysis and Research 5th-Year MSAR Apply Now Department of Sociology Department of Sociology Brown University Box 1916 Maxcy Hall, 108 George Street Inner Campus – Lower Green Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-2367 Fax: 401-863-3213 Email [email protected] Twitter Twitter Facebook Facebook Brown University Giving to Brown Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA 401-863-1000 Contact Us Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility All Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top