Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Health Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Our Services Appointments Health Topics Events Forms and Guidelines Our Organization News See All Services What's Open Now Patient Resources Quarantine and Isolation Support Coping Tools Immunization Compliance Top Services Birth Control Education Individual Counseling Primary Care Register with Disability Services Sexual Assault: Get Support STI Testing Support Groups Travel Medicine Urgent Medical Concerns Workshops and Trainings Cost of Service Overview Make an Appointment Same Day Service Emergency and After-hours Support Alcohol Body Image Concerns Marijuana Disabilities Other Drugs HIV Insurance Men's Health Mental Health and Well-Being Anxiety Depression Stress Nutrition Physical Activity Relationships Overview Academic Relationships Friendships Roommates Sexual and Reproductive Health Sleep Transgender and Gender Expansive Health Violence Prevention Prevention Consent What Is Sexual Assault? Supporting a Survivor What Is Relationship Abuse? Stalking What Is Sexual Harassment? Bystander Intervention-Step UP! Women's Health See All Events Sexual Assault Awareness Month Columbia Health Flu Season Information Virtual Naloxone Training About Columbia Health Who We Are Who We Serve Confidentiality, Patient Rights, & Patient Responsibilities Operating Philosophy Video Library Your Feedback Staff Directory Health Units Alice! Health Promotion Counseling and Psychological Services Disability Services Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) Insurance Office Medical Services Sexual Violence Response Columbia Health You are here: Home Staff Directory Gayle Marie Gatchalian Gayle Marie Gatchalian As Associate Director, Communications, Gayle helps lead the development, implementation and ongoing management of communications strategy and plans for the entire organization Prior to joining the Columbia team, Gayle was a Marketing and Communications Specialist at Women’s World Banking, a global nonprofit leader in advancing women’s financial inclusion. At Women's World Banking, Gayle managed content marketing and creative communications initiatives for the organization’s field projects. She was also responsible for website, social media and email channels. Prior to Women’s World Banking, she was the Development and Communications Associate for Day One NY, a nonprofit that provides dating abuse and domestic violence education and support to New York City youth. At Day One, Gayle managed digital marketing properties, provided grant writing and reporting support, and helped in the development and execution of the organization’s fundraisers. Gayle has a MA in Media, Culture and Communication with a concentration in Technology & Society from NYU-Steinhardt and a BA in Communications Studies, Minor in Anthropology from UCLA. She is a native of the Philippines. Associate Director of Communications Contact Info 400 West 119th Street, New York NY 10027, United States +1 212 851 4487 [email protected] Columbia Health Administration Wallach Hall, Suite 125, Mail Code 4202, 1116 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-2284 Contact Us [email protected] Internal Use Only Login to Access Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close