Skip to main content iastate.edu Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons Iowa State University University Library Menu Toggle Search Toggle Search Index Hours My Library Card Give Research & Collections Find Books & Media (Quick Search) Article Indexes & Databases e-Books e-Journals - A-Z list Specific Article by Citation or DOI Course Reserves Movies and TV Streaming Video Collections WorldCat (Open Access) Catalogs of Other Libraries Iowa State Collections DataShare: ISU's Data Repository Digital Collections Digital Initiatives Digital Press Digital Repository @ Iowa State University Special Collections and University Archives Research Help Research and Course Guides Quick Search Tips Find Articles Find Dissertations and Theses Find Other Types of Material Find Audiovisual Materials Find Books Find Census Data Find Government Documents Find Images Find Legal Research Find Magazines, Journals Find Manuscripts and Archives Find Maps Find Microforms Find Newspapers and News Find Standards Cite Sources Cite Sources Overview Endnote Ask Us! Find Your Librarian Collections Areas Leisure Collection Media Center Periodical Room Reference Materials Call Numbers in Parks Library Library Storage Building Design Reading Room Design Reading Room Overview About the Design Reading Room Course Reserves - Design Reading Room Design Reading Room Staff Veterinary Medicine Library Restricted Building Access About the Vet Med Library Veterinary Medicine Library Staff Borrowing Main Desk Check Out and Return Request Books and More Pick From Shelf Service Recall or Hold an Item Renew an Item Interlibrary Loan & Document Delivery (ILL/DD) ILL/DD Overview ILL/DD Account Login Interlibrary Loan FAQ Libraries Requesting ISU Materials Unaffiliated User Terms and Conditions Missing Items Loan Periods Fines (overdue/lost items) Book a Media Item for Classroom Use Who May Borrow? Your Library Card Help & Services Accessibility Services Accessibility Services Overview Services & Equipment Available Physical Access to Parks Library Building and Collections Accessibility Services at Branch Libraries For You Services for Students Faculty & Instructors Distance Learners International Nest Alumni & Visitors Assistance Lost & Found Find Your Librarian Ask a Librarian How Do I ... Library FAQ Access E-Resources Access My Library Card Get Something That's Not Available Find Articles Find Dissertations and Theses Find Other Types of Materials Cite Sources Quick Search Tips Teaching & Class Support Library Instruction Overview Library 160 Course-related Instruction Course Reserves Research and Course Guides Workshops Copyright Information Open Scholarship Services Binding theses Solution Center Systems Status Spaces & Computers Study Rooms Group Study Rooms Research Study Rooms Quiet Areas Reserve a Library Space Parks Library spaces Floor & Tier Maps Accessible and Sensory Friendly Spaces Learning Connections Center Bookends Café International Nest Mindfulness Room Where to find ... Room Number Listings Physical Access to Parks Library Building and Collections Diaper changing stations and lactation room Restrooms Library Classroom Use Computers & Technology Assistive Technology Computers and Computer Labs Interactive Displays for Group Work Laptop & Equipment Checkout Group Equipment Loans Outlets and Wireless Printing, Copying, Scanning Other Equipment Parks Libro NVivo Software Access Design Reading Room Veterinary Medicine Library Ask Us! Find Manuscripts and Archives The Special Collections and University Archives Department of the ISU Library holds numerous primary source collections on various topics and in many formats such as paper documents, photographs, audio-visual materials, electronic documents, and artifacts. Included are personal papers of individuals, records of various organizations and businesses, and the University Archives. Manuscripts and archives can be located using Quick Search. Enter your search terms, then use "Refine my results" in the left sidebar to narrow your results by topic, creator, collection, date, or resource type. Narrowing the collection to "PARKS Special Collections" will typically highlight special collections. Additional help is available from staff in the Special Collections and University Archives Department, who can answer your research questions, provide finding aids, and assist in the use of resources. The department also provides subject access to its collections through a series of subject guides. Special Collections: Specific types of materials The Special Collections Department maintains several collections. The links to the following collections provide further access to manuscripts and archives in the Department. The Archives of Women in Science and Engineering collects the personal and professional papers of women in all areas of science and engineering, except the medical sciences. The Manuscript Collections include papers and records of individuals and organizations primarily in the fields of life sciences, agricultural and rural life, and engineering. TheUniversity Archives consists of departmental and administrative records, university publications, papers of faculty and alumni, materials documenting student life, and University related photographs and films. The Artifact Collection contains a variety of three-dimensional items that document the history of Iowa State University, agriculture, science, and technology. The collection currently includes some 3,000 items dating from 1849 to the present. The Audiovisual Collection consists of approximately 10,000 titles, mostly produced by Iowa State University and focusing on technology, agriculture, science, the university, and the state of Iowa. The Photograph Collection includes over 1,000,000 photographs, primarily documenting Iowa State University and the activities of ISU faculty, staff, students, and alumni. The Web Archives provides access (via Archive-It) to millions of archived pages from Iowa State University and other select websites. Need more help? Visit the Special Collections and University Archives Department Reading Room (403 Parks Library) during open hours, or contact staff by e-mail (https://specialcollections.lib.iastate.edu/contact) or phone (515 294-6672). University Library University Library 701 Morrill Rd Ames, IA 50011-2102 Ask Us! 515 294-3642 phone Email Webmaster Facebook Twitter Follow us FDLP Copyright © 1995-2022 Iowa State University of Science and Technology All rights reserved Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility Consumer information