Skip to main site navigation Skip to main content Return to Anneberg School for Communication Homepage Open the main menu People Faculty, Lecturers & Researchers Graduate Students Staff Graduate Ph.D. Program How to Apply Financial Support Curriculum and Milestones Courses Graduate Faculty Joint Degrees & Certificates Student Life Careers & Outcomes Undergraduate Major in Communication Declaring the Major Major Requirements Courses Academic Opportunities Advising Appointments Careers & Outcomes Research Research Areas Topics Centers & Groups Annenberg School Library Executive Education News & Events News Events In the Media About Message from the Dean Mission & History Leadership & Governance Diversity & Inclusion Location & Facilities Careers at Annenberg Contact Us Open the search panel Search Site Alumni Policies & Resources People Faculty John L. Jackson, Jr., Ph.D. John L. Jackson, Jr., Ph.D. Walter H. Annenberg Dean Richard Perry University Professor dean@asc.upenn.edu (215) 898-7041 he/him Twitter Download CV Topics Film & Mediamaking Race & Ethnicity Visual Communication Research Areas Culture & Media Center & Group Affiliations CAMRA Center for Experimental Ethnography Center for Media at Risk Center on Digital Culture and Society John L. Jackson, Jr. is a filmmaker and urban anthropologist who works at the intersection of visual culture, critical race theory, media studies, and the ethnography of diasporic religions. John L. Jackson, Jr., is the Walter H. Annenberg Dean of the Annenberg School for Communication and Richard Perry University Professor at the University of Pennsylvania. He was previously Dean of the School of Social Policy & Practice and Special Adviser to the Provost on Diversity at Penn. Jackson earned his B.A. in Communication (Radio/TV/Film) from Howard University, completed his Ph.D. in Anthropology from Columbia University, and served as a junior fellow at the Harvard University Society of Fellows before becoming Assistant Professor of Cultural Anthropology at Duke University. He is the author of Harlemworld: Doing Race and Class in Contemporary Black America (University of Chicago Press, 2001); Real Black: Adventures in Racial Sincerity (University of Chicago Press, 2005); Racial Paranoia: The Unintended Consequences of Political Correctness (Basic Civitas, 2008); Thin Description: Ethnography and the African Hebrew Israelites of Jerusalem (Harvard University Press, 2013); Impolite Conversations: On Race, Politics, Sex, Money, and Religion (Atria/Simon & Schuster, 2014), co-written with Cora Daniels; and Televised Redemption: Black Religious Media and Racial Empowerment (NYU Press, 2016), co-written with Carolyn Rouse and Marla Frederick. He is also editor of Social Policy and Social Justice (University of Pennsylvania Press, 2016). His most recent films include Bad Friday: Rastafari after Coral Gardens (Third World Newsreel, 2012), co-directed with Deborah A. Thomas, and Making Sweet Tea: The Lives and Loves of Southern Black Gay Men, co-directed with Nora Gross and co-executive produced with E. Patrick Johnson. An urban researcher, media ethnographer, anthropologist of religion, and theorist of race/ethnicity, Jackson’s work also critically explores how film and other non-traditional or multi-modal formats can be most effectively utilized in specifically scholarly research projects, and he is one of the founding members of CAMRA, the University of Pennsylvania-based initiative organized around creating visual and performative research projects and producing rigorous criteria for assessing them. He is currently a faculty member at Penn’s new Center for Experimental Ethnography, and he has affiliations with Penn’s Departments of Africana Studies and Anthropology, as well as with the Graduate School of Education and the School of Social Policy & Practice. Education B.A., Howard University, 1993 M.A., Columbia University, 1994 M.Phil., Columbia University, 1998 Ph.D., Columbia University, 2000 Selected Publications Televised Redemption: Black Religious Media and Racial Empowerment. New York University Press, 2016. Impolite Conversations: On Race, Politics, Sex, Money, and Religion. Simon and Schuster, 2014. Thin Description: Ethnography and the African Hebrew Israelites of Jerusalem. Harvard University Press, 2013. Click to Open Additional Publications “An Americanist Anthropologist in Dimona: Notes from an Africanized Israel,” in Ethnographic Encounters in Israel. Indiana University Press, 2013. Racial Paranoia: The Unintended Consequences of Political Correctness. Basic Books, 2008. Real Black: Adventures in Racial Sincerity. University of Chicago Press, 2005. Harlemworld: Doing Race and Class in Contemporary Black America. University of Chicago Press, 2001. Courses COMM 4680 (formerly 468) Annenberg Media Lab 2020: It’s Not Just TV — The HBO Project COMM 8420 (formerly 842) The Filmic COMM 8240 (formerly 824) Critical Race Media COMM 8640 (formerly 864) The Racist in the Machine: Conspiracy Theories, Cultural Criticism, and Contemporary Mass Mediation John L. Jackson, Jr., Ph.D. News More News About John L. Jackson, Jr., Ph.D. News Annenberg Presentations at ICA 2022 The International Communication Association will be hosting a hybrid conference this year with the in-person sessions in Paris. Research 14 Feb 2022 New Institute Seeks A Remedy for Medical Misinformation News 6 Oct 2021 Amy Siskind Donates The Weekly List Collection to the Annenberg School Library Faculty News 23 Jul 2021 Jackson and Tan Mentor Doctoral Students on Conducting Community-Engaged Research Graduate Student News 24 Jun 2021 Annenberg Penn and USC Annenberg Host Summer Doctoral Institute on Difference in Media and Culture John L. Jackson, Jr., Ph.D. In the Media More In the Media 17 May 2022 AP: Conspiracy theorists flock to bird flu, spreading falsehoods 18 Apr 2022 Penn Today: "Ben Franklin: A voice from the past that speaks to our time" 17 Jan 2022 Axios: Book bans are back in style John L. Jackson, Jr. on Video Dean Jackson on his research focus, interest in multimodal scholarship, and outlook on his role as dean. Dean Jackson's course centered around HBO offered undergrads a chance to combine theory with hands-on exposure to media production. See previous slide See next slide University of Pennsylvania Homepage Annenberg School for Communication 3620 Walnut Street Philadelphia, PA 19104 (215) 898-7041 contact@asc.upenn.edu Contact Us Support Annenberg Privacy Copyright Information Disclaimer Report Accessibility Issues & Get Help Engage With Uson social media Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Copyright © 2022 Annenberg School for Communication at the University of Pennsylvania