Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Equity, Civil Rights, and Title IX Sexual and Interpersonal Misconduct / Title IX Menu About Us Laura Johnson, Ph.D. Carolyn Hughes Christina Jeong Michael Noble Tracey Tevis Elysa Bucci Melissa Morie Josh Stephens Candace Huskey Mito Diaz-Espinoza, Ph.D External Investigators Title IX Case Management Team Members Policy & Procedures SIM/Title IX Policies Adaptable Resolution Federal Guidelines Key Points Amnesty Definitions Retaliation Confidentiality & Privacy Responsible Employee SB212 Reporting Prevention & Training Workshops and Programs Faculty & Staff Training Student Training Upcoming Events Title IX Training Materials for Title IX Personnel Investigator Training Hearing Officer Training Relevance Training Restorative Justice Training Mediation Training Advanced Title IX Investigator Training Title IX/VAWA Investigator Training Civil Rights/Title IX Sexual Misconduct Investigator Training Training in Restorative Practices and Campus Sexual Harm 2021 Campus Restorative Justice Across Student Affairs 2021 Reporting Resources Social Climate Surveys 2017 Social Climate Survey 2019 Social Climate Survey 2021 Social Climate Survey Baylor>Sexual and Interpersonal Misconduct/Title IX>Policy & Procedures>Key Points>Responsible Employee Responsible Employee Except for Confidential Resources, all University Employees are designated Responsible Employees and thereby mandatory reporters of potential Sexual and Interpersonal Misconduct (“SIM”) violations. Responsible Employees include all staff (hourly and salary), faculty, instructors, teaching assistants, and student workers who have supervisory responsibility or responsibility for the welfare of other students and learn of potential violations of this policy in the scope of their employment. Student workers who are Responsible Employees include but are not limited to Campus Living & Learning Community Leaders, Resident Chaplains, Athletics Team Managers, Peer Educators, and Line Camp Leaders. Responsible Employees must report immediately any information about suspected sexual or gender-based harassment, sexual assault, sexual exploitation, stalking, intimate partner violence, or retaliation[1] for reporting regardless of when (both prior to or during their time at Baylor) or where (both on and off campus) the alleged misconduct occurred, or whether it is a Title IX or Non-Title IX Misconduct. Reports must include any known details such as identities of the parties and the date, time and location of the incident. Confidential Resources who do not have to report to the Equity, Civil Rights, and Title IX Office (“Equity Office”) include those working in the Counseling Center, Health Center, and the University Chaplain, Dr. Burt Burleson. If you believe that a student has been the victim of a sexual assault or interpersonal violence, please contact the Title IX Coordinator at 254-710-8454. If there is an immediate safety concern, please contact Baylor Police Department at 254-710-2222. Reporting may also be done online through http://baylor.edu/titleix. [1]Responsible employees must report retaliation when they are aware of acts consistent with the policy definition of retaliation, and they have reason to believe it is occurring because of a party's participation in a SIM process, or in order to prevent either making a report to Equity Office or participation in a SIM process. Reporting Obligations under Texas Law Effective January 2020, a Texas law (Senate Bill 212) requires any employee of a college or university in Texas to report to the Title IX Coordinator any information regarding an alleged incident of sexual harassment, sexual assault, dating violence, or stalking, committed by or against a person enrolled at or employed by the institution at the time of the incident. The law requires colleges to terminate employment for employees who fail to report such matters and imposes criminal penalties of up to a year in jail. The obligation to report applies whenever an employee receives, in the course and scope of employment, information about an alleged incident which reasonably constitutes sexual harassment, sexual assault, dating violence, or stalking committed by or against a person who was a student or employee at the time of the incident. The report must include all information known to the employee which would be relevant to an investigation or redress of the incident, including whether the alleged victim has expressed a desire for confidentiality. A party’s desire for confidentiality does not relieve the employee’s obligation to report. The law encourages but does not require student employees to report. Baylor policy, however, requires student employees to report such instances. The only exceptions to the reporting obligation are for designated confidential sources. At Baylor, the designated confidential sources are counselors and medical personnel when acting as such, and the University Chaplain, Dr. Burt Burleson. Designated confidential resources are not excused from all reporting obligations; they must report the incident type for any report that meets the criteria above. Definitions of sexual harassment, sexual assault, dating violence (also called intimate partner violence), and stalking are included in the Sexual and Interpersonal Misconduct Policy. However, employees do not need to, and furthermore should not, investigate matters or make unnecessary judgments about the information they receive in order to determine whether the reported information meets the definition for misconduct. All instances of alleged misconduct that could reasonably constitute Prohibited Conduct must be reported to the Title IX Coordinator. Reports can be made online at www.baylor/edu/titleix/report. Reports can also be made via email (titleix_coordinator@baylor.edu), phone (254-710-8454), or in person (Clifton Robinson Tower, suite 285). Policy & Procedures SIM/Title IX Policies Adaptable Resolution Federal Guidelines Key Points Amnesty Definitions Retaliation Confidentiality & Privacy Responsible Employee SB212 Reporting Title IX Baylor University does not discriminate on the basis of sex or gender in any of its education or employment programs and activities, and it does not tolerate discrimination or harassment on the basis of sex or gender. Clifton Robinson Tower, Suite 285 One Bear Place #97011 Waco, TX 76798 254-710-8454 titleix_coordinator@baylor.edu ReportingTrainingSIM/Title IX PoliciesFAQs General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 About Us Laura Johnson, Ph.D. Carolyn Hughes Christina Jeong Michael Noble Tracey Tevis Elysa Bucci Melissa Morie Josh Stephens Candace Huskey Mito Diaz-Espinoza, Ph.D External Investigators Title IX Case Management Team Members Policy & Procedures SIM/Title IX Policies Adaptable Resolution Federal Guidelines Key Points Amnesty Definitions Retaliation Confidentiality & Privacy Responsible Employee SB212 Reporting Prevention & Training Workshops and Programs Faculty & Staff Training Student Training Upcoming Events Title IX Training Materials for Title IX Personnel Investigator Training Hearing Officer Training Relevance Training Restorative Justice Training Mediation Training Advanced Title IX Investigator Training Title IX/VAWA Investigator Training Civil Rights/Title IX Sexual Misconduct Investigator Training Training in Restorative Practices and Campus Sexual Harm 2021 Campus Restorative Justice Across Student Affairs 2021 Reporting Resources Social Climate Surveys 2017 Social Climate Survey 2019 Social Climate Survey 2021 Social Climate Survey