Skip to main content Menu Resources Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply or Give Apply Now Make a Gift Research Initiatives Researcher of the Year The Researcher of the Year awards recognize the efforts of high-achieving faculty whose work is improving society through the generation and dissemination of new knowledge. Each college nominated a senior faculty member and a junior faculty member who received their terminal degree within the past 10 years. The awards program was created with input from the Vice President of Research Faculty Advisory Board and includes a $5,000 award. Past Winners and Nominees Meet the 2022 Nominees (listed alphabetically) Senior Faculty Nominees Nominees Profile Vernon Burton Professor History College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities Dr. Burton's research and teaching interests include the American South, especially race relations and community, and the intersection of humanities and social sciences. He has served as president of the Southern Historical Association and of the Agricultural History Society. He was elected to honorary life membership in BrANCH (British American Nineteenth-Century Historians). Bryan Miller Associate Professor Sociology, Anthropology and Criminal Justice College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Dr. Miller is currently working on a Bureau of Justice Assistance funded initiative with the Clemson University Police Department to partner with campus and community behavioral health services to improve law enforcement responses to individuals in mental health crises. Brian Powell Professor Environmental Engineering and Earth Sciences College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences Dr. Powell’s research focuses on understanding and prediction of the physical, chemical, and biological processes which govern the mobility of radionuclides in natural and engineered systems. He has conducted sponsored research in a wide range of projects dealing with topics of nuclear forensics, evaluation of nanoparticle behavior, sorption and environmental transport of plutonium, development of radiation detection and radiation detection laboratory courses, iodine, radium, strontium geochemistry in wetland and subsurface sediments, radionuclide geochemistry of saltstone and solid waste performance assessments at the Savannah River Site, measurement of thermodynamic parameters supporting advanced fuel cycle chemistry, and related topics. Joseph B. Ryan Distinguished Professor Education and Human Development College of Education Dr. Ryan's research research interests focus on behavioral interventions and enhancing post-school outcomes for individuals with disabilities. He has been interviewed by Anderson Cooper, CNN, Headline News, New York Times, Wall Street Journal, and other leading periodicals, and given three U.S. Congressional Briefings on behavioral crisis interventions for schools. Christopher Saski Associate Professor Plant and Environmental Sciences College of Agriculture, Forestry & Life Sciences Dr. Saski's research interests include the use of systems-scale approaches to understand disease resistance and horticultural qualities in Rosaceous crops (peach, plum, cherry, apple, almond, and others). He also investigates fiber traits, genome evolution, somatic embryogenesis, and gene function in Upland cotton; and genome dynamics of rapid adaptation in weeds. Ultimately, Dr. Saski's research portfolio is aimed to deliver healthier foods, more sustainable agriculture, and environmental systems that support agriculture. Scott Swain Professor Marketing College of Business Dr. Swain's research focuses on the roles of psychological ownership and theory-of-mind on stakeholder perceptions of companies’ offerings and initiatives. Junior Faculty Nominees Nominees Profile Kaileigh Byrne Assistant Professor Psychology College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Dr. Byrne currently has two distinctive ongoing health-related lines of research. Her line of research examines neurocognitive and decision-making correlates of Substance Use Disorder (SUD). She also examines how interventions, including peer recovery coaching and online cognitive behavioral therapy apps, can improve SUD health and neurocognitive outcomes. This work aims to identify and and alter SUD-related maladaptive decision-making and habits. Dr. Byrne's second line of research is focused on cognitive aging. She is examining how aging affects health-related and financial decisions strategies, cognitive biases, susceptibility to misinformation, and responsivity to feedback. Matt Hersel Assistant Professor Management College of Business Dr. Hersel's primary research interests involve stakeholder-focused management and the organizational effects of changing social evaluations following ethical transgressions. Specifically, he is interested in how leaders manage the aftermath of misconduct and other types of scandals. Nathan McNeese Assistant Professor School of Computing College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences Dr. McNeese’s research mainly focuses on teamwork, artificial intelligence (AI), and collaborative technology within a variety of different contexts (command & control, manufacturing, emergency crisis management, and healthcare). His current research interests span across human-AI teaming, human-centered AI, and the development/design of human-centered collaborative tools and systems. Andreea Mihalache Assistant Professor Architecture College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities Dr. Mihalache's areas of interest as a scholar, designer, and educator cover the history and theory of architecture, representation, and visual culture in Western and Eastern European contexts from the second half of the 20th century to the present; matters of corporeality and embodiment in architecture and visual arts; collective and individual memory; domesticity and the everyday; philosophy and aesthetics. She believes in conjectural and speculative thinking fully anchored in, and supported by, historical research. Luke Rapa Assistant Professor Education and Human Development College of Education Dr. Rapa has an interest in the development of youth navigating adversity, marginalization, and inequitable societal conditions. Additionally, Rapa supports projects that provide targeted professional development to teachers in high-needs, priority schools to address critical student learning needs. Vidya Suseela Assistant Professor Plant and Environmental Sciences College of Agriculture, Forestry & Life Sciences Dr. Suseela's research focuses on investigating the mechanisms that facilitate the formation and stabilization of soil organic matter in managed and unmanaged ecosystems that are mediated by chemical composition of plant inputs, microbial metabolism and soil mineralogy. Studying the pathways in natural ecosystems through which plants create and maintain legacy effects so as to inform restoration practices. Focusing on conventional and low input agroecosystems, investigating the effect of plant functional types on the quantity, composition and stabilization of soil carbon and the associated nutrient cycling for improving the soil health and productivity of agroecosystems. FAQs Related Links Office of the Vice President for Research Office of Sponsored Programs Conflict of Interest Export Controls Grants and Contracts Administration Industry Contracts Research Compliance Research Safety Animal Resources Technology Transfer (CURF) Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram