Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu College of Natural Sciences & Mathematics Main Navigation About Us Academics Commencement Events News Student Success Support the College Undergraduate Research MH-2 Renovations NSM Awards Reception Support the College Dean's Philanthropic Board Student and Faculty Research Support Us TraNSMission Online Magazine Ways to Engage with the College Dear Friends, Cal State Fullerton is a trusted leader in delivering immersive educational experiences through student involvement in research, robust student success initiatives and a scholar-teacher model that builds critical thinking skills for the life-long pursuit of learning. Your involvement and investment in the College of Natural Sciences and Mathematics (NSM) is critical to ensuring we have the resources to provide learning experiences and spaces for our students to create, collaborate, and connect to fulfilling career paths. Help us continue our commitment to higher education by supporting NSM through various sources of giving or by volunteering your time to impact a student’s life. On behalf of NSM, I thank you for your generosity. Please don’t hesitate to contact me or my team with any questions. I am always happy to speak with our alumni and friends! Mike Karg Executive Director of Development CONTACT US Mike Karg Executive Director of Development Phone: 657-278-3348 Email: mkarg@fullerton.edu Toni Arellanes-Miller Senior Director of Development Phone: 657-278-2037 Email: tamiller@fullerton.edu Monica Garza Development Coordinator Phone: 657-278-7750 Email: mogarza@fullerton.edu This site is maintained by College of Natural Sciences & Mathematics. Last Published 4/15/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact tlo@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.10 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.