Skip to content Clemson University Clemson University Search Menu Close Sorry, your browser does not support inline SVG. Sorry, your browser does not support inline SVG. Apply Giving News Resources for Students Faculty & Staff Parents Alumni Clemson University Academics Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Academics Home Employment Opportunities Apply for Admission Colleges College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business College of Education College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences College of Science Graduate School Academic Resources Academic Calendar Registrar Division of Undergraduate Studies Center for Career and Professional Development Academic Success Center GRAD 360° Libraries Outside the Classroom PEER/WISE Call Me MISTER® Creative Inquiry and Undergraduate Research Cooperative Education University Professional Internship and Co-op Program (UPIC) Study Abroad Admissions Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Admissions Home Schedule a Tour Apply for Admission Applying to Clemson First-Year Undergraduate Transfer Undergraduate International Undergraduate Graduate Students Academic Opportunities Majors Graduate Programs Online Graduate Programs Scholar Programs Paths to Graduate School Honors College Experiential Learning Financial Aid Tuition and Fee Calculator Undergraduate Financial Aid Graduate Fellowships and Awards Residency Requirements Campus Life Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Campus Life Home Club Sports Brooks Center for the Performing Arts Join Your Clemson Family Finding Your Community Living-Learning Communities Student Veterans Multicultural Programs FIRST Army ROTC Air Force ROTC Services On Campus Housing & Dining Campus Recreation Parking and Transportation Student Health Services TigerOne Card Services Clemson Athletics Get Involved Clubs and Organizations Fraternity and Sorority Life Orientation Ambassadors Tiger Media Graduate Student Government Undergraduate Student Government Research Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Research Home Clemson University Research Foundation (CURF) Division of Research Research Opportunities Student Research at Clemson Creative Inquiry Research Facilities Postdoctoral Affairs Serving South Carolina Through Research School of Health Research Public Service and Agriculture Clemson Experimental Forest Clemson Extension Clemson Research and Education Centers Public Service and Agriculture Research Farm Services Innovation and Economic Development Corporate Partnerships and Strategic Initiatives Clemson University International Center for Automotive Research (CU-ICAR) Clemson University Restoration Institute (CURI) Clemson University Biomedical Engineering Innovation Campus (CUBEInC) Center for Human Genetics Innovation Campus and Technology Park About Clemson Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back About Clemson Home Clemson News Clemson Athletics For Tigers Applying to Clemson Working at Clemson Traditions Military Heritage Things To Do in Clemson Visit Clemson Campus Resources Employment Opportunities Home and Garden Information Center Brand Guidelines CCIT Academic Calendar Training ClemsonForward Campus Leadership Board of Trustees President Academic Affairs and Provost Inclusion and Equity Student Affairs Faculty Senate Staff Senate Search Resources for Current Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni COVID-19 Ongoing Operations Forward Arrow Ongoing Operations Living and Learning on Campus Working on Campus Visiting Campus Prospective and Admitted Students COVID-19 Research Back Arrow Back Medical Guidance Forward Arrow Medical Guidance If You're Sick If You Test Positive If You're Exposed Back Arrow Back Vaccine Information COVID-19 Testing Forward Arrow COVID-19 Testing COVID-19 Dashboard Wastewater Dashboard Testing Data For Research Back Arrow Back FAQs Current Updates Apply Giving News Sikes Hall Icon Main Menu Forward Arrow Icon Back Arrow Icon Back Clemson University Academics Academics Home Employment Opportunities Apply for Admission Colleges College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business College of Education College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences College of Science Graduate School Academic Resources Academic Calendar Registrar Division of Undergraduate Studies Center for Career and Professional Development Academic Success Center GRAD 360° Libraries Outside the Classroom PEER/WISE Call Me MISTER® Creative Inquiry and Undergraduate Research Cooperative Education University Professional Internship and Co-op Program (UPIC) Study Abroad Admissions Admissions Home Schedule a Tour Apply for Admission Applying to Clemson First-Year Undergraduate Transfer Undergraduate International Undergraduate Graduate Students Academic Opportunities Majors Graduate Programs Online Graduate Programs Scholar Programs Paths to Graduate School Honors College Experiential Learning Financial Aid Tuition and Fee Calculator Undergraduate Financial Aid Graduate Fellowships and Awards Residency Requirements Campus Life Campus Life Home Club Sports Brooks Center for the Performing Arts Join Your Clemson Family Finding Your Community Living-Learning Communities Student Veterans Multicultural Programs FIRST Army ROTC Air Force ROTC Services On Campus Housing & Dining Campus Recreation Parking and Transportation Student Health Services TigerOne Card Services Clemson Athletics Get Involved Clubs and Organizations Fraternity and Sorority Life Orientation Ambassadors Tiger Media Graduate Student Government Undergraduate Student Government Research Research Home Clemson University Research Foundation (CURF) Division of Research Research Opportunities Student Research at Clemson Creative Inquiry Research Facilities Postdoctoral Affairs Serving South Carolina Through Research School of Health Research Public Service and Agriculture Clemson Experimental Forest Clemson Extension Clemson Research and Education Centers Public Service and Agriculture Research Farm Services Innovation and Economic Development Corporate Partnerships and Strategic Initiatives Clemson University International Center for Automotive Research (CU-ICAR) Clemson University Restoration Institute (CURI) Clemson University Biomedical Engineering Innovation Campus (CUBEInC) Center for Human Genetics Innovation Campus and Technology Park About Clemson About Clemson Home Clemson News Clemson Athletics For Tigers Applying to Clemson Working at Clemson Traditions Military Heritage Things To Do in Clemson Visit Clemson Campus Resources Employment Opportunities Home and Garden Information Center Brand Guidelines CCIT Academic Calendar Training ClemsonForward Campus Leadership Board of Trustees President Academic Affairs and Provost Inclusion and Equity Student Affairs Faculty Senate Staff Senate Search close COVID-19 Ongoing Operations show submenu for Ongoing Operations Living and Learning on Campus Working on Campus Visiting Campus Prospective and Admitted Students COVID-19 Research Medical Guidance show submenu for Medical Guidance If You're Sick If You Test Positive If You're Exposed Vaccine Information COVID-19 Testing show submenu for COVID-19 Testing COVID-19 Dashboard Wastewater Dashboard Testing Data For Research FAQs Current Updates Clemson Home COVID-19 Medical Guidance Current: If You Test Positive If You Test Positive For COVID-19 If you have been tested and are awaiting results, follow the instructions from your health care provider and avoid contact with others. All University Students, Faculty and Staff If you test positive for COVID-19, complete the steps below, regardless of your vaccination status. Isolate yourself at home or elsewhere; separate from household members or wear a well-fitting mask when you cannot avoid others in your household. Upload your test result on the COVID-19 Test Result Upload Tool if you were tested at any location other than a Clemson University Testing Site. Monitor your University email for isolation instructions; you may not receive a phone call. Inform your close contacts of their exposure to COVID-19, so they may quarantine if indicated. A close contact is someone who was less than 6 feet away from an infected person (laboratory-confirmed or a clinical diagnosis) for a cumulative total of 15 minutes or more over a 24-hour period (for example, three individual 5-minute exposures for a total of 15 minutes). Exposed individuals can find specific guidance through the CDC, on the If You’re Exposed to COVID-19 page, or by calling the University’s COVID-19 Information Line at 864-656-3571. Call 9-1-1 if you experience trouble breathing, persistent pain or pressure in the chest, confusion, or bluish lips or face. Isolate for the appropriate amount of time: The isolation period for COVID-19 continues until ALL these conditions are met: You have not had symptoms or your symptoms have resolved AND At least 5 days have passed since collection of your positive test AND You have had no fever for at least 24 hours and have not used fever-reducing medication (such as acetaminophen or ibuprofen) during that time. If you are eligible to leave isolation before the completion of 10 full days (based on the above criteria), you must wear a mask around others until 10 full days have passed since your positive test. You are excused from University surveillance testing for 90 days after the collection of your positive test. However, if you become symptomatic again, you should get re-tested voluntarily. Please consult a medical provider for further guidance if needed. Monitor your phone and University email address for an exit survey required to be completed to exit isolation. Completing this survey in a timely manner is critical to completing your isolation on schedule and having your campus access reinstated. Clearance for return to campuses is required as your card access to non-residential buildings will be turned off until your clearance is restored. Be sure to pay close attention to your University email and phone calls for instructions and the clearance process. Before returning to campus facilities, verify that your COVID-19 Clearance Status is “Cleared.” Students Residential Students You should go home, or to another arrangement, and avoid using public transportation to do so. If you are unable to depart campus immediately, you must contact Clemson Home Monday-Friday between 10 a.m. and 6 p.m. by texting 864-280-9891. Continue to avoid others and wear a well-fitting mask. Review Housing’s Isolation and Quarantine Checklistto help ensure you pack all the items you’ll need. Do not return to campus until you are cleared to do so, following the instructions above. Students living off-campus You will be able to isolate in your living space if appropriate. You should isolate in a private space without your roommates. This means you should have a private bed and bath and not access any shared spaces during isolation. You may have contactless food delivery to your door if necessary. Do not return to campus until you are cleared to do so, following the instructions above. Campus Resources Visit Clemson University’s COVID-19 Resources for more information about COVID-19 and Isolation & Quarantine protocols. You should complete a Notification of Absence (or NOA for short) to provide a general notification to your professors about an absence from class. You will also need to contact each professor individually to inquire about accessing coursework or making up missed work for a specific course. The Academic Success Center provides a checklist for keeping up with your coursework while in isolation or quarantine. Bridge to Clemson students should contact their instructors regarding assignments. Redfern Health Center Medical Services can assist with medical care, health insurance, pharmacy, your medical records, or any other medical or health related question. If you need to seek medical care, please consider the following: MUSC provides Virtual Urgent Care services accessible 24/7. Call your health care provider before going to their office and inform them of your COVID-19 diagnosis. For local after-hours care, visit "Emergency/In Crisis" resources. If emergency medical treatment is required for any condition, call 911. Tell the 911 operator and the emergency crew that you are in isolation due to COVID-19. Contact the Redfern Health Center COVID-19 Information Line: 864-656-3571. After hours line for nurse triage: 855-771-6077. This can be a very stressful time. For personal support, Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS) is available to you. During business hours, students can call the main number and ask to speak to a counselor. It is important to share with the person answering the phone if you are in any acute or imminent distress. If it is after hours and a psychological emergency, call CAPS on-call via the CUPD dispatch at 864-656-2222. For consultations, community referrals, or additional questions, the main number is 864-656-2451. Additionally, CAPS has COVID-19 Resources for Mental Health and Well-being that can be accessed anytime. Employees Contact your supervisor. Employees provide your supervisor details regarding University-owned buildings and rooms you have occupied the two days prior to experiencing symptoms, or the two days prior to your test date. Contractors and visitors Follow CDC Guidance for isolation. Do not access University facilities until you have been cleared by a healthcare provider. Notify your University point of contact. Contractors and visitors provide your University point of contact details regarding University-owned buildings and rooms you have occupied the two days prior to experiencing symptoms or the two days prior to your test date. Clemson University Facebook Instagram Twitter Linkedin Youtube Tiktok Policy/Terms of Use Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Copyright © 2022 Clemson University • Clemson, South Carolina 29634 Clemson University Facebook Instagram Twitter Linkedin Youtube Tiktok Resources A-Z Index Campus Map CU Safety Directory Webcams Apply to Clemson