Skip to content Enter search text All the UW Current site Search scope All the UW Current site MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links Menu Home My Husky is a . . . Transfer student International student Out-of-state student First-generation student First-year student Sophomore/Junior Graduating student Resources Parent & Family Guide Student Life Academics Health & Safety Living & Dining Finances Transportation Move In Resources Talk with your Husky Husky Huddle-up podcast Forms, releases, and accounts Common Questions Events All events UW Family Weekend Connect Support Parents & Families Student Life Learning beyond the classroom A student organization where your Husky forges lifelong friendships. Performing arts or sports where your student can share their talents. Volunteering in the community to help those in need. At the UW, your student’s education goes beyond the four walls of a classroom. Whatever their interests or passions, there’s a club or activity to help them find their community and make the most of their Husky Experience. Talk with your Husky Finding a club or activity that suits their interests Balancing academic life with social life Ways to give back to the community How to seek out leadership opportunities Explore more conversation topics Find your community The UW is home to 1,000 registered student clubs and organizations. The list includes everything from academic-focused clubs to organizations dedicated to social causes to a group just for bagel lovers (yes, really). Joining a club is a great way to build friendships, develop leadership skills and discover new interests. You can help your student find a club that’s right for them. Browse the directory Give back From off-campus volunteering to public-service fellowships, UW students give back to their community in a variety of ways. Many service opportunities enable students to integrate volunteer work into their course of study and earn credit. The Community Engagement & Leadership Education (CELE) Center is here to help students develop the knowledge, skills and attitudes they need to contribute to thriving communities. CELE Center website More to explore Major and career exploration Pursuing a major at the UW opens up many career paths and directions that a student might not have considered or even heard of before. With a UW degree, anything is possible. Career & Internship Center Land a research position At the UW, research isn’t just for PhD students. The Undergraduate Research Program (URP) includes hundreds of positions where students can apply their learning by working one-on-one with faculty. Undergraduate Research Program Cheer on the Dawgs Husky sports are a source of pride for the whole community. Full-time UW students can buy discounted Dawg Pack tickets for football and men’s basketball. Students may attend other sports events for free with their Husky Cards. UW Athletics Study, travel or volunteer abroad The UW study abroad program is expected to return in 2021. Find out what’s available and schedule an appointment to speak with a study abroad adviser. UW Study Abroad UW Recreation UW Recreation provides safe, accessible and dynamic recreation experiences to engage students in growth and well-being. Whatever your student’s fitness or experience level, UW Recreation’s dedicated staff are here to support them in exploring a wide and ever-growing variety of exercise, sports and fitness opportunities in state-of-the-art indoor and outdoor facilities, amidst the dramatic natural beauty of the Pacific Northwest. UW Recreation Campus contacts Student Activities Office (SAO) Husky Union Building 232 206-543-2380 sao@uw.edu Community Engagement & Leadership Education (CELE) Center Mary Gates Hall 171 206-616-9768 celecenter@uw.edu UW Study Abroad 206-221-4404 studyabroad@uw.edu Samuel E. Kelly Ethnic Cultural Center (ECC) 3931 Brooklyn Ave NE 206-543-4635 ecc@uw.edu University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA