Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia University Information Technology Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Resources For I Want To Services Security and Privacy About Students Alumni Faculty Retirees Researchers Visitors Staff Access My Email Log in to LionMail Log in to ADCU Outlook Web App Log in to CUIMC Email Check CUIT Service Alerts Connect to Columbia WiFi Contact the CUIT Service Desk Download Software Log in to CourseWorks Manage My University ID (UNI) Activate My UNI or Email Change My Password Manage My Duo MFA Account Print on Campus Use Zoom View Computer and System Recommendations Visit the ServiceNow Customer Portal Academic Systems Accounts and Access Administrative Systems Cloud Services Computer Lab and Classroom Technologies Email and Calendar Endpoint Device Technologies IT Professional Services Network and Wireless Research Services Security and Risk Management Servers, Backup and Storage Service Desk Software and Apps Telephony and Communications Services Web Services Anti-malware CUIT Security Downloads Data Security Guidelines for International Travel Get Started with Computer Security at Columbia General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) Handling Personally Identifying Information Keep Your Operating System Up To Date Phishing: Recognize and Report Secure Resources for Systems Administrators Using Strong Passwords Staff Directory and Org. Chart Senior Leadership Departments Locations IT Policies and Strategies IT Partners at the University Careers Columbia University Information Technology You are here: Home I Want To Zoom Zoom arrow-right icon Log in to Zoom bank icon Request an upgrade to CUIT Zoom Pro hospital icon Request an upgrade to CUIMC Zoom Pro address-book icon HIPAA-compliant Zoom for non-CUIMC Affiliates group icon Request a webinar question-circle icon Training lock icon Privacy & Security Account Types Basic Account Limited to 40 minute meeting length. Create a free Basic account by signing in to columbiauniversity.zoom.us. Note: You must create a Basic account before requesting an upgraded account or event license. Pro Account Unlimited meeting length for up to 300 participants. Purchase with chartstring: Please submit a ticket to request an upgrade to a Pro account for July 1, 2021–June 30, 2022 license period: Columbia faculty, staff, and researchers with UNIs can upgrade to a Pro account after receiving permission from their department head or manager; CUIT will bill Zoom's $15/year fee to your school or department. Faculty and staff may sponsor a student for a Pro account for $15/year. Purchase with credit card: To purchase a Pro account on your own, you can upgrade your account with a credit card ($15/year charge). Please ensure you have created a Basic account at http://columbiauniversity.zoom.us/ first. Shared Account Unlimited meeting length for up to 300 participants. Available for $15/year (July 1, 2021–June 30, 2022 license period). Must be linked to a Columbia-owned group email address. Request a group email address ("mailing list"). Once you have a group email address, submit a ticket to request a shared account. HIPAA-compliant Zoom for non-CUIMC Affiliates Columbia University has a BAA with Zoom and can provision a HIPAA-compliant Zoom account for you if you are working with sensitive data. These accounts are HIPAA-, PIPEDA-, and PHIPA-compliant. Expand all Collapse all Request an account If you do not have a Columbia Zoom account yet, you can create your HIPAA-compliant Zoom account at http://columbiasecure.zoom.us/ If you already have a Columbia Zoom account, log into http://columbiasecure.zoom.us/ and click Switch to the New Account and follow the steps to confirm the switch via email. IMPORTANT: Once your account is converted to the HIPAA-compliant account, you will lose your previous Zoom cloud recordings and you will NOT be able to go back to the standard account. Download these recordings if you wish to save them. The HIPAA-compliance can apply to Pro, Shared, or Event Licenses. There is no additional cost to the HIPAA-compliant accounts. Standard rates will apply. HIPAA-compliant Settings The Require Encryption for 3rd Party Endpoints (H323/SIP) setting will be enabled for all members of your account. Cloud Recording will be disabled. Device/user information in logging and reporting will be removed. Encrypted Chat will be enabled. Please note if chat has been disabled, please submit a request to have it enabled. Please refer to the official CUIMC Privacy Office / HIPAA Compliance Policies for more. Encrypted Chat Settings Text messages will be encrypted. Offline messages will only be available after all parties initiate a key exchange. Screen capture will be disabled. Sending images will be disabled. Event Licenses If you have a one-off event that needs a large room or webinar, CUIT may be able to temporarily provide one on a reservation basis (based on availability). If you need a license on a permanent basis, please see the webinar pricing details at right. *NOTE* it may take several business days to procure a permanent license from Zoom. Expand all Collapse all Webinar License Webinars are like virtual lectures, and do not offer participants the collaborative functions that are available in Zoom meetings (participants do not have video and only hosts can unmute participants). Learn more about the difference between Zoom meetings and webinars. Ideal for multiple presenters and large audiences. Zoom Video Webinars fact sheet. Suggested settings and best practices for webinars. Please submit a ticket to request. Webinar Pricing Attendees Up to 3,000 Rate $3,400/year Attendees 3,001-5,000 Rate Submit a ticket for details Large Room License Large rooms are like very large Zoom meetings, offering participants the interactive capabilities that are available in Zoom meetings: video for all participants and the ability for everyone to unmute themselves. Learn more about the difference between Zoom meetings and webinars. Please submit a ticket to request. Large Room Pricing Attendees 301-500 Rate $300/year Attendees 501-1,000 Rate $540/year Zoom Training Live Training CUIT's Zoom Team leads live trainings and Q&A office hours on a weekly basis. No registration is required, however you must sign in to your Columbia Zoom account with your UNI and password prior to joining. Click below to join weekly Zoom office hours: Wednesdays from 1-2pm ET Fridays from 10–11am ET Recorded Training Train for Zoom on your own time by watching our 52-minute recorded session. A PDF copy of the Zoom training slides is also available, as well as a list of FAQ. Update to the latest Zoom version CUIT Zoom Update Archives How do I... Basic Guides Signing-in Getting Started Scheduling a Meeting Sharing a Meeting Audio Setup Video Setup Screen-sharing Advanced Guides Advanced Sharing Whiteboard Participants Chat Recording Breakout Rooms Polls Teaching Guides Using Zoom in Canvas Synchronous Online Teaching Tips and Strategies Contingency Planning: Teaching Online Strategies for Engaging Students in Live Online Classes Security and Privacy Worried about unruly participants intentionally (or unintentionally) disrupting your session, or the privacy of your Zoom meeting? You can protect your virtual space by using some of the Zoom controls at right. Please refer to the University Telecommuting Policy for more information. Security at Zoom Expand all Collapse all Recommended best practices ...when scheduling a meeting Generate Meeting ID Automatically – Unique meeting IDs expire 30 days after the meeting has occurred and provides protection if a meeting ID was shared accidentally to a public audience. (Don’t use your Personal Meeting ID) Require Meeting Password – Passwords should not be shared outside of intended participants. This is on by default at Columbia as of April 3, 2020. Enable Waiting Room – Review attendees before admitting them to the meeting. For large classes or conferences, consider assigning this job to a co-host. ...during a meeting Mute all – As the host, you can mute all in the participant pane. You can also stop participants from unmuting themselves, and instead ask them to use chat for questions. For large classes or conferences, consider assigning this job to a co-host. Lock Meeting – This will stop all new participants from joining a meeting. Set screen sharing to host only – Under advanced sharing, stop others from sharing in the meeting. As a host, you can still grant individuals the ability to share in the participant pane. Allow participants to chat with host only – Available from the chat pane, you can lock chat to host or public and host. Disable annotation - If you are sharing content, through the More option, disable attendee annotation. Disable whiteboard for participants other than the host ...when recording a meeting How to record and store a meeting in the cloud. Sensitive information should not be recorded, typed into a meeting description, or any other text field that may be stored within Zoom. Always advise attendees that they are being recorded. Record active speaker with shared screen, not Gallery view that displays all part Spotlight video to lock the active speaker to the presenter and uncheck ‘Display participants’ names in the recording. Note that all cloud recordings are subject to a 30-day retention policy. Please review alternatives for permanent storage. ...when hosting a webinar CUIT has created several lists to help make your webinar a success: Webinar Features Webinar Best Practices Webinar Recommendations and Checklist Virtual Backgrounds The Office of Communications & Public Affairs have compiled 40+ images from around Columbia to use as your virtual meeting background. Navigate to the Columbia Photo Library. Select View Photos and log in with your UNI. Type Zoom in the search bar. Download your favorite image. Open the Zoom app and click your image in the upper-right corner. Select Settings. Select Virtual Background. Click the + to select Add Image. Upload and select your new Columbia virtual background! Some great options from the Columbia Photo Library Zoom Technical Requirements System Requirements An internet connection – broadband wired or wireless (3G or 4G/LTE) Speakers and a microphone – built-in or USB plug-in or wireless Bluetooth A webcam or HD webcam - built-in or USB plug-in Or, a HD cam or HD camcorder with video capture card Supported Operating Systems macOS X with macOS 10.7 or later Windows 10 Windows 8 or 8.1 Windows 7 Windows Vista with SP1 or later Windows XP with SP3 or later Ubuntu 12.04 or higher Mint 17.1 or higher Red Hat Enterprise Linux 6.4 or higher Oracle Linux 6.4 or higher CentOS 6.4 or higher Fedora 21 or higher OpenSUSE 13.2 or higher ArchLinux (64-bit only) Supported Browsers Windows: IE 11+, Edge 12+, Firefox 27+, Chrome 30+ Mac: Safari 7+, Firefox 27+, Chrome 30+ Linux: Firefox 27+, Chrome 30+ Bandwidth Requirements The bandwidth used by Zoom will be optimized for the best experience based on the participants’ network. It will automatically adjust for 3G, WiFi or Wired environments. Recommended bandwidth for meetings and webinar panelists: For 1:1 video calling: 600kbps (up/down) for high quality video 1.2 Mbps (up/down) for 720p HD video Receiving 1080p HD video requires 1.8 Mbps (up/down) Sending 1080p HD video requires 1.8 Mbps (up/down) For group video calling: 800kbps/1.0Mbps (up/down) for high quality video For gallery view and/or 720p HD video: 1.5Mbps/1.5Mbps (up/down) Receiving 1080p HD video requires 2.5mbps (up/down) Sending 1080p HD video requires 3.0 Mbps (up/down) For screen sharing only (no video thumbnail): 50-75kbps For screen sharing with video thumbnail: 50-150kbps For audio VoiP: 60-80kbps For Zoom Phone: 60-100kbps Recommended bandwidth for webinar attendees: For 1:1 video calling: 600kbps (down) for high quality video and 1.2 Mbps (down) for HD video For screen sharing only (no video thumbnail): 50-75kbps (down) For screen sharing with video thumbnail: 50-150kbps (down) For audio VoiP: 60-80kbps (down) Get Help paper-plane icon Submit a Ticket to the CUIT Service Desk envelope icon Email [email protected] phone-square icon Call the CUIT Service Desk Columbia University Information Technology (CUIT) Administrative OfficesStudebaker Building, 5th & 6th Floors, 615 West 131st Street · New York, NY 10027 Columbia University Information Technology (CUIT) Walk-in Center202 Philosophy Hall, 1150 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-1919 Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close