Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Human Resources Retirement Retirement Medicare Social Security Working at SMU Working at SMU Staff Careers Faculty Careers Temporary Jobs Student Jobs Internal Applicant Get Involved Living In Dallas Benefits & Wellness Benefits & Wellness Health and Other Benefits Wellness Information Learning & Development Learning & Development Total Orientation Process for New Employees On-Demand Learning Professional Development Manager Development Workshops Manager Orientation Enrollment Instructions Cancel Enrollment or Switch Sessions Customized Learning Experiences Consultation FAQ for the LawRoom Training Tutorials Workshop Facilitators HR Training Room Linked-In Learning Courses Manager Lunch and Learn Series SMU Program for the Protection of Minors Continuing Education Credits/Units - Proof of Attendance Reference Library Training Summary Resources Resources New Employee Resources Faculty Resources Staff Resources Work-Life Resources Manager Resources Retiree Resources Safety at SMU SMU's Mission and Code of Ethics Forms Forms All HR Forms & Resources Benefits Compensation General HR Forms Exiting SMU Performance Review Employee Recognition Talent Acquisition and Management ☰ Human Resources Human Resources Forms Talent Acquisition and Management Forms Talent Acquisition and Management Resources and Forms Background Checks Authorization and Release for Consent - Print this form when initiating a background check for a SMU employee or volunteer. All background checks are conducted by the Department of Human Resources. Create, Fill, Reclassify or Promote a Staff Position Job Description Form – Complete when filling a vacant position, changing responsibilities, promotion or reclassify to another title. For more information, please contact the Department of Human Resource's Talent Acquisition Team. Form I-9 & Acceptable Documents All employees hired via SMU's payroll must complete a Form I-9 before the first day of work. Hiring departments are responsible for ensuring all new employees or rehired employees have a completed Form I-9 on file in the Department of Human Resources. All Form I-9s are completed in-person in the Department of Human Resources (click here for directions). Instructions for completing the Form I-9 in the Department of Human Resources are included within the new employment packets for Student Workers, Adjunct Faculty and Temporary Staff. New benefit-eligible staff and faculty will be provided instructions for completing their Form I-9 directly from the Department of Human Resources along with their orientation and onboarding information prior to the first date of work. In an effort to support social distancing and help ensure the safety of our community, please schedule an appointment here to complete your I-9. If you have any questions, contact the Office of Human Resources at 214-768-3311. Form I-9 Requirement Acceptable Documents for Form I-9 Schedule your I-9 Appointment Hiring (Benefit-Eligible) Faculty New faculty will receive communication directly from HR after receipt of the new faculty's contract letter from the Dean's Office. For new faculty hiring questions or to initiate the SMU onboarding process, contact HR's Talent Acquisition & Management Team at NewFaculty@smu.edu. New Faculty Packet 2021-2022 Hiring Adjunct Faculty New Adjunct Faculty Employee Packet - Hiring department must provide this packet to new adjunct faculty to complete and to submit to the Department of Human Resources prior to first day of work. Adjunct Faculty Payroll Authorization Form (ePAF) - Hiring department must create and submit payroll pay sheets for new adjunct faculty. Contact the OIT Help Desk for questions or assistance. For more information, visit Hiring Adjuncts Procedures. Hiring Temporary Staff For information and temporary staff hiring guidelines, visit Hiring Temporary Staff Procedures. Request for Hire a Temporary Staff Employee (Word or PDF) – Complete before hiring a staff temporary either via Kelly Services or SMU's payroll. Most Temporary Staff will need to be hired via Kelly Services. Please contact Kelly@SMU's on-site manager to make determination and to initiate the hiring process. Temporary Staff Hired via SMU's Payroll Only: New Temporary Staff Employee Packet - Hiring department must provide this packet to the new temporary employee to complete and to submit to the Department of Human Resources prior to first day of work. Temporary Staff Payroll Authorization Form (ePAF) - Hiring department must create and submit payroll pay sheets for new temporary staff. Contact the OIT Help Desk for questions or assistance. Hiring Students Workers For more information, visit Hiring Students and International Students. New Student Worker Employment Packet - Hiring Department must provide this packet to the new student worker to complete before the first day of work. Student Worker Payroll Authorization Form (ePAF) - Hiring department must create and submit payroll pay sheets for the new student worker. Contact the OIT Help Desk for questions or assistance. Hiring International Student Workers For more information, visit Hiring Students and International Students. New International Student Employee Packet - Hiring department must provide to new student worker to complete prior to first day of work. Student Worker Payroll Authorization Form (ePAF) – – Complete to create student payroll pay sheets via my.smu.edu. Contact the OIT Help Desk for questions or assistance. Independent Contract Determination (ICD) Prior to engaging an independent contractor, the employee or independent contractor status must be determined. Departments must submit an Independent Contractor Determination (ICD) checklist for each calendar year in which an individual is engaged to perform services in order for the individual to be appropriately classified. Independent Contract Determination (ICD) Process & Forms Foreign Nationals The process to request a non-payroll payment for visitor at SMU has several important steps that must be followed before a department sends the visitor an invitation letter. The department must ensure that the visitor is eligible to receive the non-payroll payment, as well as determine tax residency status. Process to Request a Non-Payroll Payment Inviting a Foreign National to SMU (ISSS Office) Miscellaneous Guidelines Reviewing Skills Assessments Forms All HR Forms & Resources Benefits Forms Compensation Forms General HR Exiting SMU Forms Performance Review Forms Employee Recognition Forms Talent Acquisition and Management Forms Apply Visit Schools Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share