Skip to main content Faculty Directory Giving Industry Partners Programs & Departments About Us Home Admissions▼ Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions Undergraduate Spotlights Students▼ Undergraduate Students Graduate Students M.Eng. Students Research & Faculty▼ Faculty Centers and Facilities Strategic Areas of Research Undergraduate Research Diversity▼ DPE Programs & Events Current Students Prospective Students & Outreach Career Development Partnerships About DPE Alumni▼ Alumni Spotlights Bill Nye Solar Noon Clock Alumni Events Contact AAD Cornell Engineering Store Distinguished Alumni Award Enterprise Engineering Colloquium Students Support Volunteer Open the search panel Menu Search Close Kessler Fellows Program Engaging Entrepreneurial Spirit Kessler Fellows is an entrepreneurship program rooted in the College of Engineering. The program is open to all juniors at Cornell University that have a strong interest in entrepreneurship. Students will engage in a semester-long immersion aimed to help them cultivate their entrepreneurial readiness before their summer experience with a startup. Eligibility and Selection Any junior at Cornell University with an interest in entrepreneurship is encouraged to apply. Program Funding Through the generosity of Andrew J. Kessler '80 EE, Kessler Fellows receive a weekly stipend during their summer internship and travel costs will be covered. Student Commitment The program involves a one-credit course during the spring semester, one-on-one time with an Entrepreneur-in-Residence, and a presentation at the conclusion of their summer experience. Navigation Heading for Screen Readers Students Undergraduate Students Entrepreneurial Options for Undergrad Students Kessler Fellows Program Learn More About Current and Past Kessler Fellows 2009 Kessler Fellows 2010 Kessler Fellows 2011 Kessler Fellows 2012 Kessler Fellows 2013 Kessler Fellows 2014 Kessler Fellows 2015 Kessler Fellows 2016 Kessler Fellows 2017 Kessler Fellows 2018 Kessler Fellows 2019 Kessler Fellows 2020 Kessler Fellows 2021 Kessler Fellows 2022 Kessler Fellows Mission and Vision Partner Companies Contact Kessler Fellows Share: Testimonial by I learned so much more than I could have ever expected in a 10-week timeframe. The fellowship certainly got me more excited about entrepreneurship and showed me that there is a clear—albeit difficult—path from research to company to patient. — Jackson Bauer, Kessler Fellows '21 Testimonial by Going into the summer, I wasn't sure what I wanted to do after college. I knew I wanted to work on something impactful in the bioelectronic or biomedical field and thought working at a startup or getting a Ph.D. would be the best route for that. Being a Kessler Fellow allowed me to talk to many different people about how their careers progressed and learn from their successes and mistakes. — Emma Kranich, Kessler Fellows '21 Georgia working at her fellowship “ Academics are important. I wanted to get out there and do real things. Getting involved with start-ups is not the typical route, but it was what I needed to do." -Georgia Crowther, Kessler Fellow Learn more about current and past Kessler Fellows! Alumni Spotlights Ahmed Elsamadisi ’13 Recognized on Forbes "30 Under 30" Lists, Elsamadisi founded a startup called Narrator AI and is a graduate of YCombinator. Earlier in his career, he also leveraged his Cornell connections to land a position as a Senior Data Engineer at WeWork. Shanee Lu ' 11 After completing her Kessler Fellowship, Lu was accepted into Cornell's competitive eLab student accelerator and she launched Qubit, a startup enables coaches to speak directly into their players' helmets. She also landed a position as a product manager at Wyze. Michael Gingras ’17 Gingras interned at Ideo through his Kessler Fellowship and launched a bitcoin startup called Dexter in Cornell's eLab accelerator. Upon graduation, he has served as a software engineer at companies including Nasdaq, Gearflow.com, and Sora. Kessler Fellows News News 2022 Kessler Fellows reflect diversity of disciplines March 15, 2022 The Kessler Fellows program welcomes fifteen new student entrepreneurs from across Cornell's colleges for entrepreneurship training and startup internship experience. Read more about 2022 Kessler Fellows reflect diversity of disciplines News Gene editing, brand acquisition, neural dust: Kessler Fellows devote summer to startups October 19, 2021 While some returning students left behind long days at the beach and summer barbeques, the student entrepreneurs in the 2021 cohort of the Kessler Fellows program returned having completed 10-week... Read more about Gene editing, brand acquisition, neural dust: Kessler Fellows devote summer to startups News Kessler Fellows secure startup internships for summer 2021 June 21, 2021 Jackson Bauer ’22 (biomedical engineering) is working with Be Biopharma, a biotechnology company developing engineered B cells for use in cellular medicines. Read more about Kessler Fellows secure startup internships for summer 2021 More News Contact Us About Us News Events Spotlights Staff Directory Intranet Reserve Duffield Hall Main Address: Carpenter Hall 313 Campus Rd. Ithaca, New York 14853 Web Accessibility Assistance Connect with us Facebook Twitter Youtube Instagram LinkedIn Copyright © 2022 Cornell University All rights reserved.