Skip to main content Toggle Tools navigation Toggle Site Navigation Toggle Search University of Cincinnati UC Home Visit UC Support UC Directories UC Tools Canopy & Blackboard Catalyst OneStop Student Email Faculty / Staff Email Shuttle Tracker UCFileSpace UC Flex/ESS IT Help UC VPN Concur Success Factors Enter a search term to search UC pages or the directory. Search String University of Cincinnati About Contact Us Policies Procedures Standards Guidelines Awareness How to Manage Your Social Media Privacy Settings National Cybersecurity Awareness Month End Of Support (EOS) Online Meetings Services Two-Factor Authentication Risk Management Shredding Security Certificates Information Security Review McAfee ePolicy Orchestrator (ePO) Encryption Account & Password Help Notifications of Expiration Password Help (PSS) Setup New Accounts How to Choose a Password Compliance & Law Copyright Infringement Two-Factor Authentication Risk Management Shredding Security Certificates Information Security Review McAfee ePolicy Orchestrator (ePO) Encryption About Policies Awareness Services Two-Factor Authentication Risk Management Shredding Security Certificates Information Security Review McAfee ePolicy Orchestrator (ePO) Encryption Account & Password Help Compliance & Law Copyright Infringement Two-Factor Authentication Free Antivirus Report an Incident Contact Us UCIT Homepage Information Security Review Facebook Twitter McAfee ePolicy Orchestrator (ePO) With McAfee e-Policy Orchestrator (ePO) software, IT administrators can unify security management across endpoints, networks, data, and compliance solutions from McAfee and third-party solutions. McAfee ePO software provides flexible, automated management capabilities so you identify, manage, and respond to security issues and threats. The McAfee ePO server is the central software repository for all McAfee product installations, updates, and other content. The module design of ePO allows new products to be added as extensions. This includes new or updated versions of McAfee and McAfee compatible solutions from the Security Innovation Alliance. If your area is interested in utilizing ePO please send your request to infosec@uc.edu. We currently offer the following products through our McAfee ePO server: Expand All Endpoint Security Expand Endpoint Security combines anti-virus, anti-spyware, firewall, and intrusion prevention technologies to stop and remove malicious software. It also extends coverage to new security risks and reduces the cost of responding to outbreaks with the industry's lowest impact on system performance. Expand All MOVE Expand Management for Optimized Virtual Environments (MOVE) AntiVirus brings optimized, advanced virus protection to your virtualized desktops and servers, including your virtual environment in the cloud. Choose one efficient solution across multiple vendor platforms or an agentless, tuned option for VMware vShield. Expand All File and Removable Media Protection Expand File and Removable Media Protection (FRMP) ensures specific files and folders are always encrypted, regardless of where data is edited, copied, or saved. FRMP automatically and transparently encrypts the files and folders you choose before they move through our organization. Expand All Management of Native Encryption Expand Management of Native Encryption allows customers to manage the native encryption functionality offered by Apple FileVault on Macintosh OS X and Microsoft BitLocker on Windows platforms directly from McAfee ePolicy Orchestrator (ePO) software. University of Cincinnati IT@UC Office of Information Security University Hall 51 Goodman Drive Cincinnati, OH 45221 Phone: 513-558-ISEC (4732) E-mail: infosec@uc.edu Notice of Non-Discrimination Alerts Clery and HEOA Notice Notice of Non-Discrimination eAccessibility Concern Privacy Statement Copyright Information © 2018 University of Cincinnati This website offers many PDF files for download, which require Adobe Reader to view.