Skip to main content University of Washington Research Contact Us About Office of Research Announcements UW Home Quick Links MyResearch Project Lifecycle Plan/Propose Plan/Propose Overview Develop Hypothesis/Question Select Funding Source Conduct Literature Search Sponsor Requirements Recruit Team Budget Facilities and Resources Write Proposal Submit Proposal Tools MyResearch SAGE Zipline More Tools Setup Setup Overview Sponsor Requirements Facilities and Resources Financials Subawards Compliance Requirements (Non-Financial) Records and Documentation Methods Collaborations Data Collection Tools MyResearch SAGE Zipline More Tools Manage Manage Overview Financials Compliance Requirements (Non-Financial) Facilities and Resources Collect Data Analyze Data Subawards Award Changes Reporting Tools MyResearch SAGE Zipline More Tools Closeout Closeout Overview Financials Subawards Equipment and Materials Reporting Dissemination of Results Data Sharing Records Retention Tools MyResearch SAGE Zipline More Tools Resources Support Offices Human Subjects Division Office of Animal Welfare Office of Research Central Office of Research Information Services Office of Sponsored Programs Research Units Applied Physics Laboratory Washington National Primate Research Center Browse Forms and Templates Policies, Procedures and Guidance Announcements Glossary FAQs Popular Resources Funding Opportunities Grants Information Memorandum (GIMs) Institutional Facts and Rates Research Stats & Rankings New to UW Research UWFT for the Research Community Tools MyResearch SAGE Zipline More Tools Collaboration Connect to Expertise Find Research Expertise Research Centers and Institutes Resources for Collaboration Interdisciplinary Resources Guidance for NIH Institutional Training Grants Collaborative Proposal Development Resources Establish a Research Center or Institute Shared Research Facilities and Resources Tools MyResearch SAGE Zipline More Tools Compliance Compliance Overview Compliance Training Training Overview Research Training Overview Collaborative for Research Education Required Research Training Research Administration Learning HSD Training and Education MyResearch Training Transcript Home UW Research MyResearch Project Lifecycle Closeout Financials UW Research Menu MyResearch Project Lifecycle Plan/Propose Setup Manage Closeout Resources Collaboration Compliance Training Financials Close Menu Home Closeout Financials Subawards Equipment and Materials Reporting Dissemination of Results Data Sharing Records Retention Use the GrantTracker Departmental View for monitoring expiration & final action dates of sponsored award budgets. All award expenses must be posted in the UW financial system by the Final Action Date (FAD). Expenses posted after the FAD may not be eligible for reimbursement from the sponsor. If your FAD is approaching and: you will have late transactions, use GrantTracker to contact GCA. the work is not complete, consider requesting a budget extension. If upon completion the award has a deficit, it must be resolved per the UW Deficit Resolution policy. Review Final Financial Reporting requirements. End of Award / End of Budget Review Checklist This checklist provides recommendations for preparing for the end of an award or the end of a budget period (closeout) 30-60 days before the Final Action Date (FAD) of a UW sponsored award budget number. Departments are responsible for monitoring expiring awards. GCA provides the GrantTracker Departmental View for monitoring expiration & Final Action Dates (FAD) of sponsored award budgets. Review guidance for closeout: sponsor reporting. Review Items At least 30-60 days before the FAD of the UW budget number: Review award terms & conditions for final documentation requirements & deadlines, ensure they will be met. If necessary, fill out a Budget Extension Request. If Sponsor approval is required, submit 45 days before the current award/budget period end date. Review UW Policy GIM 39: Closeout of Sponsored Programs. Review award expenditures & ensure allowability and allocability. If any expenditure does not belong, it must be removed before the FAD. Make sure: All allowable project costs have posted to UW Budget number including any subaward invoices. Expenditures that post after the final financial report/invoice are the department’s responsibility. Open balances & encumbrances have cleared the UW budget. Provide closeout@uw.edu a copy of the final progress report and/or proof of submission. Other Review Items as Applicable If applicable, make sure: Cost Share commitments are met and posted in UW systems. To complete Interim Cost Share reports when there is a gap between sponsor final deadlines and Faculty Effort Certification (FEC) cycles. Program Income is spent in full. Report Intellectual Property to UW CoMotion. Equipment Inventory- review and confirm: Equipment closeout reporting guidance, Final fabrication Journal Voucher (JV) requests are submitted no later than 30-60 days after the Budget Period end date. To follow Subaward Closeout Recommendations: 30-60 days before subaward period end: remind subrecipients of final deadlines (progress report, invoices, etc. per the terms of the agreement). Before the FAD of prime award budget: confirm final invoice has been received, approved, marked final and payment has posted to UW budget. Closeout Blanket Purchase Orders (BPO) in Ariba: when there are unexpended funds and it is still in an “open” status. Other End of Budget / End of Award Resources Financials Reporting Equipment Subawards Dissemination of Results Data Sharing Records Retention GIM 39 – Closeout of Sponsored Programs Early Termination and Relinquishment Early termination shortens the life of the project period prior to completion. Relinquishments and award transfers mean returning funds back to the sponsor and giving up the UW’s right to the funding. Review guidance for early terminations and relinquishments. Forms, Tools, and Resources MyFD: Budget Reconciliation GCA: GrantTracker PAFC: Spending/Expenditure Timing GCA: Unexpended Balance FAQ End of Award Request Form GCA: Final Action Date GCA: Closing GCA: Fixed Price Surplus Closeout Reporting End of Award / Budget Review Checklist Policies, Regulation, and Guidance GIM 02 – Acceptance of Sponsored Program Awards and Fiscal… GIM 23 – Sponsored Program Costing Policy GIM 39 – Closeout of Sponsored Programs GIM 21 – Cost Share on Sponsored Programs GIM 15 – Transfer of Expenditures Between Budgets UW Deficit Resolution Policy GCA: Grant & Contract Deficit Procedures Home Closeout Financials Subawards Equipment and Materials Reporting Dissemination of Results Data Sharing Records Retention University of Washington Office of Research Tools MyResearch SAGE Zipline More Tools OR Support Offices Human Subjects Division (HSD) Office of Animal Welfare (OAW) Office of Research (OR) Office of Research Information Services (ORIS) Office of Sponsored Programs (OSP) OR Research Units Applied Physics Laboratory (APL-UW) WA National Primate Research Center (WaNPRC) Research Partner Offices CoMotion Corporate and Foundation Relations (CFR) Enivronmental Health and Safety (EH&S) Grant and Contract Accounting (GCA) Institute of Translational Health Sciences (ITHS) Management Accounting and Analysis (MAA) Post Award Fiscal Compliance (PAFC) Collaboration Research Expertise Centers and Institutes Interdisciplinary Resources Guidance for NIH Institutional Training Grants Collaborative Proposal Development Resources About Research Fact Sheet Research Annual Report Stats and Rankings Honors and Awards Office of Research Contact Us Manage Subscriptions Gerberding Hall G80 Box 351202 Seattle, WA 98195 Accessibility Jobs Campus Safety My UW Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA