Skip to main content Latest COVID information W crest logo for the university Menu menu close Search People and Pages search closeOpen search This search returns up to five matches as you type. The matches can be found immediately after the search input field.Search People and Pages Search Main Menu Academics Admissions & Aid Student Life Research Athletics About UW Utility Menu MyUW open dropdown menu close dropdown menu MyUW home Email/calendar Canvas Box Google Apps Libraries Map News Visit Apply Jobs Give A silent video showing aerial scenes of campus including Bascom Hill bathed in late-afternoon rays of sunshine, a flyover Picnic Point with trees beginning to show fall colors and people gathered on the Memorial Union Terrace. Launch your future here Key next steps Visit campus Apply to UW Explore majors On Campus news and features For the love of vanilla On Wisconsin magazine UW botanist Ken Cameron studies the flowers that produce the world's favorite flavor. Can he save them from extinction? Read full story COVID-19 research BA.2 does not cause more severe illness than BA.1 New Chancellor Mnookin brings deep experience, wide perspective to role Campus scenes Spring takes its own sweet time Campus History Divine Nine Garden Plaza honors Black fraternities and sororities See more news We’re a public university guided by public service UW–Madison’s longest and proudest tradition is the Wisconsin Idea: the principle that our work should improve people’s lives beyond the boundaries of campus. This century-old guiding philosophy applies to our academics, research, and outreach. Learn more about the Wisconsin Idea UW–Madison’s F.H. King Students for Sustainable Agriculture distribute hundreds of pounds of fresh produce for free each season. We value a diversity of identities, ideas, and experiences Diversity is a source of strength, creativity, and innovation for UW–Madison. We value the contributions of each person and respect the profound ways their identity, culture, background, experience, status, abilities, and opinions enrich the university community. We commit ourselves to the pursuit of excellence in teaching, research, outreach, and diversity as inextricably linked goals. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Multicultural Student Center We believe that one Badger can change the world #1 National public university #1 Peace Corps volunteers (2020) 20 Nobel Prize winners One of the things I really like about working in biotech is that what I’m doing today, what I do every day, has a real tangible benefit on the health of human lives. UW alumna Sarah Ives, a vaccine and antibody expert featured in the 2020 Netflix documentary Pandemic: How to Prevent an Outbreak Our research solves mysteries and transforms lives UW–Madison is one of the 10 largest research institutions in the country, allocating more than $1 billion annually to groundbreaking inquiry. Spanning the humanities to the hard sciences, our vast research enterprise has a singular mission: to better understand ourselves and the world around us. Research at UW–Madison Read impact stories Discovering Stem Cells Origins of life in South Africa Cosmic rays at the South Pole Madison, WI: The ultimate college town This is where big-city opportunities meet small-town conveniences. Where vibrant streetscapes lead to lakeside retreats. Where a Big Ten college and capital city blend together, creating an atmosphere unlike anywhere else. Welcome to Madison. Tour campus virtually Explore Madison in every season Are you searching for something specific? This search returns up to five matches as you type. The matches can be found immediately after the search input field.Search People and Pages Search Footer links Popular Academic calendar Campus map Directory search Facts and figures Jobs Majors and certificates Tuition and fees Resources Alumni Business and industry Faculty and staff International Parents Researchers Students Quick links Accessibility Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Governance Policies Safety Support UW Title IX Footer Crest envelope Contact us facebook twitter youtube linkedin instagram ©2022 Board of Regents of the University of Wisconsin System | Privacy notice | Feedback, questions or accessibility issues: web@umark.wisc.edu