Skip to main content Navigation Academics Admissions Research Locations Student Life Alumni & Giving Athletics Apply Now Civil Engineering (BSCE) Program at a Glance Program Bachelor College(s) College of Engineering and Computer Science Department(s) Civil, Environ, & Constr Engr In State Tuition Out of State Tuition $212.28 per credit hour $748.89 per credit hour Learn more about program tuition and fees. Admission Requirements Students wanting to declare a major in an engineering discipline must be in good academic standing and must have a "C" (2.0) or better in each of the following courses or their equivalents: MAC 2311C, MAC 2312, PHY 2048C, and CHS 1440 or CHM 2045C or CHM 2040 AND CHM 2041. Students wanting to declare a major in an engineering discipline must complete a change of major in the term of completion of the final pending prerequisite course(s) listed above. Degree Requirements (128 Credit Hours) The College of Engineering & Computer Science requires all engineering students to achieve a minimum 2.25 GPA in completing the courses from Basic Core Requirements, Advanced Core Requirements, Restricted Electives and Capstone Requirements listed below. Independent study courses generally do not satisfy major requirements. A "C" (2.0) or better is required in each pre-requisite course in Common Program Prerequisites, Advanced Core Requirements, and Capstone Requirements. Students in the Civil Engineering major are expected to make consistent good progress toward their degrees to remain enrolled in, or eligible for, any major in the College of Engineering & Computer Science (CECS) or the College of Optics and Photonics (COP). Therefore, any student majoring in Civil Engineering who repeats any UCF course and does not earn a grade of "C" (2.0) or better on the second attempt will be placed on Lack of Progress Probation and remain on Lack of Progress Probation as long as the student is enrolled in a CECS or COP major. If a student on Lack of Progress Probation does not receive a grade of "C" (2.0) or better by the third attempt in the same UCF course, the student will be excluded from all CECS and COP majors. Any student majoring in Civil Engineering who has accumulated 7 or more unsuccessful attempts (i.e., grades below "C" (2.0) and withdrawals) over all courses taken at UCF will be placed on Lack of Progress Probation and remain on Lack of Progress Probation as long as the student is enrolled in a CECS or COP major. If a student on Lack of Progress Probation has a tenth unsuccessful attempt over all courses taken at UCF, the student will be excluded from all CECS and COP majors. A student who is excluded from CECS and COP majors may seek readmission to a major in CECS or COP after at least one full year has passed since exclusion. Readmission is not automatic and is dependent upon a high probability of success after readmission. Any student who is readmitted to the Civil Engineering major will be subject to all probation conditions that applied at the time of exclusion. View Full Description Undergraduate Application Deadlines Freshmen Transfers International Fall May 1 Spring November 1 Summer March 1 Fall July 1 Spring November 1 Summer March 1 Fall March 1 Spring September 1 Summer January 1 Ready to get started? Apply Today Career Opportunities UCF prepares you for life beyond the classroom. Here, you’ll experience a wide range of opportunity, like learning diverse skills from world-renowned faculty to networking with top employers across Central Florida to gaining first-hand experience in internships nearby. Achieve your degree and more as a Knight. Aeronautical Engineering Professor Architectural Engineer Civil Engineering Professor Construction Engineer Electrical Engineering Professor Electronics Engineering Professor Engineering Design Manager Engineering Manager Geotechnical Engineer Global Engineering Manager Highway Engineer Hydrographic Engineer Industrial Engineering Professor Manufacturing Engineering Professor Marine Engineering Professor Mechanical Engineering Director Mechanical Engineering Professor Petroleum Engineering Professor Railroad Design Consultant Structural Engineer Show More Career Opportunities Degree Search College of Engineering and Computer Science programs Bachelors Civil Engineering (BSCE) University of Central Florida Colleges Burnett Honors Arts and Humanities Business Community Innovation and Education Graduate Studies Health Professions and Sciences Medicine Nursing Optics and Photonics Sciences Undergraduate Studies Hospitality Management × Admission Requirements Students wanting to declare a major in an engineering discipline must be in good academic standing and must have a "C" (2.0) or better in each of the following courses or their equivalents: MAC 2311C, MAC 2312, PHY 2048C, and CHS 1440 or CHM 2045C or CHM 2040 AND CHM 2041. Students wanting to declare a major in an engineering discipline must complete a change of major in the term of completion of the final pending prerequisite course(s) listed above. Degree Requirements (128 Credit Hours) The College of Engineering & Computer Science requires all engineering students to achieve a minimum 2.25 GPA in completing the courses from Basic Core Requirements, Advanced Core Requirements, Restricted Electives and Capstone Requirements listed below. Independent study courses generally do not satisfy major requirements. A "C" (2.0) or better is required in each pre-requisite course in Common Program Prerequisites, Advanced Core Requirements, and Capstone Requirements. Students in the Civil Engineering major are expected to make consistent good progress toward their degrees to remain enrolled in, or eligible for, any major in the College of Engineering & Computer Science (CECS) or the College of Optics and Photonics (COP). Therefore, any student majoring in Civil Engineering who repeats any UCF course and does not earn a grade of "C" (2.0) or better on the second attempt will be placed on Lack of Progress Probation and remain on Lack of Progress Probation as long as the student is enrolled in a CECS or COP major. If a student on Lack of Progress Probation does not receive a grade of "C" (2.0) or better by the third attempt in the same UCF course, the student will be excluded from all CECS and COP majors. Any student majoring in Civil Engineering who has accumulated 7 or more unsuccessful attempts (i.e., grades below "C" (2.0) and withdrawals) over all courses taken at UCF will be placed on Lack of Progress Probation and remain on Lack of Progress Probation as long as the student is enrolled in a CECS or COP major. If a student on Lack of Progress Probation has a tenth unsuccessful attempt over all courses taken at UCF, the student will be excluded from all CECS and COP majors. A student who is excluded from CECS and COP majors may seek readmission to a major in CECS or COP after at least one full year has passed since exclusion. Readmission is not automatic and is dependent upon a high probability of success after readmission. Any student who is readmitted to the Civil Engineering major will be subject to all probation conditions that applied at the time of exclusion. Degree Requirements Core Requirements: Basic Level 2 Total Credits Complete all of the following Earn at least 2 credits from the following: EGS1006C - Introduction to the Engineering Profession (1) EGN1007C - Engineering Concepts and Methods (1) Basic Science Credit Hours: 3 (GEP) Core Requirements: Advanced Level 60 Total Credits Complete all of the following Earn at least 42 credits from the following: EGN3310 - Engineering Analysis-Statics (3) EGN3321 - Engineering Analysis-Dynamics (3) EGN3331C - Mechanics of Materials (3) EGN3613 - Engineering Economic Analysis (2) ENV3001 - Environmental Engineering (3) CCE4003 - Introduction to the Construction Industry (3) STA3032 - Probability and Statistics for Engineers (3) CGN3700C - Civil Engineering Measurements (2) CGN3501C - Civil Engineering Materials (3) CEG4011C - Geotechnical Engineering I (4) CES4100C - Structural Analysis I and Lab (4) CWR3201 - Engineering Fluid Mechanics (3) TTE3810 - Highway Engineering (3) CGN3405 - Applied Numerical Methods for Civil Engineering (3) CWR4202C - Hydraulics (3) GEP Course: STA 3032 Civil Engineering Depth Areas 12 Total Credits Complete 2 of the following Select 2 of the following 5 sequences to complete Geotechnical Complete the following: CEG4012 - Geotechnical Engineering II (3) CEG4203 - Geotechnical Methods and Case Histories (3) Water Resources: Complete the following: CWR4120 - Hydrology (3) CWR4124 - Hydrogeology (3) Transportation: Complete the following: TTE4274 - Transportation Engineering Systems (3) TTE4300 - Transportation Analytics (3) Structures: Complete the following: CES4605 - Steel Structures (3) CES4702 - Reinforced Concrete Structures (3) Mechanics: Complete the following: EGN3343 - Thermodynamics (3) CES4205 - Structural Mechanics (3) Civil Engineering Depth Electives 6 Total Credits Complete all of the following Take any of the courses not taken to complete a required depth area sequence OR from the following list: Environmental: Complete at least 1 of the following: ENV4531 - Environmental Engineering Unit Operations & Processes (3) ENV4561 - Advanced Environmental Engineering Operations & Processes (3) Construction: Complete at least 1 of the following: CCE4034 - Construction Estimating and Scheduling (3) CCE4004 - Construction Methods (3) Restricted Electives 3 Total Credits Earn at least 3 credits from the following types of courses: Students should consult the CECE website and their assigned academic advisor for a list of the approved technical electives and the terms when specific courses of this type are to be offered. Capstone Requirements 6 Total Credits Complete all of the following Senior Design Courses Design Specialization Complete at least 1 of the following: CEG4801C - Geotechnical Engineering Design (3) CES4743C - Structural Design (3) CWR4812C - Water Resources Design (3) TTE4601C - Urban Systems Design (3) Capstone Course Complete the following: CGN4808C - CECE Capstone Design (3) Grand Total Credits: 71 University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida