Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Division of Student Affairs Student Affairs Information for Employers Faculty and Staff Alumni Search BC.edu Links Career Center Menu Main Nav Career Center Meet With a Career Coach Back Back Close About Overview Meet Our Team Student Employment Contact and Visit Us Meet with a Career Coach Learning Outcomes Career Clusters Overview Career Exploration Business, Consulting, and Finance Communication, Arts, and Media Education, Nonprofit, and Social Service Government, Law, and Public Policy Healthcare and Nursing Science, Technology, and Engineering Jobs and Internships Overview Be Career Ready Internships Jobs Resumes Cover Letters Online Presence Networking Interviewing Evaluating an Offer and Salary Negotiation Graduate School Overview Applying to Graduate School Law School For Current Graduate Students Events and Programs Overview Event Calendar Careerfest Endeavor Schedule of Events Endeavor Fellows Endeavor Keynote Endeavor FAQs Information for Alumni Envision Designing Your Career Course Alumni Job Shadow Program Career Fairs and Networking Events Campus Recruitment Eagle Intern Fellowship Career Closet Praxis Summer Program Winter Break Challenge Illumination Awards Outcomes Resources Overview Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Handshake Guide Eagle Exchange Guide Meet With a Career Coach Close Directory A to Z Listing Search BC Career Center Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Employers Faculty and Staff Alumni BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Jobs Home Jobs and Internships Jobs Jobs and Internships Be Career Ready Internships Jobs Resumes Cover Letters Online Presence Networking Interviewing Evaluating an Offer and Salary Negotiation Find Your Post-Grad Opportunity Congratulations, you're ready to launch your post-graduation job search! This is an exciting time that can be filled with a variety of emotions. Jobs come in many forms and your search will be unique to you and your goals. The Career Center is here to partner with you on your journey and the resources below will help guide your post-graduation job search. Get Started Join a Career Cluster Browse our cluster pages to find resources tailored to your industry of interest and join a cluster to receive customized emails. Connect with Alumni Use Eagle Exchange to grow your network and connect with alumni to gain insight about a career field of interest. Explore Data Use our First Destination Dashboard to explore the types of experiences Boston College graduates pursued after BC. Meet with a Career Coach Schedule an appointment with our industry specialists to discuss your job search strategy and build a plan of action. Find a Job Job Listings Search Strategies Hiring Timelines Scams Handshake As you look for opportunities, start with Handshake, our centralized platform where employers post positions for Boston College students. All of the top employers are hiring on Handshake, including the Fortune 500, nonprofits, startups, and more. You can also find campus recruitment opportunities. Our guide will help you set up your profile and make the most of your Handshake account. Handshake External Job Boards While it is highly recommended that you use Handshake as your primary platform to search for a job, there are a variety of other online job boards that may also serve as helpful resources. Below are a few general job boards to start with. You can find industry-specific resources on our career cluster pages. WayUp wayup.com A platform for early career professionals to explore opportunities, receive advice, and get discovered by employers LinkedIn linkedin.com Explore job listings on the world's largest professional network Indeed indeed.com Job postings from across the U.S. Simply Hired simplyhired.com Aggregated job listings from thousands of websites and job boards Monster monster.com A full array of job seeking, career management, recruitment and talent management products and services Glassdoor glassdoor.com Job postings with company reviews, salary reports, and more College Recruiter collegerecruiter.com Job search for current college students and recent graduates AfterCollege.com AfterCollege.com The largest career network for college students and recent graduates CollegeGrad.com CollegeGrad.com A job board designed for an entry-level job search Idealist idealist.org A job board for a nonprofit/government job search Pro Fellow profellow.com A job board for a professional and academic fellowship search Jop Well jopwell.com A career advancement platform for Black, Latinx, and Native American students and professionals LinkUp linkup.com An index of global job listings B-Work bwork.com B Work connects purpose driven jobseekers with meaningful work at companies that are using business as a force for good GoinGlobal goinglobal.com GoinGlobal helps new and experienced job seekers find opportunities both at home and abroad Develop a Search Plan Develop a plan that includes your target career field, ideal geographic location(s), ideal start date, what type of organization you are seeking in terms of size and culture. In addition, we encourage you to set goals for yourself as well as dates for achieving those goals. If you would like help with this process, we encourage you to make an appointment to discuss your goals with a career coach. Research Target Employers Most job openings aren’t advertised broadly. They’re usually posted on the organization’s website. Identify promising employers by checking Handshake, working your contacts, checking sites like Vault and LinkedIn, and reading trade websites and magazines. Then go to those employers’ websites to browse job openings. Track Your Progress Because you will likely be at different stages of the application process with various organizations at a given time, developing a process to keep track of all the details is key. Keep a spreadsheet that lists the organization, position title, links to the organization’s website and job description, date you submitted your application, date of follow up, date of interview(s), and other pertinent notes or details. Sample Tracking Spreadsheet Understand Hiring Timelines Every career field follows unique recruiting cycles and general hiring timelines. To succeed in your job search, you need to be aware of the recruiting cycles for your industry of choice. Below we provide information that can serve as a guideline for your own unique job search based on when BC graduates have been hired in the past. Hiring Timelines By Career Cluster Hiring timelines are based on aggregate outcome data from the Classes of 2017–2020 and reference full-time job offers. Career Cluster Before Senior Year Fall Semester Senior Year Spring Semester Senior Year After Graduation All Clusters 21% 22% 36% 21% Business, Consulting, and Finance 36% 29% 24% 11% Communication, Arts, and Media 2% 14% 42% 44% Education, Nonprofit, and Social Service 4% 14% 52% 29% Government, Law, and Public Policy 3% 4% 56% 37% Healthcare and Nursing 4% 8% 48% 39% Science, Technology, and Engineering 6% 29% 47% 19% Protect Yourself from Scams We know that you’re working hard to find that perfect internship or job. However, it is important to be aware that what appears to be the perfect job may not be so perfect. Not every job posting is legitimate; scammers may post fraudulent jobs to get your personal information for identity theft or to get money from you. These fraudulent jobs can be difficult to spot, but it is important for you to be aware of some tips on what red flags to look for and how to protect yourself if you think you may have applied to a fraudulent job. The Boston College Career Center makes every effort to verify the legitimacy of employers and job postings listed on Handshake. However, the ultimate responsibility for researching a potential employer and its opportunities lies with the applicant. Keep these tips in mind for any job opportunity you receive by email, find on a job board, or find on Handshake. If you feel uncomfortable about any job opportunity, do not click on any links and do not provide any personal information. Contact us with any questions you have about the legitimacy of an employer or an opportunity. Red flags in the job/internship posting It requires that you provide your credit card, bank account numbers, or other personal financial documentation. Do not give out any financial information at any point during your job search and hiring process. It requires an initial investment, such as a payment by wire service or courier. You are asked to provide your social security and driver’s license information in the initial application. Personal information should never be asked during the initial application process. The posting has many spelling and grammatical errors. The position is listed as any of the following: Bookkeeper, Envelope Stuffers, Home-based Assembly Jobs, Office Administrator, or Online Surveys. It promises a large amount of money for very little work, or the description focuses on the amount of money to be made, and neglects to mention what the responsibilities of the job actually are. The contact email address contains the domain @live.com, @hotmail, @yahoo, @gmail, etc. Be cognizant of unsolicited e-mails that are not specifically directed to you. Many employers have access to resumes via career centers. Therefore, reach out to the Career Center should you have any concerns or questions. Be leery of non-approved employment flyers on campus and in other establishments. Red flags in interactions with employers The employer responds to you immediately after you submit your resume (Note: this does not include an auto-response you may receive from the employer once you have sent your resume). The employer contacts you by phone, however, there is no way to call them back. The interview is conducted online, via text or chat and an offer is given almost immediately. You receive an unexpectedly large check. You are asked to provide a photo of yourself. When meeting an employer in person, it should always be in a public place (their office, coffee shop, etc.). Be wary of anyone asking to meet you at their home or offering transportation. Questions to ask yourself when researching an employer or opportunity Does the company’s website look legitimate? Scammers often create quick, basic web pages that seem legit at first glance, but it often doesn’t contain information beyond the job opportunity. You can also use sites like the Better Business Bureauand Hoovers to verify organizations. Use social media to research each employer, e.g., Facebook, Twitter, Snapchat, LinkedIn. Research the company on websites such as Glassdoor.com for feedback and complaints. Does the domain in the contact's email address match the domain used on the company website? Often scammers will try to appear as a legitimate company, but will change characters in their email domain that don’t match the real company email address. Research company websites thoroughly: Does the company have a website? Does the website match up with the posting? Does the website look legitimate? Look for “stock photos,” grammatical errors, and poor use of English language. Is it hard to find contact information? If it is difficult to find an address, actual contact, company name, etc., you should proceed with caution. Can you find scam reports online for this company? You can Google the company name and the word "scam" (i.e. “X” Company Scam). What to do if you are involved in a scam You should immediately contact the Boston College Police Department. If it is a situation where you sent money to a fraud employer, you should contact your bank or credit card organization immediately to close the account and dispute the charges. If the incident occurred completely over the Internet, the student should file an incident or call the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) at: 1-877-FTC-HELP (1-877-382-4357). Please contact the Career Center, too, as we want to be informed of illegal activity related to postings so that there will not be other victims. Other resources The Federal Trade Commission’s Consumer Information Site on Job Scams FBI Public Service Announcement warning of internet based employment scams on college students. Fraudulent Employers: Tips for Career Centers and Students and Protecting Yourself from Fraudulent Employers blog posts. Quick Links Handshake Campus Recruiting Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Job Search Resources From the Career Center Blog Should I Disclose My Disability During a Job Search? Many students with a disability struggle with the question of disclosure during the job and internship search process. “Will disclosure April 25, 2022 BCCareerCenterTeam Staying Positive During the Job Search Like many of life’s challenges, searching for jobs and internships can be emotionally taxing. Unlike most challenges, the effort you April 19, 2022 BCCareerCenterTeam Making a Decision on Job Offers “Congratulations, our company is pleased to offer you the position!” Receiving communication like this, whether via email or a phone, April 11, 2022 BCCareerCenterTeam How many applications do you need to submit to land an internship/job? We wish we could tell you that it takes exactly 45.63 applications to get a job or internship, but the April 04, 2022 BCCareerCenterTeam 8 Ways To Keep a Networking Relationship Going What is “networking,” anyway? The simple answer is – gathering information and building relationships to learn about possible career directions, March 28, 2022 BCCareerCenterTeam Summer Series: Looking to Explore this Summer Are you not feeling ready to step into a professional internship this summer? If experiencing something new and learning about March 25, 2022 BCCareerCenterTeam Should I Disclose My Disability During a Job Search? Many students with a disability struggle with the question of disclosure during the job and internship search process. “Will disclosure April 25, 2022 BCCareerCenterTeam Staying Positive During the Job Search Like many of life’s challenges, searching for jobs and internships can be emotionally taxing. Unlike most challenges, the effort you April 19, 2022 BCCareerCenterTeam Making a Decision on Job Offers “Congratulations, our company is pleased to offer you the position!” Receiving communication like this, whether via email or a phone, April 11, 2022 BCCareerCenterTeam VIEW MORE POSTS VIEW LESS POSTS Visit Blog Back To Top Back To Top Career Center Southwell Hall 38 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 617-552-3430 About Departments & Programs How can we help you? Events Division of Student Affairs Division of Student Affairs BAIC BC Bands Business Service Center Career Center Counseling Services Graduate Student Life Health Promotion Health Services Residential Life Robsham Theater Student Conduct Student Involvement Student Outreach & Support Women’s Center Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College