Skip to Main Content Brown University Brown University Medical School Admissions Secondary Navigation Navigation Give Now Search Menu Site Navigation Home About the Medical School Curriculum Degree Programs Student Stories After Alpert Frequently Asked Questions Virtual Tour Apply Application Process Tuition and Fees Financial Aid Routes of Admission AMCAS/MCAT Secondary Application Requirements Interview Decision Process Virtual Tour FAQ Life at Brown Student Life Life in Providence Class Profile Service Virtual Tour Diversity Search Medical School Admissions Frequently Asked Questions Answers to the most common queries about the application process at The Warren Alpert Medical School. Breadcrumb Home About the Medical School Sub Navigation In This Section Curriculum Degree Programs Student Stories After Alpert Frequently Asked Questions Virtual Tour Frequently Asked Questions Answers to the most common queries about the application process at The Warren Alpert Medical School. What are your requirements for letters of recommendation? The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University requires either one composite letter from your undergraduate school’s premedical committee or a minimum of three individual letters of recommendation from your premedical or research adviser, professors at the institution where you last studied, or other individuals of your choice (maximum of six). How do I submit my letters of recommendation? We participate in the AMCAS Letter Service as Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University. For more information on letter transmission, see the AAMC site. What are the premedical course requirements I have to take in order to apply? A list of the required premedical coursework can be found on our site. Do you require the MCAT exam? What is your MCAT policy? Yes, we require the MCAT exam for our AMCAS/Standard route of admission. More information is on our site. What if I have not taken the MCAT yet? Should I wait to submit my AMCAS until I have my MCAT scores? You may complete and submit your AMCAS application at any time prior to our November 1 AMCAS application deadline. You do not have to wait for MCAT scores to submit your AMCAS application. We will receive your MCAT scores electronically directly from the AAMC. Do you ever waive the secondary application fee? We will waive the $110 secondary fee only if you have been approved for an AMCAS fee waiver for the current application cycle through the AAMC fee assistance program. Do you accept international applicants? Yes. Please see our eligibility requirements. Do you accept Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) applicants? Yes. Please see our eligibility requirements. Am I a first-generation college student? Brown University is committed to building a diverse learning community through holistic admissions, and asks if applicants are "first-generation students" as one factor in understanding a candidate's background. Brown's definition is somewhat different from the one AMCAS uses. You are a "first-generation college student" if neither of your parents (or legal guardians) completed a four-year college education in the United States or abroad. Do you accept applications for Transfer/Advanced Standing admission? The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University considers transfer applications only under extraordinary or highly compelling circumstances, and on a space available basis. Only current students enrolled in U.S. allopathic medical schools can be considered. Please see our Advanced Standing/Transfer Policy for details. May I come visit and tour the Medical School? The Medical School is a closed campus. However, we usually hold two information sessions during the summer. The dates for summer 2022 sessions will be posted as soon as they are available. In the meantime, there is an abundance of information on the AAMC's site for those who are considering a career in medicine. Does Brown have an MD/PhD program? Yes we do! The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University offers institutional funding for a limited number of students who plan to train to be physician-scientists in areas with graduate programs within Brown’s Division of Biology and Medicine. Candidates for these funded programs should review the MD/PhD Application Instructions for 2021 and the MD/PhD Program website for more information. Although the school does not (yet!) participate in the NIH Medical Scientist Training Program, we do have a community of current students engaged in MD/PhD training. Admitted candidates receive tuition remission for the medical school and graduate program, and a stipend during the graduate school years. International students who gain admission to the Warren Alpert Physician-Scientist MD/PhD and Advanced Training Program receive the same funding as U.S. citizens and permanent residents. MD/PhD applicants are not considered for the MD-only program. Can I pursue MD/PhD training in fields outside of those offered by the Division of Biology and Medicine? Students who wish to combine the MD degree with a PhD in a field not offered within the Division of Biology and Medicine can apply to the graduate program of their choice, but do not receive funding through the medical school. Candidates may apply concurrently (if deferred entry is acceptable to the graduate school/program) or during the early years of medical school, and generally undertake the graduate portion of their education between the second and third years of medical school. Students interested in research but not ready to commit to a dual-degree option can explore their interests through the Scholarly Concentrations Program, the Basic and Translational Research Program, or may find their own research mentor based on their specific interests. MD-ScM How do I apply to the MD-ScM program on my AMCAS application? When you are completing your AMCAS application, select the "Regular MD" program designation. We will then email the secondary application information to you within the same week we receive your verified AMCAS record. You will choose the MD-ScM program on the secondary. How do I apply to the MD-ScM program on the secondary application? On your secondary application, you will select "Yes" when asked if you are applying to the MD-ScM program. If you select "No" you will be applying to the Regular MD program. If I apply to the MD-ScM program, will it exclude me from being considered for the Regular MD program? No. In fact, applicants are first offered admission to the Regular MD program. Admission decisions for the MD-ScM program will occur in March after the initial admission offer to the Regular MD program has been made. If I choose to apply to the MD-ScM program, do I have to fill out a different secondary application from the Regular MD program? The secondary application for the Regular MD program and the MD-ScM program are the same for most of the sections, except that MD-ScM applicants complete additional essay questions. How many openings are there in the MD-ScM program? There are 16 openings available. What is the interview process for the MD-ScM program? The process is the same as it is for Regular MD applicants. If you are invited to interview, we will send you an email with information on how to schedule your interview date online. You would then come to The Warren Alpert Medical School and complete two interviews with members of the Admissions Committee. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Division of Biology and Medicine Program in Biology Affiliated Hospitals Footer Navigation Events Maps and Directions Contact Us Accessibility The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About the Medical School Curriculum Degree Programs Student Stories After Alpert Frequently Asked Questions Virtual Tour Apply Application Process Tuition and Fees Financial Aid Routes of Admission AMCAS/MCAT Secondary Application Requirements Interview Decision Process Virtual Tour FAQ Life at Brown Student Life Life in Providence Class Profile Service Virtual Tour Diversity Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Give Now This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Frequently Asked Questions Open details for Frequently Asked Questions Bookmark this Page