Skip Navigation Texas A&M University Search Options Web People Search Search MENU Search About Admissions Academics Athletics Research Student Life Search Future Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Parents Visitors Former Students Make a Gift Search Options Web People Search Search Close Search Menu Home About Admissions Academics Athletics Research Student Life Info For: Future Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Parents Visitors Former Students Make a Gift Home Emergency Preparedness Emergency Resources Presentation Opportunities Presentation Opportunities The Texas A&M Emergency Management team offers a variety of presentations related to the field of emergency management in a higher education and local community context. Presentations for your organization or class lecture are available in-person or virtually via Zoom. All presentations can be tailored to specific audiences, and new presentation topics are available upon request. To schedule a presentation, please visit tx.ag/EMpresentations or contact the Office of Safety & Security. Presentations Available Emergency Management at Texas A&M University Presentation Description: Texas A&M Emergency Management is responsible for a myriad of essential functions, including emergency planning, training, exercising, and response. Through continued collaboration and coordination with stakeholders across campus, Emergency Management helps to ensure the safety and security of campus members. This presentation will highlight the unit’s unique role at Texas A&M University and give participants an insider look at emergency management at an institution of higher education. 12th Man: Standing, Ready, Prepared Presentation Description: There are multiple types of potential hazards and emergencies that every person on-campus should be ready and prepared for. Fire/hazmat, personal safety, medical, and severe weather emergencies can happen to anyone and without much notice. This presentation will educate participants about potential emergencies and how they can respond and be prepared. Emergency Planning for Football Operations Presentation Description: Texas A&M University football games require a considerable amount of planning and preparation. 100,000+ spectators come to Kyle Field to watch Aggie football every Fall, and their safety and security is of utmost importance. Participants will learn about how the university prepares for emergencies, football game day operations, and the importance of an event action plan. Zombies! The University Response Presentation Description: Zombies! Texas A&M University is ready and prepared for a wide range of potential hazards and emergencies. In a pandemic-related zombie apocalypse, the University has procedures and preparedness-measures to keep the disease at bay. Participants will learn about Texas A&M University’s pandemic response. COVID-19 Brazos County Community Response Presentation Description: The COVID-19 pandemic has prompted a coordinated response from community partners within Brazos County. Coordinated information sharing, infection monitoring, and regular communication have been critical to the pandemic response. This presentation will provide an overview of response activities within the Brazos County community during the COVID-19 pandemic. COVID-19 Planning and Response: A Higher Ed Perspective Presentation Description: The COVID-19 pandemic has prompted a coordinated response from community partners within Texas A&M University. Coordinated information sharing, infection monitoring, and regular communication have been critical to the pandemic response. This presentation will provide an overview of the unique considerations for higher education planning during the COVID-19 pandemic. Medical Countermeasures: Planning for Infectious Diseases Presentation Description: Points of dispensing (PODs) are community locations that state and local agencies use to dispense medical countermeasures to the public during a public health emergency. POD operations can include screening participants, providing medical information, and dispensing large amounts of vaccines or antibiotics as efficiently as possible. This presentation will educate participants on POD operations and POD planning at Texas A&M University. Emergency Operations Center (EOC) Operations Presentation Description: The emergency operations center (EOC) is a central command and control facility that coordinates information and resources to support incident management activities. This presentation will describe the purpose and operations of an EOC during an incident or event and give an insider look at the EOC in Brazos County. Continuity Planning: Why Your Unit Needs It Presentation Description: Continuity planning is the effort to ensure that the capability exists to continue essential functions across a wide range of potential emergencies. Continuity planning can help your organization respond to major disaster or disruptions so that essential functions can continue with minimum downtime. This presentation will give an overview of continuity planning, its importance within the University, and explain continuity plan components. Hurricane Planning Presentation Description: Emergency management professionals plan for hurricanes and their associated hazards. Hurricane preparedness is necessary and relevant to many people in Texas, especially during hurricane season. This presentation will educate participants on hurricanes, hazards, and hurricane preparedness. Emergency Management and Meteorology Presentation Description: Severe weather causes many disasters that require emergency response. Meteorologists often use their knowledge and skills in forecasting and analyzing weather data to support emergency management. This presentation will highlight the importance of continued partnerships between meteorology and emergency management professionals that allow them to plan for and manage disasters. Emergency: Dial 911 Facility Emergency: Dial 845-4311 (5-4311 from a campus phone) Emergency Numbers Health Science Center Emergency Numbers Code Maroon HSC Alert Emergency Announcements Emergency Plan Emergency Procedures Health Science Center Emergency Plans Communications Continuity Planning After Action Report Training Presentations Campus Safety Awareness Series Frequently Asked Questions Emergency Contacts Resources Students Faculty/Staff Visitors Community State & Federal About Texas A&M Texas A&M at a Glance Aggie Traditions Colleges & Departments Global Scope Global Partnership Services Education Abroad Admissions Aggiebound Viewbook Office of Admissions Scholarships & Financial Aid Course Catalogs Cost Calculator Academic Resources Majors Rankings & Recognitions University Libraries Services/Resources Parking & Transportation Housing Dining Employment Diversity & Inclusion Emergency Preparedness Contact Us Texas A&M University 979-845-3211 College Station TX 77843 USA TAMU Facebook TAMU Twitter TAMU Instagram TAMU Snapchat TAMU LinkedIn TAMU Pinterest TAMU Youtube TAMU Reddit Texas A&M at Galveston Texas A&M at Qatar Texas A&M University System Site Policies College Station, TX © Texas A&M University Title IX Reporting Sexual Misconduct Policy Mental Health Resources Risk, Fraud & Misconduct Hotline Notice of Nondiscrimination Course Schedules & Syllabus, Faculty CV Institutional Resumes Accountability CARES Act Guidance and Reporting State of Texas Statewide Search State Link Policy Open Records Accreditation Complaints Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS Back to top