Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Brown University A-Z Index People Directory Students Alumni Careers News Events Search Give Explore Brown University's School of Public Health Admissions Academics Research Faculty About Diversity Admissions Academics Research Faculty About Diversity A-Z Index People Directory Students Alumni Careers News Events News School of Public Health Launches the NextGen Scholars Program in Biostatistics December 15, 2021 The School of Public Health has launched the NextGen Scholars Program in Biostatistics to shape the next generation of scholars and professionals in biostatistics by providing full financial support for students from Historically Black Colleges and Universities to pursue a Master’s degree in Biostatistics at Brown. Read More Student entrepreneurs at Intus Care harness power of data to improve health care for the elderly December 9, 2021 Making the most of opportunities for entrepreneurship support at Brown, four undergraduates combined their distinctive skills, talents and experiences to change how health care is provided to vulnerable patients. Read More Peter Monti stepping down as CAAS director November 30, 2021 After over twenty years as the leader of the Center for Alcohol and Addiction Studies (CAAS) in the Brown School of Public Health, Peter Monti Ph.D., Donald G. Millar Distinguished Professor of Alcohol and Addiction Studies, has decided to step down from the role of center director effective September 1, 2022. Read More New Leaders Bring Global, National Expertise to the Brown School of Public Health November 22, 2021 The Brown University School of Public Health is welcoming new leaders bringing global and national expertise to advance the school’s work on pandemic preparedness and mis/disinformation. Read More Students unite to take a hands-on, DIY approach to improving air quality November 20, 2021 An event hosted by Brown’s School of Public Health brought students together to build low-cost, highly effective Corsi-Rosenthal cubes as air filters that will augment existing filtration systems at Brown. Read More Erica Walker Awarded Pioneering Ideas Grant to Measure Environmental Quality in Metro Jackson, Mississippi November 15, 2021 The founder of the Community Noise Lab will partner with the Piney Woods School on a Robert Wood Johnson Foundation-funded study of the air, noise, and water quality of the Jackson, Mississippi Metro area. Read More People of color, women and those with health conditions among veterans at high risk of food insecurity November 11, 2021 New findings about military veterans at the highest risk for food insecurity can help connect them to food they need for good health and inform interventions to address the larger, long-term issue. Read More School of Public Health joins Alzheimer's Association on national effort to collect "real world" data on newly-approved treatments November 10, 2021 The Department of Biostatistics in the School of Public Health joins the Alzheimer's Association, the American College of Radiology, and the American Society of Neuroradiology in announcing a new national registry, The National Treatment and Diagnostic Alzheimer's Registry, to quickly and transparently advance science by utilizing real-world evidence on new and developing therapies. Read More Pages « first ‹ previous 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 … next › last » School of Public Health Experts in the Media Study: A third of Colorado's COVID deaths were vaccine preventable May 21, 2022 Read More With COVID cases rising, CDC issues new guidance. What Rhode Islanders need to know. May 20, 2022 Read More Pro-Trump counties continue to suffer far higher COVID death tolls May 19, 2022 Read More Don't go here even if it's open, Say virus experts May 18, 2022 Read More Unexpected long-term impacts of COVID-19 could affect male sex hormones May 18, 2022 Read More The new, highly transmissible Omicron variant, BA.2.12.1, is dominating in Massachusetts. Now what? May 17, 2022 Read More US deaths from COVID hit 1 million, less than 2 1/2 years in May 16, 2022 Read More This is how many lives could have been saved with COVID vaccinations in each state May 13, 2022 Read More COVID-19 Cases Rising In W.Va. May 13, 2022 Read More Read more School of Public Health Admissions School of Public Health Admissions Email [email protected] Brown University Giving to Brown 121 South Main Street, Providence, Rhode Island 02903, USA 401-863-3375 Contact Us Newsletter Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility Brown Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top