Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Graduate School Future Students Current Students Degrees News & Events Resources Contact Us Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Current Students Academics Tuition+Fees Financial Aid + Funding Get Involved Graduation Key Campus Resources External Resources Take Action Apply Now! Degree Programs Calendar Contact Us Follow Us Online InstagramFacebooktwitter Home Graduate School Current Students Graduate School Graduation Information Graduation Information Congratulations! You've ALMOST earned your graduate degree! Next assignment: apply to graduate. Please be sure to read this page entirely and watch the graduation application process video and DocuSign video BEFORE completing the forms. All correspondence pertaining to graduation will be sent to student University email accounts only. No written correspondence will be sent via U.S. mail. Please check your @memphis.edu regularly throughout the semester. In order to graduate you must meet all program requirements and: have a cumulative graduate GPA of 3.00 or better; and be fully admitted to a graduate degree and/or graduate certificate program before filing your graduation application. Students completing a Graduate Certificate program must be officially admitted to the program. If you are not admitted, please submit an Academic Program Update Form to Graduate Admissions (FedEx Institute of Technology, 201) immediately. Non-Degree Students are NOT eligible to file for graduation. Deadlines for Degree Candidates Commencement Date 8.06.2022 12.11.2022 5.07.2022 Last day to "Apply to Graduate" in MyMemphis Portal 6.03.2022 9.01.2022 2.03.2022 Last day to submit Master's, Doctoral, and/or Graduate Certificate Candidacy Form to the Graduation Analyst 6.03.2022 9.01.2022 2.03.2022 Last day to upload defended and corrected thesis or dissertation PDF to ProQuest for review along with required documents to the Graduation Analyst 7.06.2022 11.01.2022 4.01.2022 Last day for all academic departments to submit comprehensive exam results. Doctoral exams are due one week after grading. 7.06.2022 11.11.2022 4.07.2022 Last day to submit final PDF version of thesis or dissertation to ProQuest (after Graduation Analyst review) 8.03.2022 12.02.2022 4.29.2022 How to 'Apply to Graduate' Visit the MyMemphis portal > To access the application, select Student Pages >My Degree. Locate the Commencement and Graduation channel on the right side. Carefully review Step 1 - Prerequisites to Graduate. Select Step 2 - Apply to Graduate and complete the application. Proceed to Step 3 - Diploma Mailing/Cap and Gown form. All students are required to complete both the Diploma Mailing and Cap and Gown form, even if you do not plan to attend the ceremony. For students completing a graduate certificate program, there will be no access to the Cap and Gown portion as they do not participate in graduation. Step 4 will be emailed to approved students in your final semester. The form will be sent from The Commencement Office to your Memphis email account only. After the application has been completed, click View Your Submitted Application to check the status. Revisit Step 3 only if you need to make changes to your name or to the diploma mailing address. Do not go back to Step 2. Required Forms Candidacy Forms: Required for Master's, Doctoral and Graduate Certificate Programs All degree seeking students filing for graduation are required to submit candidacy forms for master's, doctoral and/or graduate certificate programs. We strongly recommend that you send the candidacy form to your departmental advisor at least 1-2 weeks prior to the submission deadline so that the form will reach the Graduation Analyst by the required deadlines. Any received after the deadline will NOT be approved. Failure to submit BOTH the graduation application and the degree and/or certificate candidacy form will delay your graduation until the next semester. Master's Candidacy Form Instructions Doctorate Candidacy Form Instructions Education Specialist Candidacy Form: Students completing an Education Specialist program may use the Education Specialist Program of Studies and Candidacy Form in lieu of the Graduate School form. Course Substitution Form: Complete this form for each course that was approved as a substitution for a required course in your program. This should be submitted along with your candidacy form. *Before starting on your candidacy form, log into myMemphis and obtain an unofficial copy of your transcript. This will help with completing your list of courses. *If you previously filed for graduation and did not meet all degree requirements, it will not be necessary to submit a new candidacy form unless you have made significant changes to your degree program. Access Candidacy Forms > If you have trouble with the DocuSign candidacy forms, you may submit the paper candidacy forms to the Graduate School. Here is a link to the masters, doctoral, and certificate paper candidacy forms. Remember, you will be responsible for obtaining all the necessary signatures. Questions about the Graduate School candidacy forms? Contact Graduate School Graduation Analyst at gsgraduateanalyst@memphis.edu. Thesis/Dissertation Forms Thesis/Dissertation Defense Announcement form NOTE: This form must be submitted at least three weeks prior to the date of your defense. Degree Certification Students will be certified for graduation only when all degree requirements are met, including the removal of all "I" or "IP" grades earned from previous semesters, and the successful completion of comprehensive examination requirements or final approval of master's theses or doctoral dissertations. If degree candidates earn any "I" or "IP" grades during their last semester of enrollment, they will be automatically disqualified from graduation and will be notified of this disqualification via UofM email only. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 12/15/21 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.