Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Institute Communications Main navigation Home About About Us Meet the Team Careers Brand Brand Standards and Guidelines Our Voice Our Look Licensing Licensing and Trademarks Campus Resources External Communications About Media and PR Op-Ed and News Pitching Social Media State Outreach Internal Communications Campus Communications Campus Calendar On-Campus Advertising Campus Communicator Contacts Events at Georgia Tech About Event Planning Event Coordinator Network (External Link) Georgia Tech Special Events (External Link) Photo and Video About Photography and Videography Photo and Video Guides Scheduling a Headshot Websites Website Development Content Strategy Hiring Website Vendors Meeting and Training Opportunities Meetings and Training Presentation Archives (GT Account Required) Media and Vendors Media Inquiries Promotional Inquiries User account menu Contact Us Open Search Search Search Media Inquiries Breadcrumb Home As a major public research institution, sharing our knowledge and ideas is a top priority. We recognize and appreciate the important role news media plays as a channel of communication with the public. We will work with qualified representatives of news reporting organizations to provide timely and accurate information regarding our programs and activities. We look forward to working with you, whether you are interested in pursuing a specific topic or learning more about the Institute. Our Latest Headlines Visit the Georgia Tech News Center To see articles, photographs, and video prepared by Institute Communications staff covering research, innovation, and current events. Contact the media team  For help with stories, arranging interviews, or requests for photos, and see the resources below for additional information. Background Information Georgia Tech Fact Book. Enrollment statistics. Institute history and traditions. Events In any given week, Georgia Tech hosts a variety of lectures, presentations, athletic events, and other activities. Check our campus calendar to see what’s going on. Experts Many of Georgia Tech’s faculty members and researchers are available to comment on their research or other related topics. Find a research expert in our Experts Guide. Film Crew and Photographer Requests Review the Guide to Filming and Photography if you are interested in shooting on campus. Filming by anyone is prohibited inside buildings, classrooms, labs, and residence halls without prior permission. News organizations are welcome to film on campus when Georgia Tech-related content is the focus and the filming or photography has been coordinated in advance with the Media Relations team. News outlets requesting permission to film documentaries of Tech’s faculty and their research will also require completed filming applications, proof of insurance, and location agreements. If you are not a member of the media or have a commercial-related request, please contact Rachael Pocklington at rpocklington@gatech.edu. Open Records Requests As a state university, Georgia Tech is subject to the provisions of the Georgia Open Records Act. Our department works with the Office of Legal Affairs to facilitate requests. To request open records, please contact Tracey Reeves, Associate Vice President of Research, Academics, and Campus and Culture Communications at tracey.reeves@comm.gatech.edu. Photo and Video Requests Georgia Tech can usually provide journalists with high-resolution images (and in some cases HD video) to illustrate stories. These are often available for download along with the posted press release, or by request. We also have an archive of thousands of additional images. If you cannot find what you are looking for, please contact a member of the media team. Student Information Requests The Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA) (20 U.S.C. § 1232g; 34 CFR Part 99) is a federal law that protects the privacy of student education records. The law applies to all schools that receive funds under an applicable program of the U.S. Department of Education. For this reason, Georgia Tech’s policy only allows “directory information,” which is not generally considered harmful or an invasion of privacy, to be disclosed. The following is considered directory information: Name, address (including Georgia Tech email address), and telephone listing. Level (graduate or undergraduate). Field of study. Enrollment status (full-time, part-time, less than part-time). Dates of attendance. Degrees with associated honors and designations, and date(s) awarded. Anticipated date of graduation. Media and Vendors Media Inquiries Promotional Inquiries Parking Parking on campus is extremely limited. For assistance, please contact a member of the media team. Institute Communications Georgia Institute of Technology 177 North Avenue NW Atlanta, Georgia 30332-0181 404.894.0870 Institute Communications Map Campus Map General Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN Georgia Tech Resources Offices and Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GT visitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel and Conference Center Barnes and Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Colleges, Instructional Sites and Research Colleges College of Computing College of Design College of Engineering College of Sciences Ivan Allen College of Liberal Art Scheller College of Business Instructional Sites Georgia Tech-Lorraine Georgia Tech-Shenzhen Georgia Tech Online Professional Education The Language Institute Global Footprint Global Engagement Research Georgia Tech Research Institute Research at Georgia Tech Executive Vice President for Research Student and Parent Resources Student Resources Apply BuzzPort Buzzcard Career Center Commencement Library Student Life Student Entrepreneurship Study Abroad Canvas Parent Resources Parent and Family Programs Division of Student Life Scholarships and Financial Aid Employee, Alumni, and Other Resources Employees Administration and Finance Advising and Teaching Faculty Affairs Faculty Hiring Human Resources TechWorks Alumni Alumni Association Alumni Career Services Giving Back to Tech Outreach Startup Companies Economic Development Industry Engagement Institute Relations Professional Education