Skip to main content Skip to site menu Skip to Brown menu Skip to site search Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Enter search keyword About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Loan Office Repay your Loans Loan Consolidation Loan Office Loan Consolidation A Direct Consolidation Loan allows a borrower to consolidate (combine) multiple federal student loans into one new loan. The result is a single monthly payment instead of multiple payments. Learn about Consolidation Visit the StudentAid.gov Consolidation page to learn about consolidation. Eligible loans include Direct Subsidized and Unsubsidized Loans, Direct PLUS Loans, FFEL Stafford Loans, FFEL PLUS Loans, Federal Perkins Loans, and Loans for Disadvantaged Students. Private loans are not eligible for Federal Direct Consolidation. The interest rate is a fixed rate is based on the weighted average of the interest rates on the loans being consolidated, rounded up to the nearest one-eighth of 1%. However, the rate will not exceed 8.25%. Repayment begins within 60 days upon disbursement of the loan. The repayment term ranges from 10 to 30 years. Once your loans are combined into a Direct Consolidation Loan, they cannot be removed. The loans that were consolidated have been paid off and no longer exist. Apply for Consolidation To apply, complete the Consolidation Loan Application online at StudentAid.gov. 1 – Choose the loans to include in the new consoldation loan and choose a loan servicer. 2 – Choose a Repayment Plan - An applicant who is interested in one of the “income-driven” repayment plans will be able to complete the electronic repayment plan request form as part of the Direct Consolidation Loan process. 3 – Complete the Terms & Conditions 4 – Complete the Borrower & Reference Information 5 – Review & Sign Once the application is submitted, the selected servicer will complete the processing and follow-up with the applicant. Once the application process is fully completed, the selected servicer will confirm the details of your existing loans (outstanding balance, existing servicer), complete the consolidation, and send loan payoffs to your existing loan servicers. Home About Before You Borrow Leaving Brown & Exit Counseling Repay your Loans Grace Period Repay Your Federal Direct Loans Repay Your Federal Perkins and Brown University Institutional Loans Understanding Interest Loan Consolidation Avoiding Default Deferment & Forbearance Cancellation & Forgiveness Tax Information Medical School Loan Borrowers 1098-E Student Loan Interest - Tax Information Employee Programs News Code of Conduct Print this Page Share this Page Loan Office Brown University Box 1950 Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401-863-3296 Fax 401-863-7518 [email protected] Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory Related Bursar's Office Cashier's Office Financial Services Financial Aid Undergraduate Graduate Medical