Skip to Main Content Brown University Graduate Programs Search Menu Graduate Programs Medical Physics Sc.M. school Warren Alpert Medical School Inquire Apply All Graduate Programs Navigate This Page Navigate This Page About the Program Admission Information Completion Requirements Leadership Contact and Location Brown's Graduate Program in Medical Physics combines a rigorous curriculum, superb clinical settings, and unique focus on research training that prepares students for professional success. Faculty and staff are engaged and motivated to equip students with the knowledge and professional competencies that will make them competitive for medical physics residencies across the country. The Medical Physics Graduate Program is open to students with backgrounds in engineering, physics, applied math, or computer science. Students with degrees in the biological sciences require documented completion of coursework in these quantitative areas to be considered for the program. Students in the Medical Physics Graduate Program have learning and mentorship activities with the 20 faculty in the Department of Radiation Oncology who are involved in patient care and basic and translational research. Within Radiation Oncology and Radiology, students have opportunities to hone their presentation and leadership skills in the form of a weekly journal club, chart rounds, multidisciplinary chart rounds, physics, dosimetry, and Quality Assurance rounds. Admission Information Inquire Apply Admission Requirements GRE General: The GRE is not required. TOEFL/IELTS: Proficiency in English is expected as evidenced by TOEFL or IELTS scores. Transcripts from institutions outside the US and not in English will be verified and translated by WES or IERF. Official Transcripts: College Transcript required Letters of Recommendations: 3 Letters of Recommendation Personal Statement: Required Resume/CV: Required Additional Requirements: All students must possess at least a minor in physics, or equivalent Demonstration of programming skills is required, whether through successful completion of relevant coursework or by demonstration in a lab setting. Application via CollegeNET Application fee (non–refundable) Application process Rolling interview invitations (in person or skype interviews) Rolling admissions (class size is limited, so please apply early) Dates/Deadlines Admission Deadline June 1, 2021 Completion Requirements The Brown Medical Physics Graduate Program is a two-year, full-time program of study consisting of 11 required courses, including a final thesis. Leadership Department Chair Allan R. Tunkel allan_tunkel@brown.edu Director of Graduate Studies Eric E. Klein eric_klein1@brown.edu Contact and Location Warren Alpert Medical School Location Address 225 Dyer Street Mailing Address Brown University Box G-K4 medphys@brown.edu 401-863-5177 Visit the Warren Alpert Medical School Resources Program Faculty Graduate School Handbook Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Graduate School School of Engineering School of Professional Studies School of Public Health Warren Alpert Medical School This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Medical Physics Open details for Medical Physics Bookmark this Page