Skip to Content Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Indiana University Bloomington Indiana University Bloomington IU Bloomington Menu About History Rankings & Campus Statistics Mission & Strategic Planning Leadership & Administration Safety & Emergency Information Visit Campus Transportation & Parking A-Z List Jobs at IU How to Hire IU Students Admissions How to Apply Cost & Finances Visit IU & Bloomington Academics The Academic Experience Degrees & Majors Business Health & Wellness Science, Engineering & Technology Public Service Arts & Culture Schools Academic Opportunities Study Abroad Online Classes & Programs Schedule of Classes & Academic Calendar Academic Advising & Support Libraries Research Hoosier Life Traditions & Spirit Student Organizations Recreational Sports Athletics Health, Wellness & Safety Housing & Dining Visiting Bloomington Attractions & Things to Do Diversity on Campus Career Prep Find Your Passion Get Experience Develop Your Career Use Your Network Alumni & Giving News & Events Indiana University Bloomington Home About Admissions Academics Research Hoosier Life Career Prep Alumni & Giving News & Events Home Admissions Admissions Become the best version of you At IU Bloomington, our promise is to help you fulfill yours. We do it by giving you everything college should be. More than 550 academic programs, including opportunities you won’t find anywhere else. A cream-and-crimson-clad family that you can call on throughout your life. And a springboard to a rewarding career and a bright future. Apply to become a Hoosier Undergraduate admissions International admissions Graduate admissions Visit a campus so stunning that you’ll want to stay The trees. The limestone buildings. The high-tech labs and world-class performance spaces. The people from all over the world. Together they make IU’s campus one of the most inspiring and inviting places you’ll ever be. See for yourself.Plan your visit Explore, belong, and succeed at IU 200+undergraduate majors 300+graduate programs 1,300+employers actively recruit IU students 380+study abroad programs 750+student organizations 700,000+IU graduates worldwide See more rankings and statistics Make the most of your first year Beginning college, or transferring to a new college, is a big transition. That’s why we have the Office of First Year Experience Programs (FYE): to help undergraduates start strong at IU. FYE will help you explore IU’s many opportunities, pursue the ones that interest you, and shape your IU experience into what you want it to be—starting with New Student Orientation.Learn about First Year Experience Programs You’ll see a lot of our beautiful campus during New Student Orientation. How to Apply Cost & Finances Visit IU & Bloomington Indiana University Bloomington social media channels Twitter Facebook Instagram YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn Contact, Address and Additional Links Services Canvas One.IU AskIU Find Directory A-Z List Courses Campus Map Required Disclosures Library IU Bloomington Libraries IUCAT OneSearch@IU Resources Knowledge Base IT Services Faculty & Staff Resources Diversity Non-Discrimination Notice Protect IU Email About Email at IU Outlook Web Access INDIANA UNIVERSITY BLOOMINGTON 107 S. Indiana Avenue Bloomington, IN 47405-7000 Phone: 812-855-4848 Accessibility | Privacy Notice | Copyright © 2022 The Trustees of Indiana University