Skip to content Clemson University Begin With Clemson Stories Home Emily Martin Hoang Nam Huynh Roy Jones Marena Fleming Joe Mari Maja Clemson University Home Academics Research About Clemson Degree Programs Clemson University Academics Research About Clemson Degree Programs Menu Close Begin With Service Hoang Nam Huynh The Da Nang, Vietnam, native traveled across the world to join a top-tier nursing cohort and gain lifesaving skills on his journey to serve others. Watch Nam’s Story xxx × “My parents influenced me through their everyday actions. They would always say, ‘Whenever you can help, you have to help,’ and that stuck with me.” Seek academic challenges Clemson nursing major Hoang Nam Huynh, a native of Da Nang, Vietnam, was in high school when he moved halfway across the world to pursue a better education and more opportunity in America. He wanted to be the first in his family to enter the medical field so that he could focus on helping people as much as he could. Lead by serving He started out by volunteering. First, he worked with Little Steps in Greenville as an advocate for teenage parents who were still going to school and providing for their young families. He volunteered with Palmetto Health in Columbia, South Carolina, hosting events to benefit parents and children in need. Learn from the nation’s top educators When it came time to look at colleges, Nam looked nationwide, but he quickly learned that one of the country’s best nursing schools was right down the road at Clemson University. With nursing degree programs ranging from bachelor’s to doctorate-level all accredited by the Commission on Collegiate Nursing Education and NCLEX (nursing board examination) pass rates well above the national average, he realized his next move might not be as far away as his last one, but it would go the distance in his pursuit of a brighter future. “The Clemson University School of Nursing is a nationally recognized program focused on equipping students to make a tangible difference in health care. As we prepare nurses for professional practice and advance nursing scholarship, we are shaping the future of nursing and health care.” — Kathleen Valentine, Ph.D., Chief Academic Nursing Officer and Director, School of Nursing School of Nursing 100% Job Placement Rate Within Three Months Clemson nursing graduates have a nearly 100% job placement rate within three months of graduation. Excellence in Nursing Education Clemson is one of 16 universities whose School of Nursing received recognition this year by the National League for Nursing as a Center of Excellence in Nursing Education. This is the second such recognition for the program, which has been a Center of Excellence since 2014. Major in Nursing 1.1 million RNs Needed to Avoid a Shortage By 2022, there will be more registered nurse jobs available than any other profession, at more than 100,000 per year. The U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics projects the need for 1.1 million new RNs to avoid a nursing shortage. Find your strengths His sister moved to the U.S. for schooling in 2004, and in the summer of 2016 Nam and his mother moved here while his father remained in Vietnam as a civil engineer. He says that life with his parents in both countries has always involved giving back, making a difference in the community and standing up for their principles. Apply your education As a first-year student at Clemson, Nam pursued his desire to serve the community by joining Alpha Phi Omega service fraternity. He volunteered at local nursing homes and helps at Clemson Miracle and the annual dance marathon fundraiser. Even his on-campus job as a cycle bar instructor at Fike Recreation Center on campus serves others, encouraging people to pursue fitness for fun and health. Nam served as an undergraduate lab assistant for Clemson’s cutting-edge COVID-19 Saliva PCR Lab, which meant he was working alongside public health officials and Clemson researchers to keep campus and the surrounding community safer and healthier during the global pandemic. “There are so many opportunities to go out and see where you can make the most difference. I know that that will make me a better nurse and have a better understanding of my community, no matter where I am.” Academic Opportunities Exceed Your Expectations Being an international student has shown Nam how to adapt to any situation, which will serve him well in the medical field. The inclusion that he has seen at Clemson led him to meet new friends, build a new community and get out of his shell a bit. Nam says his nursing degree will be just the thing to foster his desire to lead. And with the help of the professors, advisers and the overall Clemson community, he is effecting change in the world around him by starting a path forward to help and heal others. “Nursing shows me how to provide a better life and a healthier lifestyle for myself and for others. Clemson gives you so many tools to succeed. We just have to take advantage of them and find them to be better versions of ourselves.” Experiental Learning Stay Connected With Clemson Want to stay connected with Clemson? Request emails, follow us on social media or see the latest in news. Other Stories Begin With Determination Roy Jones Social Media Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube REQUEST ADMISSIONS INFORMATION Copyright © 2022 Clemson University | Clemson, South Carolina 29634