Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Graduate Student Government Grad Student Government right arrow down arrow About us right arrow down arrow GSG Executive Board GSG Constitution right arrow down arrow GSG Bylaws GSG Member Groups List Awards right arrow down arrow Group Budget Awards Group & Community Grant Awards Conference Awards GSG Excellence Awards right arrow down arrow Graduate Student Risk Management Awareness Award GSG Research Fellowship Awards Presidential Medal of Graduate Student Excellence Talk to Us Programs right arrow down arrow Graduate Student Orientation and Welcome right arrow down arrow GSA Officer Orientation Home » Campus Life » Graduate Student Government » About us » GSG Constitution » GSG Bylaws Set Navigation title in component GSG Executive Board GSG Constitution GSG Bylaws GSG Member Groups List GSG Bylaws SECTION 1 : OFFICERS AND REPRESENTATIVES A. The Duties of the President shall be: Plan, schedule and preside at all Graduate Student Assembly (GSA) and Executive Board meetings. Coordinate the activities of the GSA. Implement all resolutions and business of the GSG. Manage the GSG office. Appoint members of all internal and external committees subject to Executive Board approval. Cultivate leadership among GSA representatives. Perform other duties of the office of the president as may be determined by the GSA. Plan and implement, in consultation with GSA and Executive Board, GSG programs throughout the academic year. Consider disciplinary action regarding Member Groups failing to comply with GSG active status requirements. (see Article II, Section 4 for description of "active status") Serve on various university committees as needed. Be available during scheduled office hours. In case of personal absence, the office hours shall be made up within a week. Set up an external committee made up of GSA members to audit the books of the GSG at the end of each school year. B. The Duties of the Vice-President shall be: Plan, schedule, take meeting minutes, and preside over all Grant Review Committee Meetings. Plan, schedule, take meeting minutes, and preside over the Excellence Awards Committee. Plan, schedule, take meeting minutes, and preside over the Research Fellowship Grant Committee. Notify Member Groups when active status is in question. Preside over the GSA and assume all duties of the President in their absence. Verify GSG and SOA registration of all graduate Member Groups. Serve as a liaison between Student Activities & Leadership Development (SALD) and all the graduate member groups. Serve on various university committees when needed. Communicate decision and rationale to Member Groups concerning grant proposals. Provide timely information to Member Groups on issues of importance. Be available during scheduled office hours. In case of personal absence, the office hours shall be made up within a week. Carry out additional responsibilities as decided by the President and approved by the Executive Board. C. The Duties of the Treasurer shall be: Chair the Executive Board meeting on GSG budget allocation. Collect and receive all funds paid to the organization and deposit them in the GSG account. Audit books of all colleges who externally process any funds from the GSG account. In conjunction with the GSG President and Vice-President, approve GSG expenditures. Co-sign all checks with the President in payment of bills. Abide by all University Funding Policies and Procedures. Abide by all Policies and Guidelines set down by the Budget Board. Complete and present the Year-end Report by the last GSG meeting of the current academic year. Train their successor on the obligations of the position. Keep account books, which will be open at all times to inspection by the GSG officers or any authorized auditor. Make reports at monthly GSG meetings and at other times as the Executive Board may direct. Organize and conduct training workshops, as necessary, for the treasurers of Member Groups regarding access to GSG monies. Provide the necessary paperwork and forms for Member Groups to access their funds and apply for travel reimbursements. Process travel program applications and ensure compliance with travel program guidelines. Provide needed follow-up when required. Represent GSG interest on SACUB (Student Advisory Committee on the University Budget) and participate in the Graduate Awards Committee and make monthly reports to the GSA. Present GSG budget for the forthcoming and the upcoming academic year at the last monthly GSG meeting of the current academic year. Be available during scheduled office hours. In case of personal absence, the office hours shall be made up within a week. Failure to abide by these policies will result in financial probation of the GSG as defined by University guidelines. D. The Duties of the Campus Ambassador shall be: Record minutes of all GSA, Executive Board and GRC meetings and assume responsibility of sending copies to all Representatives within two (2) weeks. Act as a liaison between the campus and the GSG officers. Help develop communication with different student constituencies of UC. Act as a liaison between undergraduate Student Government (SG) and the GSG, and attend at least one SG Senate Meeting per month. Manage social and educational events. Manage diversity initiatives for GSG. Complete any necessary required training for maintaining the GSG website. Facilitate Member Group involvement with listserv and webpage development. Maintain information located on the website. Implement web based projects identified by the Executive Board. Manage GSG Social Media. Work with Graduate School on Graduate Student Orientation efforts. Serve on various university committees when needed. Create a “year in review” document for GSG. Schedule space for GSA meetings and prepare materials for the meetings. Plan, schedule, take meeting minutes, and preside over GSG Feedback/Grievance Committee. Carry out additional responsibilities as decided by the President and approved by the Executive Board. Be available during scheduled office hours. In case of personal absence, the office hours shall be made up within a week. E. The President, Vice-President, Treasurer and Campus Ambassador are required to perform up to twenty hours of work per week devoted to the GSG objectives and activities of which for at least five hours per week they shall hold scheduled office hours at the GSG office (683A Steger Student Life Center). Office hours are suspended during exam and break weeks, although appointments may be scheduled. The Executive Board shall determine the office hours served by each officer. F. The Duties of the GSG Member Groups Representatives shall be: Attend all GSA meetings. Represent their Member Group. Disseminate all information obtained from the GSG and GSA to Member Groups. Obtain an electronic mail account and disseminate information as needed. Expedite the establishment and operation of her/his Member Group's list-serv. G. The Duties of Committee Representatives are listed as below: It is required that a representative is nominated by each graduate member group with the intention that they will serve on an university wide external committee or GSG internal committee. Attend all meetings of the assigned committee. Each representative will be required to provide a written report per committee meeting, and if needed a verbal report to the GSG executive board member assigned, within 7 calendar days of the committee meeting. H. GSG OFFICERS & REPRESENTATIVES COMPENSATION Officers are compensated as follows: The President, the Vice-President, the Treasurer and the Campus Ambassador shall each receive an honorarium in the amount of $25,000 per year. Up to $5,600 from the GSG budget will be distributed to representatives, as seen fit by the GSG executive board. SECTION 2. FUNDING A. Academic Member Groups shall be funded by the GSG in accordance with guidelines established by the GSG budgetary process. The Budgetary process shall be on file in the GSG office and changes shall be sent to each Member Group. B. Funds shall be available to each Member Group with "active status". (See Article III, section 3 of GSG Constitution for definition.) Each Member Group is given an equal base budget. Groups can augment this base budget through the following: Group's number of graduate students GSG Group of the Year Award Member Groups can apply for money for special projects through the GRC grant process. Application does not guarantee funding by GSG. Money allocated to a Member Group must be used for the benefit of the largest possible number of UC graduate students. Groups are encouraged to raise revenue from other sources in accordance with University Policies and with approval by the appropriate University offices. Monies earned from GSG funded projects must be relinquished by Member Groups. 100% of the profits from these projects must be returned to GSG not to exceed the amount GSG contributed. If monies must be paid back to other co-sponsors, GSG will take that into consideration. C. Member Groups are allowed to spend their GSG base budget on food. No GSG money can be used for the purchase of alcohol or be used at events where alcohol is served. D. Member Groups must have regular representation at GSA meetings and hold meetings at least once a semester to maintain active status and be eligible for the above money allocations. Groups lacking representation are penalized as follows: The Member Group is notified by email to the group's officers upon missing two meetings. Upon missing three (3) meetings the Member Group is on probation. Probation entails a decrease in Group budget and accessible grant/travel funds by half of the total allocation. Written notification will be sent to the Group and to the Group's University Advisor stating that the group is on probation within two (2) weeks of the group being on probation. Probationary status shall be lifted upon representation at three (3) consecutive GSA meetings of the group being on probation. Upon missing five (5) meetings the Member Group is considered "inactive". Inactive status entails the loss of the Member Group's budget, grant writing privileges and travel funds for the remaining academic year or two (2) semesters, whichever is longer. Inactive status shall be lifted upon representation at four (4) consecutive GSA meetings of the group being inactive. Upon missing more than six (6) meetings, the Member Group will be considered "defunct". Defunct status entails the loss of the Member Group's budget, grant writing privileges and travel funds for three (3) semesters of the group being defunct. Defunct status shall be lifted following representation at six (6) consecutive GSA meetings of the group being defunct. The Group must reregister with GSG and SALD, submit a new Group Constitution and By-laws, and present a letter from the Group's advisor stating that the group has made significant strides in correcting the problem(s) that led to the defunct status. The missed meetings do not have to be in the same academic year if they fall at the end of one year and the beginning of the next. Students whose travel takes place prior to the Member Group's absence that removed them from active status are not restricted in applying Individual Travel Grants. All other travel rules and guidelines apply. Reinstatement of "active status" in any situation entails fulfillment of attendance and registration requirements. In order for any GSA to obtain an attendance waiver for a certain semester, the dean of the college or directors of all programs represented must provide a letter certifying that no graduate student is available to attend the GSG monthly meetings at the stipulated time. In addition, the group requesting such waiver must be willing to serve on some GSG related committees, as determined by the Executive Board. SECTION 3. ELECTIONS A. GSG elections shall be held at the second to last meeting of the academic year. B. The GSG President must be notified in writing by all prospective candidates one week prior to the announced election date. Each candidate must be present at the GSA meeting to be formally nominated. Each candidate should speak for five minutes, and answer any questions the GSA may pose, while the other candidates step outside of the meeting room. Any member in attendance with floor speaking rights may ask questions. Quorum must be present for elections to take place. C. Any graduate student registered in an approved / official graduate program may run for office. D. All voting must be done at the election meeting. No absentee ballots will be accepted. Election of officers shall be by secret ballot and requires a majority vote. The order of elections shall be for the posts of the GSG President, followed by the Vice-President, the Treasurer, and the Campus Ambassador. A candidate who has not been successful at election for a post, may choose to run for further positions that are contested. Should a majority not be achieved by any candidate, a run-off vote shall be held during the same meeting involving the two (2) top vote recipients. E. In the event of a withdrawal, resignation, or removal of any elected officer, an election to fill that vacant position shall be held at the next general GSA meeting. The replacement election shall be conducted as above, with written notification of the results sent to all Member Groups. F. Elections will be run by outgoing GSG officers. If all GSGA officers are running for re-election then a suitable GSGrepresentative will run the election. G. The vote of a Member Group equals its official GSA attendance representation. SECTION 4. EXECUTIVE BOARD A. The Executive Board shall be composed of the elected officers of the GSG. B. The Executive Board shall advise the GSG on the policies, activities, disciplinary measures of Members and Member Groups, and shall have general managerial control of the GSG. C. The Executive Board is subject to GSA review. An at-large member designated by GSAs may attend Executive Board meetings. D. The Executive Board shall review attendance at the meetings and discipline any Member Groups who have violated attendance requirements (see Section 2D). SECTION 5. DISCIPLINE A. Any Member Group charged with conduct not in accord with the purposes of the GSG or the University and against whom such charges are sustained after due and proper hearing before the Executive Board may be expelled from membership. Expelled Groups shall forfeit all interest in any funds and privileges and may not use the GSG name in connection with any further activities. B. The Member Group will have the privilege of appealing to the GSA. The Member Group must request said appeal in writing to the GSA within five (5) school days after the issuance of the ruling. C. If the GSA supports the Executive Board's ruling, a final appeal may be requested from the Dean of Students within five (5) school days of the GSA ruling. D. Each of these appellant groups must act on hearing the appeal within fifteen (15) school days, and must issue a written decision to be placed on file in the Office of Student Activities and Leadership Development within seven (7) days after the appeal has been completed. SECTION 6. VOTING A. For all scheduled meetings of the GSA, voting can only be completed by Representatives and Alternates of Member Groups. B. The vote of a Member Group equals its official GSA attendance representation. Each GSA Member Group shall have a Voting Card. The Voting Card indicates the Member Group and the Academic Year. C. A quorum shall be a majority of voting members of the GSA meetings. Voting shall normally be by voice or show of hands. A mail ballot may be taken only during an inactive summer semester on any issue except a constitutional amendment, and must be accompanied by a pro and a con statement, each written by a major proponent on each side of the issue under consideration. SECTION 7. REGISTRATION OF MEMBER GROUPS A. GSG Member Groups must have ratified constitutions and by-laws on file in the GSG office. They must be re-submitted when any changes are made. B. Member Groups must submit GSG and Student Activities and Leadership Development (SALD) registration forms by the deadline determined by SALD. C. Member Groups must select a contact person during the Spring semester to facilitate an effective transition between academic years. Duties include: Attending (or appointing a representative to attend) GSG Fall semester meetings which occur before group elections, overseeing group elections, and receiving emails and paper mail during Summer semester. D. A student can only be a member of one GSG Member Group and therefore cannot serve as an officer in more than one Member Group. SECTION 8. REVENUE A. The Executive Board may raise revenue from other sources subject to approval by the GSA, in accordance with University Policies and approval by the appropriate University office. B. GSG member groups shall have the right to raise their own revenue. Monies earned from GSG funded projects must be relinquished by Member Groups. 100% of the profits from these projects must be returned to GSG not to exceed the amount GSG contributed. If monies must be paid back to other co-sponsors, GSG will take that into consideration. Means used to raise money must be in accordance with University policies. SECTION 9. UNIVERSITY ADVISOR A. The faculty advisor will be selected by the Executive Board, subject to approval by the GSA. B. The faculty advisor will also carry out University responsibilities, and will: Be consulted on all major business of the GSG. Give approval for all off-campus activities of the GSG. SECTION 10. GSG COMMITTEES A. Committees may be established by the Executive Board and the President and shall perform such duties as defined in their establishment. B. The Executive Board or President shall appoint and may remove committee members. SECTION 11. UNIVERSITY COMMITTEES A. The University may ask the GSG for graduate students to serve on a variety of committees. The Executive Board will actively search to find graduate students to fill these positions. The President will appoint these individuals. B. The duties of the committee members shall be as listed in section 1G. C. A committee member who fails to report on her/his respective committee will receive a written warning, followed by suspension from the committee if duties are not filled. An interim member will be appointed as soon as is convenient. SECTION 12. IMPEACHMENT A. Officers of the GSG may be impeached on charges of nonperformance or malfeasance of duties as specified in Section 1. B. Charges must be in writing and brought by a majority of voting GSA representatives. C. After charges have been made, the Officer shall answer the charges in writing within ten (10) days. D. After the officer's answer has been received by the GSA, a vote shall be taken at the next regularly scheduled meeting to determine the outcome of said charges. E. A three-quarter vote of the entire GSA is necessary for conviction. F. The officer shall have the right of appeal. After conviction, the officer may appeal to the Office of Student Affairs and Services in writing within two (2) school days. The appeal shall be heard by three members of the Student Affairs and Services Office. The Appeal Board must hold a hearing within thirty (30) days after the request has been made. A written decision must be made within seven (7) school days after the hearing. These Bylaws were last amended during the February 6, 2019 GSG General Assembly Meeting. Graduate Student Government 683 Steger Student Life Center University of Cincinnati PO Box 210193 Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-6101 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Graduate Student Government 683 Steger Student Life Center University of Cincinnati PO Box 210193 Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-6101 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top