Athletics - University of Houston Skip to main content Submit Close Give to UH Search About Academics Admissions Campus Life Research Athletics Locations Sugar Land Katy UH Technology Bridge News & Events Giving Resources for ... Future Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Visitors Recruiters UH Home Athletics Athletics Page contents: Men's Sports Women's Sports Athletic Success Campus Resources Whose House? Coogs House! Home of the legendary Phi Slama Jama, the University of Houston has one of the most storied athletics programs in the nation. Our athletic teams’ grit, determination and athletic prowess are undeniable. With the same drive used to dominate on the court or on the field, the UH Athletics department fosters a culture of academic excellence. Visit the UH Cougars Website Buy Tickets Men's Sports Baseball Basketball Cross Country Football Golf Track & Field Women's Sports Basketball Cross Country Golf Soccer Softball Swimming & Diving Tennis Track & Field Volleyball Athletic Success 1Heisman Trophy 17NCAA Team Titles 67NCAA Individual Championships 64Olympians (Including 20 Gold Medals) 144Conference Championships 997All-American Award Winners Campus Resources Students have the opportunity to participate in their choice of either student-run sports clubs or intramural activities through the Campus Recreation programs. And our impressive Recreation and Wellness Center provides fitness equipment, a world-class natatorium, wellness programs and plenty of court space for our students, faculty, staff, and alumni to enjoy. Equity in Athletics (EADA) Launch Experience Witnessing the power of UH Athletics with all the members of Coog Nation is an experience like none other! School spirit is almost palpable at the University of Houston. University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies