Skip to main content Navigation Academics Admissions Research Locations Student Life Alumni & Giving Athletics Apply Now Master of Science in Hospitality and Tourism Management (MS) Lead the Future of the Hospitality Industry Request Info Program at a Glance Program Master College(s) Rosen College of Hospitality Management Department(s) Hospitality Services 2 Years In State Tuition Out of State Tuition $369.65 per credit hour $1,194.05 per credit hour Learn more about program tuition and fees. Formulate and Implement Strategies for Success The M.S. in Hospitality and Tourism Management program helps you advance your career within the global hospitality and tourism industry by maintaining a competitive skill set. Build on your strengths and interests, broaden your knowledge of the industry, and sharpen your management skills. Plus, the program incorporates your professional and extracurricular experiences into our interactive learning environment. As a graduate student in hospitality and tourism management, choose from a thesis and non-thesis option. The thesis option is a great fit if you’re interested in the scientific study of the various aspects of the hospitality and tourism industry. You’ll also want to choose this path if you plan to pursue a doctoral degree or a professional research position. The non-thesis option provides a wealth of opportunity if you’d like to gain a managerial or leadership position within the industry. The emphasis of the non-thesis option is on coursework, practical experience, and real-world insight. Complete your degree in a format that works best for you. Enroll in the online master’s in hospitality and tourism management degree program, take it on campus or customize it through a mix of both to fit your schedule and budget. Please note that the thesis option is not available to students who study fully online. As a graduate from the Rosen College of Hospitality Management, you’ll be in high-demand for hospitality and tourism organizations around the globe. Many of our alumni go on to work for leading employers including the Walt Disney World Company, Universal Orlando Resort, Hilton, Marriott International, Loews Hotels, Royal Caribbean Cruise Lines, Orange County Convention Center and so many more. Available Tracks: Foundations Track MD Track Request Information Highlights The online master’s in hospitality management program is ranked No. 1 in the nation by BestColleges. Ranked in the top 5 among best colleges for hospitality and tourism in the world by CEOWorld magazine and in the ShanghaiRankings for research. Rosen grads have a 97% placement rate upon graduation — working for top industry employers, including Disney, Universal, Hilton, Marriott, as well as high-end restaurants around the area. There are 12,000+ Rosen alumni across the nation and world that offer networking opportunities and industry connections. Application Deadlines Fall July 1 Spring December 1 Summer April 1 Ready to get started? Apply Today Course Overview Critical Issues in Hospitality Human Resources Analysis of HR critical factors affecting operation and profitability of hospitality enterprises. Examination of emotional labor, empowerment, burnout, service orientation, turnover, absenteeism, compensation. Managing Hospitality and Guest Services Organizations Analysis of the unique problems of managing organizations in the hospitality and guest services industry. Hospitality/Tourism Strategic Issues Capstone experience with strategic decision-making principles in hospitality/tourism. Application of skills, knowledge and understanding of areas of concern for formulating and implementing operational strategies. View All Hospitality and Tourism Management Courses That You'll Take Hospitality Management & Tourism Skills You'll Learn Prepare for higher-level management and leadership positions with the knowledge, connections and experience to gain a competitive edge in the marketplace Apply high-level academic knowledge to real-world management challenges Handle the analytical, financial, logistical, operational and management challenges that managers face on a daily basis Career Opportunities Hotel Manager Restaurant Manager Travel and Tourism Services Marketing Manager Convention or Conference Manager Director of Special Events Director of Sales Admission Requirements The hospitality and tourism management master’s degree at UCF accepts applications three times throughout the year: fall, spring and summer. You must apply online and submit all requested materials by the established deadline. The typical candidate: Is a professional working in a position related to hospitality, tourism or events. Holds an undergraduate degree in hospitality, business management or a related discipline. Understands that advanced educational training is required to be competitive in the thriving hospitality, tourism and event industry. Admission is restricted each semester to individuals showing high promise of success in postgraduate studies. In addition to the requirements, other indicators of promise include the applicant’s extracurricular activities, work experience, job responsibilities and leadership experience, which will be considered in making admissions decisions. Request Information To apply, submit the general graduate admissions requirements, as well as the following items by the deadline: One official transcript (in a sealed envelope) from each college/university attended Goal statement Résumé Three letters of recommendation The GRE/GMAT is not required, however, the Admissions Committee may ask for the GRE/GMAT to strengthen a candidate’s application package. Request Information Rosen College of Hospitality Management News Check out more stories Colleges & Campus Turning Events into Careers UCF’s new master’s program in event leadership will bring a world of experience to the epicenter of this fast-growing industry. Colleges & Campus 2022 UCF Medical Grad Putting Service at Forefront in Medicine As part of the UCF College of Medicine’s 10th graduating class, Michael Chiang ’20MS is the first Knight to earn a dual degree in medicine and… Science & Technology New Tool from UCF-led Team Shows Homeowners and Renters the True Cost of Disasters The tool can provide disaster readiness reports for 13.3 million addresses in 196 counties along the Gulf of Mexico — including all of Florida, and… Colleges & Campus Knights Do That: Where Medicine and Hospitality Intersect Michael Chiang ’20MS, the first UCF student to graduate with a master’s in hospitality and a M.D. in emergency medicine, shares how he plans to… Degree Search Rosen College of Hospitality Management programs Masters Hospitality and Tourism Management (MS) University of Central Florida Colleges Burnett Honors Arts and Humanities Business Community Innovation and Education Engineering and Computer Science Graduate Studies Health Professions and Sciences Medicine Nursing Optics and Photonics Sciences Undergraduate Studies Request Information × Enter your information below to receive more information about the Hospitality and Tourism Management (MS) program offered at UCF. Loading... × The Master of Science in Hospitality and Tourism Management enables students to build on their strengths and interests, broadens their knowledge of the industry, sharpens their management skills, and incorporates their professional and extracurricular experiences. The Rosen College of Hospitality Management candidates are especially attractive hires for hospitality and tourism organizations around the globe. The typical Hospitality and Tourism Management MS candidate: Is a professional working in a position related to hospitality, tourism, or events. Holds an undergraduate degree in hospitality, business management, or a related discipline. Understands that advanced educational training is required to be competitive in the thriving hospitality, tourism, and event industry. The program offers thesis and non-thesis options. The thesis option is intended for students who are interested in the scientific study of the various aspects of the hospitality and tourism industry and who may anticipate pursuing a doctoral degree or a professional research position. The non-thesis option is intended for students who anticipate a managerial and leadership position in the hospitality and tourism industry. The emphasis of the non-thesis option is on coursework, practical experience, and real-world insight. You can complete your degree either fully online, face-to-face, or customize it through a mix of both to fit your schedule and budget, although the thesis option is not available to students who study fully online. The Rosen College of Hospitality Management aims to provide students with an outstanding graduate hospitality management educational experience and serve other stakeholders with continuing education, research, and service. The College is committed to UCF goals by providing intellectual leadership through quality hospitality education, international prominence by means of educational and research programs, promotion of a global perspective, nurturing inclusiveness and diversity, and partnerships with local, national, and international hospitality and tourism constituencies. Please note: Hospitality and Tourism Management (MS) may be completed fully online. However, the thesis option is not available to students who study fully online, and not all elective options or program prerequisites may be offered online. Newly admitted students choosing to complete this program exclusively via UCF online classes may enroll with a reduction in campus-based fees. International students (F or J visa) are required to enroll in a full-time course load of 9 credit hours during the fall and spring semesters. Only 3 of the 9 credit hours may be taken in a completely online format. For a detailed listing of enrollment requirements for international students, please visit http://global.ucf.edu/. If you have questions, please consult UCF Global at (407) 823-2337. UCF is not authorized to provide online courses or instruction to students in some states. Refer to State Restrictions for current information. Program Prerequisites For students with undergraduate majors in Hospitality Management or Business Administration, there will be no undergraduate course prerequisites, provided they have successfully completed an undergraduate course in statistics or applied quantitative analysis with a grade of "C" or higher. For industry professionals with an undergraduate degree in a discipline other than Hospitality Management or Business Administration, the following two undergraduate courses "may" be required to be completed with a grade of "B" or higher within the first year of course work in the program (decisions are made at the discretion of the Graduate Recruitment Team). HFT 2401 - Hospitality Industry Financial Accounting HFT 3431 - Hospitality Industry Managerial Accounting Students would also have to have successfully completed an undergraduate course in statistics or applied quantitative analysis with a grade of "C" or higher within the first year of course work in the program. The following undergraduate courses "may" be required to be completed with a grade of "B" or higher within the first year of course work in the program (decisions are made at the discretion of the Graduate Recruitment Team). STA 2401 or STA 2023 or HFT 3465 Applied Quantitative Analysis for the Hospitality and Tourism Industry Degree Requirements Required Courses 18 Total Credits Complete the following: HMG6228 - Critical Issues in Hospitality Human Resources (3) HMG6245 - Managing Hospitality and Guest Services Organizations (3) HMG6477 - Financial Analysis of Hospitality Enterprises (3) HMG6585 - Data Analysis in Hospitality and Tourism Research (3) HMG6596 - Strategic Marketing in Hospitality and Tourism (3) HMG6296 - Hospitality/Tourism Strategic Issues (3) Thesis Option/Nonthesis Option 15 Total Credits Complete 1 of the following Thesis Option Complete all of the following An appropriate culminating academic experience is required of all master's degree candidates. For those students in the thesis option, a thesis defense is required. Thesis defenses will be approved by a majority vote of the thesis advisory committee. Further approval is required by the Dean of the Rosen College of Hospitality Management and the UCF College of Graduate Studies before final acceptance of the thesis in fulfilling degree requirements. Complete the following: HMG6586 - Research Methods in Hospitality and Tourism (3) Earn at least 6 credits from the following: HMG6971 - Treatise (Thesis OF Research Report) (1 - 99) Earn at least 6 credits from the following: FSS6365 - Management of Food Service Operations (3) HMG6227 - Advanced Training and Development in the Hospitality Industry (3) HMG6251 - The Management of Lodging Operations (3) HMG6267 - Case Studies in Restaurant Management (3) HMG6291 - Hospitality Entrepreneurship: Concept Creation to Capitalization (3) HMG6347 - Contemporary Issues in the Resort Industry (3) HMG6446 - Hospitality/Tourism Information Technology (3) HMG6476 - Feasibility Studies for the Hospitality/Tourism Enterprises (3) HMG6528 - Convention and Conference Sales and Services (3) HMG6529 - Contemporary Issues in Resort Sales Management (3) HMG6533 - Hospitality/Tourism Industry Brand Management (3) HMG6556 - Digital Marketing and Big Data Management for Hospitality and Tourism (3) HMG6565 - Social Media in Hospitality and Tourism (3) HMG6566 - Principles of Destination Marketing and Management (3) HMG6586 - Research Methods in Hospitality and Tourism (3) HMG6710 - International Tourism Management (3) HMG6738 - Tourism Industry Analysis (3) HMG6756 - Mega-Events (3) HMG6797 - Event Administration (3) HMG6466 - Applied Revenue Management Techniques in Hospitality (3) Nonthesis Option Complete all of the following An appropriate culminating academic experience is required of all master's degree candidates. For students in the non-thesis option, an appropriate culminating academic experience is the successful completion of HMG 6296 - Hospitality/Tourism Strategic Issues, a required course in the curriculum that is designated as a capstone course. This capstone course acquaints students with the principles of strategic decision-making in various sectors of the tourism and hospitality industry. Students are required to apply skills, knowledge, and understanding in order to identify areas of concern encountered by managers responsible for formulating and implementing operational strategies. Earn at least 15 credits from the following: FSS6365 - Management of Food Service Operations (3) HMG6227 - Advanced Training and Development in the Hospitality Industry (3) HMG6251 - The Management of Lodging Operations (3) HMG6267 - Case Studies in Restaurant Management (3) HMG6291 - Hospitality Entrepreneurship: Concept Creation to Capitalization (3) HMG6347 - Contemporary Issues in the Resort Industry (3) HMG6446 - Hospitality/Tourism Information Technology (3) HMG6476 - Feasibility Studies for the Hospitality/Tourism Enterprises (3) HMG6528 - Convention and Conference Sales and Services (3) HMG6529 - Contemporary Issues in Resort Sales Management (3) HMG6533 - Hospitality/Tourism Industry Brand Management (3) HMG6556 - Digital Marketing and Big Data Management for Hospitality and Tourism (3) HMG6565 - Social Media in Hospitality and Tourism (3) HMG6566 - Principles of Destination Marketing and Management (3) HMG6586 - Research Methods in Hospitality and Tourism (3) HMG6710 - International Tourism Management (3) HMG6738 - Tourism Industry Analysis (3) HMG6756 - Mega-Events (3) HMG6797 - Event Administration (3) HMG6466 - Applied Revenue Management Techniques in Hospitality (3) Independent Learning 0 Total Credits Candidates for the MS degree are constantly challenged with numerous requirements to engage in independent learning during the program of study through special projects and papers. For students in the non-thesis option, an appropriate culminating academic experience is the successful completion of HMG 6296 - Hospitality/Tourism Strategic Issues , a required course in the curriculum that is designated as a capstone course. HMG 6296 should be taken during the final term of study, and enrollment is based on approval. This capstone course acquaints students with the principles of strategic decision-making in various sectors of the tourism and hospitality industry. Students are required to apply skills, knowledge, and understanding in order to identify areas of concern encountered by managers responsible for formulating and implementing operational strategies. Grand Total Credits: 33 Application Requirements For information on general UCF graduate admissions requirements that apply to all prospective students, please visit the Admissions section of the Graduate Catalog. Applicants must apply online. All requested materials must be submitted by the established deadline. Admission is restricted each semester to individuals showing high promise of success in postgraduate studies. In addition to the requirements noted below, other indicators of promise include the applicant's extracurricular activities, work experience, job responsibilities, and leadership experience, which will be considered in making admissions decisions. In addition to the general UCF graduate application requirements, applicants to this program must provide: One official transcript (in a sealed envelope) from each college/university attended. Goal statement (this is your opportunity to outline in 500 words why you wish to join the program, what you think you will contribute to the program, and how you feel the program will enhance you both personally and professionally) Résumé. Three letters of recommendation. The GRE/GMAT is not required, however, the Admissions Committee may ask for the GRE/GMAT to strengthen a candidate's application package. Applicants applying to this program who have attended a college/university outside the United States must provide a course-by-course credential evaluation with GPA calculation. Credential evaluations are accepted from World Education Services (WES) or Josef Silny and Associates, Inc. only. Application Deadlines Hospitality and Tourism Management MS *Fall Priority Fall Spring Summer Domestic Applicants Jan 15 Jul 1 Dec 1 Apr 1 International Applicants Jan 15 Jan 15 Jul 1 Nov 1 *Applicants who plan to enroll full time in a degree program and who wish to be considered for university fellowships or assistantships should apply by the Fall Priority date. Financial Information Graduate students may receive financial assistance through fellowships, assistantships, tuition support, or loans. For more information, see the College of Graduate Studies Funding website, which describes the types of financial assistance available at UCF and provides general guidance in planning your graduate finances. The Financial Information section of the Graduate Catalog is another key resource. Fellowship Information Fellowships are awarded based on academic merit to highly qualified students. They are paid to students through the Office of Student Financial Assistance, based on instructions provided by the College of Graduate Studies. Fellowships are given to support a student's graduate study and do not have a work obligation. For more information, see UCF Graduate Fellowships, which includes descriptions of university fellowships and what you should do to be considered for a fellowship. University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida