Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Events Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Schedule a Visit SMU Tour Follow Us Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us Twitter Follow Us YouTube Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Anthropology Why Study Here? Undergraduate Programs Undergraduate Programs Anthropology Majors Health and Society Major Minors Current and Upcoming Courses Distinction Program Funding and Awards Field School Anthropology Club Graduate Programs Graduate Programs Learn More Graduate School Resources Apply Prospective Graduate Student Letter M.A. Degree in Medical Anthropology Ph.D. in Anthropology Upcoming Courses Language Requirement Financial Support, Fellowships, Grants, and Awards Recent Graduates Redbook Handbook Career Services People Research Research Experts Taos Research Clusters Labs and Collections Archaeology Research Collections About About Contact Us Calendar of Events Lectures Alumni Connection Give ☰ SMU Department of Anthropology Anthropology Undergraduate Programs Health and Society Major Health and Society Major What is the Health & Society Major? Housed in the Department of Anthropology, the Health & Society Major is an interdisciplinary program for students interested in the practice and study of health in global and cultural contexts. The major includes courses spanning lab, behavioral, and social sciences, an ethics component, as well as a capstone course or project. The foundation courses include introductory, intermediate and advanced level classes where students in this major come together in shared experience. Want to see how the Health and Society Major is applied in the real world? Check out the Benefits of the Major. For more information email: Tiffany Powell (tapowell@smu.edu) Want to know more about what our current and former students are doing? Follow us: Health and Society Major Benefits of the Major Degree Information and Forms Courses Current Students and Accomplishments People Apply Apply Visit Academics Undergraduate Degrees Graduate Degrees Minors and Programs Research Centers and Institutes Connect Administrative Directory Department Directory Alumni Make a Gift Dedman College of Humanities & Sciences P.O. Box 750235 | Dallas, Texas | 75275-0233 214-768-2440 © Southern Methodist University Legal Disclosures facebook twitter youtube