Skip to main site navigation Skip to main content Open the search panel Open the main menu Search Go Close the search panel Information for… Incoming J.D. Current Students Faculty Staff Media Employers News Events Alumni Giving About Library Login Open the Search panel Admissions Admissions Why Columbia J.D. Admissions Graduate Admissions Academics Academics J.D. Program and Curriculum LL.M. Program and Curriculum Executive LL.M. Program and Curriculum J.S.D. Program and Curriculum Dual and Joint Degrees International Programs Public Interest and Public Service Experiential Learning Courses Registration Services Academic Calendar Executive Education Areas of Study Areas of Study Constitutional Law, Regulation, and Public Policy Corporate, Business, and Transactional Law Criminal Justice Data Analytics Environment and Energy Family, Gender, and Sexuality Intellectual Property and Technology International and Comparative Law Law of the Workplace Leadership Legal History Litigation and Dispute Resolution National Security and Privacy Social Justice and Human Rights Faculty & Scholarship Faculty & Scholarship Faculty Directory Research Centers and Programs Scholarship Archive Workshops, Lectures, and Colloquia Careers Careers Private Sector Careers Public Interest and Public Service Careers Academic Careers Judicial Clerkships Employment Statistics Employment Policies Community Life Community Life Visit Campus Dean’s Welcome Your Campus, Your City Student Life Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Strategic Initiatives Public Interest and Public Service Careers Careers Public Interest and Public Service Careers There is no one path to public interest and public service lawyering. Whether you want to work full-time in public interest or government or do meaningful volunteer work while in private practice, the Law School’s Office of Social Justice Initiatives (SJI) makes all such avenues possible. More in this Section Explore Public Interest and Public Service Careers: Charting Your Public Interest/Public Service Path Summer Funding Programs The Max Berger ’71 Public Interest/Public Service Fellows Program Financing Your Public Interest and Public Service Career Pro Bono Requirement and Program Public Interest/Public Service Council Job Search Tools Postgraduate Fellowships For Employers Career Outcomes Celebrating Public Interest at Columbia Join a remarkable community of students, graduates, faculty, and administrators who share an unwavering dedication to the public good and human rights. Related Links Public Interest and Public Service at Columbia Year in Review Letter from Dean Smock Contact SJI “A great chasm exists between the world as it is now and the world as it should be. At SJI, our core mission has always been focused on closing this gap, preparing the next generation of change agents to use their law degrees in the pursuit of social justice.” Erica Smock, Dean for Social Justice Initiatives and Public Service Lawyering Public Interest/Public Service Fellows Program The program brings together and supports a community of students who are passionate about effecting positive change in society and pursuing public interest or public service careers. Learn More Summer Funding Program Columbia Law School’s robust summer funding program supports students pursuing meaningful public service employment. Learn More Pro Bono Requirement and Program Service pro bono publico (“for the public good”) is a cornerstone of every attorney’s professional development and responsibilities. Learn More Public Interest: Pro Bono Stats and Facts Explore Public Interest and Public Service at Columbia Law 88% of the Class of 2021 exceeded Columbia's pro bono requirement. Learn more. 17 remote spring break pro bono caravans throughout the U.S. and overseas in 2021 35,526 hours of pro bono service performed by Class of 2021 students. Explore Public Interest and Public Service at Columbia Law Related Events View All Events May 31 2022 Deadline - June 6th - Moot Court Student Editor/LPW Teaching Fellow Tue, 6:00 p.m. - 8:00 p.m. William and June Warren Hall, 1125 Amsterdam Ave., New York, NY 10027 Jun 1 2022 Revolution 12/13 | Abolition Feminism with Sarah Haley Wed, 6:00 p.m. - 8:00 p.m. The People's Forum, 320 W. 37th St., New York, NY 10018 Jun 2 2022 Annual Staff Appreciation & Recognition Luncheon Thu, 12:00 p.m. - 2:00 p.m. Faculty House, 64 Morningside Dr., New York, NY 10027 Presidential Ballroom View All Events Related News and Stories Read All Stories More in The Press Students News Columbia Law School Student Receives Prestigious Skadden Fellowship Susanna Booth ’21 will represent immigrants detained in New Jersey who are facing deportation. Students News My Virtual Summer Job: Public Interest Intern Events News From Law Student to Change Agent: Advocating for Racial Justice News James Comey Urges Students to Enter Public Service Follow SJI on Social Media Twitter Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Admissions Why Columbia Visit 435 West 116th Street New York, NY 10027 212-854-2640 Contact Us Social Media (Administrative Title) Twitter LinkedIn Facebook Instagram Admissions Academics Areas of Study Faculty & Scholarship Careers Community Life Information for… Incoming J.D. Current Students Faculty Staff Media Employers Login News Events Alumni Giving About Library Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Donate © Copyright 2022 The Trustees of Columbia University in the City of New York.