Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Apply Visit Give Parents Search BC.edu Links Alumni Menu Main Nav Alumni Donate Back Back Close About Overview Alumni Association Alumni Board Alumni Association Staff Past Alumni Board Presidents Annual Report Leadership Terms of Service Join Our Team Connect Overview Volunteer Councils & Groups Chapters International Hong Kong London Germany Madrid Panama Paris Philippines Singapore Arizona Phoenix California Los Angeles Northern California Orange County Sacramento San Diego Colorado Denver Connecticut Fairfield Hartford Delaware Delaware District of Columbia Washington, D.C. Florida Fort Lauderdale Jacksonville Miami Orlando Palm Beach Sarasota Southwest Florida Tampa Georgia Atlanta Hawaii Hawaii Illinois Chicago Indiana Indianapolis Kentucky Kentucky Louisiana New Orleans Maine Maine Maryland Baltimore Massachusetts Boston Cape Cod Western Massachusetts Michigan Detroit Minnesota Minnesota Missouri Kansas City St. Louis Nebraska Omaha Nevada Las Vegas New Hampshire New Hampshire New Jersey Jersey Shore New Jersey New York Albany Buffalo Long Island New York City Rochester Westchester North Carolina Charlotte Triangle Ohio Cincinnati Cleveland Columbus Oregon Portland Pennsylvania Philadelphia Pittsburgh Puerto Rico Puerto Rico Rhode Island Rhode Island South Carolina South Carolina Tennessee Nashville Texas Austin Dallas Houston San Antonio Utah Utah Vermont Vermont Washington Seattle Wisconsin Milwaukee Class and School Engagement Spirituality On Eagles Wings Reflections Advent Reflections Lenten Reflections Reflections Reflections Social Media Pine Manor Alumni Hub Related Links Reunion BC Athletics Events Overview Reunion Weekend Pops on the Heights Family Weekend Global Days of Service Distinguished Volunteer Awards Dinner Winter Wonderland Benefits & Services Overview Career & Networking Alumni Benefits Giving Overview Gift Policy The Impact of Your Gift Give Online Gift Planning Giving Societies The 1863 Society McElroy Circle Bapst Circle Fulton Circle Gasson Circle Monan Circle The William B. Neenan, S.J., Society The Shaw Society Boston College Call Center Apply to Work at the Boston College Call Center Donate Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Alumni & Friends Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Parents BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Chicago Home Connect Chapters Illinois Chicago Illinois Chicago The Chicago Chapter has over 4,800 alumni, parents, and friends and is a thriving, growing chapter that is always looking for fun ways to engage the Boston College community. The chapter board is broken out into six main areas which allows for eager Eagles to get involved in an area they are passionate about. Key events include Always an Eagle, the Chicago Chapter Holiday Party, spring and summer socials, Annual Chicago Alumni Mass, and the beach volleyball team. 4,891 Alumni Parents & Friends social leaders contact us events Follow Us Chicago Chapter Facebook Page Chicago Chapter Instagram Page Chicago Chapter LinkedIn Page Meet Your Chapter Leaders Colleen Bingle '13 Lives in: Lincoln Park Major: Communications Occupation: Meeting Planner for American Academy of Pediatric Dentistry Favorite BC Memory: Marathon Monday is so unique to the BC Community and is such a fun day! Cheers to the pink bar! It signals the start of warmer weather and being able to enjoy being outside on BC's beautiful campus. Why I got involved: I missed the BC community when I moved back to Chicago so I wanted to get involved with the chapter. It is a great group of people that are passionate about BC. Local Favorites: Rosé on the riverfront, going for walks along the lake, trying out the many great rooftops, Pequods for deep dish pizza. Fun Fact: I am a new plant mom during quarantine! Ponytail Palm is my favorite. Seamus Donoghue '03 Lives in: Lakeview East Major: Accounting Occupation: Certified Public Accountant - Taxation Favorite BC Memory: Traveling to South Bend in November 2002 to watch BC knock off undefeated, #4 Notre Dame in football. Why I got involved: I moved here following grad school in 2009 and didn't know anyone. I found the Chicago Chapter to be a great resource for networking. I ended up getting involved in organizing BC intramural football teams then got involved with the chapter holiday party. I eventually got asked to be on the leadership board where I worked as the social chair, established the Instagram account, and ran game watches for a while. I was asked to become co-chair of the chapter in 2020. Local Favorites: Running on the Lakefront Trail, Burgers at Bad Apple, Thai from Joy's Noodles, Korean BBQ from Crisp, Sushi from Coast, Beach volleyball on North Avenue beach, Summer street festivals, Lollapalooza, Cubs day games, the local craft beer scene. Fun Fact: I've run five marathons and one ultra marathon. Chapter Volunteers Esther Chang ’02, JD’07 (Chapter Ambassador) Tom Cuevas ’03 (Athletics) Shawn Domanic ’10 (Chapter Ambassador) Mary Lucas Boehmler ’07 (Chapter Ambassador) Sara McCarthy ’90 (Chapter Ambassador) Lauren Santella ’14 (Social) Abigail Sirus ’16 (BC Cares) Alison Stankus ’00 (Spirituality) Paul Veiga ’12 (Social Media & Marketing) Matt Wendel ’10 (Professional Networking) Alumni Staff Liaison Name: Taylor Mooney '17 Contact: taylor.mooney@bc.edu Events ENGAGE WITH US ON EAGLE EXCHANGE! STAY CONNECTED AND BUILD YOUR NETWORK Eagle Exchange is an online platform that facilitates career-related conversations between current Boston College students and alumni, and is a place where the BC network comes alive through professional conversations, connections, and mentorship. Search by location to connect with local Eagles! Join Today Back To Top Back To Top Boston College Alumni Association Cadigan Alumni Center 140 Commonwealth Ave. Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Connect With Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College For updates on Boston College's reopening for fall semester visit bc.edu/reopen. Ok