Search Cornell Projects & Programs 4-H Youth Development ACT for Youth Action Research Collaborative Community Neuroscience Initiative Cornell University Cooperative Extension – NYC CITRA Cornell Project 2Gen CRPSIR ISCOL Family Program NDACAN The Parenting Project PRYDE RCCP TRIPLL Youth Risk and Opportunity Lab Publications & Media All Publications All Media For Researchers Cornell Translational Research Summer Institute Awards for Researchers For Students Student Profiles Gerontology Minor Awards for Students News & Events All News All Events About Us Mission & History Urie Bronfenbrenner Translational Research Directory Evidence-Based Living Blog Contact Us Select Page Search Bronfenbrenner Solving Human Problems Our Projects & Programs See How We’re Making a Difference What is Translational Research? Publications & Media Resources Connect with the BCTR With $400 each, here are contributions Cornell students are making Funding healthcare visits in India, creating modular shoes, helping high school students navigate the college application process, and handing out cash to brighten someone’s day are just a few of […] Full Story All News & Events Act for Youth researchers part of team creating health info site for refugees Researchers from Act for Youth, part of the Bronfenbrenner Center for Translational Research, were part of a team encouraging refugees in the U.S. to use health care benefits they’re eligible […] Full Story All News & Events CUCE-NYC awarded $25,000 to help parents and children in Jamaica, NY Cornell University Cooperative Extension – New York City (CUCE-NYC) is one of 50 programs receiving $25,000 from Robin Hood, a poverty-fighting non-profit organization based in New York City. The award […] Full Story All News & Events Improving quality of residential childcare is possible, but takes a common vision and sustained practice There has long been a call to improve the quality of care for children in residential placement, and a recent publication by the Residential Child Care Project (RCCP) in Children […] Full Story All News & Events Aspiring geriatrician Taeyoung Park ’22 awarded Kendal at Ithaca Scholarship The 2022 Kendal at Ithaca Scholarship is being awarded to Taeyoung Park ‘22, a human biology, health, and society major in the Division of Nutritional Sciences. The scholarship was established […] Full Story All News & Events PRYDE Youth Development Research Update Zoom 1 Jun The two-day conference (each day 9:30 a.m. - 12 p.m. EDT) is a forum to discuss topics related to the “Ecology of Youth Learning.” The conference will discuss a number […] Cornell Translational Research Summer Institute Zoom 20 Jun All Events Enriching Lives by Supporting Research The BCTR supports researchers through fellowships, training and connections to data and communities. For Researchers Millennial Beauty Bias: The implications of retail store design in Black beauty supply stores Talks at Twelve March 17, 2022 Jaleesa Reed Cornell University All Publications & Media Action Research Collaborative Informational Session Informational Session February 23, 2022 Neil Lewis, Jr. & Tashara Leak Cornell University All Publications & Media Considering child development in Indian Country: A look with the Cherokee Indians Talks at Twelve November 18, 2021 Adam J. Hoffman Cornell University All Publications & Media Student Opportunities The BCTR engages graduate and undergraduate students with researchers and communities, for a unique translational research experience on campus. For Students The Bronfenbrenner Center for Translational Research expands, strengthens, and speeds the connections between research, policy and practice to enhance human development and well-being. About The BCTR Why Translational Research? Urie Bronfenbrenner The BCTR is named in honor of Urie Bronfenbrenner, a renowned developmental psychologist who taught at Cornell for over fifty years. See how his important work changed research forever. Meet Urie The Bronfenbrenner Center for Translational Research writes the Evidence-Based Living Blog Bridging the gap between research and real-life at Psychology Today online. Read the blog Bronfenbrenner Center for Translational Research 1201 Martha Van Rensselaer Hall , Cornell University, Ithaca, NY 14853 phone: 607-255-7794 bctr@cornell.edu Follow our social media for the latest translational research news and BCTR events! Join our Mailing List to receive updates from the Bronfenbrenner Center for Translational Research. Which newsletter would you like to subscribe to? Monthly Newsletter Weekly Events Leave this field empty if you're human: What is Translational Research? Our Funders Teaching & Training Contact Us Copyright © 2022 Bronfenbrenner Center for Translational Research, part of Cornell University College of Human Ecology. Questions, comments about, or problems using this site? Contact the webmaster.