Skip to content Columbia University Irving Medical Center Find People Events Faculty and Staff Resources Give Now Search About Us About Us Facts and Figures Explore CUIMC Events Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion at CUIMC Community Development and Alumni Explore CUIMC Leadership and Administration A-Z Listing Affiliated Hospitals Campus Map and Directions Campus Resources Contact CUIMC Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion At CUIMC, we are committed to continuous improvement in providing culturally inclusive medical education and clinical care. Learn About Our Commitment Education Education Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Mailman School of Public Health School of Nursing College of Dental Medicine VP&S Columbia Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons is dedicated to developing the next generation of leaders in medicine Learn About Our Academic Programs Research Research The Louisa Gross Horwitz Prize Columbia Technology Ventures Research Administration Columbia Clinical Innovation Lab Patient Care Patient Care ColumbiaDoctors Children's Health Columbia Primary Care Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Digital Health Services at Columbia Find a Doctor Search for a provider by specialty, expertise, location and insurance. Schedule an appointment online. Find a Doctor News News For the Media Share Your News CUIMC Update CUIMC Celebrates Columbia Medicine Read the latest news stories about CUIMC faculty, research, and events Explore Our News COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Information for Patients COVID-19 Campus Safety for Employees and Students COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students COVID-19 Information and Resources for Clinical Staff COVID-19 Vaccine Information Learn about COVID-19 vaccine availability and requirements for employees and students at CUIMC Get the Latest Information Neurology Topics Campus News Research Medical School Public Health Cancer Mental Health Infectious Diseases Neurology Neuroscience Education Heart Health Pediatrics View All Topics Search All News Keywords News Subtopics: Alzheimer's Epilepsy Parkinson's Stroke Top Stories Missing Link Between Alzheimer’s and Vascular Disease Found? A gene called FMNL2 may explain why people with hypertension, diabetes, heart disease, or obesity have a greater risk of developing Alzheimer's disease. Topic Alzheimer's Transient Ischemic Attacks May Be Brief But Need Serious Attention A transient ischemic attack (TIA) is a stroke that usually lasts under five minutes and resolves on its own, but just because the symptoms disappear, does not mean a TIA should be ignored. New Initiative to Develop Personalized Therapies for People with Rare Genetic Forms of ALS A new initiative led by Columbia University and the n-Lorem Foundation will develop personalized therapies for individuals with "nano-rare" genetic forms of ALS and treat them for free, for life. Topic Campus News Genetic Testing for Parkinson’s Disease: What You Need to Know Parkinson’s patients and their families are increasingly turning to genetic testing to learn more about their disease or risk of passing it on. But testing is complex, and counseling is advised. Topic Campus News Latest News Pregnancy Increases Stroke Risk in Young Women, But Not in Older Women October 24, 2016 Pregnancy significantly raised the risk of stroke in young women, but did not raise stroke risk in older women, a study by Columbia neurologists found. Topic Stroke The Internet's Biggest ALS Advocate Meets Columbia Researchers September 13, 2016 Youtuber and internet personality Tom Syndicate visits the Motor Neuron Center at Columbia and speaks with ALS researchers. Topic Medical School In Some Genetic Cases of Microcephaly, Stem Cells Fail to Launch August 24, 2016 In a very severe, genetic form of microcephaly, stem cells in the brain fail to divide, according to a new study that may provide important clues to understanding how the Zika virus affects the developing brain. Topic Medical School Omega-3 Injection Reduces Stroke-Like Brain Damage in Mice August 22, 2016 Injections of an omega-3 emulsion reduce brain damage in mice that have experienced a stroke-like event. Topic Stroke People with Epilepsy Have Higher Suicide Mortality Rate August 4, 2016 The annual suicide mortality rate among people with epilepsy is 22 percent higher than in the general population, Columbia University Medical Center researchers have found. Topic Epilepsy Smell Test May Predict Early Stages of Alzheimer’s Disease July 26, 2016 Researchers found an odor identification test useful in predicting cognitive decline and detecting early-stage Alzheimer’s disease. Topic Alzheimer's Toxic Alzheimer’s Protein Spreads Through Brain Via Extracellular Space July 18, 2016 A toxic Alzheimer's protein can spread through the brain via the extracellular space that surrounds the brain's neurons, suggests research from Columbia University Medical Center. Topic Alzheimer's Moderate Exercise May Slow Memory Decline in Older Adults March 24, 2016 Neurologists find that moderate to intense exercise in people over age 65 may slow decline in memory and cognitive function by 10 years. Topic Aging Alzheimer’s Disease Research Center: 25 Years of Insight With More Ahead March 15, 2016 In honor of the ADRC's anniversary, Columbia scientists discussed breakthroughs in Alzheimer's disease research with an eye to future therapies. Topic Alzheimer's Study Finds Only a Small Portion of Synapses May Be Active During Neurotransmission February 25, 2016 Scientists have developed a new optical technique to study how information is transmitted in the brains of mice. Using this method, they found that only a small portion of synapses—the connections between cells that control brain activity—may be active at any given time. Topic Medical School Pages first previous … 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 … next last Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian About Us Careers News Education Patient Care Research Resources at CUIMC Columbia University Irving Medical Center 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Back to top