COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Engineering Technology - Mechatronics Technology, Major MajorEngineering Technology - Mechatronics Technology All Programs College of Engineering Engineering Technology A Bachelor of Science in engineering technology (BSET) from Wichita State will give you knowledge and practical skills in engineering and technology fundamentals, engineering principles, instrumentation, mathematics, science, and applied design. You’ll have access to top-notch labs and technology—plus, applied learning and research opportunities on and off campus. Learn how engineering technology - mechatronics technology is the right fit for you. Request Info Start Your Application Engineering technology students have the opportunity to apply their knowledge to real industry problems in the Robotics and Automation Lab, part of WSU's National Institute for Aviation Research (NIAR). Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the program To be admitted into the College of Engineering, you must first be admitted to Wichita State. For WSU’s admission requirements, and to apply, click the link below. Admission requirements Inside the Program Robotics lab gives you real-world industry experience Through the Robotics and Automation Lab, you have the opportunity to apply your knowledge to real industry problems for real clients. You'll do everything from researching how a robot could fix an inudstry problem and then programming it, to wiring and installing the robots. Curriculum The BSET—mechatronics technology concentration—brings together classroom and applied learning in mechanical, electrical and computer technologies. You’ll learn about robotics, automated manufacturing and packaging, aircraft, heating and cooling systems, renewable energy systems and more. View the curriculum Careers WSU’s vast industry connections—and experience-based learning for every major—gives engineering mechatronics technology students the chance to grow their professional network, build a resume and earn a paycheck, all while still in school, leading to dream careers in diverse fields. Learn more about careers in this field Similar Programs Biomedical Engineering Computer Engineering Electrical Engineering Engineering Technology - Civil Engineering Technology Engineering Technology - Engineering Technology Management Engineering Technology - Facilities Management 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©