LGBTQ Resource Center - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to LGBTQ Resource Center Submit Close Student Affairs and Enrollment Services Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search LGBTQ Resource Center Home About Us Mission Staff Profiles Jamie Gonzales & Michael Crook Juliann Losey, M.L.A. Cheyenne Giovanni Christian Hernandez Karina LGBTQ Friendly Policies LGBTQ Advisory Board LGBTQ Alumni Association Visibility Project Diversity & Inclusion Statement Accommodation Statement Non-Discrimination Statement Welcome Letter Programs Involvement Sexuality and Gender Acceptance (SAGA) Squad Speakers Bureau Peer Mentoring Program (Mentor) Volunteer Program Coming Out Monologues Rainbow Chats Facilitator Lavender Graduation Support Peer Mentoring Program (Mentee) Rainbow Chats Discord Server for LGBTQ Resource Center Education and Awareness Affirm LGBTQ Ally Leadership Program Cougar Ally Training Cougar Ally 2.0 Workshops National Coming Out Day World AIDS Day Pride Partners Events & Workshops Request a Workshop Calendar News Resources Academic Programs Career Resources Emergency Aid Houston Area Resources Informational Handouts Internships Lending Library On-Campus Resources Online Resources Prospective Students Scholarships UH Library Resources Transgender Affairs Preferred Name on Campus Gender Inclusive Housing New Student Orientation Overnight Exemption Voice Feminization or Masaculinization, Speech and Language Clinic Campus Recreation and Wellness Center UH Department of Athletics Locations of Single Stall Restrooms on Campus Transgender Health Giving Founding Rainbow Friends The Latest Updates on COVID-19 Be Yourself Here. The mission of the LGBTQ Resource Center is to cultivate safe spaces on campus and within our Center’s programs, empowering LGBTQ students to develop their authentic identity, and become proud, successful, engaged members of the UH community. Get connected to the LGBTQ+ students on campus by joining our Discord server. Jun 15 2:00 pm Rainbow Wellness Group Jun 25 4:00 pm Pride Parade Join the University of Houston LGBTQ Resource Center for the 44th Annual Pride Houston 365 Parade! Jul 13 2:00 pm Rainbow Wellness Group Jul 14 9:00 am Cougar Ally Training (RSVP Required) Training assists faculty, staff, and students in increasing their awareness of issues that Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, and Queer people face. Subscribe to our monthly newsletter to stay up-to-date on engagement opportunities, events, and related news. Subscribe Meet Our Staff Staff Profiles Jamie Gonzales & Michael Crook Interim Co-Directors Jamie Gonzales & Michael Crook's Bio Juliann Losey Gender & Sexuality Program Manager Juliann's Bio Cheyenne Office Coordinator Cheyenne's Bio Karina Karina's Bio Christian Christian's Bio Vacant Giovanni Giovanni's Bio Education Cougar Ally Training - This training assists faculty, staff, and students in increasing their awareness of issues that Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, and Transgender people face. Affirm LGBTQ Ally Leadership Certificate - This program provides engaging workshops and programs that increase students’ knowledge and understanding of the lives of LGBTQ people. Involvement Speakers Bureau - A speakers bureau consists of a panel of trained volunteers who are willing to speak about their lives and experiences. SAGA - The Sexuality and Gender Acceptance (SAGA) Squad is a student leadership program for the LGBTQIA+ and ally students. Participants represent the Center, plan outreach initiatives and events, and create a welcoming environment for all in the LGBTQ Resource Center. Support Peer Mentoring Program - Do you need someone to talk to who understands what it means to be an LGBTQIA+ student at UH? Our mentors are here to help you work through various areas in your life: Rainbow Chats - Students are encouraged to facilitate discussion groups. Simply request to be trained. The LGBTQ Resource Center staff will contact you about training dates and provide any needed support. Discord - Our online communication tool that the resource center uses that allows for LGBTQ+ and Allies at UH to connect with one another. Watch our promotional videoWatch Now 1200 Over 1200 students, staff, and faculty have attended the Cougar Ally Training. 40 Over 40 students attend our Discussions Groups every year. 15-20 A close-knit group of 15-20 students receive support through our Peer Mentoring Program every year. Follow Us on Social Media Twitter Facebook Instagram Phone & Email lgbtq@uh.edu 832-842-6191 Address LGBTQ Resource Center 4465 University Dr. Rm. N201 Houston, TX 77204-4014 Student Center North, Room 201 Diversity & Inclusion Statement The UH LGBTQ Resource Center embraces diversity and inclusion, and recognizes our responsibility to foster an open, welcoming environment where students, faculty and staff of all backgrounds and identities can be their authentic selves. University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies