Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Apply Visit Give Information For: Admitted Students Current Students Alumni Faculty Field Agency Partners Employers Prospective Faculty Search BC.edu Links Menu Main Nav Back Back Close About Overview Equity, Justice, and Inclusion History & Mission Strategic Directions Facts & Figures News & Events 2021 Blog Archive Contact Related Links About BC Accreditation Admission Overview Why BCSSW? Apply to MSW Program Apply to PhD Program Tuition & Aid Visit Academics Overview Master of Social Work Program Full-time MSW Program Part-time MSW Program Field Education Advanced Standing Dual Degrees PhD Program Initiatives Black Leadership Initiative Latinx Leadership Initiative Trauma Integration Initiative Related Links Careers School of Social Work Library Faculty Overview Faculty Directory & Expertise Open Faculty & Postdoc Positions Related Links Social Work Library Equity, Justice, and Inclusion Research Community Overview Student Support Library Living Here Learning Communities Careers Related Links BC Graduate Student Life BCSSW News & Events Close Directory A to Z Listing Search BC Social Work Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Admitted Students Current Students Alumni Faculty Field Agency Partners Employers Prospective Faculty BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close School of Social Work Our students, faculty, and alumni are changing lives through research and practice that prioritize equity, justice, and inclusion. Join them. Our Programs MSW Program PhD Program Play At Boston College School of Social Work, find a community unlike any other—students, faculty, staff, and alumni dedicated to making the world a more just, inclusive, and better place. Quick Facts #11 Ranked school of social work (U.S. News & World Report) Acquire a world-class education. 99% Employment rate for Class of 2020 within one year of graduation Emerge career-ready. 10 to 1 Student/Faculty ratio Learn from experienced practitioners and renowned scholars. More Facts & Figures “To solve the most intractable problems of our day—and of tomorrow—we must draw upon a diversity of disciplines and partner with those who actually experience the problems. Only then can we create and scale up appropriate evidence-based interventions.” Gautam N. Yadama, Dean of Boston College School of Social Work Dean's Message Research Our faculty conduct innovative research in a variety of areas, working across disciplines and collaborating with communities around the world. Featured Explore Our Research Research Projects Faculty Directory & Expertise Equity, Justice, & Inclusion “In 10 years from now, I want Boston College leading and redefining social work practice for the entire country. This isn’t diversity, equity, and inclusion for the sake of lip service. This is diversity, equity, and inclusion for the sake of leadership.” Samuel Bradley, Jr., Assistant Professor, Head of the EJI Initiative EJI at BCSSW Events Main Admissions Equity, Justice, and Inclusion View All Events News BCSSW graduates urged to ‘inspire,’ ‘listen,’ and ‘disrupt’ “We need you now more than ever,” keynote speaker Desmond Upton Patton told the newly minted social workers in a diploma ceremony on Monday. “The time for justice is always right now.” Two revered professors set to retire from BCSSW Kerry Mitchell and Thanh Tran have played leading roles in the evolution of social work since the 1980s, embracing the integration of research and practice to meet the needs of an increasingly diverse population. BC School of Social Work partners with Boston Public Schools A two-year, $500,000 grant from Boston Children’s Hospital will fund a partnership between BCSSW and Boston Public Schools to provide mental health services and support to Black and Latinx children. How three courses changed her career path Miranda Mayeaux chose to focus on mental health when she enrolled at BCSSW in fall 2021. But it wasn’t until she started taking courses in trauma-informed care that she was able to find her niche. Desmond Upton Patton to deliver keynote address at diploma ceremony for BCSSW Patton, a professor, researcher, and public interest technologist, studies the link between youth, gang violence, and social media. BCSSW honors social work pioneer at annual lecture The School paid tribute to Professor Emerita Elaine Pinderhughes, whose seminal research revealed that race, ethnicity, and power strongly influence how social workers interact with clients. View All News Follow Us Back To Top Back To Top Boston College School of Social Work 140 Commonwealth Ave McGuinn Hall Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 617-552-4020 About Admission Academics Faculty Research Community Apply Visit Give Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube LinkedIn Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College