Skip to main content COVID-19 information and resources School of Arts and Sciences - University of Pennsylvania University of Pennsylvania School of Arts & Sciences College of Arts & Sciences Graduate Division College of Liberal & Professional Studies Search Search Menu School of Arts and Sciences - University of Pennsylvania SAS_logo_white-sticky Graduate Division About Dean's Welcome History Contact Programs Graduate Groups Certificate Programs Summer Research-Early Identification Program Exchange Scholar Program News & Announcements Current Students Celebration of Our 2022 Graduates Principles for Graduate Teaching and Mentorship Dissertation and Theses Deposit Policies Funding Resources & Support Faculty Wellness Partners Program Reporting Concerns Prospective Students Application Information Admissions FAQ Explore Philadelphia Diversity & Inclusion Search Graduate Division We’re the Graduate Division Home to more than 30 graduate groups spanning the humanities and social and natural sciences, the Graduate Division at Penn Arts & Sciences is here to support your research. Create New Knowledge Home to expert faculty, archives, and state-of-the art equipment, Penn Arts & Sciences will help you grow into a leader in your field. At the Frontiers Our graduate groups offer a rigorous education, guiding students as they pursue advanced research and begin to make their own original contributions at the frontiers of knowledge. Previous Next 1 / 3 News & Announcements Previous Next 1 / 2 Graduate Division Spring 2022 Graduation Ceremony Penn Arts & Sciences formally invites you to watch the Graduate Division Graduation Ceremony via livestream. View Article 2022 Penn Grad Talks Penn Arts & Sciences congratulates and thanks all of the 2022 Penn Grad Talks participants. View Article Extended funding for SAS Doctoral Students We hope you are navigating the last weeks of this semester and looking forward to a much-needed break. View Article Big Ideas for Strange Times A series featuring short lectures on life’s bigger questions from Penn Arts & Sciences experts, including Ph.D. Candidates Aylin Malcolm (English), Sara Ray (History and Sociology of Science), and Angelina Eimannsberger (Comparative Literature and Literary Theory). View Article Extended funding for SAS Doctoral Students Since the beginning of the pandemic, the School of Arts and Sciences has provided approximately 300 additional semesters of f View Article Resources and Emergency Funding for Graduate Students Several new initiatives have been implemented to address broader issues affecting graduate and professional students and to provide you with support both immediately and in the longer term. View Article Congratulations to the Class of 2022! Please join us for a live stream of the Graduate Division Graduation Ceremony on Friday, May 13, 2022 at 2:00 p.m. Learn More Graduate Groups Learn about our 33 graduate groups in the humanities and social and natural sciences. Learn more Grad Students in the News Previous Next 1 / 2 Stark, Haunting, Elegant James Diaz, a Ph.D. student studying composition in the Department of Music, discusses his award-winning work. View Article Ph.D. candidate’s initiative brings refugees out of Ukraine and supplies in When History Ph.D. candidate Sam Finkelman’s yearlong research trip to Russia, Hungary, and Ukraine was interrupted by war, he went into action. View Article Composing an interplay of music and language A doctoral candidate in music, composer-pianist Ania Vu brings her Vietnamese roots, Polish upbringing, and experience studying in America to her compositions. View Article Don’t let reports of racist acts by Ukrainians against Africans distract from what’s at stake Kimberly St. Julian-Varnon, Ph.D. Candidate in History, says if you want to be mad at someone, be mad at Russian President Vladimir Putin. "It's his fault." View Article Diversion programs reduce criminal justice system footprint Research from Viet Nguyen, Penn criminology Ph.D. candidate, found that such programs increase expungement rates and lower reconviction rates, leading to a net-narrowing effect overall. View Article Past plagues, current pandemics, and public hygiene messaging History Ph.D. candidate Sarah Xia Yu discusses her research on public hygiene in China and what the past might tell us about how governments could better communicate public health messages. View Article Tweets by PennGradCenter Visit Penn Grad Center on Twitter Penn Grad Talks Each year, Penn Arts and Sciences presents Penn Grad Talks (formerly Grad Ben Talks): an afternoon of TED Talk-style presentations by graduate students representing the Humanities, Social Sciences, Natural Sciences, and Professional Master’s programs. Judges select winners in each of the four categories. There is also an Audience Choice Winner selected by online votes. Watch the 2021 presentations College of Arts & Sciences Graduate Division College of Liberal & Professional Studies Quick School Links Penn Arts & Sciences A-Z Academic Departments Faculty Index Computing Resources for Faculty Penn Resources Libraries Directory Calendar News Donate Contact Us Copyright © 2022 The Trustees of the University of Pennsylvania Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Penn Weblogin