Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Brown University A-Z Index People Directory Students Alumni Careers News Events Search Give Explore Brown University's School of Public Health Admissions Academics Research Faculty About Diversity Admissions Academics Research Faculty About Diversity A-Z Index People Directory Students Alumni Careers News Events News To advance human rights, consult neuroscience August 5, 2021 Tara White, assistant professor of behavioral and social sciences, and neuroscience doctoral student Meghan Gonsalves ScM'19, find that brain science bolsters long-held notions that people thrive when they enjoy basic human rights such as agency, freedom from want, and freedom from fear. Read More Joint Study with Meals on Wheels America on Effective Modes of Meal Delivery Receives $4M in Funding August 4, 2021 Brown University's Center for Gerontology and Healthcare Research and Meals on Wheels America have announced a collaboration on a three-year research initiative to investigate the most effective mode of meal delivery to support older adults’ ability to age in place in their homes and out of institutional settings. This research is made possible through a $4 million funding award approved for Brown University by the Patient-Centered Outcomes Research Institute (PCORI). The study will compare the impact of daily Meals on Wheels home-delivered meal service – complete with socialization and a wellness check – with bi-weekly frozen drop-ship meals. Read More Hospital Vaccine Mandate Tracker July 26, 2021 Do the hospitals near you require staff vaccinations? Help us track hospitals’ decisions on vaccine mandates. Read More New guidelines intended to help health providers prevent gun injuries and deaths July 26, 2021 A team of clinicians, researchers and educators, including Brown physician-scientist Dr. Megan Ranney, established new guidelines on educating health care professionals about how to help prevent firearm injuries. Read More The Hassenfeld Study shows how a mother’s data can help countless children June 17, 2021 A long-term study of mothers and babies, run by the Hassenfeld Child Health Innovation Institute, engages Rhode Island families in research that has the ability to make an outsize impact on children’s health. Read More Deaths of assisted living residents spiked during COVID-19 pandemic, study reveals June 14, 2021 A new study led by Brown researchers shows the crucial need for specific attention to be paid to assisted living residences in response to pandemics and other emergencies. Read More Top-rated Medicare Advantage plans perform worse for minority, low-income enrollees, study finds June 11, 2021 A new analysis shows the association of Medicare Advantage star ratings with racial, ethnic and socioeconomic disparities in quality of care. Read More A half-decade of progress at the Hassenfeld Institute is a high five for children’s health June 10, 2021 Launched five years ago with an ambitious vision, the Hassenfeld Child Health Innovation Institute is bringing together researchers, physicians, students and community partners to transform children’s health in Rhode Island and beyond. Read More Pages « first ‹ previous … 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 … next › last » School of Public Health Experts in the Media Study: A third of Colorado's COVID deaths were vaccine preventable May 21, 2022 Read More With COVID cases rising, CDC issues new guidance. What Rhode Islanders need to know. May 20, 2022 Read More Pro-Trump counties continue to suffer far higher COVID death tolls May 19, 2022 Read More Don't go here even if it's open, Say virus experts May 18, 2022 Read More Unexpected long-term impacts of COVID-19 could affect male sex hormones May 18, 2022 Read More The new, highly transmissible Omicron variant, BA.2.12.1, is dominating in Massachusetts. Now what? May 17, 2022 Read More US deaths from COVID hit 1 million, less than 2 1/2 years in May 16, 2022 Read More This is how many lives could have been saved with COVID vaccinations in each state May 13, 2022 Read More COVID-19 Cases Rising In W.Va. May 13, 2022 Read More Read more School of Public Health Admissions School of Public Health Admissions Email [email protected] Brown University Giving to Brown 121 South Main Street, Providence, Rhode Island 02903, USA 401-863-3375 Contact Us Newsletter Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility Brown Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top