Skip to main content MyCSE Internal Calendar Directory Weekly Hot Sheet Helpful Links Computing CSE Course List Time/Teaching Schedules Academic Calendars UW Homepage About Us Contact Us Quick Links News & Events People Academics Research & Innovation Outreach Support #UWAllen Apply! Menu Home News & Events People Academics Research & Innovation Outreach Support #UWAllen Apply! Allen School in-person graduation celebration: Friday, June 10 Graduates, families and friends of the classes of 2020, 2021, and 2022 are invited to join us on the UW campus for our traditional evening celebration, preceded by a festive and fun open house earlier in the day. More Allen School and Microsoft researchers build biodegradable computer mouse Ph.D. student Vicente Arroyos and professor Vikram Iyer are part of a collaboration between UW and Microsoft Research that is advancing new fabrication techniques and materials for more eco-friendly electronics. More New CoAI framework supports the use of predictive AI tools in health care In a paper published in Nature Biomedical Engineering, Allen School and UW Medicine researchers describe how CoAI reduces the cost and improves the accuracy of predictive AI models for scoring patient risk factors in a variety of clinical settings. More 2022 Goldwater Scholar Alex Mallen aspires to build beneficial AI Mallen, a sophomore computer science major, has already contributed to new machine learning techniques for probabilistic forecasting and tools for helping neuroscientists to understand “the algorithms of the brain.” More Off-roading AI: Research team demonstrates autonomous all-terrain driving system Ride along with Allen School roboticists in their off-road vehicle that can navigate challenging terrain without human intervention. More UW researchers design battery-free devices that can be dispersed on the wind In a paper published in Nature, a team led by Allen School professors Shyam Gollakota and Vikram Iyer unveil tiny, solar-powered sensors inspired by the flight of dandelion seeds. More Allen School professor Yulia Tsvetkov aims to advance NLP for all Tsvetkov earned a 2022 Sloan Research Fellowship for her work to make natural language technologies more equitable, inclusive and socially aware. More New smartphone app measures blood clotting time using a single drop of blood A tool developed by Allen School and UW Medicine researchers would enable people to test how well their blood clots at home and on-the-go — "the holy grail of PT/INR testing" — using their smartphone's vibrator motor and camera. More Deserts, demographics and diet: Understanding the relationship between food environment and healthy eating Allen School and Stanford researchers share results from the largest U.S.-wide study to date exploring data on the food environment, demographics and dietary health. More Richard Ladner honored for making computing more accessible to people with disabilities Ladner was elected a Fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science for his research and advocacy aimed at making computing education and careers more accessible while designing technologies that empower all users. More Joshua Smith named a Fellow of the National Academy of Inventors Smith earned the highest professional distinction given solely to academic inventors for his pioneering contributions in wireless power, communication, sensing and robotics. More Taskar Center releases AccessMap mobile app New pedestrian trip-planning tool for Android and iOS enables users to customize routes based on their individual mobility profile and preferences with the help of an accessible, user-friendly interface. More Luke Zettlemoyer recognized for expanding the frontiers of natural language processing Zettlemoyer was elected a Fellow of the Association for Computational Linguistics for advancing the state of the art in grounded semantics, semantic parsing and representation learning. More Computing and COVID-19: How Allen School research is supporting the pandemic response From fabrication and mobile technologies, to data science and machine learning, Allen School researchers are working with clinicians and other collaborators on innovative solutions to assist in the fight against COVID-19. More Undergraduate Programs Ph.D. Program Professional Master's Program K-12 Programs Industry Affiliates Faculty Candidates News More news > Events More events > Diversity The Allen School celebrates and values diversity, equity, inclusion, and access as fundamental to our mission. We strive to create an environment in which people of all backgrounds feel welcomed and supported to achieve their full potential. DEIA home > Alumni The Allen School recognized Joe Heitzeberg (B.S., 1995) and Tessa Lau (Ph.D., 2001) with 2019 Alumni Impact Awards in recognition of their contributions to the field of computing and to society. Yaw Anokwa (Ph.D., 2012) and Eileen Bjorkman (B.S., 1979) were our 2018 honorees. Alumni home > Welcome to the Allen School The Paul G. Allen School of Computer Science & Engineering educates tomorrow’s innovators, conducts cutting-edge research in core and emerging areas of the field, and leads a broad range of multi-disciplinary initiatives that demonstrate the transformative power of computing. Consistently ranked among the top computer science programs in the nation, the Allen School is widely recognized for the excellence and impact of our research and teaching across the region and around the globe. As a leader in efforts to broaden participation in computing, we are committed to advancing diversity, equity and inclusion in our program and in our field. Members of the Allen School actively work to cultivate a welcoming community in which students, faculty and staff with diverse backgrounds, identities and experiences can thrive. We are located in the spectacular Paul G. Allen Center for Computer Science & Engineering and Bill & Melinda Gates Center for Computer Science & Engineering at the heart of the University of Washington campus in Seattle — a center of innovation in software, life sciences, global health, aerospace, and many other fields — where Allen School faculty, students and alumni are making an impact and changing the world. Learn more > Fast Facts #1 REQUESTED MAJOR AMONG UW FRESHMAN APPLICANTS 2,500 UNDERGRADUATE & GRADUATE MAJORS ENROLLED $34 MILLION IN RESEARCH GRANTS & CONTRACTS IN FY2021 TOP ACADEMIC INSTITUTION FOR BEST PAPER AWARDS IN COMPUTER SCIENCE Connect With #UWAllen Paul G. Allen School of Computer Science & Engineering University of Washington Main Administrative Offices: Paul G. Allen Center, Box 352350 185 E Stevens Way NE Seattle, WA 98195-2350 Directions Student Services: Bill & Melinda Gates Center, Box 352355 3800 E Stevens Way NE Seattle, WA 98195-2355 Contact us: Main Tel: (206) 543-1695 Media Inquiries: media at cs.washington.edu Webmaster: support at cs.washington.edu Computer Engineering degree program accredited by ABET Undergraduate Advising: ugrad-adviser at cs.washington.edu Professional Master's Program Advising: masters at cs.washington.edu Graduate (Ph.D.) Advising: grad-advising at cs.washington.edu Copyright © 2017-2021 University of Washington - Seattle - Paul G. Allen School of Computer Science & Engineering | All Rights | Privacy | Terms Drupal Login (not the general-purpose CSE login)