Skip to main content SMU Explore SMU Academics Undergraduate Admission Student Affairs About News Athletics Events Calendar Bush Center Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Apply to SMUGIVE NOW Meadows School of the Arts Areas of Study Admissions About Menu Search Areas of Study Art Undergraduate Studies Undergraduate Studies Undergraduate Studies Admissions B.A. in Art B.F.A. in Art Minors The Division of Art provides a challenging environment for the study of studio art within a multi-faceted arts school at a major liberal arts university. We offer a B.F.A. and B.A. in studio art. Each of our undergraduate degrees is based in an innovative program of foundation studies and broad experiences in ways of seeing, ways of making, and ways of thinking. We place equal emphasis on the development of our students’ formal, conceptual and critical knowledge in painting, printmaking, drawing, sculpture, photography, ceramics and hybrid/digital media. Through studies in art history, critical seminars and directed tutorials, students develop their awareness of the context of art today and its future possibilities. Students are encouraged to work across media and in ways that integrate with other studies. Each degree culminates in a focused concentration, based in intensive work and critical discussion that is individual and true to your ideas and ambition. Art Majors and Minors B.F.A. in Art B.A. in Art Minor in Art Minor in Photography Reichelle Ferrer – Houston, Texas B.F.A. Art See Reichelle’s First-Year Schedule Jack Davis – Newport Beach, California B.F.A. Art See Jack’s Sophomore Schedule Rachel Lewis – Texarkana, Texas B.A. Art, B.A. English Art History minor See Rachel’s Junior Schedule Claire McGowan – Rye, New York B.F.A. Art, B.A. Art History See Claire’s Senior Schedule Meadows School of the Arts Meadows School of the Arts 6101 Bishop Dallas, Texas 75205 214-768-2000 Mailing Address: P.O. Box 750356 Dallas, Texas 75275-0356 Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Apply Now Visit Us Back to top © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 Areas of Study Advertising Art Art History Arts Management & Arts Entrepreneurship CCPA Creative Computation Dance Film & Media Arts Journalism Music Theatre Admissions Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions Scholarships And Financial Aid Internships & Collaborations Visit Meadows Contact Meadows Admission Dual Admission About A Statement of Our Values Mission History Message From The Dean Dean's Executive Council Student Academic Services Academic Affairs Contact SMU Meadows Faculty Directory Faculty/Staff Bio Submission Form Facilities Resources Employment Meadows Graduate Student Council Site Map Report a Web Problem News and Events Art History After Hours Virtual Season Subscribers News Featured Media Our Calendar Performing Arts Season Music Recitals Events Newsletter Meadows Events Parking Directions & Public Transportation Meadows Recognition Ceremony The Movement Mission Ignite Arts Dallas SMU DataArts Meadows Prize Arts Entrepreneurship International Opportunities Interdisciplinary Studies Research and Creativity Alumni Submit Your Information Alumni News Alumni in the Media Alumni on LinkedIn Support Meadows Contact Development The Meadows Scholars Program Meadows Gala Apply NowVisit UsGive Menu Search Search Submit Menu Search