Skip to main content Skip to main content my.SMU News & Events Library Master Calendar Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Contact Us Contact Us Follow Us Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Google+ Follow Us Twitter Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us Tumblr Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Instagram Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Social SMU Facebook SMU Google Plus SMU Twitter SMU LinkedIn SMU Tumblr SMU YouTube SMU Instagram Skip to main content Law About About Dean's Welcome Diversity and Inclusion Fast Facts Living & Studying in Dallas Why SMU Dedman Law? Academics Academics Academic Advising Academic Calendar Registrar's Office Academic Success Program (ASP) Bar Exam Resources Course Schedules and Registration Information Degree Programs Experiential Learning Externship Programs Forms Law Journals Planning Your Academic Program Study Abroad in Oxford Admissions Admissions Costs and Financial Aid FAQs J.D. Programs Graduate Programs How to Apply Meet Our Students Visiting SMU Virtual Tour of SMU Contact Admissions Alumni & Giving Alumni & Giving 2022 Alumni Happy Hours 2022 Reunion Weekend Alumni Chapters Career Services Class Notes Community Fellows Contact Alumni Relations Distinguished Alumni Awards Emerging Leader Board Executive Board Get Involved Law Firm Challenge Publications Update Alumni Information Career Services Career Services Students Employers Alumni Employment Statistics Career Services Team Contact Office of Career Services Reciprocity Centers & Initiatives Centers & Initiatives Jennifer M. Collins Women's Leadership Initiative Judge Elmo B. Hunter Legal Center For Victims of Crimes Against Women Robert B. Rowling Center for Business Law & Leadership Tsai Center for Law, Science and Innovation W. W. Caruth, Jr. Institute for Children's Rights Deason Criminal Justice Reform Center Clinics Clinics W.W. Caruth, Jr. Child Advocacy Clinic Civil/Consumer Clinic COVID-19 Legal Helpline Criminal Clinic Family Immigration Detention Clinic Federal Tax Clinic First Amendment Clinic Judge Elmo B. Hunter Legal Center for Victims of Crimes Against Women Innocence Clinic Patent Law Clinic Small Business and Trademark Clinic VanSickle Family Law Clinic Faculty Faculty Conferences, Symposia & Lecture Series Faculty Expertise Faculty in the News Faculty Profiles Research Public Service Public Service Completing Your Public Service Graduation Requirement Pre-Approved Placements Forms FAQs Planning a Public Service Career Internships & Fellowships Public Advocate Day Contact Public Service Program Staff Volunteer Income Tax Assistance (VITA) - Overview for law students only Students Students Office of Student Affairs Office of Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Financial Frequently Used Resources Graduation Information Inns of Court Program Mustang Exchange Scholarships and Writing Competitions Student Code of Professional Responsibility Student Organizations ☰ Law About Why SMU Dedman Law? Ten Reasons to Attend Why SMU Dedman Law? Top 10 (+3) Reasons to Attend SMU Law #33 Class of 2018 Employment Rate 10 months after graduation - U.S. News Best Law Schools, 2020 Edition #28 "Go-To Law Schools" Highest percentage of 2020 graduates in associate jobs at the nation's 100 largest law firms - National Law Journal/Law.com, March 2021 #20 "Go-To Law Schools" Most alumni promoted to partner during 2019 - National Law Journal/Law.com, March 2020 #38 "Top 50 Law Schools" Based on real law jobs, quality full-time positions, costs and debt, and alumni satisfaction - Above the Law, September 2020 Mustang Exchange mentoring program, with 300+ mentors, connects students with extensive, engaged alumni network. Innovative experiential learning programs, including 11 clinics, and the Corporate Counsel Externship, Federal Judicial Externship, Small and Mid-size Firm Externship, and Government and Public Interest Externship Programs. The moot court program is nationally ranked. Located on a beautiful campus in vibrant, exciting Dallas, the 9th largest city in the U.S. A top-tier law school with a national and international reputation for training prominent lawyers in both law and business. Comprehensive, interdisciplinary approach to the first year of law school A student body that is involved with the community through public service. Close-knit law school community with small classes. Accessible professors who are both prominent scholars and dedicated teachers Mustang Bar Law Alumni Association Top 10 List of things to do Check out the latest exhibit at the Dallas Museum of Art or experience one of Broadway’s biggest hits at the Wylie Theater, both part of the Dallas Arts District, the Nation’s largest contiguous urban arts district. Experience a Cowboys game or concert at AT&T Stadium (a.k.a. “Jerry World”), home of the world’s largest jumbotron Sample from the numerous food trucks at Klyde Warren Park, Dallas’s suspended urban green space on the edge of Downtown Dallas over the recessed Woodall Rodgers Freeway Picnic at the Dallas Arboretum’s Cool Thursdays Concert Series overlooking White Rock Lake, featuring lively cover bands and original composers Sit on the patio in Trinity Groves, Dallas’s hub for all innovative and entrepreneurial restaurants and pop-up concepts, just beyond the award-winning Margaret Hunt Hill Bridge in West Dallas Paddle boat or canoe on spectacular White Rock Lake, the “crown jewel” of the Dallas park systems Stroll around the Bishop Arts District, which boasts over 60 independent boutiques, restaurants, bars, coffee shops, and art galleries Take a brewery tour at Deep Ellum Brewing Company, home to some of Dallas’s beset craft beers Catch a Texas Rangers game at the Ballpark and watch the two-time American League champions beat their MLB opponents Jog, walk, skate, or bike the Katy Trail, the path that runs through Uptown and Oaklawn and follows the old Missouri-Kansas-Texas Railroad (“MKT” or “Katy” Trail) Top 10 Restaurant Recommendations From our students & alumni Students Alumni 1. Cane Rosso 1. Mi Cocina 2. Manny's Uptown 2. Cane Rosso 3. The Porch 3. St. Anne's 4. Chuy's 4. Twisted Root 5. Katy Trail Icehouse 5. Pecan Lodge 6. Bandito's 6. Fernando's 7. Oddfellow's 7. Meddlesome Moth 8. Tillman's Roadhouse 8. Little Katana 9. Lockhart BBQ 9. The Blind Butcher 10. Shinsei 10. Casa Rubia Why SMU Dedman Law? Ten Reasons to Attend Academic Excellence Schedule a Campus Visit Student Life Your Career Download brochure Download fact sheet Library Business Office Get Help Now News Media Emergency / Safety Admissions Office / FAQs Department Directory Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © SMU Dedman School of Law 3315 Daniel Avenue, Dallas, TX 75205 facebook google twitter linkedin tumblr youtube instagram