Skip navigation Columbia University Faculty & Staff Students Info for - Choose - Faculty & Staff Students News Events Forums Alumni Give Experience SIPA Dean's Messages About SIPA Why SIPA? SIPA Stories Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Centers & Institutes Columbia & New York City Global & UN Connections Student Organizations Ideas Lab Dean's Public Policy Challenge Grant Tech & Policy @ SIPA Entrepreneurship & Policy @ SIPA Central Banking and Financial Policy @ SIPA Kent Global Leadership Program on Conflict Resolution Academics Degree Programs Concentrations & Specializations International Fellows Program Dual Degree Programs Courses Capstone Workshops Executive Education Admissions What We Look For How to Apply Financial Aid Application Status Accept Your Offer Connect with SIPA Admissions FAQs Meet a Current Student Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Research & Publications Libraries & Campus Resources Careers Career Education Career Resources Internship Program Job & Internship Postings Employment Statistics Career FAQs For Employers Experience SIPA Dean's Messages About SIPA Why SIPA? SIPA Stories Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Centers & Institutes Columbia & New York City Global & UN Connections Student Organizations Ideas Lab Dean's Public Policy Challenge Grant Tech & Policy @ SIPA Entrepreneurship & Policy @ SIPA Central Banking and Financial Policy @ SIPA Kent Global Leadership Program on Conflict Resolution Academics Degree Programs Concentrations & Specializations International Fellows Program Dual Degree Programs Courses Capstone Workshops Executive Education Admissions What We Look For How to Apply Financial Aid Application Status Accept Your Offer Connect with SIPA Admissions FAQs Meet a Current Student Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Research & Publications Libraries & Campus Resources Careers Career Education Career Resources Internship Program Job & Internship Postings Employment Statistics Career FAQs For Employers Search form Search You are here Home Admissions What We Look For We pride ourselves on our amazing community of scholars and practitioners from all over the world. SIPA students hail from every region, discipline, sector, and background, but are united by demonstrated academic excellence and professional focus. Here's what our Admissions Committee looks for in general, along with a few explicit requirements. You are here Home Admissions The Admissions Committee values relevant professional experience, proven academic ability, and a passion for public policy and/or international affairs. Relevant professional experience Our students come from every corner of the globe, bringing vastly different professional backgrounds and work experience. The only truly common thread is that most successful applicants have had at least three years of work or internship experience relevant to their intended course of study. Strong experience at an international relief organization, a government agency, a nonprofit or nongovernmental organization, or a corporation with operations in the international sphere (to name a few examples) will make your application more competitive. Each year, 5 to 10 percent of accepted students come directly from undergraduate institutions. These are individuals with extraordinary academic records who have also had significant internship or study abroad experience. In some cases, recent undergraduates with very strong academic credentials are not offered admission, but are encouraged to reapply after they have gained at least one year or more of relevant work experience. Proven academic ability Strong academic performance in your undergraduate work is also a must. We look for a strong GPA, academic references, GRE and/or GMAT test scores depending on your program, as well as extracurricular involvement and excellent letters of recommendation. No particular undergraduate major is required, but those looking ahead to possible study at SIPA can take courses in international relations, political science, foreign languages, and history. If your field of study was far from the international relations or public administration fields, make sure to address in your essay why you now wish to “change gears” and study at SIPA. Quantitative coursework Because SIPA’s core curriculum includes economics, statistics, and financial management, we look for evidence of your ability to undertake quantitative coursework at the graduate level. We prefer applicants who have completed introductory courses in macro- and microeconomics. While not strict requirements, courses in economics, statistics, and mathematics will bolster your candidacy and provide a helpful foundation for study here. To complete the (optional) higher-level economics sequence, or to pursue careers in economics, trade, or finance, you will need an even stronger foundation in mathematics. We recommend you complete college-level courses in calculus, algebra, and statistics if this applies to you. Passion for public policy and international affairs Above all, we seek candidates who are passionate about making a difference and eager to shape global policy and international affairs. When applying, be sure to tell us how a SIPA education will help you contribute to solving our biggest global challenges—whether in economic development, human rights, energy, science, finance, or other fields. SIPA Requirements At a minimum, all applicants must: Have a bachelor's degree or its equivalent from an accredited institution prior to enrolling at SIPA. Provide valid GRE or GMAT test scores (optional for 2022) Demonstrate proficiency in the English language adequate for study at the masters level. A score of at least 100 on the TOEFL Internet-based exam, 7 on the IELTS exam, or C1 Advanced on the CEFR for English (185 Cambridge English Assessment) is required in order for your application to be reviewed. Details on all application requirements may be found on each program's page. Program Requirements Some degree programs have additional requirements and guidelines in addition to the general requirements outlined above. To learn more, read about individual degree programs and use our compare programs tool. Master of International Affairs Master of Public Administration MPA in Economic Policy Management MPA in Environmental Science and Policy MPA in Development Practice Executive MPA PhD in Sustainable Development Apply Now Compare Programs Application Status Subscribe to the Admissions Blog Download Brochure Connect with Admissions Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Share This Alumni Profile: Ludwig Marek MPA-EPM '07 Video of Alumni Profile: Ludwig Marek MPA-EPM &amp;#039;07 Alumni Spotlight The EPM program really offered me to break away from journalism and then really go into the weeds in regards to microeconomics, macroeconomics; really actually looking behind the scenes in regards to how actual policies are determined. Ludwig Marek MPA-EPM 07 Head of U.S. Fixed Income Short Duration BlackRock Full Profile Top Connect with Us Facebook LinkedIn YouTube Twitter Instagram Twitter June 1, 2022 RT @ColumbiaUEnergy: "There are going to be tipping points with this transition and tipping points in technology, and I have no doubt th… https://t.co/Kl0BvFY4gk June 1, 2022 RT @Columbia: Explore the rich history of the LGBTQ+ movement at Columbia, the scholarship of our faculty on related issues, even… https://t.co/SQC3HllMcz COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY School of International and Public Affairs Main Address 420 West 118th Street New York, NY 10027 Non-Discrimination Statement and Policy Office of Admissions and Financial Aid 514 West 113th Street New York, NY 10025 SIPA Admission Tel (212) 854-6216