Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu Division of Student Affairs Office of Financial Aid Main Navigation Undergraduate Show Extended Applying FAFSA Dream Act Cost of Attendance Disbursement Parent FAQs Maintaining Eligibility SAP Repeated Coursework R2T4 | Withdrawing Unit Cap Type of Awards Pell Grant FSEOG TEACH Grant Cal Grant California Dream Act Service Incentive Grant California Emergency Grant Chafee Grant SUG EOP Grant MCS Subsidized & Unsubsidized Parent Plus Dream Loan Federal Work Study Scholarships Credential Show Extended Applying FAFSA Dream Act Cost of Attendance Disbursement Parent FAQs Maintaining Eligibility SAP Repeated Coursework R2T4 | Withdrawing Unit Cap Type of Awards Pell Grant TEACH Grant Cal Grant California Emergency Grant Federal Work Study SUG Golden State Teacher Grant Subsidized & Unsubsidized Parent Plus Scholarships Dream Loan Graduate Show Extended Applying FAFSA Dream Act Cost of Attendance Disbursement FAQs Maintaining Eligibility SAP Repeated Coursework R2T4 | Withdrawing Unit Cap Type of Awards Golden State Teacher Grant TEACH Grant SUG Unsubsidized Graduate Plus Federal Work Study Scholarships Dream Loan Special Groups Show Extended Study Abroad Year Round Students Summer Forms & Appeals Contact Us Parent FAQs Consumer Information Disbursement FA Terms & Conditions FAFSA Dream Act Freshmen Guide Transfer Guide CSUF Net Price Calculator Satisfactory Academic Progress (SAP) Policy To be eligible for financial aid, a student must make satisfactory academic progress. The Department of Education considers a satisfactory academic progress policy to be reasonable if it meets both the qualitative and quantitative criteria. Please review below for the eligibility requirements and FAQs for SAP. Important Note All students must meet all three requirements to continue to receive financial aid. Student who do not meet SAP requirements are terminated from receiving financial aid for the following academic year. SAP is evaluated at the end of each academic year, after spring semester grades are posted. All students are evaluated on the three eligibility requirements. Students with a SAP appeal approved in the Fall semester will have their SAP status evaluated during Spring semester -- based on the term of your probationary period, as stated on your appeal. How to Maintain SAP FAQs Not Meeting SAP? SAP Appeal Process FAQs SAP Requirement #1 - GPA Terms Cumulative GPA After the 2nd term 1.50 After the 3rd term 1.70 After the 4th term, Juniors, Seniors, Undergraduates beyond the 5th term, and 2nd Bachelor Degree students 2.00 Credential 2.50 Graduate 3.00 A student enrolled in an educational program for at least two academic years or more -- at the end of the second academic year the student must have a GPA of at least a "C"; which is equivalent to a 2.0. SAP Eligibility Requirement # 2 - PACE calculation Total Cumulative Earned Units * ÷ (Divided By) Total Cumulative Attempted Units * = (Equals) % Percentage Passed or Failed 23 ÷ 29 = 79.31% Passed 23 ÷ 44 = 52.27% Failed All students are required to complete at least 66.67% of their cumulative attempted units to earned units. * Important Note: All units are accounted for on the student's transcript -- both attempted and earned units SAP Eligibility Requirement #3 - Maximum Time-Frame | Also Known As "Unit Cap" Career Standard Time-Frame Maximum Time-Frame (150% of Standard Time-Frame) - Unit Cap Undergraduate 120 units 180 units Credential 30 units 45 units Graduate** 30 units 45 units Federal regulations require that all student complete their academic program(s) within 150% of the stand time-frame of their program. The standard unit cap for graduate and post-baccalaureate students is based on the number of units required for your academic program. All units are counted, even if the student did not receive financial aid; even if the units do not count for credit toward graduation. Once the student reached the unit cap for their program, he/she is ineligible to receive financial aid. Important Note: A student may receive financial aid up to the maximum time-frame, however, financial aid programs life-time limit policy is accounted for in the student's eligibility. If the student exhausted any financial aid programs prior to reaching the maximum time-frame allow to receive financial aid, the student will not be awarded aid to that particular program. Learn about Units Cap totals for program requiring more than the standard number of units. ** Courses numbered 500 or higher are considered "graduate courses" and are weighted at 1.5 times their units value. The unit cap is 150% of the minimum required units after weighting of the required graduate units in the program. Independent study courses are not weighted at 1.5 times their unit value. The calculation of attempted units includes all course-work completed at CSUF as well as all other transferable course-work completed at other institution. Appealing for Reinstatement of Financial Aid All students who does not meet SAP requirement are sent an email to their campus email account. The email provides the reason why the student is terminated from financial aid and link(s) to download the SAP Appeal form if the student wishes to appeal. Students who fail both qualitative and quantitative are required to complete both appeals, as the links to both forms will be on the student's email. Appealing Process Calendar -- Be aware of key deadlines, including cancellation, disenrollment, tuition/fee refund dates, and SAP Appeal deadline etc. Write Your Appeal Letter (Please Type It) -- Your letter of explanation should include the exceptional circumstances that prevented you from meeting financial aid SAP requirements and steps you have taken to ensure your academic success. Give Examples -- In your letter, include changes you will make and/or resources you will use to ensure your future academic success (e.g. EOP advising, counseling, tutoring, reduce work hours, etc.). Gather Documentation's (Provide Copies) -- Include documentation to support your letter of explanation (e.g. medical documentation, pay check stubs, transcripts, etc.). Meeting with an Adviser (Academic or Financial Aid) Recommended -- Meet with an adviser if you have concerns and need additional help and guidance. Submitting Appeal -- Submit your completed appeal form with your personal typed letter and documentation to the Office of Financial Aid @ GH-146. Double check your appeal to make sure everything you want to inform and provide to the committee is there before submitting it. Additional documentation maybe requested by the committee members before a decision is rendered. Prepare a Backup Plan -- If your appeal is not approved, you may need to seek alternative enrollment options or sources of funding. Other Information Processing Time-frame Approximately 4-6 weeks General Deadline Month for Submission Fall Semester - October Spring Semester - April The SAP form have the actual date SAP Form It is highly recommended you download and print the form from your email because the link was generated to a specific form, which coincide with your ineligibility for financial aid. Students may be ineligible because of more then one reason. Reviewing Your Appeal Make sure you understand what successful completion means and the numbers of units you must complete each semester to maintain you financial eligibility. If you are approved and considering a change in your course load, discuss your academic plan options with both your academic adviser(s) and a financial aid adviser prior to making any adjustments to your schedule. Read your approved SAP Appeal to make sure you are following any approval requirements to maintain financial aid for the academic year you submitted your appeal. By signing and submitting the SAP appeal form you acknowledge your understanding of the basic requirement on that form, including any additional requirement from your approved SAP appeal. Frequently Asked Questions What Is CSUF's Definition of "Completed Units"? You complete a course when you earn credit by receiving a passing grade. The following grades does not count towards your completed units, however, they count toward attempted units: Grades: F, NC, W, WU, AU, I, IC, U, WF, SP, RD, RP Do remedial and repeated courses count for financial aid? Up to 30 units of remedial course-work are allowed under financial aid regulations as long as you earn a grade of "CR" for the course. A grade of "SP" or "NC" does not count as credit earned. If you repeat a course for which you previously received unit credit for (e.g. a grade of D or higher), you may receive financial aid for one retake of the course. Financial Aid policy differs from the academic policy governing repeated courses. How many units must I enroll in and complete to maintain eligibility for aid? The Office of Financial Aid does not impose a minimum number of units each semester, although most financial aid programs require at least 6 units per semester (half-time status) to receive funds. Therefore, you may decide each semester how many units you will attempt. In deciding, consider factors such as -- employment, course difficulty, family, responsibilities, academic probation, etc. If I am on probation and fail to meet SAP, may I file another appeal? You were placed on probation because you had an appeal approved which enabled you to received financial aid while you implemented the changes necessary for you to meet the SAP standards. As a financial aid recipient, you are required to make satisfactory academic progress toward your degree attainment. Second appeals within the same academic year are generally not accepted if you fail to make progress, unless you have serious documented extenuating circumstances such as a death in the immediate family. This site is maintained by Office of Financial Aid. Last Published 4/14/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact financialaid@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.10 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.