Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu College of Professional & Liberal Studies Areas of Study Online Resources Community Engagement Connect Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Take Action Find the program that's right for you Become a part of CPLS Advising Appointments Contact Us Follow Us Online Facebooktwitter Home College of Professional & Liberal Studies Areas of Study Envision, Discover, and Collaborate! No matter what family commitments, erratic work schedules, or limited mobility you may encounter, we want to give you the opportunity to succeed at earning a degree. Both traditional and non-traditional students have access to a wide variety of campus and online courses as well as options to accelerate their degree completion through Prior Learning Assessment (PLA) which includes credit earned by CLEP or DSST standardized exams, Experiential Learning Credit, or departmental credit by examination. Select an area of study below and start your own story with a degree as unique as you. Graduate Our graduate programs are designed to fulfill personal and professional development interests not found through other programs on campus. Students have the option to customize a degree plan bridging two or more disciplines and may also earn credit hours through work experience or professional training. All of our courses are offered in formats tailored to fit the busy schedules of adult, non-traditional students. Liberal Studies Doctor of Liberal Studies (also offered online) | Master of Arts in Liberal Studies (also offered online) Our liberal studies degrees at the master and doctorate level allow students to customize an interdisciplinary course of study. The program features a flexible, adaptable curriculum that students can tailor for the broadest possible application and personal enrichment. It is designed to sharpen the intellectual skills necessary for lifelong learning—critical reading, scholarly writing, and the art of interpersonal communication. Students can choose from campus and online courses to complete a coordinated study. Professional Leadership Strategic Leadership (online only) | Human Resources Leadership (online only) | Training and Development (online only) Students pursuing studies in professional leadership will gain knowledge and skills necessary to successfully to work with top management and lead in today's rapidly changing professional environment. Certificates Aviation Human Factors (online only) | Liberal Studies (also offered online) | Strategic Leadership (online only) Our certificates are ideal for students interested in mastering foundational concepts and personal enrichment in a quicker term of study. Undergraduate Students admitted to College of Professional and Liberal Studies may choose from over 20+ distinct concentrations among our Bachelor of Professional Studies and Bachelor of Liberal Studies degrees, or pursue specialized interests by creating an individualized program. Students may also pursue a Bachelor of Science in Commercial Aviation. Minor concentrations are also available in Alcohol and Drug Abuse Services, Child Development, American Studies, and Religion in Society. Undergraduate students admitted to University of Memphis may pursue a degree in the College of Professional and Liberal Studies by completing Declaration of Major form. Aviation Commercial Aviation Commercial Aviation will prepare students for employment as airline pilots, or in a variety of aviation-related careers, such as corporate aviation, general aviation, aviation-related business, airport operations, and governmental regulation of aviation. Child Development and Child Advocacy Child Development & Family Studies (also offered online) | Child Life Specialist (also offered online starting Fall 2021) | Early Care and Learning (also offered online) | Early Intervention Specialist (also offered online) | Preschool & Childcare Administration Academic disciplines in child development and child advocacy focus on child care, adult training and family support. Students will be prepared for employment in a range of child-related careers that include working with children and their families in hospitals and other settings, administration of child care centers, pre-school, and parents programs, and supporting families with children through a range of ages. Computers and Technology Information Technology (online only) | Manufacturing Technology Management | Technology Management Services These concentrations provide the fundamentals in the technological fields, national and international technological development and communication; statistical methods, formal and interpersonal communication, project planning and evaluation. Students on specific tracks will also gain an understanding of production control, facility design, and occupational safety. Design, Create and Collaborate Music and Entertainment (Lambuth campus only) | Urban Studies Curriculum in these concentrations will foster creative expression in all aspects of the design process. The program is structured to challenge and inspire students by incorporating artistic, technical, and theoretical elements into a realistic approach. Students pursuing these studies will obtain extensive knowledge to successfully gain employment within their field. Design Your Own Degree Design Your Own Degree Our Design Your Own Degree program allow students to customize an interdisciplinary course of study as either a liberal studies degree or professional studies degree. Students can choose from campus and online courses to complete a coordinated study. The Accelerated Bachelor of Liberal Studies to Master of Arts in Liberal Studies (MALS) program provides an opportunity for high quality, academically engaged students to complete a Bachelor’s and Master’s degrees in five years as opposed to the traditional trajectory of six years. Health and Human Relations Alcohol & Drug Abuse Services | Disability Studies & Rehabilitation Services | Emergency Management | Health Services (also offered online) | Human Services Those interested in serving the public in an industry that supports fundamental human rights may pursue studies in health and human relations. Students will build a vast knowledge base necessary to be competitive in a variety of areas that provide assistance to community needs. Legal Studies Legal Studies Students in Legal Studies acquire the knowledge and skills needed to offer essential support to law offices, government agencies, corporations, or other professional settings in the legal field. Students also gain a solid foundation for continuing on to law school after graduation. Professional Leadership Organizational Leadership (also offered online) | Nonprofit Development & Administration Those mastering the leadership skills and knowledge necessary to compete in our world will find success in today's rapidly changing professional environment. Students pursing studies in professional leadership learn about operations and their constituencies, will improve or develop administrative skills, will examine how corporate and nonprofit organizations serve the community. Religion and Culture Asian Studies & International Trade | Religious Studies | Judaic Studies Designed for students with a diversity of backgrounds and interests in religion and international studies, these concentrations are in traditional liberal arts fields that focus on world cultures in a non-theological orientation. Students will develop skills in critical thinking, the analysis of complex issues, and oral and written expression. Minors Alcohol & Drug Abuse Services | Child Development | American Studies | Religion in Society | Legal Studies | Community Action and Social Change Students interested in enhancing their studies in an additional subject area may choose to add a minor. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 3/28/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.