Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site OVPRS Websites Research and Scholarship Home Research Development and Evaluation Research Capacity and Operations Research Administration Regulatory Affairs and Assessment Research Navigator Research Lifecycle 1. Get Started 2. Identify Funding Opportunities 3. Write Proposal 4. Submit Proposal 5. Conduct Research 6. Commercialize Work Learners Key Partners About Vice Provost for Research and Scholarship Leadership Administrative Areas Centers and Institutes Core Facilities and Shared Resources Sign up for a Listserv Events Calendar Contact Us Research Lifecycle Learners Key Partners About Site Feedback Search Research Development and Evaluation Research Capacity and Operations Research Intelligence & Capacity Division of Veterinary Resources (DVR) Research Information Technology Research Administration Regulatory Affairs and Assessment Research Lifecycle 1. Get Started 2. Identify Funding Opportunities 3. Write Proposal 4. Submit Proposal 5. Conduct Research 6. Commercialize Work Learners Key Partners About Vice Provost for Research and Scholarship Leadership Administrative Areas Centers and Institutes Core Facilities and Shared Resources Sign up for a Listserv Events Calendar Contact Us Site Feedback OVPRS Websites Research and Scholarship Home Research Development and Evaluation Research Capacity and Operations Research Administration Regulatory Affairs and Assessment Research Navigator Research Development and Evaluation Research Capacity and Operations Research Intelligence & Capacity Division of Veterinary Resources (DVR) Research Information Technology Research Administration Regulatory Affairs and Assessment $sLabel Home About Research and Scholarship Administrative Areas RCO AAA Research Capacity and Operations Research Development and Evaluation Research Capacity and Operations Research Intelligence & Capacity Division of Veterinary Resources (DVR) Research Information Technology Research Administration Regulatory Affairs and Assessment Research Capacity and Operations supports the University of Miami community by providing systems, facilities and resources to facilitate the conduct and administration of research. Research Capacity and Operations Research Information Technology This specialized team supports the University of Miami community by providing systems, facilities and resources to facilitate the conduct and administration of research, including: Providing process improvement assistance for research administration and related areas Configuring research application infrastructure to support administrative operations Capturing process and information requirements from end-users and stakeholders Developing training materials and end-user training on deployed functionality Offering end-user support as needed Tracking outcomes to improvement efforts Maintaining quality assurance and data integrity The Research IT unit is responsible for: Strategic planning, involving technology to achieve research enterprise goals Process/Systems Analysis, Requirements Gathering, and Technology Evaluation Information management including optimization of the acquisition, storage, retrieval, and use of information Research and Clinical Informatics Software Development, Maintenance, Configuration, Documentation, QA, and Testing Research system-to-system interfacing, integration, and workflows End-user support research it support Department of Veterinary Resources The animal research program at the University of Miami encompasses three UM campuses (Medical, Coral Gables, and Marine & Atmospheric Science). The Division of Veterinary Resources (DVR) is the unit responsible for the oversight and implementation of the animal care and use program. The mission of the DVR is to advance knowledge and improve the health and well being of humans and animals through excellent service and support, research and teaching. All activities are in compliance with federal, state and institutional regulations. The Univerisity was granted full accreditation by the Association for Assessment and Accreditation of Laboratory Animal Care, International (AAALAC) in February 2005 and received its current re-accreditation November 8, 2016. In addition, the University is licensed by the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) and has filed a Letter of Assurance with the Office of Laboratory Animal Welfare (OLAW), U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (DHHS), which describes our animal care and use program. To contact the DVR, email us or call (305) 243-2310. Access DVR More resources Brain Bank Check Incident Status/Get Help Clinical Trials Search Tool Complion eProst OneDrive RedCap Research Reporting System (RRS) StafaCT Topaz Elements UDisclose URide Velos eResearch University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 305-284-2211 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices