COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Mathematical Foundations of Data Analysis, Master's Master'sMathematical Foundations of Data Analysis All Programs Fairmount College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Mathematics, Statistics and Physics The Master of Science (MS) in mathematical foundations of data analysis from Wichita State prepares you for a variety of high-paying, high-demand careers in private, government and nonprofit sectors. You’ll have access to some of the best research facilities in the country and the chance to work and research with faculty and industry professionals on campus and throughout Kansas’ largest city. Learn how Mathematical Foundations of Data Analysis is the right fit for you. Request Info Start Your Application Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the program To be admitted into the program, applicants must: Be admitted into the WSU Graduate School Have an undergraduate degree in mathematics Have a minimum 3.0 GPA in previous mathematics and computer science courses Students may be admitted on a conditional basis if they do not have all the prerequisite. For additional admission details, click on the link below. Admission requirements Inside the Program New facility for the National Institute for Research and Digital Transformation Wichita State University is moving forward on a facility to house the National Institute for Research and Digital Transformation (NIRDT) as part of WSU's Convergence Sciences initiative. Research and partnerships created in the facility will be focused around the convergence of faculty and students from many different WSU departments across the university for the sole purpose of developing research in a broad range of economic sectors, including the high-tech sectors, health sector, manufacturing, defense and logistics while supporting the aviation and aerospace industries. Curriculum The program consists of 30 hours and includes courses in business analytics, machine learning, mathematical models, data analytics, algorithmic design, statistical computing and database system management. View the curriculum Careers A graduate degree in mathematical foundations of data analysis from Wichita State's Fairmount College of Liberal Arts and Sciences will help you take the next step in your career—while opening doors to new possibilities. Learn more about careers in this field Similar Programs Business Analytics (Master's) Data Science (Master's) Mathematical Foundations of Data Analytics (Graduate Certificate) 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©