Menu Close Menu Skip to content Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public HealthHarvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health main site homepage Quicklinks About the School Academics Admissions Research Faculty Student Life News Alumni Frontiers Make A Gift Give Publications Contact Us Search for: Search C-CHANGE | Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health About Us Meet the Team Jobs Our Work Research Programs 2021 Annual Report News and Events News Events The Climate Optimist Educational Programs The Climate Optimist We put the state of climate affairs into perspective with a roundup of world records and our unstoppable march into a clean energy economy. Read now Building Patient-Centered Climate-Resilient Clinics When climate shocks occur, frontline health clinics are a safety net to people whose health is most at risk. Our work puts these clinics—and their patients—at the center of climate resilience. Learn more Want to prevent pandemics? Stop spillovers World leaders must act urgently to prevent pandemics before they start and not solely rely on measures to limit outbreaks after they occur. Learn more 16 Climate Creators to Watch in 2022 Spruce up your newsfeeds and #ForYouPage with climate content that both educates and makes you ROTFL. Watch 'em all Q&A on COVID-19, climate change, and the environment We answered your most frequently asked questions about how coronavirus is connected to climate change and the environment. Read More SCIENCE FOR A HEALTHY, JUST, AND MORE SUSTAINABLE WORLD Harvard Chan C-CHANGE makes climate change personal by connecting it to health and highlighting how climate solutions can provide for a healthier and more just world today and a livable future for our children. Learn More Youth Summit on Climate, Equity & Health Are you a high school student with an overwhelming urge to make the world a better place? Have we got the summer program for you! Learn more Your monthly dose of good news in climate change The Climate Optimist brings you helpful tips and good news each month to help you stay focused on our shared mission to improve health by tackling climate change. Subscribe now! Featured Issues Climate, Kids, and Health Showing how climate solutions and transitioning to clean energy protects children from dangerous pollutants and helps them live healthier lives today and in the future. Learn More Climate Change and Infectious Disease Reducing the risks of emerging infectious diseases by catalyzing actions that bring us back into balance with nature. Learn More Climate MD Engaging, supporting and empowering medical professionals to help turn awareness of the health threats posed by climate change into actions that improve health today Learn More Featured News Climate action is critical for health equity. Community health clinics are key - and need more support. We are working with Americares and Johnson & Johnson to develop climate health equity programs at community health clinics across the nation. Read Now Fossil Fuels, Health, and Frontline Indigenous Communities Read Now What's Climate Change Doing to Our Kids' Health? Our Director Dr. Aaron Bernstein answers questions about what parents can do to protect their kids from the health impacts of climate change. Read Now The ability to turn climate change around into an opportunity to create better public health for all communities is the opportunity we need to grab today. - Gina McCarthy, Former Director, Harvard Chan C-CHANGE 401 Park Drive 4th Fl. West, Suite 415 Boston, MA 02215 +1 (617) 495‑1000 Directions Subscribe to The Climate Optimist for stories of climate hope and action. Submit Harvard Chan Home Contact Us Harvard University Home Make a Gift Privacy Policy Report Copyright Violation Accessibility Copyright © The President and Fellows of Harvard College Email * What area of work are you in? * Select list(s) to subscribe toNewsletter Example: Yes, I would like to receive emails from C-CHANGE | Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health. (You can unsubscribe anytime) Constant Contact Use. Please leave this field blank. By submitting this form, you are consenting to receive marketing emails from: Center for Climate, Health, and the Global Environment (Harvard Chan C-CHANGE), The Landmark Center, Boston, MA, 02215, http://hsph.harvard.edu/c-change/. You can revoke your consent to receive emails at any time by using the SafeUnsubscribe® link, found at the bottom of every email. Emails are serviced by Constant Contact