Skip to content Twitter Linkedin Search for: Close leelab.ai Main Menu Home Team Research Publication Teaching Home 🎉 We receive our third R01 from NIH! During six years at Brown, we have received four NIH grants (one R00 and three R01s), $6.5M in total, all as a single PI. We are so excited to see what technology each project will produce after five years! About Lab leelab.ai is a part of School of Engineering, Center for Biomedical Engineering, Carney Institute for Brain Science, and Center for Alternatives to Animals in Testing at Brown University. At the intersection of medical photonics, neural engineering, and artificial intelligence, we develop novel technologies for label-free microscopic imaging of biological systems and genetics-free remote modulation of the central nervous system, with specific targets of clinical application. About PI Jonghwan Lee is Assistant Professor of Biomedical Engineering at Brown University. Prior to joining Brown, he worked as a faculty member and postdoctoral fellow in Radiology at Harvard Medical School. He received BS in Physics and PhD in Neural Engineering at Seoul National University, South Korea. He is the recipient of NIH K99/R00 Pathway to Independence Award, Richard B. Salomon Faculty Research Award, and Tau Beta Pi Excellence in Research Award. Open Positions For ScM and undergraduate students: We currently have open positions for ScM and undergraduate students for the following project(s). Please email the PI if you are interested. Avatar control via non-invasive brain signals For postdocs and PhD students: Including the following open positions, please email the PI if you would like to discuss any openings for postdocs and PhD students when you have background in either Biomedical Engineering, Neuroscience, Electrical Engineering, Physics, or Applied Mathematics. Postdoctoral fellow in optical instrumentation Tweets by leelab_ai October 4, 2021 jlee123 Search for: Menu Home Team Research Publication Teaching Proudly powered by WordPress | Theme: Fortunato by CrestaProject.