Skip to main content Go to site search Go to primary navigation Go to resources navigation Penn COVID-19 Response » Penn Home Toggle Site Navigation Toggle Site Search Academics More Academics Undergraduate Graduate Schools Global Initiatives Interdisciplinary Online Learning Off-campus Learning Libraries Admissions & Aid Athletics Research & Innovation More Research & Innovation Research Enterprise Research News Life at Penn More Life at Penn Arts & Culture Community Involvement More Community Involvement Penn & Philadelphia Diversity Groups & Organizations Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Safety & Security More Safety & Security Emergency Contacts Emergency Preparedness Spirituality & Religion About More About Introduction to Penn History Facts News, Media, & Communication Services Sustainability FAQ Penn’s Interim President, Wendell Pritchett Trustees & Administration Policies Toggle Site Search Resources Current Students Faculty & Staff Parents Alumni Visitors A-Z Directory Webmail Services Give to Penn Search Search Close Breadcrumb Home / About / Contact Us Contact Us Thank you for visiting the University of Pennsylvania web. To help to ensure that your comment or question gets to the right place as quickly as possible, we have provided email and other links to resources related to commonly asked questions. Please select a topic from the list. Expand All Collapse All Abuse complaints Send email concerning unsolicited commercial email ("spam") routed from or through campus computers, unauthorized access, violations of Penn's Policy on the Acceptable Use of Electronic Resources or other abuse complaints to abuse@isc.upenn.edu. You will receive an auto-reply acknowledging your message. Admissions information Admissions information for all programs is available via the Applying to Penn page. Information for prospective undergraduates, transfer students Email address for the Office of Undergraduate Admissions Information for prospective graduate students English Language Programs (ELP) Summer sessions at Penn Alumni news, events, and services For a featured list of Alumni-related news, events, and services, visit the Penn Alumni website Athletics Department, sporting events, varsity sports Full information is available via the Penn Athletics page. Send queries to Athletics Communications. Campus tours, visits, information sessions Spend time on Penn’s historic and vibrant campus in West Philadelphia. Computing or network technical support Much information is available via the computing web. Primary computing support providers in schools, offices and residences are responsible for answering their users' queries. Email address or phone number of an individual Online directory help is accessible from the online directory. Medical information and queries regarding medical research Read about medical research and learn about our academic departments at the School of Medicine website or discover more about your health. "Penn A-Z" Penn A-Z is an alphabetical listing of recognized University entities, including departments, programs, publications, organizations, and services. The index includes listings for websites, social media, news feeds and blogs. Penn's address and central phone number University of Pennsylvania Philadelphia, PA 19104 University operator: 215-898-5000 Registrar's Office Send queries to registrar@upenn.edu. Detailed information about requesting transcripts is posted on the Registrar's website. Student Financial Services Pay your bill, search for work-study jobs, financial information, etc. Student newspaper The Daily Pennsylvanian is Penn’s independent student news organization. The DP covers news, sports, and entertainment from the University and around the Philadelphia metro area. University Archives: historical information and queries For historical information, visit the University Archives website. Send queries to uarc@pobox.upenn.edu. University logo and seal: requesting permission to use Office of the Secretary evaluates requests for use of the University seal or logo. Send queries to ofcsec@pobox.upenn.edu. Other comments or questions Send a message to the webmaster@upenn.edu for web-related issues or check the Office of Student Affairs for links and contact information for a wide variety of topics. Philadelphia, PA 19104 Telephone: (215) 898-5000 Contact Us Maps Parking Navigate Alumni Athletics Diversity Health Care Libraries Online Learning Penn Global Penn's Heritage As America’s first university, Penn has a history that dates back to 1740 and shares many ties with the colonial city of Philadelphia and the birth of our nation. Our History Disclaimer Emergency Services Nondiscrimination Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement Back To Top