Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Home » Free Speech » FORUM Act Report FORUM Act Report R.C. 3345.0214(A) Report Submitted by The University of Cincinnati (1) The University of Cincinnati has complied with R.C. 3345.0212* by taking the following actions: The University of Cincinnati does not prohibit any member of the Campus Community from engaging in noncommercial expressive activity on campus, so long as the individual’s conduct is lawful and does not materially and substantially disrupt the functioning of the institution. The University of Cincinnati does not charge a security fee to any students or student groups based on the content of their expression, the content of the expression of their invited guest, or the anticipated reaction to an invited guest’s expression. The University of Cincinnati has adopted a policy on harassment that adheres to the R.C. 3345.0211 definition. The University of Cincinnati has published in its handbook, on its website, and in its orientation programs the policies, regulations, and expectations of students regarding free expression on campus. The University of Cincinnati has developed and distributed materials, programs, and procedures about the policies, regulations, and duties of the institution regarding free expression on campus to individuals responsible for the education or discipline of students. (2) The University of Cincinnati has complied with R.C. 3345.0213 by taking the following actions: The University of Cincinnati does not limit Campus Community speech to “free speech zones” or designate Outdoor Areas of Campuses where expressive activities are prohibited. The University of Cincinnati has published criteria for view-point and content-neutral time, place and manner restrictions that provide for ample alternative means for expressive activity that allow for members of the campus community to spontaneously and contemporaneously assemble and distribute material. (3) The University of Cincinnati provides the following description of any barriers to or incidents of disruption of free expression occurring on campus, including attempts to block or prohibit speakers and any investigation of students or student groups on the basis of expression, including the nature of each barrier or incident and the disciplinary action, if any, taken against members of the campus community determined to be responsible for the barriers or incidents: There have been no barriers to or incidents of disruption of free expression occurring on campus, including attempts to block or prohibit speakers nor have there been any investigation of students or student groups on the basis of expression. (4) The University of Cincinnati provides the following information it finds necessary and appropriate for the public to evaluate whether the free expression rights for members of the campus community have been adequately protected. None. * All terms used in this report conform to the definitions provided in ORC 3345.0211 This report has been published in accordance with R.C. 3345.0214(B). University of Cincinnati\n2600 Clifton Ave\nCincinnati OH 45221\n513-556-0000 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati\n2600 Clifton Ave\nCincinnati OH 45221\n513-556-0000 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top