Powercat chevron double-chevron chat-purple news-purple home computer window with a question mark close facebook linkedin menu search twitter youtube apply-purple apply-white chat-white request-purple request-white Jump to HeaderJump to Main ContentJump to Footer Kansas State University Connect Canvas OrgCentral Navigate KSIS HRIS Webmail Sign in Browse A-Z Research Search Search Research At Kansas State University, we believe research is more than labs and statistics — it's knowing the right questions to ask. Our expert faculty are constantly looking ahead for the next enigma to unravel or crisis to avert. Our mission to conduct research for the benefit of humanity propels us forward. BALANCING ACT Sustaining our future across disciplines Read the story Undergraduate and graduate research opportunities Academic discovery and creative inquiry are crucial to student success and preparation to enter the workforce — and not only at the graduate level. K-State offers many opportunities for undergraduate and graduate students to engage in research. Learn more /research/opportunities/index.html Y purple medium-basic Learn more $213.9 million in FY 2020 research expenditures 300+ patents granted 4 USAID Feed the Future Labs Collaborate with K-State Become a strategic partner and leverage K-State's expertise, research and innovation. Connect with our team Featured Center K-State is home to more than 90 research centers and institutes, including the Konza Prairie Biological Center. The Konza is located on a 3,487 hectare native tallgrass prairie preserve jointly owned by The Nature Conservancy and Kansas State University. The KPBS is located in the Flint Hills of northeastern Kansas (39°05’ N, 96°35’ W), a grassland region of steep-slopes overlain by shallow limestone soils unsuitable for cultivation. Learn about our institutes and centers /research/about/centers-institutes/index.html Y purple medium-basic Learn about our institutes and centers Funding and proposal resourcesFind information about the proposal process and funding opportunities for your project. Contact our staffConnect with someone at K-State about research opportunities, industry partnerships and more. Compliance informationUnderstand the regulations that help keep your research safe and maintain K-State's reputation for research integrity. Office of the Vice President for Research 120 Fairchild Hall 1601 Vattier St, Manhattan, KS 66506‐0500 785-532-5110 | research@k-state.edu Contact Us Emergency Statements and Disclosures Accessibility KBOR Free Expression Statement © Kansas State University Updated Updated: 5/18/22