Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Office of the Provost Provost right arrow down arrow About right arrow down arrow Meet the Provost right arrow down arrow Event Request Form Leadership Committees Next Lives Here Initiatives right arrow down arrow COACHE Textbook Affordability UC Women Lead Program Dual Career Assistance Program Strategic Hiring Opportunity Program Decanal Searches Faculty right arrow down arrow Reappointment, Promotion, and Tenure right arrow down arrow eRPT Collective Bargaining Agreement Resources right arrow down arrow Faculty Retention Program Proposal Process right arrow down arrow Distance Learning Programs Adjunct Resources Leaves of Absence Associations right arrow down arrow Latino Faculty Association right arrow down arrow About Members Resources Events & Photo Gallery News Emeriti Association right arrow down arrow Membership LGBTQ Faculty and Staff Association Black Faculty Association right arrow down arrow About Resources Events and News Committees Photo Gallery The Academy of Fellows - AFTL right arrow down arrow Members, Eligibility & Benefits Journal for Research & Practice in College Teaching Faculty Enrichment Center right arrow down arrow Programming and Resources Colleges and Offices right arrow down arrow Colleges Offices right arrow down arrow Faculty Affairs & Academic Personnel Enrollment Management Graduate School The Office of Institutional Research right arrow down arrow Facts & Dashboards College Financial Reporting Survey Research & Consulting Resources Contact Us UC International IT @ UC Student Affairs Undergraduate Studies right arrow down arrow Affiliated Offices Integrated Core Learning (ICL) General Education Core Contact Us Awards right arrow down arrow All-University Faculty Awards Home » About UC » Office of the Provost » Initiatives » Strategic Hiring Opportunity Program Set Navigation title in component COACHE Textbook Affordability UC Women Lead Program Dual Career Assistance Program Strategic Hiring Opportunity Program Decanal Searches Strategic Hiring Opportunity Program The Office of the Provost’s Strategic Hiring Opportunity Program is designed to diversify the University of Cincinnati faculty in ways that increase representation from diverse intellectual traditions, educational institutions, life experiences and diverse backgrounds, including but not limited to gender, race, ethnicity and culture. The Office of the Provost will provide partial support for faculty salaries, typically on a matching basis from the home department or college, and for a limited time, typically two to three years. Strategic Hiring Opportunity awards will be made when departments have met the following requirements: Demonstrated academic program needs. Support for the hire from the department or school as evidenced by an affirmative majority vote from the faculty (or group that votes) for the new hire at the specified rank. Endorsement by the dean of the college. The intent of this program is to provide bridge funding to support strategic hires that will be fully funded by the candidates’ respective colleges, schools or departments within two to three years. Program Guidelines Requirements The Office of the Provost will provide partial, one-time salary support up to two years for faculty hired through the program (see below). Strategic Hiring Opportunity awards will be made when the following requirements have been met: Demonstrated academic program needs; Support for the hire from the department/unit/school as evidenced by an affirmative majority vote from the faculty (or group that votes) for the new hire at the specified rank; The dean of the college has endorsed the hire; The provost has approved the hire; The Associate Provost for Faculty Development and Special Initiatives has approved the hire as a Strategic Hire; and A brief “Plan for Success” has been developed (see below). The "Plan for Success" outlines departmental/college resources that will be available to support the hire. These resources may include, but are not limited to, an internal and/or external mentor, additional funding to join a minority-based professional organization, a list of current faculty in the department/college who have agreed to collaborate with the hire on a research/creative project(s), if applicable, and a commitment from the unit head/director to have regularly scheduled meetings with the hire (as needed) to provide support. The Office of the Provost will provide professional development programming through workshops and seminars and will provide free memberships for faculty to the National Center for Faculty Development and Diversity, which offers webinars on topics related to teaching and research, writing boot camps, online networking groups, and more. The Black and Latino Faculty Associations, sponsored by the Office of the Provost and President, may also provide opportunities for culturally inclusive professional development activities and teaching and research support. Process First, the dean must obtain approval for the hire from the provost. Second, for the Associate Provost for Faculty Development and Special Initiatives to consider the hire as a Strategic Hire, the dean or designee must submit a request that describes the academic program need, includes an affirmation that the department/unit/school approves the hire, outlines a brief “Plan for Success,” and includes a copy of the applicant’s curriculum vitae. Allocation of Strategic Hiring and Dual Career Assistance Dollars The Strategic Hiring Opportunity Program and Dual Career Assistance Program provide bridge funding to support hires that will be fully funded by the candidates’ respective colleges, schools or departments within two years. The Office of the Provost will seek equity (rather than equality) in the distribution of funds across the university and will distribute funds on a percentage basis to each receiving college based on the total number of requests received. Applicants hired through either program may not be funded by multiple hiring initiatives in the Office of the Provost. Each year the Office of the Provost will receive and approve requests for funding through the Strategic Hiring Opportunity Program and the Dual Career Assistance Program. The annual cycle will be as follows: May 1 – April 30 – will be calculated and awarded for the following fiscal year. The Associate Provost for Faculty Development and Special Initiatives will add the approved candidates to the comprehensive list of requests. At the end of each cycle (see above) the requests will be totaled. If the total exceeds the amount available, there will be a proration and awards will be made based on the percentage each request represents of the total requests. The award will be divided equally over the two years. If the total is less than the amount available, each award will be for 50% of the initial starting salary divided equally over two years. Office of the Provost 2614 McMicken Cir, Cincinnati, OH 45219 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Office of the Provost 2614 McMicken Cir, Cincinnati, OH 45219 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top