Skip to main content. ADVISORY | COVID-19 Information × kumc.edu School of Health Professions School of Medicine School of Nursing University of Kansas The University of Kansas Health System The University of Kansas Cancer Center Search within this section Search all sites Home Programs Training Resources About Our Campuses Make a Gift Info for School of Health Professions School of Medicine School of Nursing Current Students Blackboard Webmail myKUMC Prospective Students Prospective Employees Alumni Faculty & Staff Residents & Fellows Patients Donors Researchers Visitors Office for Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Our Campuses Make a Gift Info for Office for Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Programs Programs Community Conversations Clinical Culture and Diversity Series Heritage Months and Celebrations Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Award Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Annual Symposium Health Outcomes Assembly Events Calendar Training Training Unconscious Bias LGBTQIA+ Resources Strategic Initiatives Title IX and Equal Opportunity Trainings Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Trainings Resources Resources Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Toolkit Academic Accommodations Religious Accommodations Equal Opportunity & Academic Compliance Student Reporting Resources About About Staff Get Involved Strategic Initiatives Strategic Partners Position Statement on Hate Crimes and Isms Land Acknowledgment Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Cabinet KU Medical Center is committed to creating and maintaining a diverse and inclusive learning and working environment, one that nurtures growth and development for all. KU Medical Center is committed to creating and maintaining a diverse and inclusive learning and working environment, one that nurtures growth and development for all. KU Medical Center is committed to creating and maintaining a diverse and inclusive learning and working environment, one that nurtures growth and development for all. Pause Play Events Calendar Strategic Initiatives Get Involved The Vice Chancellor’s Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Cabinet’s commitment toward cultivating diverse, equitable and inclusive environments to learn, work and serve drives our collective responsibility. This responsibility is activated through the fulfillment of campus-wide strategic initiatives, objectives and annual goals. The Cabinet’s vision spans our three campuses—Kansas City, Salina and Wichita and calls for engagement of the University at all levels, faculty, staff, learners and community members. We invite you to join in this essential commitment by engaging in the Cabinet, committees and workgroups. Learn More Learn about diversity, equity and inclusion efforts at the University of Kansas Medical Center within the KU Schools of Medicine, Nursing and Health Professions. KU School of Medicine Office of Diversity and Inclusion KU School of Nursing Committee for Diversity, Equity and Inclusion KU School of Health Professions Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Committee KU Medical Center defines diversity as a state of being in which the variety of cultures, experiences, expertise and viewpoints are valued and incorporated into the fabric of our community. Diversity encompasses age, education level, ethnicity and race, gender expression and identity, nationality, national origin, physical and mental ability, political and religious perspectives, sex, sexual orientation, socioeconomic status, veteran status and other human differences. "This is a critically important time for us all to restate our commitment to making KU Medical Center a safe and welcoming place for everyone regardless of race, color, ethnicity, religion, gender identity, sexual orientation or anything else that makes you unique. " - Jerrihlyn L. McGee, DNP, RN, CNE Vice Chancellor for Diversity, Equity and Inclusion & Chief Diversity Officer Office for Diversity, Equity and Inclusion University of Kansas Medical Center Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Mailstop 2015 3901 Rainbow Boulevard Kansas City, KS 66160 Phone: 913-588-3319 Fax: 913-588-1412 Facebook Link Instagram Make a Gift 3901 Rainbow Boulevard, Kansas City, KS 66160 | 913-588-5000 About Calendar News Equal Opportunity Statement Careers Facebook opens in new tab Twitter opens in new tab YouTube opens in new tab Instagram opens in new tab LinkedIn opens in new tab © 2022 The University of Kansas prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, ethnicity, religion, sex, national origin, age, ancestry, disability, status as a veteran, sexual orientation, marital status, parental status, gender identity, gender expression, and genetic information in the university's programs and activities. Retaliation is also prohibited by university policy. Inquiries regarding our non-discrimination policies should be directed to the Director for the Equal Opportunity & Academic Compliance Office, Mail Stop 7004, 4330 Shawnee Mission Parkway, Fairway, KS 66205, 913-588-5964, 711 TTY (for the Wichita, Salina, and Kansas City, Kansas medical center campuses). Inquiries regarding the University Sexual Harassment Policy should be directed to the Title IX Coordinator at 913-588-8011. Free Expression Statement | Privacy Statement | Notice of Privacy Practices | Consumer Information We use cookies to analyze our traffic & provide social media features. Visit the KU Medical Center Privacy Statement for more information. By closing this window & browsing this site, you agree to our use of cookies.