Skip to main content ISU Index Menu iastate.edu Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z ISU Quick Links Menu Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons AccessPlus Canvas CyBox CyMail Outlook Workday More Sign Ons... Department of Chemistry Search form Search Main menu Main Menu About People Graduate Undergraduate Alumni Resources Research Chemical Services Secondary menu Chemical Instrument Services Glass Shop Chemistry Stores Machine Shop You are here Home » Chemical Services Glass Shop Page 0551 Gilman Hall Hours: 12:30 p.m. - 4:00 p.m. 515-294-1275 Services The Chemistry Department Glass Shop is a full-service, one-stop shop for all glass products. They will produce any type of glassware you need for your experiments. They will modify any commercial glassware and/or repair your glassware. Intramurals or standing orders are the proper method of payment. You may have a particular flask in mind that you can't purchase anywhere else..... Call Trond, and between the two of you a plan will be drawn up with the end result a glassware product for you to use. Besides creating brand new products, (from a 2 ml glass tube to 178 ml glass tube) the Glass Shop also modifies and repairs glassware by: drilling, cutting, grinding, surfacing, cleaning, silvering, and vacuum sealing. Quartz glass also falls under their realm One product produced by the Glass Shop: Photolysis Tube with platinum coating on the outside Personnel Trond Forre Trond is a native, plus still currently resides in Slater with his wife Kathy and their 5 children. He has managed the Glass Shop in the Chemistry Department for 4 years with a total of 12 years experience in the Chemistry Department and a grand total of 15 years experience as a glassblower. Category: Facilities Tags: glass glass shop Department of Chemistry 2415 Osborn Drive 1605 Gilman Hall Ames, IA 50011-1021 chemdept@iastate.edu 515-294-6342 phone Site Index Site map Twitter Youtube Copyright © 2022 Iowa State University of Science and Technology. All rights reserved. Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility