Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Apply Visit Give Information For Current Students Alumni Recruiters Search BC.edu Links Menu Main Nav Back Back Close About Overview Dean's Message Why the Carroll School? Diversity & Inclusion Diversity News Accreditation Board of Advisors Faculty Openings Visit Contact Related Links About Boston College Maps & Directions BC News Undergraduate Overview Academics Advising Peer Advisors Staff Advisors Concentrations Minors The Kevin Eidt Memorial Scholarship Career Accelerator Summer Management Catalyst Program Portico Careers Social Media CSOM Undergraduate Career Resources Placement Data Career Accelerator Study Abroad Community & Student Life FAQ CSOM Undergrad FAQs: COVID-19 Mar 13: Letter From Undergraduate Dean's Office Mar 20: Registration and Advising Updates Contact Graduate Overview Admission Visits and Events Tuition and Aid O’Brien Fellowship Graduate Admission FAQ International Applicants Information for U.S. Military MBA Programs Full-Time MBA Part-Time MBA Data Analytics Sequence Electives Applied Learning BC MBA Ambassadors M.S. Programs M.S. in Finance M.S. in Accounting Ph.D. Programs Ph.D. in Accounting Ph.D. in Finance Ph.D. in Organization Studies Community & Student Life Living in Boston Career Development Faculty Overview Faculty Directory Part-Time Faculty Faculty Expertise Departments Overview Concentrations Academics Accounting Undergraduate Concentrations Seminar Series Careers Message From the Chairperson Business Analytics Concentration & Academics Careers Seminar Series Message From the Chairperson Business Law & Society Finance Academics and Study Abroad F22 Registration Info Faculty Ph.D. Program Seminar Series Job Market Candidates Message From the Chairperson Information Systems Concentration & Academics Message From the Chairperson Seminar Series Management & Organization Concentration & Academics Seminar Series Careers Message From the Chairperson Marketing Concentration & Academics Careers Awards and Appointments Faculty Message From the Chairperson Fall 2022 Registration Centers Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Carroll School Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Current Students Alumni Recruiters BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Home Undergraduate Academics The Kevin Eidt Memorial Scholarship Academics Advising Concentrations Minors The Kevin Eidt Memorial Scholarship Career Accelerator Summer Management Catalyst Program Portico The Kevin Eidt Memorial Scholarship The Kevin Eidt Memorial Scholarship The Kevin M. Eidt Memorial Scholarship is awarded annually to the junior in the Carroll School of Management, who during the past three years has demonstrated a unique combination of academic achievement, character, leadership, and school spirit similar to Kevin's. The scholarship recipient is selected by a faculty committee of the Carroll School of Management Undergraduate Program and announced at the end of each year. Kevin M. Eidt was a member of the Boston College class of 2000. A freshman in the Carroll School of Management Honors Program, Kevin died of cardiac arrest during an intramural basketball game in the second semester of his freshman year. In recognition of the tremendous impact he had made on the Boston College community in such a short time, Kevin was posthumously awarded the Nicholas Woods Leadership Award, sponsored by the Office of Student Development. In addition, the Liturgical Arts Group dedicated their "I Want to Praise Your Name" CD to Kevin, and the men and women's intramural basketball championship trophy is named after him. This scholarship was created as a legacy to a young man who, in one semester, made a positive impact on the BC community, lived the motto "ever to excel" and approached every day with the exuberance and determination to live life to its fullest. The scholarship is funded by the Kevin Eidt Fund at Boston College, which is supported by alumni contributions and grants from the Kevin M. Eidt Memorial Scholarship Fund, a 501 (c)(3) publicly supported charitable organization. Recipients of the Kevin Eidt Memorial Scholarship 2022 Josie Seelen Eau Claire, WI 2021 Samuel Schelble Brookfield, WI 2020 Vincent Ferrucci Fishers, IN 2019 Caitlin Ferris Port Washington, NY 2018 Hannah Say Burlingame, CA 2017 Lauren Wedell Arden Hills, MN 2016 Nickolaus Osinski Buffalo, NY 2015 Kevin Zhao Bellevue, WA 2014 Josh Coyne Paxton, MA 2013 Lauren Wallace Lake Bluff, IL 2012 Hector Vazquez-Aguilar Milton, PA 2011 Cassandra Porter Franklin Lakes, NJ 2010 Steven Twomey Andover, MA 2009 Matthew Raffol Natick, MA 2008 Patrick Twomey Andover, MA 2007 Lauren Hill Buffalo, NY 2006 Kevin Schohl Cleveland, OH 2005 Amy Racannello Stamford, CT 2004 Matthew Acalin Anaheim, CA 2003 Justin Wescott Holyoke, MA 2002 Dennis Allaire Clifton Park, NY 2001 Carrie Anne Levitt Setauket, NY 2000 Omar Chaudhary Newton, MA Back To Top Back To Top Carroll School of Management Fulton Hall Boston College 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467-3809 About the Carroll School Undergraduate Graduate Faculty & Research Departments Centers Contact Accreditation Apply Visit Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College