COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Department of Dental Hygiene Section Menu Dental Hygiene Home About Department of Dental Hygiene Bachelor of Science in Dental Hygiene Degree Completion for Registered Dental Hygienist Financial Support Career Paths Delta Dental of Kansas Foundation Dental Hygiene Clinic College of Health Professions Home Faculty / Staff Directory Contact Us Our Dental Hygiene Clinic offers quality, affordable dental hygiene services. The clinic is open to the public and serves people of all ages. Learn more The Department of Dental Hygiene has two bachelor of science degree programs: an entry-level program for those seeking a license in dental hygiene and a degree completion program for licensed hygienists. Entry-level students work alongside experienced dental hygiene clinicians in the Delta Dental of Kansas Foundation Dental Hygiene Clinic. Degree completion students complete their degree in a flexible, 100% online program. Entry-Level Degree Degree Completion Contact Us Department of Dental Hygiene The Dental Hygiene programs at Wichita State University offer opportunities for students to work alongside experienced dental hygiene clinicians in the state’s largest dental hygiene clinic for student education. Under committed faculty mentorship and supervision, students receive hands-on practice serving Wichita residents in our on-campus Delta Dental of Kansas Foundation Dental Hygiene Clinic. Whether interested in our entry-level or degree completion programs, students can expect to be professionally trained and challenged. We also provide students networking opportunities when they volunteer to practice with one of Wichita’s professional dental organizations. » Learn more about the Department of Dental Hygiene Social Media Links / News DH Twitter CHP Facebook CHP Twitter WSU NEWS Dental Hygiene students achieve 100% pass rate Congratulations to the Dental Hygiene Class of 2022 for achieving 100% pass rate on their written and clinical licensure examinations. Good luck to all the graduates in their careers as dental hygienists! Attend Information Session Message from Chair Find Scholarships Entry-Level Admission Degree Completion Admission Interprofessional Education Career Opportunities for Graduates Find a WSU Clinic: Dental Hygiene Clinic AEGD Dental Clinic Speech-Language-Hearing Clinic 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©