Skip to content Stanford University Students Faculty & Staff Families Visitors Alumni COVID Resources Search Menu News Events Academics Research Health Care Campus Life Admission About Search term Search Stanford: Web People Search Web Other ways to search: Map Profiles Main Content University-wide policy documents Please note: Individual schools and departments also may maintain additional policies. Such policies, however, do not override these university-wide policies. Administrative Guide Stanford’s official manual for administrative policies. Contents include chapters on Organization, Personnel, Accounting, Gifts, Procurement, Computing and Services. Bulletin Publishes University policies governing undergraduate and graduate instruction as well as University academic requirements and degree requirements for majors, minors and honors programs. Communications Policies Policies regarding a variety of media-related topics such as filming on campus, photography, and use of the Stanford name or emblems. Disability-related policies for students Procedures for requesting accommodations and auxiliary aids; ADA Section 504 grievance procedures. Employee & Labor Relations Policies Key policies distributed annually regarding employees and labor issues from the Office of Human Resources. Environmental Health and Safety Policies, procedures and guidelines related to health and safety at Stanford. Faculty & Academic Staff Handbooks The Faculty and Academic Staff Handbooks published by the Provost’s Office, provide policies governing Faculty, Academic Staff (Teaching) and Other Teaching Staff. Graduate Academic Policies and Procedures University policies and other information related to the academic progress of Stanford graduate students. Human Resources Policies and Procedures A list of processes, policies and procedures on topics important to Stanford’s workplace. Identity & Design Guidelines Guidelines for using Stanford’s wordmark and emblems (Seal and Block S), visual branding, business cards and stationery. See also Admin Guide Memo 1.5.4, which outlines the circumstances under which Stanford allows its name and other trademarks to be used. Labor Relations & Collective Bargaining at Stanford Bargaining agreements with Stanford’s two labor unions, SEIU Local 2007 Higher Education Workers and the Stanford Deputy Sheriffs’ Association. Privacy Policies and practices to safeguard personal information in a manner consistent with University values, applicable privacy laws and regulations. Property Management Manual Policies and procedures regarding the acquisition, maintenance, reporting and disposition of capital assets. Research Policy Handbook A collection of policies, guidelines and general information related to the research enterprise at Stanford. Service Center Manual Policies and practices related to Stanford’s service centers. Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube iTunes U Schools Business Earth, Energy & Environmental Sciences Education Engineering Humanities & Sciences Law Medicine Departments Departments A - to Z Interdisciplinary Programs Research Research Centers A - to Z Interdisciplinary Research Libraries Health Care Stanford Health Care Stanford Children's Health Online Learning Stanford Online About Stanford Facts History Accreditation Admission Undergraduate Graduate Financial Aid Resources A - to Z Index Campus Map Community Engagement Directory Stanford Profiles Applying Visiting Giving Careers Contact Stanford University Stanford Home Maps & Directions Search Stanford Emergency Info Terms of Use Privacy Copyright Trademarks Non-Discrimination Accessibility ©Copyright Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305.