Navigate Search Social Moody Prospective Students Prospective Students Degrees Offered Graduate Admissions Guide Application Deadlines Graduate School Resources International Applicants Diversity Visit SMU Current Students Current Students Forms and Policies Graduation Graduate Writing Center Graduate Student Lounge Career Development Student Services Events Events Events Calendar Orientation Professional Development Research Days Three Minute Thesis Student Life Funding Funding Ph.D. Fellows Ph.D. Health Insurance Graduate Student Travel Grant Dedman Graduate Student Assembly About About Mission and History Moody Foundation Gift Charter Administrative Handbook Dean's Office Messages from the Dean Graduate Council Graduate Student Advisory Board Contact Us Admissions Contacts Blog Graduate School Resources As you research and prepare for graduate school, make sure you understand the process at every step. Whether that means you are choosing a program, applying for graduate school, or preparing to write your dissertation, you need to be as informed as possible to make the best decisions. Access our guides and download the eBook versions to help you on your journey as a graduate student or check out our blog, Advancing the Field for more informational material. Guides to Researching and Applying for Graduate School Introducing The Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Discover how SMU is supporting world-changing research, competitive funding, & professional and community engagement thanks to a $100 million gift from the Moody Foundation. How to Get a PhD: A Guide to Choosing and Applying to PhD Programs Complete your PhD search with confidence! This guide has the information you need to choose a program, apply successfully and thrive during your years of doctoral study. The Graduate Student's Guide to Living in Dallas What's it like to live, work, relax and study in Dallas? Get to know the city we call home and explore the unexpected opportunities that await you at SMU! We always say big things happen in Dallas. Could your graduate career be one of them? The International Applicant’s Guide to a Ph.D. Read information about choosing and applying to a Ph.D. program, financing your degree, navigating housing and living in the U.S., and finding resources at SMU that can help you to do all these things successfully. A Guide to Graduate Admissions at SMU SMU's Graduate School is proud to offer doctoral and master’s degrees in a wide variety of fields. This guide is designed to give you an overview of the admissions requirements and processes for our Master’s and Doctoral programs. Recorded Webinars Competitive Funding and Student Experience Moody Means:Exploring Graduate Student Resources at SMU Guides to Specific PhD Programs A Guide to Online & Flexible Graduate Degrees in Civil and Environmental Engineering Our world needs qualified and passionate engineering professionals to provide solutions around the world. Learn how you can make a difference with an advanced degree in Civil and Environmental Engineering from SMU. Discovering Your Planet: A Complete Guide to Earning a Ph.D. in Earth Sciences This resource highlights the value of Earth Science, details current research among SMU Earth Sciences faculty members, describes the different research areas available within the Earth Sciences discipline, and discusses career options available to a Ph.D. professional in this field. Addressing Challenges in Education and Learning: A Complete Guide to Earning a Ph.D. in Education This resource aims to demonstrate the value of education research, explore current research occurring in the field, and exemplify how SMU offers high-caliber research opportunities to its doctoral candidates. A Complete Guide to Earning Your Ph.D. in Electrical and Computer Engineering Explore the many facets of electrical and computer engineering and the Ph.D. programs that are preparing these engineers to invent the future. The guide also looks at research being conducted within the field and specifically at Southern Methodist University. Reanalyzing Our World: Humanities PhDs at SMU Do you want to understand the themes of life's "big questions"? If a passion for history, literature or religious studies is driving you to explore a doctoral degree, we invite you to explore the three interdisciplinary humanities PhDs offered at SMU and learn about the career opportunities in academia in beyond. Exploring the Universe: A Complete Guide to Studying Physics at SMU In this guide, you will get a chance to dive deeper into what it means to study physics, what types of careers are available to physicists, and how Southern Methodist University is preparing their physics graduate students for meaningful careers. A Complete Guide to Studying Statistical Science at SMU Because of the explosion of data from devices such as sensors, cell phones, and medical instruments, as well as from business processes, surveys, and social media, there is accelerating demand for specialists who are trained in data collection and analysis. Theoretical and Computational Chemistry PhD at SMU Learn in the guide about the interdisciplinary nature of chemical research, the cutting-edge research taking place on SMU’s high-performance computers, and the history of SMU’s Theoretical and Computational Chemistry Ph.D. Program. Still have questions to be answered? Contact our Director of Graduate Recruitment who can help point you in the right direction. Send us your information, we will be in touch! Read the Latest Stories on our Blog - Advancing The Field © Southern Methodist University The Moody School of Graduate & Advanced Studies | P.O. Box 0240, Dallas, TX 75275-0240 Contact Admission Graduate News About Us