Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Biotechnology PSM You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Biotechnology PSM Apply Request More Info Biotechnology PSM Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Professional Science Master's in Biotechnology The two-year Professional Science Master's in Biotechnology program in Temple's College of Science and Technology explores the development of new technologies based on living organisms and their products. Biotechnologists seek to understand biomolecular and cellular processes and then use that knowledge to inform the development of products and technologies that benefit the environment and human health. Breakthroughs in biotechnology have led to advances in conserving energy, fighting diseases, improving manufacturing processes and reducing famine. From biofuels to drug discovery and emerging diseases to environmental remediation, this master’s program at Temple will prepare students to be leaders in business, policy and research. Biotechnology PSM graduates interact comfortably with researchers and clinicians as well as managers, especially in the areas of finance, law and marketing. Their familiarity with multiple aspects of the research and development process makes these students uniquely equipped to manage research breakthroughs. The PSM offers courses taught by diverse faculty across Temple University, as well as instructors from government and industry. There is a significant experiential component of this program, through which students work directly with faculty on real-world projects and gain the skills necessary to solve emerging problems. The degree culminates with an independent research project based either at Temple or within one of the program’s government or industry partner organizations in Philadelphia. Classes & Curriculum The Biotechnology PSM is designed for recent graduates and professionals who have a bachelor’s degree or the equivalent in a STEM field (science, technology, engineering or math). A professional science master’s degree places a dual emphasis on science training and professional development, and the Biotechnology PSM is geared toward students interested in technical training and careers in industry. If your interests are more aligned with research or you wish to pursue future academic study, you might want to consider the Biology MS or the Biology PhD. The PSM can be completed on either a full- or part-time basis. Students are often working professionals, so most classes are offered in the evenings or on weekends for maximum flexibility. Classes are held on Main Campus in close proximity to Temple’s various labs and research support facilities. PSM courses include current topics in analytical biotechnology, bioethics and policy, bioinformatics, environmental biotechnology and microbial biotechnology. Many courses are writing-intensive and designed to allow students to hone their oral presentation skills. Classes you may take during your degree program include Analytical Biochemistry, Biotechnology Lab I, Ethics Regulation and Policy in Biotechnology, and Nucleic Acid Technologies. Learn more about required courses in Biotechnology PSM. Related Graduate Degrees Bioinformatics PSM Bioinnovation PSM Biology MS Biology MA Biology PhD Related Graduate Certificates Biotechnology Bioinnovation Bioinformatics Information Science and Technology Scientific Writing Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Professional Science Masters offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $1,205.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,567.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Our Advisors Faculty advisors can help you navigate your program and discuss research opportunities. Shohreh Amini is the program director for the Biotechnology PSM. Phone: 215-204-0604 Email: ashohreh@temple.edu Seema Freer is an associate professor in the Biology Department and the managing director of PSM programs. Phone: 215-204-8842 Email: sfreer@temple.edu Program Contact For general questions regarding the Biotechnology PSM, contact cst.psm@temple.edu. Seema Freer is an associate professor in the Biology Department and the managing director of PSM programs. Phone: 215-204-8842 Email: sfreer@temple.edu Study Away If the demands of your degree program allow it, consider spending a summer or semester overseas building international connections with researchers from other countries. Temple’s study abroad program offers College of Science and Technology students opportunities to spend a summer or semester studying in China, Germany, Italy, South Korea or Taiwan. Learn more about your study abroad options. Student Clubs & Organizations If you can find the time to participate while meeting the demands of your degree program, student clubs offer valuable opportunities to meet fellow graduate students, researchers and professionals from science- and technology-related industries. Clubs and organizations for students pursuing a Biology degree include the Alliance for Minority Participation in STEM, which works to increase opportunities for students and help them complete their undergraduate and graduate degrees in STEM. the Biology Graduate Student Society, an organization that develops professional and leadership skills in doctoral students as well as encourages them to participate in public outreach. Leadership, Education and Development in Science, an organization that empowers Philadelphia middle school students to form an interest in STEM through science experiments and mentors. the Temple University Forensics Association, which helps students form an interest in forensic science through field trips and professional networking opportunities. Explore the full list of College of Science and Technology student clubs and organizations. Accreditation As a division within Temple University, the College of Science and Technology is accredited by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education. ST-BIOT-PSM Additional Program Information Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Biotechnology PSM Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info