Skip to main content Search Global dropdown menu Research Support Subject Librarians Reach out to a librarian for specialized help in a discipline. Library Catalog Find books, audio and video, music scores, maps and more. Research Guides Use the best resources we have, picked by librarians. Databases There's a wealth of information to be found through our database subscriptions. Collections Print and digital collections serve as extensions of our teaching and research facilities. Research Services We're available throughout all stages of your research. Quick Links Library Search JSTOR PubMed Make an Appointment Newspapers Journals Collections Program Borrow & Renew Library Catalog Find books, audio and video, music scores, maps and more in the catalog. Borrowing & Requesting Learn how to borrow materials at Dartmouth and from other libraries via BorrowDirect or DartDoc. Tech Loans We've got everything from chargers to a professional portable recording studio. Alumni Access and Resources How to access resources, on and off-campus. Media Discover an extensive range of movies, television series, documentaries, educational programs, audio and more. Off-Campus Access Students, staff, and faculty can access most of our electronic resources off-campus. Quick Links BorrowDirect DartDoc Course Reserves for Faculty Course Reserves for Students Libraries & Spaces Study and Meeting Spaces Book a meeting room for a group or sign up to use a private study room. Hours and Locations Our hours, holiday closings, street addresses and contact information. Baker-Berry Library Our main library houses the humanities, mathematics, music, physical sciences and social sciences collections Biomedical Libraries The Dana and Matthews-Fuller libraries support the disciplines of health and life sciences. Evans Map Room Houses thousands of sheet maps, mapping software, atlases, globes & more. Feldberg Business & Engineering Library Offers support for the Tuck School of Business & Thayer School of Engineering. Jones Media Center Provides facilities & collections for researching, viewing & producing media. Rauner Special Collections Library Includes rare books, manuscripts & more. Sherman Art Library Supports the departments of Art History, Studio Art, as well as the Hood Museum of Art. About Us Hours and Locations Events Latest News Privacy Policy Dean’s Council for Equity and Inclusion Strategic Objectives Visiting & Exhibits Help Library Search Learn about signing into your account, search options and tips, getting to resources and working with citations. Research Support We're committed to partnering with you to enhance and showcase your research. Publishing Support We provide consultation focusing on opportunities in digital publishing and scholarship. Subject Librarians We have a subject librarian for your major who wants to help! Teaching Support We have librarians who specializes in your subject area and can support your students’ learning. Workshops & Events We offer a variety of events to assist you in developing skills ranging from research to programming. Quick Links Contact Us FAQs Off-Campus Access Send Us Feedback Staff Directory Login Students, Faculty & Staff DHMC & Guests Alumni BorrowDirect DartDoc Toggle navigation Search Global dropdown menu Research Support Borrow & Renew Libraries & Spaces Help Login Students, Faculty & Staff DHMC & Guests Alumni BorrowDirect DartDoc Baker Library Bell Tower Tours People look out over Dartmouth campus from the Baker-Berry tower See things from a different perspective at one of the highest points on campus. At certain times of the year, we open up the Baker bell tower and allow the Dartmouth community to view the campus from above. Upcoming Tour Dates Senior Week (seniors only) Thursday June 9th 1pm-4pm Commencement Sunday June 12th 1pm-4pm Yearly Scheduled Tour Dates Homecoming Weekend (Fall term) Winter Carnival (February) Family Weekend (Spring term) Commencement (Sunday only) Bell Tower Tours Procedures Please arrive at the start of the scheduled time. Groups of nine are brought up to the tower in twenty minute intervals. Signups take place at the entrance to the Baker stacks on First Floor Berry, on a first come, first served basis. Signups begin at the start of the advertised tour time. To ensure there aren't long lines on First Floor Berry, each person will be assigned a time slot. Spots go quickly - if you arrive at the end of the scheduled tour time, all spots will have been assigned by that point so please arrive at the start of the scheduled tour window. Note: Dates and times are subject to change. Tours may be canceled at any time due to weather. Reaching the tower requires climbing several flights of stairs including a “ladder-like” stair for the last 20 feet. Climbing the stairs may be physically demanding and difficult for any person uncomfortable with heights. Scheduling a Tour In addition to the annual tower tour events listed above, Baker Library will do its best to accommodate group tour requests. Please email Baker Circulation to find out more. About the Bells Ernest Martin Hopkins, Dartmouth College President 1916-1945, Class of 1901, had visited Oxford and Cambridge and was much impressed with the bell-ringing on those campuses. When Baker Library was constructed, a trustee, Clarence B. Little, Class of 1881, donated $40,000 for a set of bells to be placed in the tower of the Library, in order to please President Hopkins. Meneely Bell Company of Troy, New York custom-built a 15-bell set. The bells vary in size from 200 to 5,300 pounds. They range an octave and a half on the scale, playing every note in that range, except E flat. The bells first rang in 1928. They were rung manually for the first year. The following year, William Durrschmidt, an instrument maker and Professor of Music, invented an automation system from three machines and a clock. It was similar to the mechanism of a player piano, where holes are punched into a roll of paper and the locations of the holes triggered the bell mechanism. There was also a keyboard in the tower, so people could play "instantaneous music" on the bells. In 1979, the bells were computerized. Two students designed a system to run the bells, as the system and the paper rolls used for the first 50 years were starting to wear out. A 16th bell was donated in 1981 in memory of Donal F. Morse '51. Money was also provided for the maintenance of the system and pay for the bell ringer. The bells currently run via wireless access. An iMac computer in the tower runs custom-designed software written by a graduate student in electro-acoustic music programs. Bells ring the time on the hour and half hour. Songs are played three times a day - the alma mater at 6pm, and varying pieces during intervals between classes. Songs can be requested by blitzing "Bells". Requests aren't guaranteed, but are most welcome. If you are requesting a song that is already in the song database, it takes a day or two to program it. Songs can be scheduled for any time except on the hour. Some current favorites: Barbie Girl, My Old Kentucky Home, Pomp and Circumstance, Tired of Being Alone, Happy Birthday, Hey Jude, Hi Ho Hi Ho, In Your Eyes, Indiana Jones Theme, Jeopardy Theme, Lean on Me, Lullaby, Maria, Smurfs, Stand by Me, Yellow Submarine, You are My Sunshine, Bright Sunshiney Day, Feeling Groovy Dartmouth College is one of the last few places that still uses real bells instead of recordings or synthesizers. Bells are turned each year so that the hammers don't wear out the same spot on each bell, and we can be guaranteed the enjoyment of these real bells for years to come. Check out the Office of Alumni Relations for more information. About the Green Lights Every now and then, a green light shines from the tower on Baker Library. The green comes from energy efficient green LED lights that shine on the glass windows in the bell tower. This green light is often referred to as the "money light" because it is lit on occasions that attract College alumni and trustees. In October 1975, Jack Skewes, then Director of Business Affairs, wrote a memo listing the events during which the "green lantern" would be lit. The same events trigger the green lights today. The memo reads: Green lantern lit in Baker Tower: Convocation (when held in the evening) Dartmouth Night Winter Carnival Weekend Class Officers Weekend Freshman Parents Night Greenkey Weekend Reunions Commencement Club Officers Weekend Alumni Council Weekend Trustees Meetings Fall House Parties The Baker bell tower was restored in the fall of 2016. For more information about this historic preservation project, please see Updating an Icon: The Baker Tower Restoration Project. Orozco Mural Tours While you're visiting, don't miss one of Dartmouth's greatest treasures, José Clemente Orozco's mural, The Epic of American Civilization, created between 1932-1934 while Orozco was in-residence at Dartmouth. Visit during Reserve Room hours, or take a tour offered by the Hood Museum of Art. About Us Service Updates Visiting and History Strategic Objectives Privacy Policy Collections Department and Staff Directory Dean of Libraries Sue Mehrer Council on Libraries Friends of the Library Careers Fellowships Awards 250th Celebration Hindsight Is 20/19 Historical Accountability Student Research Program Open Education Initiative Dartmouth Library Baker-Berry Library Book Arts Workshop Evans Map Room Jones Media Center Biomedical Libraries Feldberg Business & Engineering Library Rauner Special Collections Library Records Management Sherman Art Library About Us Strategic Objectives Staff & Departments Subject Librarians Alumni Services Visiting & History Accessibility Library Catalog Careers Friends of the Library More About Us Contact Us 25 North Main Street Hanover, NH, USA 03755 Phone: 603-646-2567 Contact Us Give Us Feedback Connect with Us Facebook Instagram YouTube Footer copyright Dartmouth Copyright © 2020 Trustees of Dartmouth College Privacy