Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Food Services Food right arrow down arrow Locations & Hours right arrow down arrow Swipe & Dine Summer Retail Hours Convenience Stores TUC Food Court / SSLC Coffee Shops & Cafés Eateries at Medical & Regional Campuses Meal Plans right arrow down arrow Residential All-Access Meal Plan Campus Dining Pass FAQ Nutrition right arrow down arrow Special Diets Healthy Eating Tips Catering right arrow down arrow Student Organization Discounts Catering Guide About right arrow down arrow Sustainability Give Feedback Home » Campus Life » Food Food Services Summer Orientation 2022 paricipants Interested in learning more about campus eateries? Visit CenterCourt during daily lunch times for more information, and to discuss your options with staff. Healthy. Diverse. Sustainable. Convenient. These are what students value when making dining choices. University of Cincinnati Food Services is committed to providing a wide variety of delicious meal options to suit diverse student tastes and dietary needs. Dining Center Menus Dining Center Map No meal plan? Pay at the door Where to eat - all locations Summer Hours through Friday, Aug. 5 Residential Dining Hours Retail Dining Hours Join Our Team Looking for a job ON CAMPUS, with FLEXIBLE SCHEDULING and VALUABLE WORK EXPERIENCE? Apply online today! Search University of Cincinnati. Questions? Contact us at UCDiningServices@aramark.com. join our dining team! Eat Your Way Our dining center selections include made-to-order stir-fry or omelets, made-from-scratch pizza crusts and so much more. Some of the most popular options include traditional favorites like Chicken Tender Tuesday and Wing Wednesday. Each dining center offers vegan, gluten-free and allergy-sensitive options. And when time is in short supply, students have grab-and-go options across campus. In addition to upgrading food options, bubly™ sparkling water machines have been added to the dining centers. At CenterCourt more charging outlets have been added so students can recharge their devices while they eat. An on-campus dietitian offers special events each week in our dining centers to both educate students on healthy meal choices, as well as to add variety for meal plan holders. We serve nearly 2.5 million meals a year, and strive to support all taste preferences, schedules and budgets. Commitment to Quality and Safety The opportunity to deliver experiences that enrich and nourish lives is a privilege and responsibility that we work hard to meet every day. When possible, locally-sourced food items are used in the dining centers to ensure the freshest ingredients possible. Our dietitian works with students to make sure their special dietary needs can be met as well as to offer general education for meal plan holders. Our dining centers utilize LeanPath, an automated food waste tracking system that helps ensure food is being used efficiently and effectively. Part of the dining experience is good customer service. Ensuring food, environmental, and workplace safety is the responsibility of every team member. We empower and expect everyone in University Dining Services to serve with passion and take pride in ensuring safe food delivery and service environments. join our dining team! We Want to Hear From You Tell us about your dining experiences. Join the Food Feedback Committee to give your feedback directly to Food Services leadership. Give Feedback Food Services 513-556-6461 Marian Spencer Hall 2911 Scioto Lane Cincinnati, OH 45219 ucfood@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Food Services 513-556-6461 Marian Spencer Hall 2911 Scioto Lane Cincinnati, OH 45219 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top