Get Involved - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to Get Involved Submit Close Student Affairs and Enrollment Services Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Home Student Life Calendar Get Involved The Latest Updates on COVID-19 Your Gateway to Student Life The college experience is more than just going to class and studying. It’s the countless opportunities to Get Involved by meeting new people, connecting with your peers and discovering new interests and organizations. Look for the Get Involved logo to enhance your college experience with highly interactive, fun and engaging events! The Get Involved Portal Get Involved uses a web-based portal that allows students to explore organizations, programs and events, volunteerism, and leadership opportunities. Through the Get Involved portal, students can browse current organizations, register a new student group, receive involvement recommendations based on interests, and find campus-wide events, programs and activities. Browse Student Organizations 500+ Active Organizations 20,000+ Involved Users 45,000+ Approved Service Hours Departments and University Sponsored Organizations A.D. BRUCE RELIGION CENTER The A.D. Bruce Religion Center is the focal point for many on-campus religious and spiritual activities. It is a bustling center of many ongoing educational programs and activities focusing on religious issues with an emphasis on Interfaith Dialogue. The A.D. Bruce Religion Center offers a place for both quiet meditation and spiritual growth. CENTER FOR DIVERSITY & INCLUSION Engage, Empower, Educate are the three pillars that guide the department’s programs, initiatives, and leadership opportunities. The Center offers a safe/brave space for students to relax, study or connect with their peers around identity and diversity related topics. CDI also serves as a resource for the campus community by providing opportunities and resources that aid in developing global, culturally competent citizens. CENTER FOR FRATERNITY & SORORITY LIFE Fraternities and sororities have a long and important tradition as part of American higher education. Since their origins in the late 1700’s, fraternities and sororities have been organizations designed to enhance the personal, social, and moral development of college students while positively impacting their greater campus and local communities. Fraternity & sorority life serves as a premier leadership development experience designed to enhance the skills necessary to succeed as a UH student and UH alum. CENTER FOR STUDENT INVOLVEMENT With a student-centered perspective, the Center for Student Involvement is committed to providing positive co-curricular experiences for the University of Houston community through our leadership and civic engagement, all campus events and involvement opportunities through student organizations. Attend programs and traditions. Visit our student organization carrel space. Participate in a service event. Whatever you choose, find opportunities that lead you to learn, engage on campus and prepare you for success. CENTER FOR STUDENT MEDIA At the Center for Student Media, students are engaged in journalism, publishing, promotion, marketing, advertising, media production, graphic design, radio broadcasting, and media management. CSM provides students with a real-world laboratory to test and hone important skills, from critical thinking, planning and writing, to technical production skills. LGBTQ RESOURCE CENTER Positivity abides within. The LGBTQ Resource Center seeks to be a foundation of support for the LGBTQ community at the University of Houston. Our office offers space for you to express yourself and be uniquely you. We focus on building a culture of appreciation, inclusion and support within our diverse community of students. STUDENT CENTERS In celebration of our diverse campus community, the Student Centers (Student Center North, South and Satellite) enrich the campus life experience by providing quality programs, services and facilities focused on student involvement, student learning and student success. The Student Centers hosts large-scale events to keep students actively engaged in their campus community, and for those interested in utilizing meeting and event spaces, the Student Centers offers a wide array of rooms. ACTIVITIES FUNDING BOARD The Activities Funding Board (AFB) at the University of Houston is an agency of the Student Fee Advisory Committee (SFAC). Under the provisions of SFAC, AFB is a student run financial organization that allocates a portion of student service fees to “activities” funding for registered student organizations. THE COUGAR The Cougar is published every Wednesday during the fall and spring semesters and online daily. The Cougar is editorially independent and student-run within the Center for Student Media. COOGTV The mission of CoogTV is to provide its members with a production-based learning environment, through which members have the opportunity to engage in applied learning for video production, leadership, and portfolio building, all while creating content to benefit the student body of the University of Houston. COOG RADIO Coog Radio is an online radio station operated by students from the University of Houston. Coog Radio aims to not only provide a creative outlet for students to express themselves over the air, but also introduce them to the world of broadcasting. The shows we carefully select are representative of our diverse student body and range in musicality amongst different genres and themes. COUNCIL FOR CULTURAL ACTIVITIES The Council for Cultural Activities (CCA) has a mission to promote, advance, support, and increase the level of cultural awareness and ethnic diversity at the University of Houston. CCA is comprised of individuals and member organizations that represent the diverse student body and interests of the campus community. CCA welcomes all UH students, so come and get involved today! HOMECOMING Homecoming at the University of Houston is a tradition dating back to 1946. As student enrollment surged following World War II, Homecoming arose as one of many traditions that enlivened the campus. Around this time the football team joined the Lone Star Conference, the marching band was organized, the first bonfire was held, and Frontier Fiesta returned. As UH continues to move forward, the homecoming court, football game, and other festivities still welcome alumni back each fall. While traditions may have changed over the years, the Cougar spirit marches on. METROPOLITAN VOLUNTEER PROGRAM The Metropolitan Volunteer Program is student organization at the University of Houston that creates and provides service opportunities for students by collaborating with campus and community partners. Membership in the Metropolitan Volunteer Program is entirely free and open to the entire student body. Volunteering with MVP not only provides students with the opportunity to make a positive impact on our campus and community, but also to gain leadership skills, build relationships with fellow students, and gain experience in their field of interest. FRONTIER FIESTA Frontier Fiesta is a student-led spring festival that was established in 1939. It has since grown into a diverse showcase of the talents of the University of Houston’s student body. Each year students from various student organizations volunteer and assist the Frontier Fiesta Association in transforming a piece of our campus into a fully functional town called “Fiesta City”. STUDENT PROGRAM BOARD If you like concerts, movies, comedians, free events, and many other fun activities, then SPB is the place for you! The Student Program Board (SPB) at the University of Houston is a fee-funded student organization that exists to create programs that appeal to the student body by providing an array of diverse activities throughout the year. Twitter Facebook Instagram Tweets by @getinvolveduh OTeam students walking across Student Center Plaza photo gallery Two students laying on their back looking at a phone Center for Student Media DJ Student blowing bubbles Two students eating snow cones University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies