Skip to content Clemson University Clemson University Search Menu Close Sorry, your browser does not support inline SVG. Sorry, your browser does not support inline SVG. Apply Giving News Resources for Students Faculty & Staff Parents Alumni Clemson University Academics Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Academics Home Employment Opportunities Apply for Admission Colleges College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business College of Education College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences College of Science Graduate School Academic Resources Academic Calendar Registrar Division of Undergraduate Studies Center for Career and Professional Development Academic Success Center GRAD 360° Libraries Outside the Classroom PEER/WISE Call Me MISTER® Creative Inquiry and Undergraduate Research Cooperative Education University Professional Internship and Co-op Program (UPIC) Study Abroad Admissions Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Admissions Home Schedule a Tour Apply for Admission Applying to Clemson First-Year Undergraduate Transfer Undergraduate International Undergraduate Graduate Students Academic Opportunities Majors Graduate Programs Online Graduate Programs Scholar Programs Paths to Graduate School Honors College Experiential Learning Financial Aid Tuition and Fee Calculator Undergraduate Financial Aid Graduate Fellowships and Awards Residency Requirements Campus Life Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Campus Life Home Club Sports Brooks Center for the Performing Arts Join Your Clemson Family Finding Your Community Living-Learning Communities Student Veterans Multicultural Programs FIRST Army ROTC Air Force ROTC Services On Campus Housing & Dining Campus Recreation Parking and Transportation Student Health Services TigerOne Card Services Clemson Athletics Get Involved Clubs and Organizations Fraternity and Sorority Life Orientation Ambassadors Tiger Media Graduate Student Government Undergraduate Student Government Research Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Research Home Clemson University Research Foundation (CURF) Division of Research Research Opportunities Student Research at Clemson Creative Inquiry Research Facilities Postdoctoral Affairs Serving South Carolina Through Research School of Health Research Public Service and Agriculture Clemson Experimental Forest Clemson Extension Clemson Research and Education Centers Public Service and Agriculture Research Farm Services Innovation and Economic Development Corporate Partnerships and Strategic Initiatives Clemson University International Center for Automotive Research (CU-ICAR) Clemson University Restoration Institute (CURI) Clemson University Biomedical Engineering Innovation Campus (CUBEInC) Center for Human Genetics Innovation Campus and Technology Park About Clemson Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back About Clemson Home Clemson News Clemson Athletics For Tigers Applying to Clemson Working at Clemson Traditions Military Heritage Things To Do in Clemson Visit Clemson Campus Resources Employment Opportunities Home and Garden Information Center Brand Guidelines CCIT Academic Calendar Training ClemsonForward Campus Leadership Board of Trustees President Academic Affairs and Provost Inclusion and Equity Student Affairs Faculty Senate Staff Senate Search Resources for Current Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Public Health Sciences Degrees Forward Arrow Degrees Undergraduate Degrees & Certificates Forward Arrow Undergraduate Degrees & Certificates Health Sciences, B.S. Undergraduate Public Health Certificate Back Arrow Back Graduate Degrees & Certificates Forward Arrow Graduate Degrees & Certificates Applied Health Research & Evaluation, M.S. Accelerated B.S. to M.S. Degree Program Graduate Certificate in Clinical and Translational Research Applied Health Research & Evaluation, Ph.D. Back Arrow Back Collaborative Degrees Forward Arrow Collaborative Degrees Language and International Health, B.S. Biomedical Data Science & Informatics, M.S. / Ph.D. Back Arrow Back Back Arrow Back Research Students Alumni & Friends Apply Giving News Sikes Hall Icon Main Menu Forward Arrow Icon Back Arrow Icon Back Clemson University Academics Academics Home Employment Opportunities Apply for Admission Colleges College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business College of Education College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences College of Science Graduate School Academic Resources Academic Calendar Registrar Division of Undergraduate Studies Center for Career and Professional Development Academic Success Center GRAD 360° Libraries Outside the Classroom PEER/WISE Call Me MISTER® Creative Inquiry and Undergraduate Research Cooperative Education University Professional Internship and Co-op Program (UPIC) Study Abroad Admissions Admissions Home Schedule a Tour Apply for Admission Applying to Clemson First-Year Undergraduate Transfer Undergraduate International Undergraduate Graduate Students Academic Opportunities Majors Graduate Programs Online Graduate Programs Scholar Programs Paths to Graduate School Honors College Experiential Learning Financial Aid Tuition and Fee Calculator Undergraduate Financial Aid Graduate Fellowships and Awards Residency Requirements Campus Life Campus Life Home Club Sports Brooks Center for the Performing Arts Join Your Clemson Family Finding Your Community Living-Learning Communities Student Veterans Multicultural Programs FIRST Army ROTC Air Force ROTC Services On Campus Housing & Dining Campus Recreation Parking and Transportation Student Health Services TigerOne Card Services Clemson Athletics Get Involved Clubs and Organizations Fraternity and Sorority Life Orientation Ambassadors Tiger Media Graduate Student Government Undergraduate Student Government Research Research Home Clemson University Research Foundation (CURF) Division of Research Research Opportunities Student Research at Clemson Creative Inquiry Research Facilities Postdoctoral Affairs Serving South Carolina Through Research School of Health Research Public Service and Agriculture Clemson Experimental Forest Clemson Extension Clemson Research and Education Centers Public Service and Agriculture Research Farm Services Innovation and Economic Development Corporate Partnerships and Strategic Initiatives Clemson University International Center for Automotive Research (CU-ICAR) Clemson University Restoration Institute (CURI) Clemson University Biomedical Engineering Innovation Campus (CUBEInC) Center for Human Genetics Innovation Campus and Technology Park About Clemson About Clemson Home Clemson News Clemson Athletics For Tigers Applying to Clemson Working at Clemson Traditions Military Heritage Things To Do in Clemson Visit Clemson Campus Resources Employment Opportunities Home and Garden Information Center Brand Guidelines CCIT Academic Calendar Training ClemsonForward Campus Leadership Board of Trustees President Academic Affairs and Provost Inclusion and Equity Student Affairs Faculty Senate Staff Senate Search close Department of Public Health Sciences The Clemson University Department of Public Health Sciences seeks to improve health service delivery, public health practice, and the health status of the University community, the citizens of the state of South Carolina, the nation, and across the globe through the integration of our research, teaching and service. Degrees show submenu for Degrees Undergraduate Degrees & Certificates show submenu for Undergraduate Degrees & Certificates Health Sciences, B.S. Undergraduate Public Health Certificate Graduate Degrees & Certificates show submenu for Graduate Degrees & Certificates Applied Health Research & Evaluation, M.S. Accelerated B.S. to M.S. Degree Program Graduate Certificate in Clinical and Translational Research Applied Health Research & Evaluation, Ph.D. Collaborative Degrees show submenu for Collaborative Degrees Language and International Health, B.S. Biomedical Data Science & Informatics, M.S. / Ph.D. Research Students Alumni & Friends Clemson Home College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Academics Current: Public Health Sciences Majoring In Public Health Science Public Health Scientists address real world issues related to protecting and advancing population health. Students in our major develop skills to identify and mitigate disease outbreak; improve healthcare delivery; expand health access and equity; design and deliver interventions and health education programs; and conduct valuable research to inform policymakers and clinicians of evidence-based strategies that advance public health and wellness. Graduates of our program find employment in a variety of fields: epidemiology, medicine, government, public safety, health administration, non-profit organizations and industry. If you are looking for an exciting career in one of the fastest growing industries in America, the Public Health Science major is right for you. About the Department of Public Health Sciences The Department of Health Science was founded in 1991, with its first students graduating in May 1994. Renamed in 1998, the Department of Public Health Sciences has been recognized by the Association of Prevention Training and Research and the Association of American Colleges & Universities as one of 15 exemplary undergraduate programs in public health. In 2017, it became one of the first stand-alone undergraduate public health programs to be accredited by the Council for Education in Public Health (CEPH). Since its inception, the Department of Public Health Sciences has provided undergraduate training in the health sciences with an emphasis on health promotion and pre-professional preparation. The undergraduate curriculum consists of a foundational set of core public health courses and three unique concentration areas that provide scholars with a thorough understanding of the theories, values, knowledge, and practices used in the health sciences. With the introduction of two unique graduate programs in 2014, the Department of Public Health Sciences has enhanced its national reputation and produced highly qualified health research experts who now serve at some of the most prestigious institutions across the nation. As a public, land-grant institution, Clemson’s mission goes beyond simply serving as an institute of higher education. Its mission is to benefit the public good. The Department of Public Health Sciences is committed to education, community involvement, and reciprocal research that improves the quality of life and economic prosperity in the state and beyond. We believe diversity, equity, and inclusion enrich the academic experience of our students, faculty, and staff, and prepare us to thrive in a global society. Thus, we are firmly committed to an environment that respects all members of our community. We will work to eliminate barriers that any members of our community experience. We accept personal and professional responsibility to eliminate bias and oppression wherever they are found. We understand our obligation to speak up when we see bias, whether in our teaching, study, or everyday life. Our self study report CEPH’s final accreditation report Changing Majors To Public Health Science Are you interested in changing your major to Health Science? You must be a current Clemson student to qualify to apply for change of major to Health Science. Prospective transfers (students enrolled at another institution) or freshmen (students in high school) will apply directly to Health Science as part of the Clemson Admissions process. Read about the competitive application process which occurs each fall semester in the Health Science Change of Major FAQs The application will open on the first day of classes in the fall term and close on the last day of classes in the fall term. (NOTE: this is the last day of classes, not the last day of exams.) Click here to apply. Questions? Email Allysa Sutton at allysas@clemson.edu. Faculty and Staff Directory Name Title Phone/Email Baxter, Samuel Post-Doctoral Fellow (864) 656-7390 baxter@clemson.edu Cartmell, Kathleen Associate Professor 864 656-2719 kcartme@clemson.edu Clinkscales, Amelia Director of Undergraduate Programs ABCLINK@clemson.edu Coffey Moses, Rebecca Graduate Student Services Coordinator 864-656-5502 COFFEY2@clemson.edu Crandall, Lee Alden Emeritus Faculty, former Department Chair 864-656-3082 LAC@clemson.edu Dye, Cheryl Emeritus Faculty 864-656-4442 TCHERYL@clemson.edu Evatt, Janet Program Manager 864-656-0779 jevatt@clemson.edu Falta, Deborah Alma Senior Lecturer 864-656-1627 FALTAD@clemson.edu Floyd, Sarah Assistant Professor (864) 656-5865 sbf@clemson.edu Gimbel, Ron Professor & Director, Clemson Rural Health 864-656-1969 rgimbel@clemson.edu Griffin, Sarah Professor, Department Chair 864-656-1622 SGRIFFI@clemson.edu Heavner, Smith Lecturer 864-688-9442 sheavne@clemson.edu Heo, Moonseong Professor 864-455-1132 MHEO@clemson.edu Jing, Xia Assistant Professor 864-656-3347 xjing@clemson.edu Kalbaugh, Corey Assistant Professor 864-656-6694 coreyk@clemson.edu Kemper, Karen Associate Professor, Graduate Program Director 864-656-5490 KKAREN@clemson.edu Kingree, Jeffery (Kip) Emeritus Faculty 864-656-3990 kingree@clemson.edu Long, John Emeritus Faculty JTL3@clemson.edu Mayo, Rachel Professor, Associate Dean of Research and Graduate 864-656-6741 RMAYO@clemson.edu Meyer, Kathleen M Senior Lecturer 864-656-1898 KATHM@clemson.edu Neuse, Hannah Administrative Assistant 864-656-9866 hneuse@clemson.edu Porter , Katherine Administrative Coord I (864) 656-5865 khmarx@clemson.edu Rennert, Lior Assistant Professor LIORR@clemson.edu Sherrill, Windsor Provost Distinguished Professor, Associate Vice President for Health Research 864-656-0263 wsherri@clemson.edu Sherry, Julia Lecturer, Language and International Health Internship Coordinator (864) 656-3783 jsherry@clemson.edu Shi, Lu Associate Professor 864-656-0495 LUS@clemson.edu Spitler, Hugh D Emeritus Faculty 864-656-7434 HSPITLE@clemson.edu Staton, Tanya Lecturer 864-656-3841 TLHALL@clemson.edu Truong, Khoa Dang Associate Professor 864-656-4704 KTRUONG@clemson.edu Tugman, Becky Lecturer BTUGMAN@clemson.edu Welsh, Ralph Stewart Senior Lecturer 864-656-7158 RALPHW@clemson.edu Williams, Joel Associate Professor 864-656-1017 JOEL2@clemson.edu Wingold, Mary CVT Educator MWINGOL@clemson.edu Zhang, Lu Assistant Professor (864) -6563082 lz3@clemson.edu Emeritus Faculty Lee Crandall, Ph.D. Gerald Costello, Ed.D. Kip Kingree, Ph.D. Cheryl Dye, Ph.D. Hugh Spitler, Ph.D. Adjunct Faculty Graham Adams, Ph.D. Alexander V. Alekseyenko, Ph.D. Patricia Carbajales-Dale Debra Mitchell Charles, M.A. John David DesJardins, Ph.D. Brent M. Egan, M.D. Tracy Fasolino Regina Franco, M.S.N., ANP-C. Lewis Frey, Ph.D. Vincent S. Gallicchio, Ph.D., M.L.S, C.M. Jack Ginsberg, Ph.D. William Hinnant, Jr., MD, J.D. Matthew Hudson, Ph.D. Anjali Joseph, Ph.D., EDAC Ronda Keller, M.Ed, RT, RDMS, RVT J. Thornton Kirby, J.D. Bruce Lessey, MD, Ph.D. Jim McCubbin, Ph.D. Cathy L. Melvin, Ph.D., MPH Stephane Meystre, MD, PhD, FACMI George P.A. Newby, Jr., Dr.PH, FACHE Jihad Obeid, M.D. Jason Osbourne, Ph.D., Pstat Sara Wagner Robb, Ph.D. Katherine R Sterba Ph.D. Hui-Lin Tsai, M.D. Irene Pericot Valverde, Ph.D. John E. Vena, Ph.D. Peggy J. Wagner, Ph.D. Kuang-Ching (KC) Wang, Ph.D. Cuilin Zhang, M.D., Ph. D., M.P.H. Contacts Administration Interim Department Chair Sarah F. Griffin, PhD, MPH Professor | Interim Department Chair 534 Edwards Hall Department of Public Health Sciences Clemson, SC 29634-0745 (864) 656-1622 sgriffi@clemson.edu Administrative Assistant Hannah Neuse Administrative Assistant 505 Edwards Hall Department of Public Health Sciences (864) 656-9866 hneuse@clemson.edu Undergraduate Programs Undergraduate Program Director Amelia Clinkscales, MPH Senior Lecturer 414 Edwards Hall Department of Public Health Sciences Clemson, SC 29634-0745 (864) 656-2795 abclink@clemson.edu Undergraduate Academic Advising Allysa Sutton 309 Edwards Hall Academic Advising Center Clemson, SC 29634-0745 864-656-1503 kristig@clemson.edu Internship Coordinators Health Sciences Internship Coordinator Kathleen Meyer Senior Lecturer 531 Edwards Hall Clemson University Department of Public Health Sciences Clemson, SC 29634-0745 (864) 656-1898 kathm@clemson.edu Language & International Health Internship Coordinator Julia Sherry Lecturer 4 Edwards Hall Department of Public Health Sciences Clemson, SC 29634-0745 (864) 656-3783 jsherry@clemson.edu Graduate Programs Graduate Program Director Karen Kemper, Ph.D. Associate Professor 533 Edwards Hall Department of Public Health Sciences Clemson, SC 29634-0745 (864) 656-5490 kkaren@clemson.edu Graduate Student Services Coordinator Rebecca Moses, MS 532 Edwards Hall Clemson University Department of Public Health Sciences Clemson, SC 29634-0745 (864) 656-5502 coffey2@clemson.edu DEGREES Undergraduate Degrees and Certificates Graduate Degrees and Certificates Collaborative Degree Programs PHS News Department of Public Health Sciences Copyright © Clemson University Department of Public Health Sciences | 503 Edwards Hall 864-656-5865 | Email Us | Website Updates intro-arrow Clemson University Facebook Instagram Twitter Linkedin Youtube Tiktok Policy/Terms of Use Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Copyright © 2022 Clemson University • Clemson, South Carolina 29634 Clemson University Facebook Instagram Twitter Linkedin Youtube Tiktok Resources A-Z Index Campus Map CU Safety Directory Webcams Apply to Clemson