Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Interdisciplinary German Studies Major You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Interdisciplinary German Studies Major Apply Request More Info Interdisciplinary German Studies Major Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Bachelor of Arts in Interdisciplinary German Studies Develop solid German language proficiency with the Bachelor of Arts in Interdisciplinary German Studies in Temple University’s College of Liberal Arts. This 123-credit undergraduate degree integrates an innovative curriculum with renowned faculty and firsthand learning experiences so students develop broad intellectual and interpersonal skills applicable across multiple fields and in the international workforce. Although language acquisition remains of vital importance in the Interdisciplinary German Studies Major, the study of German culture is emphasized. The flexible degree program includes introductory and intermediate-level German, and it allows up to two elective courses in German culture and history, offered outside the department. German is a major world language, spoken in Germany, Austria, Switzerland and in sections of other countries, as well as communities throughout the world. Through a curriculum that emphasizes cultural, linguistic and practical experiences, you’ll develop competence in reading, writing and oral communication as you study the language through art, culture, media and literature. Advanced coursework explores culture and history as they shape German identities, providing students with an understanding of current German-speaking communities through the analytical investigation of cinema, history and literature, among others. Graduates have an in-depth understanding of and can engage with German-speaking people and countries in a globalized world, with an awareness of how language shapes culture. You'll gain the necessary skills to use German when communicating with friends, engaging in business with German partners, working in government or the media, or participating in German culture. Classes & Curriculum Courses you are likely to take as part of the Interdisciplinary German Studies BA curriculum include Analytical Reading and Writing, Composition I, Intellectual Heritage I: The Good Life, Intellectual Heritage II: The Common Good, and Introduction to German III. Students must also take two elective courses in which German is the language of instruction. Learn more about Interdisciplinary German Studies Major courses. Related Graduate Degrees History MA Liberal Arts MLA Business Administration MBA* Business Administration PhD* *Fox School of Business Certificate Programs The College of Liberal Arts has 22 undergraduate certificate programs for you to expand your knowledge and diversify your Temple education. Certificates can complement bachelor's programs, allowing you to specialize in an area and highlight your exposure to disciplines outside of your major. Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, the Bachelor of Arts offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. Learn more about our tuition and fees. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $16,488.00 per year Out-of-state: $29,712.00 per year Our Academic Advisors College of Liberal Arts academic advisors help you navigate your curriculum and potential career paths throughout your time at Temple. Patricia Melzer is the faculty advisor in the German Department. Phone: 215-204-7752 Email: pmelzer@temple.edu Joyce K. Salzberg Center for Professional Development Dedicated advisors at the Joyce K. Salzberg Center for Professional Development in the College of Liberal Arts are available to guide students through their academic careers and with their career paths beyond Temple. They can help you choose a major, navigate your curriculum, identify internship opportunities, explore career opportunities and determine your post-graduation plans. Learn more about the center. Program Contact For questions regarding the Interdisciplinary German Studies Major, contact the following staff member. Michelle Xu is an administrator in the German Department. Phone: 215-204-5628 Email: xu.michelle@temple.edu The following staff members lead the German Department. Cristina Gragnani is the chair of the German Department. Phone: 215-204-1816 Email: gragnani@temple.edu Stephanie Smith is the coordinator in the German Department. Phone: 215-204-1261 Email: ssmith14@temple.edu Honors Program The College of Liberal Arts participates in Temple’s Honors Program. Learn more about the program and how to be admitted. Students who meet certain academic and extracurricular criteria may become members of the following honor societies. Alpha Lambda Delta is a national society that honors academic excellence during a student's first year at college. Golden Key is an international society that enables members to realize their potential through the advancement of academics, leadership and service. Phi Beta Kappa is open to juniors and seniors in the College of Liberal Arts. To qualify for Phi Beta Kappa, a student must maintain a high grade point average in a broad, rigorous program of study in the liberal arts, including mathematics and foreign languages. Learn more about Temple’s Honor Societies. Student Clubs & Organizations Supplement your College of Liberal Arts coursework and enhance your undergraduate experience at Temple through student clubs and organizations. You’ll have opportunities to meet and network with other students, get involved with the community, grow your interests, and develop résumé-boosting skills and experiences. The following clubs and organizations are available to Interdisciplinary German Studies BA students. The Temple University German Society’s members meet for German-related activities beyond the classroom. Events include movie nights, visits to traditional German restaurants, hosting German students, speakers, parades and a variety of other German culture-focused programs. Members also offer conversation practice, peer tutoring and study help to further learning and interest. German Delta Phi Alpha, which was established in 1948, is the National German Honor Society. It recognizes excellence in German studies; emphasizes German civilization, culture and life; and provides an incentive for higher scholarship. Learn more about Temple’s student clubs and organizations. Study Away Students declaring a major or minor in German are strongly encouraged to study abroad. Options include semester or yearlong exchange programs at the University of Hamburg and the University of Tübingen, as well as the summer-intensive German program in Leipzig. Credits earned in these programs can count toward the German Major or Minor and in partial satisfaction of the International Studies requirement. The Summer Intensive German Program in Leipzig comprises an orientation that familiarizes students with the university and the city, as well as an excursion to Dresden. Three weeks are devoted to intensive language study and excursions outside of the city. Students take placement tests upon arrival and are subsequently enrolled in the appropriate level of German. The four-week Herder Institut InterDaf at the University of Leipzig program, located in the German state of Saxony, is an intensive German-language study on a level commensurate with a student’s current skills. Students also participate in tours and overnight excursions. The Study Abroad in Berlin program is a six-week program in the Freie Universitat Berlin: International Summer and Winter University (FUBiS). German-language skills are not required as all courses are taught in English. Students take one course with a faculty member from Temple and choose a second course from classes offered at FUBiS. Students can earn six credits at Temple University through this program. Learn more about your options for studying away. Accreditation Temple University’s departments and programs are accredited by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education. LA-IGS-BA Additional Program Information Available as a minor. Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Interdisciplinary German Studies Major Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info