Skip to main content Main navigation Mobile Educational Programs Master’s Programs Executive Education Doctoral Programs Public Leadership Credential Courses Academic Calendars & Policies Admissions & Aid Master's Program Admissions Executive Education Admissions Doctoral Program Admissions Funding Your Education Faculty & Research Faculty Profiles Publications Policy Topics PolicyCast Library & Knowledge Services Centers & Initiatives Ash Center for Democratic Governance and Innovation Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs Carr Center for Human Rights Policy Center for International Development Center for Public Leadership Institute of Politics Malcolm Wiener Center for Social Policy Mossavar-Rahmani Center for Business and Government Shorenstein Center on Media, Politics and Public Policy Taubman Center for State and Local Government Women and Public Policy Program All Initiatives Alumni Connect Volunteer Give Back Benefits Events About More COVID-19: Keep HKS Healthy Commencement About News & Announcements Events Student Life Directory Employers HKS Magazine Contact Us Search Search Main navigation Educational Programs Master’s Programs Executive Education Doctoral Programs Public Leadership Credential Courses Academic Calendars & Policies Admissions & Aid Master's Program Admissions Executive Education Admissions Doctoral Program Admissions Funding Your Education Faculty & Research Faculty Profiles Publications Policy Topics PolicyCast Library & Knowledge Services Centers & Initiatives Ash Center for Democratic Governance and Innovation Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs Carr Center for Human Rights Policy Center for International Development Center for Public Leadership Institute of Politics Malcolm Wiener Center for Social Policy Mossavar-Rahmani Center for Business and Government Shorenstein Center on Media, Politics and Public Policy Taubman Center for State and Local Government Women and Public Policy Program All Initiatives Alumni Connect Volunteer Give Back Benefits Events About More COVID-19: Keep HKS Healthy Commencement About News & Announcements Events Student Life Directory Employers HKS Magazine Contact Us Search Search Collections In This Section Faculty & Research Library & Knowledge Services Collections Faculty Publications and Papers Diversity, Inclusion & Belonging Behind The Book Political Buttons Web Archive In This Section You are here Home Faculty & Research Library & Knowledge Services Collections The collections of Library & Knowledge Services (LKS) support the mission of the School. Through expert curation and innovative collaborations, LKS’ collections enable and disseminate the scholarly contributions of the HKS community. LKS works closely with our community to build, improve, and create our collections. Guiding Principles Support: LKS will strive to meet the research and curriculum needs of HKS through communication and partnerships with faculty, students, fellows, and staff. Inclusion: LKS will work to foster inclusion among members of the community and actively engage in conversations to provide resources that meet the community’s continually changing and diverse needs. Adaptability: LKS will maintain awareness of the current and upcoming subject interests of HKS and be flexible and creative about providing access to materials in a variety of formats. Donations LKS accepts donations of digital and physical items to our collection on a limited basis when they are compatible with the Library's collecting philosophy and enhance or complete its selection effort. LKS reserves the right to limit such gifts to those which are substantially beneficial and are cost-effective to receive, catalog, process, maintain, and preserve. LKS assumes ownership of all donations and reserves the right to add donated materials to its collections or discard them as appropriate. Contact LKS with your donation-related inquiries. Due to the interdisciplinary nature of the work and the diversity of the community at HKS, LKS collects in a broad range of relevant subjects. These include but are not exclusive to HKS Policy Topics. Browse our general collection of books, journals, and databases, and explore our collection highlights below. Members of the HKS community can visit our Knet site for details on how to access collection materials. Browse Books Browse Journals Browse Databases Diversity, Inclusion, & Belonging The DIB Collection comprises books, films, and other resources that foster communication and discussion on diversity, inclusion, and belonging at HKS, and that represent and celebrate the multitude of identities and backgrounds that make up our vibrant community. Explore the Collection Political Buttons The Political Buttons at HKS Collection includes over 1,500 political buttons from the 20th and 21st centuries, representing U.S. political campaigns at every level, ballot initiatives, social issues and movements, and political demonstrations. Explore the Collection Behind the Book Behind the Book is a video series that gives viewers a behind-the-scenes look into the research and insights showcased in books authored by HKS faculty. Explore the Collection Faculty Publications HKS faculty disseminate their research in working papers and publications that contribute to public knowledge and fuel policy innovation. This list features recent faculty publications, including journal articles, books, edited volumes, research papers, and public testimony. Explore the Collection Student Publications HKS' student-run journals and student newspaper showcase student research, experience, and opinions on a variety of policy areas, including human rights, African-American public policy, LGBTQ policy, and more. Explore the Collection Web Archive Since 2017, LKS has used Archive-It to preserve the school's web content, including its centers and initiatives, the HKS magazine, and student publications. Explore the Collection Keely Wilczek, Manager of Collections & Library Services 617-495-1305 Keely has almost thirty years of experience in libraries, academic and public, including more than a decade at HKS. She oversees all aspects of LKS' collections, both print and digital, and is the point of contact for use of library spaces. For research help, her subject specialties include campaigns and elections, news resources, and the citation tool Zotero, but can give any topic a try. Keely collaborates closely with HKS IT, Harvard Library, and library staff at Harvard's other professional schools to provide patrons with expertise, services, and resources across the university and beyond. She has an AB in Classics from Kenyon College and a MLIS from the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. 79 John F. Kennedy Street Cambridge, MA 02138 617-495-1100 Ask What You Can Do Master’s Programs Executive Education Doctoral Programs Public Leadership Credential Admissions Events Give Now Alumni Jobs Contact Us Privacy Web Accessibility Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College. https://www.facebook.com/harvardkennedyschool/ https://twitter.com/kennedy_school https://www.linkedin.com/school/harvard-kennedy-school-of-government/ https://www.youtube.com/user/HarvardKennedySchool http://instagram.com/harvardkennedyschool/