Skip to main content Navigation Academics Admissions Research Locations Student Life Alumni & Giving Athletics Apply Now Engineering Management (MS) Request Info Program at a Glance Program Master College(s) College of Engineering and Computer Science Department(s) Industrial Engr & Mgmt Sys The Master of Science in Engineering Management degree in Industrial Engineering focuses on effective decision-making in engineering and technological organizations. The degree is offered on campus and can be taken entirely through the Florida Engineering Educational Delivery System (FEEDS), which provides video-streamed versions of classes over the internet. This program can be taken entirely through the Florida Engineering Educational Delivery System (FEEDS), which provides video-streamed versions of classes over the Internet. The Engineering Management MSEM degree requires an undergraduate degree in Engineering or a closely related discipline. Students with undergraduate degrees outside of industrial engineering may be required to take additional prerequisites. An approved program of study must be developed in consultation with the graduate program director. The total number of hours is 30 credit hours. Total Credit Hours Required: 30 Credit Hours Minimum beyond the Bachelor's Degree This program has potential ties to professional licensure or certification in the field. For more information on how this program may prepare you in that regard, please visit https://apq.ucf.edu/files/Licensure-Disclosure-CECS-Engineering-Management-MS.pdf. Please note: Engineering Management (MS) may be completed fully online, although not all elective options or program prerequisites may be offered online. Newly admitted students choosing to complete this program exclusively via UCF online classes may enroll with a reduction in campus-based fees. International students (F or J visa) are required to enroll in a full-time course load of 9 credit hours during the fall and spring semesters. Only 3 of the 9 credit hours may be taken in a completely online format. For a detailed listing of enrollment requirements for international students, please visit http://global.ucf.edu/. If you have questions, please consult UCF Global at (407) 823-2337. UCF is not authorized to provide online courses or instruction to students in some states. Refer to State Restrictions for current information. Request Information View Full Description Program Tracks/Options Professional Project & Systems Engineering PP&SE Professional Engineering Management-PSM Application Deadlines Domestic International Spring December 1 Fall July 1 Spring July 1 Fall January 15 Ready to get started? Apply Today Career Opportunities UCF prepares you for life beyond the classroom. Here, you’ll experience a wide range of opportunity, like learning diverse skills from world-renowned faculty to networking with top employers across Central Florida to gaining first-hand experience in internships nearby. Achieve your degree and more as a Knight. Efficiency Engineer Electrical Engineering Director Engineering Design Manager Engineering Manager Engineering Research Manager Global Engineering Manager Industrial Engineering Technician Manufacturing Director Manufacturing Engineer Mechanical Engineering Director Motion Study Technician Packaging Engineer Plant Chief Plant Superintendent Process Engineering Manager Production Control Manager Production Control Technologist Production Engineer Time Study Technician Time Study Technologist Show More Career Opportunities Degree Search College of Engineering and Computer Science programs Masters Engineering Management (MS) University of Central Florida Colleges Burnett Honors Arts and Humanities Business Community Innovation and Education Graduate Studies Health Professions and Sciences Medicine Nursing Optics and Photonics Sciences Undergraduate Studies Hospitality Management Request Information × Enter your information below to receive more information about the Engineering Management (MS) program offered at UCF. Loading... × The Master of Science in Engineering Management degree in Industrial Engineering focuses on effective decision-making in engineering and technological organizations. The degree is offered on campus and can be taken entirely through the Florida Engineering Educational Delivery System (FEEDS), which provides video-streamed versions of classes over the internet. This program can be taken entirely through the Florida Engineering Educational Delivery System (FEEDS), which provides video-streamed versions of classes over the Internet. The Engineering Management MSEM degree requires an undergraduate degree in Engineering or a closely related discipline. Students with undergraduate degrees outside of industrial engineering may be required to take additional prerequisites. An approved program of study must be developed in consultation with the graduate program director. The total number of hours is 30 credit hours. Total Credit Hours Required: 30 Credit Hours Minimum beyond the Bachelor's Degree This program has potential ties to professional licensure or certification in the field. For more information on how this program may prepare you in that regard, please visit https://apq.ucf.edu/files/Licensure-Disclosure-CECS-Engineering-Management-MS.pdf. Please note: Engineering Management (MS) may be completed fully online, although not all elective options or program prerequisites may be offered online. Newly admitted students choosing to complete this program exclusively via UCF online classes may enroll with a reduction in campus-based fees. International students (F or J visa) are required to enroll in a full-time course load of 9 credit hours during the fall and spring semesters. Only 3 of the 9 credit hours may be taken in a completely online format. For a detailed listing of enrollment requirements for international students, please visit http://global.ucf.edu/. If you have questions, please consult UCF Global at (407) 823-2337. UCF is not authorized to provide online courses or instruction to students in some states. Refer to State Restrictions for current information. Program Prerequisites Prerequisites Mathematics through Calculus II (MAP 2312) Degree Requirements Required Courses 9 Total Credits Complete the following: EIN5140 - Project Engineering (3) ESI6551 - Systems Engineering (3) EIN6357 - Advanced Engineering Economic Analysis (3) Concentration Courses 9 Total Credits Complete the following: EIN5108 - The Environment of Technical Organizations (3) EIN6370 - Innovation in Engineering Design (3) EIN6182 - Engineering Management (3) Thesis/Nonthesis Option 12 Total Credits Complete 1 of the following Thesis Option Earn at least 12 credits from the following types of courses: EIN 6971 - Thesis - 6 Credit Hours Additional Elective Coursework - 6 Credit Hours Thesis students must complete an independent research project and then write and successfully defend their thesis. Furthermore, an additional 6 credit hours of electives are required beyond the 18 credit hours of required courses described above. Nonthesis Option Complete all of the following Earn at least 9 credits from the following types of courses: Additional Elective Coursework - 9 Credit Hours Nonthesis students must take 9 additional credit hours of electives beyond the 21 credit hours of required courses described above. Complete the following: EIN6950 - Industrial and Systems Engineering Capstone (3) The nonthesis option requires a capstone course. The capstone course should be completed toward the end of the student's graduate plan of study. As part of the requirements of this courses, the student will complete an independent capstone project on a topic relevant to the industrial and systems engineering field and approved by the instructor. Students are expected t use and leverage knowledge obtained in the program to complete the project. This course serves as the culminating experience for students and shows their engagement in independent learning. Grand Total Credits: 30 Application Requirements For information on general UCF graduate admissions requirements that apply to all prospective students, please visit the Admissions section of the Graduate Catalog. Applicants must apply online. All requested materials must be submitted by the established deadline. In addition to the general UCF graduate application requirements, applicants to this program must provide: One official transcript (in a sealed envelope) from each college/university attended The GRE is not required for admission to this program. Résumé or Curriculum Vita Goal statement The goal statement should discuss all relevant professional background and any previous research and/or teaching experience. The statement should explain the motivation behind the pursuit of a Master's degree in Industrial Engineering. Future educational and career goals after the completion of the applicant's master study should be discussed. If the applicant is interested in completing a Master thesis, then the applicant must clearly describe the particular area of research interest. The applicant should identify at least one UCF faculty member who shares a similar research focus and is believed to be best suited to serve as a potential thesis advisor. The goal statement should between 500 and 1,000 words. Two letters of recommendation The letters of recommendation should be from faculty members, university administrators, and employers with a supervisory role of the applicant. The letters, which must be current to the application and must not be for another degree program, should address the educational and career goals of the applicant. The letter writers should also know the applicant well enough to discuss the applicant's capacity to perform, excel and succeed in a graduate program. Letters for Master's thesis students must discuss the applicant's ability to perform graduate-level research. Applicants applying to this program who have attended a college/university outside the United States must provide a course-by-course credential evaluation with GPA calculation. Credential evaluations are accepted from World Education Services (WES) or Josef Silny and Associates, Inc. only. Application Deadlines Engineering Management MS *Fall Priority Fall Spring Summer Domestic Applicants Jan 15 Jul 1 Dec 1 International Applicants Jan 15 Jan 15 Jul 1 *Applicants who plan to enroll full time in a degree program and who wish to be considered for university fellowships or assistantships should apply by the Fall Priority date. Financial Information Graduate students may receive financial assistance through fellowships, assistantships, tuition support, or loans. For more information, see the College of Graduate Studies Funding website, which describes the types of financial assistance available at UCF and provides general guidance in planning your graduate finances. The Financial Information section of the Graduate Catalog is another key resource. Fellowship Information Fellowships are awarded based on academic merit to highly qualified students. They are paid to students through the Office of Student Financial Assistance, based on instructions provided by the College of Graduate Studies. Fellowships are given to support a student's graduate study and do not have a work obligation. For more information, see UCF Graduate Fellowships, which includes descriptions of university fellowships and what you should do to be considered for a fellowship. University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida