Skip to main content SMU Explore SMU Academics Student Affairs About News Events Calendar SMU Research Bush Center Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Apply to SMUGIVE NOW Undergraduate Admission Apply Visit Financial Aid Menu Search Campus Life SMU and Dallas Research Research SMU and Dallas Arts Business Popular Dallas Locations Research Vision We’re driven to think big to do a world of good. Here you can: Work with faculty mentors to solve problems Create solutions that make an impact on society Develop skills that you can take anywhere as you take on challenges close to home “SMU was the school for me because I wanted a personalized experience in college, where my professors would know me and care about where I want to go in life.” Roxana earned bachelor’s degrees in biology and health and society. As a pre-health student, she worked in SMU’s Vogel-Wise Lab as a researcher finding ways to help cancer patients who don’t respond to chemotherapy. Her work in the lab allowed her to participate in important research, develop her own project and create meaningful connections with professors. Currently, Roxana is a research assistant at UT Southwestern Medical Center in Dallas, and a M.D./M.P.H. candidate at Texas A&M College of Medicine. Engaged Learning Change Dallas and the world through special projects in research, civic engagement, creative work and internships in this distinctive SMU program. Pair up with a faculty mentor and work with a community organization that needs your ideas. Learn more Creating Bionic Solutions Meet Ophelie She wanted to help people with mobility issues walk more naturally by creating a better human-machine relationship. Under the guidance of Professor Dario Villarreal, Ophelie Herve ’18, ’20 and other students worked with a robotic exoskeleton to adapt technology to the natural rhythm of walking. Her research began as an undergraduate designing portable sensors to measure how people walk in the real world. As a graduate student, Ophelie studied how amputees and stroke victims might use their functioning muscles to help control their prosthetic legs. “It’s unusual to start research in a lab setting as an undergraduate and continue the same work through a master’s program. That’s a real opportunity.” Ophelie earned bachelor’s and master’s degrees in mechanical engineering. Now she’s working on a Ph.D. at UCLA’s Henry Samueli School of Engineering and Applied Science. Working for Justice Meet Greg Through SMU’s Engaged Learning Program, Greg Guggenmos ’18, ’19 launched his nonprofit Community Bail Fund of North Texas to help free poor defendants charged with nonviolent, misdemeanor crimes as they await trial. While a graduate student, Greg developed a plan for pretrial reform in the Oak Cliff and West Dallas areas of Big D to address injustice and biases. He earned a bachelor’s degree in statistical science and a master’s degree in applied statistics and data analytics. He continues to provide statistical consultation services and technology support at the SMU Dedman School of Law Deason Criminal Justice Reform Center. Serve in Dallas Walk to Raise Funds Join a team in Relay for Life, a community walk that has raised billions worldwide to fight cancer. relayforlife.org Talk Trash Help clean the shoreline of Dallas’ iconic White Rock Lake, near SMU. whiterocklake.org Say No to Hunger Sort and pack food for the thousands of North Texans served by the North Texas Food Bank. ntfb.org Help Animals in Need Volunteer at animal shelters, such as the no-kill Paws in the City. pawsinthecity.org Apply NowVisit Us Back to top Academics Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Science Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education & Human Development SMU CAPE SMU Libraries The Guildhall Audience Links Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Media Parents Quick Links SMU Ignited: Boldly Shaping Tomorrow COVID-19 Information (Mustang Strong) Bush Center SMU Store Academic Calendar Events Calendar Employment Giving to SMU Virtual Tour Get in Touch Contact Us Maps Directions Compliance Legal Disclosures Report Sexual Harassment Reporting a BIAS Incident HEERF Reporting Emergency Preparedness Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn YouTube © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 Apply First-Year Domestic Student* Application First-Year International Student* Application Transfer Forms and Applications Readmission to SMU Graduate Studies FAQs | Undergraduate Temporary Test-Optional Policy Visit Virtual Campus Experience In-Person Visit Virtual Tour Admission Events Maps and Directions Residential Commons Tour Where to Stay Academics Majors and Minors Schools Faculty Virtual Connections Support and Resources Honors and Scholars Tips SMU Abroad SMU-in-Taos FAQs | Academics Campus Life SMU and Dallas Residence Life Dining Health and Safety Spirit and Traditions Diversity At SMU Activities and Organizations Fitness and Recreation Sports Spiritual Life En Espanol FAQs | Living on Campus FAQs | Student Life Financial Aid Cost of Attendance Types of Aid Access SMU Financial Aid Process Payment Plan Options SMU Net Price Calculator Mustang Scholars Robert H. Dedman Scholarship for North Dallas High School En Español Contact Us Deadlines FAQs FAQs | Financial Aid FAQs | Tuition, Fees, and Deadlines Scholarships and Assistance Connect Meet Your Admission Counselor School Contacts Request Information High School Counselor Information Parent Information Social Media and Zoom Backgrounds Frequently Asked Questions Publications Student Ambassadors Coronavirus (COVID-19) Updates Incoming and Current Students Prospective Student Publications Wallpapers International How to Apply Visit SMU Life in Dallas Living at SMU International Student Events Intercultural Engagement Athletics at SMU Spirit and Traditions Immigration Information Obtaining an I-20 Transfer Benefits of an SMU Education Transfer Scholarships Transfer Admission Application Process Transfer Dates and Deadlines Transfer Pathway Guides Transfer Equivalency Tool Meadows Auditions and Portfolios Transfer Forms and Applications International Transfer Students FAQs Congratulations on your admission to SMU! How Credits Transfer Partnership Programs Menu Search Search Submit Popular Searches Apply Academics Campus Life Majors and Minors Visit Financial Aid Did you know? SMU's main campus is located in the nation's fourth largest metropolitan area, Dallas-Fort Worth, with 7.4 million people and more than 20 Fortune 500 headquarters.Learn More Menu Search