Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Equity, Civil Rights, and Title IX Menu About Us Equity Office Staff Robyn Driskell, Ph.D. Laura Johnson, Ph.D. Carolyn Hughes Shirl Brown Christina Jeong Michael Noble Tracey Tevis Elysa Bucci Melissa Morie Josh Stephens Candace Huskey Mito Diaz-Espinoza, Ph.D Civil Rights Sexual and Interpersonal Misconduct/Title IX Reporting Report Civil Rights Concern Report Sexual and Interpersonal Misconduct/Title IX Concern Baylor>Equity, Civil Rights, and Title IX>About Us>Equity Office Staff>Laura Johnson, Ph.D. Laura Johnson, Ph.D. Associate Vice President for Equity and Title IX Dr. Johnson became Baylor’s Title IX Coordinator in June 2018 following an extensive career in student life at other institutions, including serving as Vice President for Student Life and Dean of Students, as well as Title IX Coordinator, at Georgetown (Ky.) College. In this role she also helped to create the institution’s first Office of Diversity and Inclusion and worked to move new diversity initiatives forward. Dr. Johnson joined Baylor in the summer of 2018 as the University’s Title IX Coordinator providing oversight of office staff and policies, as well as collaborating with campus partners. In December 2019 she was promoted to Associate Vice President for Equity and her role expanded to include oversight of the University’s Civil Rights processes.. In addition to the daily oversight and direction of office staff, policies and processes, she has revised the University’s practices to increase support and care for individuals, implemented new initiatives, and streamlined practices, while also growing partnerships across campus. Recent Title IX trainings attended: Baylor Hearing and Appellate Officer Training Baylor Investigator Training The Value of Relevance During Cross-Examination in Title IX Hearings Restorative Justice Training Building Skills to Successfully Mediate Title IX Sexual Harassment Cases View Training Materials for Title IX Personnel About Us Equity Office Staff Robyn Driskell, Ph.D. Laura Johnson, Ph.D. Carolyn Hughes Shirl Brown Christina Jeong Michael Noble Tracey Tevis Elysa Bucci Melissa Morie Josh Stephens Candace Huskey Mito Diaz-Espinoza, Ph.D Equity Office Robinson Tower, Suite 285 One Bear Place #97011 Waco, TX 76798 (254) 710-7100 Climate Survey Diversity & Inclusion Faculty Development and Diversity General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 About Us Equity Office Staff Robyn Driskell, Ph.D. Laura Johnson, Ph.D. Carolyn Hughes Shirl Brown Christina Jeong Michael Noble Tracey Tevis Elysa Bucci Melissa Morie Josh Stephens Candace Huskey Mito Diaz-Espinoza, Ph.D Civil Rights Sexual and Interpersonal Misconduct/Title IX Reporting Report Civil Rights Concern Report Sexual and Interpersonal Misconduct/Title IX Concern