Skip to Content Menu Audiences Clemson Home Science Home Resources A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps Phonebook Apply Now Make a Gift Academics People About Us Research Facilities News & Events M.S. Program Program Description The M.S. degree in chemistry provides a course-intensive degree with the option to perform research focused on analytical, inorganic, organic and physical chemistry. Research areas also include bio-organic chemistry, polymer chemistry, materials chemistry, chemical physics and other areas. Students may earn the Chemistry MS degree through graduate coursework (non-thesis option) or a combination of graduate coursework and research, including a published thesis. This is typically considered a great opportunity for professional advancement, especially for those students that are currently employed at industry, education, and government or military institutions. Summary of Degree Requirements The M.S. in Chemistry is awarded on the basis of coursework completed, completion of examinations, and the research performed (for the thesis option). The final basis for granting this degree is your overall grasp of the subject matter, your competence in conducting supervised research (for the thesis option), and the ability to express yourself adequately and professionally both orally and in writing. Ultimately, only your advisory committee can certify that you have earned this degree. This degree requires a minimum of 30 credits beyond the bachelor’s degree. Students pursuing a M.S. degree (Thesis Option) must complete a minimum of 24 hours of graduate coursework and six hours of master's thesis research. Students pursuing a M.S. degree (Non-Thesis Option) must complete a minimum of 30 hours of graduate coursework. At least half of the total graduate coursework credit hours required to satisfy the M.S. program, must be in 8000-level courses or above, and at least 12 credit hours must be in the major field of study. Your advisory committee will aid you in developing an individualized curriculum (to be outlined in the GS2 Plan of Study) which meets program requirements and provides appropriate training to meet your goals. For more information see the Program Handbook as well as the Graduate School Policies and Procedures Handbook. Program committees may make substitutions to the required/core coursework pending approval at the program, department, and college level. The graduate handbook you receive when you first begin your degree program, your GS2 Plan of Study, along with the Graduate School Policies and Procedures Handbook current as to that same year, are your official guides to this program and may be slightly different than what appears in this catalog. Please refer to the Graduate Handbook (PDF) for more detailed information regarding the M.S. degree program. Students interested in the MS Program are strongly encouraged to contact us at chemistry@clemson.edu Academics Home Majoring in Chemistry Current Chemistry Majors New Student and Transfer Orientation Information Completing a Minor in Chemistry Undergraduate Chemistry Courses Graduate Studies Letter from the Chair M.S. Program Ph.D. Program Course Descriptions Application Process Financial Aid Working in the Chemistry Department Clemson Life After Clemson Current Graduate Student Forms General Chemistry Lab Exemption Copyright © 2019 Clemson University Department of Chemistry | 219 Hunter Laboratories, Clemson, SC 29634 864-656-3065 | Email Us