Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Human Resources Menu Careers & Opportunities Research & Learn whyBaylor Staff Job Descriptions Apply & Interview Faculty Application Process Staff Application Process Veteran Resources for Interviewing New Hires & Onboarding New Faculty & Staff Staff - Before You Arrive Staff - Day One Staff - The Weeks Ahead Faculty - Before You Arrive Faculty - Day One Faculty - The Weeks Ahead Living in Waco Employment Forms by State Transition & Exit Benefits & Advantages My Benefits Veteran Resources Baylor Wellbeing Enrollment Benefitfocus Information 2022 Benefits Open Enrollment Retirement Investing in Your Retirement Preparing for Your Retirement Enjoying Your Retirement Retiree Benefits Overview Compensation Insurance Offerings Employee Recognition Submit a BaylorPLUS Salute Submit a BaylorPLUS Team Salute Staff Awards Tuition Remission Time Off & Leave Policies Family and Medical Leave Act (FMLA) Employee & Family Resources Accommodations Baylor Advantages Athletic Tickets Baylor Bookstore Baby Bear Program Baylor Club at McLane Stadium Baylor Theatre Baylor Wellbeing BearStand Campus Recreation Credit Union Dell Store Dining Services Employee Assistance Program Game Room Go Gold! Program Health Center Martin Museum of Art Massage Therapy Mayborn Museum Complex Parking Personal Cell Phone Discounts School of Music University Libraries Vanguard College Preparatory School Scholarship Offer Wondr Health Benefit Forms Manage & Lead Getting Started Core Commitments Leadership Commitments Management Toolkits & Guides Additional Resources Academic Administrative Resource Center Sabbaticals, Research Leaves, and Grants System Instructions & Access Questions Tuition & Teaching Staff Performance Review Process Learn & Grow Courses Available Course Listings Course Creation Lifelong Learning Program Continuing Education Program Career Tools RightNow Media @ Work LinkedIn Learning Educational Assistance Tuition Remission Tuition Reimbursement Professional Wellbeing LinkedIn Learning Contacts & Resources Engage with HR Contacts askHR HRC - Human Resources Consultants ERG - Employee Resource Groups Faculty Senate and Staff Council Provost Page Giving Policies & Postings State Employment Law Postings Required Annual Notices Workplace Concerns and Disclosures Additional HR Resources About Ignite Baylor>Human Resources>Benefits & Advantages>Baylor Advantages Baylor Advantages Welcome to the Baylor Advantages information webpage. Below you will find many of the great advantages available for Baylor employees. These items are owned and managed by the academic, administrative, and external units who oversee the varying programs and offerings. From time to time, the offerings below may be updated or changed without notice. For any questions or concerns, please feel free to contact the appropriate unit mentioned in the description. Athletic Tickets Faculty and staff are eligible for discounted or free admission to campus Athletic events. Baylor Bookstore Baylor Bookstore offers 10% discount on all items including books for all ages, Baylor Bear apparel, gift items and more, except those items "on sale." Computer software is available to purchase at a reduced price. Baby Bear Program The Baby Bear Program supports Baylor's caring community by celebrating new additions to the Baylor family. Upon the birth or adoption of a child by a full-time faculty or staff member, we will provide a congratulatory gift to celebrate the wonderful event. Baylor Club at McLane Stadium As an employee of Baylor University, you are eligible to take advantage of specially priced dues rates with full Member benefits. Membership at the Baylor Club is affordable, and covers the primary Member, their spouse, and any dependents up to age 23. Two membership packages are available: social, and O.N.E. Baylor Theatre Faculty and staff receive a discount for Baylor Theatre tickets. Plays are presented throughout the year. Season tickets are available, as are tickets for individual performances. For more information, including dates and ticket prices, please call 254.710.1865. Baylor Wellbeing Wellbeing is designed to support you and your family by promoting five interrelated areas: physical, financial, spiritual, emotional/social and professional. Fitness programs, healthy lifestyle information and resources, office optimization, and more. BearStand Many Baylor faculty and staff are enthusiastically sitting less and standing more at work. This site is designed to inform faculty and staff about the dangers of excessive sitting and to provide simple and creative ways to take one's level of physical activity to new heights. Campus Recreation The Student Life Center (SLC) is a free onsite fitness center for Baylor faculty and staff members and their families. The SLC has a fitness center, rock climbing, leisure pool, outdoor basketball & sand volleyball courts, 4-court gymnasium, conference rooms, racquetball/squash courts, indoor jogging track, aerobics studio and student lounge. Faculty and staff members also enjoy free access to Russell Gym, Baylor Marina, tennis courts, and the Bear Trail. Credit Union Services of 1st University Credit Union are available to Baylor faculty and staff. The office is located at 24 LaSalle Avenue. For more information, please call 254.752.2797. Dell Store Baylor University has provided a link to a Dell website that is specifically designed with the Baylor campus technology in mind. Baylor University is providing a link to Educational Discounts through a website that is not part of the university, and is not responsible for any content on the site. The content on the site does not necessarily reflect the opinions, standards, policy or endorsement of Baylor University. All sales through this website are with Dell, and therefore all inquiries, disputes, claims, or questions regarding a transaction through the site must be directed to Dell. Dining Services The University offers several dining venues on campus. Some of the dining venues on campus are subsidized for faculty and staff. Based on the person's benefit status, faculty and staff may be eligible for up to 50% off at some dining venues. Employee Assistance Program Baylor provides an Employee Assistance Program (EAP) to help eligible faculty, staff and their eligible household family members who desire direction in time of crisis or day-to-day life issues. This benefit includes, but is not limited to, free face-to-face counseling services, unlimited telephonic counseling and a vast amount of online resources for virtually all kinds of "life" issues - from planning a birthday party to writing a will. Game Room The Baylor Game Room exists to build community amongst Baylor students, faculty, and staff. Located on the lower level of the Bill Daniel Student Center, our facilities boasts 5 state-of-the-art bowling lanes, billiard tables, foosball tables, ping pong, shuffleboard, classic board games, and a TV lounge with Wii capability. Parties may also be booked. Baylor ID must be presented. Call 254.710.2819 for hours of operation and prices. Go Gold! Program Baylor faculty and staff can enjoy various discounts around town with the Go Gold! Program. Unlock discounts, deals, and specials with your Baylor ID card. Health Center Located in the Student Life Center, select services are rendered to faculty and staff at a minimum fee based on costs to the center. These are limited to: TB skin test, vaccinations and inoculations for overseas travel, flu vaccines, pharmacy prescriptions filled. Baylor ID must be presented. Martin Museum of Art Located in the Hooper-Schaefer Fine Arts Center. A permanent collection of approximately 1150 objects represents a wide variety of art that has been donated to or purchased by Baylor University. The collection contains artwork by such well-known artists as Robert Rauschenberg, Kathe Kollwitz, Francisco de Goya, and Edouard-Leon Cortes. Included in the collection are approximately 300 paintings representing famous watercolor artists such as George Post, Phil Dike, Edgar Whitney, and John Marin. Massage Therapy Visit with Kim Balmer, on-site licensed massage therapist with the Campus Recreation team. Affordable Rates! Call 254.710.7542 to schedule an appointment. Mayborn Museum Complex The Mayborn Museum Complex on Baylor campus features a natural science and cultural history museum focusing on Central Texas with walk-in dioramas including one on the Waco Mammoth Site, and exploration stations for geology, paleontology, archaeology, and natural history. In addition to the natural history exhibits, there are seventeen themed discovery rooms which encourage hands-on learning for all ages. Baylor Faculty and Staff receive a 20% discount on museum membership. Parking Faculty and staff receive parking access at no charge. Personal Cell Phone Discounts As an employee of Baylor University, you could be saving on the monthly service charge for AT&T or Verizon qualified wireless plans. School of Music Baylor faculty and staff can receive discounted tickets to certain School of Music performances. The Lyceum Series, which hosts guest artists, is free of charge. Concerts, recitals, operas, symphony orchestra, guest artists and bands perform throughout the year. For more information on schedules, please contact the School of Music by calling 254.710.3991. University Libraries Faculty and staff have access to a variety of resources and services through the Baylor Libraries. Vanguard College Preparatory School Scholarship Offer In memory of Baylor professor and Vanguard founding member Dr. Louis Bright, Vanguard will annually offer a full tuition merit scholarship to a full time Baylor faculty/staff member's incoming 7th grader. Wondr Health Through the Wondr Health program, you have the opportunity to lose weight, feel better, and decrease your risk factors for metabolic syndrome. Wondr Health focuses on the issue of metabolic syndrome and offers methods to help you create changes in your behavior. Cost for the Wondr Health program is covered by BCBS - Wondr Health claims will automatically be filed with BCBS and paid by BCBS based on the number of classes completed. Benefits & Advantages My Benefits Veteran Resources Baylor Wellbeing Enrollment Benefitfocus Information 2022 Benefits Open Enrollment Retirement Investing in Your Retirement Preparing for Your Retirement Enjoying Your Retirement Retiree Benefits Overview Compensation Insurance Offerings Employee Recognition Submit a BaylorPLUS Salute Submit a BaylorPLUS Team Salute Staff Awards Tuition Remission Time Off & Leave Policies Family and Medical Leave Act (FMLA) Employee & Family Resources Accommodations Baylor Advantages Athletic Tickets Baylor Bookstore Baby Bear Program Baylor Club at McLane Stadium Baylor Theatre Baylor Wellbeing BearStand Campus Recreation Credit Union Dell Store Dining Services Employee Assistance Program Game Room Go Gold! Program Health Center Martin Museum of Art Massage Therapy Mayborn Museum Complex Parking Personal Cell Phone Discounts School of Music University Libraries Vanguard College Preparatory School Scholarship Offer Wondr Health Benefit Forms Baylor Human Resources Putting people first. Clifton Robinson Tower | Suite 200 700 S University Parks Dr Waco, TX 76706 One Bear Place #97053 Waco, TX 76798 254-710-2000 askhr@baylor.edu Ask HRAboutJobsDisclosuresVisitPolicies Show More General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 Careers & Opportunities Research & Learn whyBaylor Staff Job Descriptions Apply & Interview Faculty Application Process Staff Application Process Veteran Resources for Interviewing New Hires & Onboarding New Faculty & Staff Getting Started Before You Arrive Day 1 The Weeks Ahead Staff - Before You Arrive Staff - Day One Staff - The Weeks Ahead Faculty - Before You Arrive Faculty - Day One Faculty - The Weeks Ahead Living in Waco Employment Forms by State Transition & Exit Benefits & Advantages My Benefits Veteran Resources Baylor Wellbeing Enrollment Benefitfocus Information 2022 Benefits Open Enrollment Retirement Investing in Your Retirement Baylor Retirement Plan - 403(b) Baylor 457(b) Plan Importance of Retirement Planning Preparing for Your Retirement Faculty Retirement Planning Program Enjoying Your Retirement Retiree Benefits Overview Compensation Insurance Offerings Employee Recognition Submit a BaylorPLUS Salute Submit a BaylorPLUS Team Salute Staff Awards 2021 Staff Award Winners Amber George Brett Gibson Emily Leavitt Nathanael Mosher Alana Schaeper Nick Werse Krista Howell Kathy Krey Melissa Stone The Baylor VA Benefits Team Tuition Remission Time Off & Leave Policies Family and Medical Leave Act (FMLA) Employee & Family Resources Accommodations Baylor Advantages Athletic Tickets Baylor Bookstore Baby Bear Program Baylor Club at McLane Stadium Baylor Theatre Baylor Wellbeing BearStand Campus Recreation Credit Union Dell Store Dining Services Employee Assistance Program Game Room Go Gold! Program Health Center Martin Museum of Art Massage Therapy Mayborn Museum Complex Parking Personal Cell Phone Discounts School of Music University Libraries Vanguard College Preparatory School Scholarship Offer Wondr Health Benefit Forms Manage & Lead Getting Started Core Commitments Leadership Commitments Management Toolkits & Guides Additional Resources Academic Administrative Resource Center Sabbaticals, Research Leaves, and Grants System Instructions & Access Questions Tuition & Teaching Staff Teaching Staff Performance Review Process Learn & Grow Courses Available Course Listings Course Creation Lifelong Learning Program Continuing Education Program Career Tools RightNow Media @ Work LinkedIn Learning Educational Assistance Tuition Remission Tuition Reimbursement Professional Wellbeing LinkedIn Learning Contacts & Resources Engage with HR Contacts askHR HRC - Human Resources Consultants ERG - Employee Resource Groups Faculty Senate and Staff Council Provost Page Giving Policies & Postings State Employment Law Postings Required Annual Notices Workplace Concerns and Disclosures Additional HR Resources About Ignite