Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Veterans & Military Student Services About Us Paying for College Resources News & Events Career Programs Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Take Action Military Student Enrollment Checklist Prior Learning Credit Get Involved Contact Us Follow Us Online InstagramFacebooktwitterLinkedn Home Veterans & Military Student Services Career Programs Career Programs UofM Career Services Turbocharge your new career and use the services right here on campus! UofM Career Services staff are employment experts. Let them help you with things like career exploration, resumes, and internships. Thinking about graduate school? Check out the resources on their site and get started today! UofM Career Services > Hiring Our Heroes Hiring Our Heroes is a program that connects veterans with employers. Need to translate military skills into civilian terms? Use their "Resume Engine." Wonder which companies hire veterans? Attend their virtual hiring expos. Looking for on-the-job training? Apply to their Corporate Training Program Hiring Our Heroes Program > Career One Stop: Veterans & Military Transition Center COS is an online resource that helps you with training and employment. The Veterans Job Matcher helps you translate skills from your MOS to civilian jobs. The Apprenticeships tool helps you quickly enter in-demand fields. You'll also find resources for military benefits and family support. This is a helpful starting point and has useful toolkits at the click of a button. Veterans & Military Transition Center > State of TN: Veterans Employment Services American Job Centers (AJC) are state agencies that help veterans find jobs. They host job fairs, workshops and provide career counseling. As well, AJC offers Disabled Veteran Outreach (DVO). Prefer to work with a team of veterans? AJC has job clubs that provide group support. Veterans Employment Services > List of Employers - Military Friendly Knowing where to find jobs in the sea of job listings can be overwhelming. Because of this, Team VMSS and Career Services has created a list for you. The companies listed have shown their commitment to veterans and their families. List of Military Friendly Employers > Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 1/26/21 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.