Skip to main content Skip to main navigation SearchMenu Baylor>Search Find Site By A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Websites starting with 'R': Real Estate Operations and Campus Services Baylor University Real Estate Operations provides real estate services from leasing, licensing, acquisitions and sales, to property management of real estate assets owned by the University. Baylor University’s Campus Services provides industry leading service in the areas of bookstore operations, copier services, dining services, guest housing and mail services. Registering for Classes The home page for information regarding enrolling for classes. Religion, Department of The home page of the department of Religion. Religious Affairs Committee Report It Baylor University faculty, staff and students are expected to maintain the highest standards of performance and behavior. If you encounter an incident, issue or concern where a violation of these expectations has occurred, use the Report It website to find links to reporting systems. In case of an emergency, please call the Baylor Police Department at 254-710-2222 or call 9-1-1! Research Baylor University’s vision affirms that the world needs a preeminent research university that is unambiguously Christian. No university is better positioned to achieve this goal. Through top-tier research and scholarship, R1 universities bring their voice to bear in addressing our world’s most meaningful challenges. As Baylor achieves preeminence as a Christian research university, it enables researchers from throughout the University to infuse the quest for solutions, at the highest levels, with Baylor’s distinct voice and mission. Research, Data Analytics and Planning The Office of Data Analytics supports the University’s research goals by: providing deans, chairs, and executive leadership with research productivity metrics; tracking performance measures related to the services provided by the Office of the Vice Provost for Research; serving as the official source for the reporting of university research data including research expenditures and research staff for the Carnegie Classification; and evaluating programs and initiatives to support the growth of research. Research, Post-Award Administration Post-Award Administration assists Principal Investigators with the financial management of their sponsored research projects and with maintaining financial compliance with federal, state, local, and university regulations. Research, Pre-Award Administration Pre-Award Administration assists Principal Investigators with the review and submission of proposals to external funding agencies for sponsored research projects. Residual ACT The ACT Residual test is an acceptable alternative for students who plan to attend Baylor University and who were unable to take the SAT or ACT on a nationally scheduled test date. The scores from these tests are acceptable for admission at Baylor University only and are not available to other institutions. The ACT-Residual is offered on the Baylor University campus. Resources for Parents This page provides links to numerous websites for anyone that may be visiting the Baylor campus. Retired Professors & Administrators Program Baylor University is made up of incredible faculty, staff and administrators whose service significantly advances the institution’s mission. The Retired Professors and Administrators Program honors the legacy of these talented and committed men and women and provides a way for them to stay connected to their Baylor roots. Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences After more than three years of evaluation and input from Baylor regents, deans, faculty and staff, and external entities, including healthcare partners and the consulting firm Grant Thornton the Baylor Board of Regents approved the creation of the College of Health and Human Sciences on May 16, 2014. The anchor academic units that form the College - Communication Sciences and Disorders, Family and Consumer Sciences, Health, and Human Performance and Recreation - share a common purpose: improving health and the quality of life. The new College is working to create curricula that will promote a team-based approach to patient care and will establish interdisciplinary research collaborations to advance solutions for improving the quality of life for individuals, families, and communities. During the next few months the CHHS will work with other academic units on campus and the Provost's office to enable a transition of students, faculty, staff and processes to the CHHS. Robbins Institute for Health Policy and Leadership The Robbins Institute for Health Policy and Leadership serves as an interdisciplinary foundation for all health care-related initiatives in the Hankamer School of Business, including teaching, external programming and health services research. Robert Foster Cherry Awards For Great Teaching An award to recognize great teachers at any level of the educational process and to expose Baylor University students to the world's greatest teachers. Round Up Baylor University yearbook Russian Russian is spoken by app. 150 million people in Russia and millions more outside Russia, including thousands of Americans. Ryan King Aquatic Ecology Lab The Aquatic Ecology Lab is an academic research laboratory interested broadly in aquatic ecosystems, whether they be marine or freshwater, flowing or still. Its primary focus is understanding environmental factors that influence the structure and functioning of aquatic communities--that is, interacting assemblages of species. Participants are interested in fundamental questions in ecology but apply our basic understanding of aquatic communities to evaluate and predict how human alterations may affect ecosystems. Faculty/Staff homepages starting with 'R': Rich,Steven Baylor Faculty and Staff: Update your homepage address or learn more about your homepage and privacy settings. Show More General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678