Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Prospective Newly Admitted Current Alumni Columbia University School of General Studies Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Admissions Educational Financing Academics Student Services About Undergraduate Admissions How to Apply Eligibility Application Deadlines and Decisions Information Sessions/Campus Visits Transfer Students Postbac Premed Admissions How to Apply Eligibility Application Deadlines and Decisions Information Sessions/Campus Visits Newly Admitted Students International Students Planning Day Placement Exams University-Wide Placement Exams U.S. Military Veterans International Dual Degree Programs Types of Financial Aid Institutional Scholarships Federal and State Grants Loans Private Scholarships and Grants Student Employment Financial Aid for Military Veterans Post-9/11 GI Bill® and the Yellow Ribbon Program Veterans Request for Certification Cost of Attendance Applying for Financial Aid Prospective Students Newly Admitted Students Current Students University Employees Postbac Premed Students Counseling Appointments Enrollment Update Form Student Account Refunds Undergraduate The Core Curriculum Degree Fulfillment Course Listings Majors and Concentrations Research Opportunities Study Abroad Academic Calendar Postbac Premed Program Curriculum & Courses Sample Schedule Course Listings Preparatory Coursework Previously Completed Coursework Glide Year Master’s Programs Academic Calendar Applying to Medical School General Admission Linkage Admission Linkage Specific Program Requirements Reapplicants Letters of Recommendation Academic Policies Registration Enrollment and Courseload Leaves and Withdrawals Academic Integrity and Standards Faculty of Arts and Sciences Undergraduate Announcements Postbac Premed Announcements Academic Advising Academic Resource Center Programs & Services Jumpstart Series Tutoring Peer Advising Campus Services Forms and Guides Graduation Health and Wellness Housing International Students Medical School Fair Planning Your Future Accelerated Master's Programs Fellowships and Research Premedical Clinical and Research Positions Student Life Leadership Development Multicultural & Social Justice Education Programs Student Organizations Upcoming Events Veterans Resources and Initiatives Leadership Mission History Statistics and Facts Notable Alumni University Policies Events Staff Directory Faculty News Press Coverage Media Inquiries School of General Studies You are here: Home News 2022 Grad Profile: Ethan Lewis Profile 2022 Grad Profile: Ethan Lewis May 05, 2022 Ethan Lewis Joint Degree Program with the Jewish Theological Seminary (JTS) Where are you from? Woodcliff Lake, NJ Major: Political science and Jewish history Tell us about your path to GS! I grew up outside of New York City; far enough away to just see the outline of city spires but close enough to visit for the day. Whether it was playing chess on the weekend in Greenwich Village, or going on hikes behind Lamont Doherty Geological Observatory, my relationship with the city and Columbia started at a young age. Although I’m from a typical New Jersey town, my family has an eclectic background. My maternal grandfather fled Germany and then France during World War II, while the Romanian side of my family fought as decorated partisans. Because of these stories I heard as a child, I developed a longstanding love of history, politics, leadership, and public service. From the years of work I performed for the Leukemia and Lymphoma Society, to my volunteer work with special needs children, I always found a way to marry up my passion to do good with my interest in business and finance. Early on, I was running programs, leading teams, mentoring others, and developing fundraising campaigns. My path towards the Joint Degree Program also started from an early age when my family joined our local Chabad. Although we weren’t very religious, we gravitated towards it because of its focus on community service and Jewish ethics. And wherever I found myself (e.g. on the soccer field where I played for 14 years, or with the people and relationships I cherished), my goal was to incorporate these values across my entire academic and professional career rather than keeping these worlds separate. In the Joint Degree Program, with its combination of a world class liberal arts education at Columbia University and a Jewish Studies education at List College, I found the perfect fit for me. What has been your proudest Columbia moment? My greatest accomplishment at Columbia was earning two undergraduate degrees in four years. This was a monumental feat, as it required taking between six to eight classes a semester and putting in late hours in the library. It took an incredible amount of discipline, dedication, and determination, not least of which was learning an entirely new language. And, of course, this is something I never could have achieved without the support of my family and classmates. Who are some people who have contributed the most to your Columbia experience? One group that was instrumental during my time as GS was joining Alpha Epsilon Pi at Columbia. This group was pivotal in my college experience as it led to the development of lifelong friends, and connected me with a diverse group of like-minded people. Essentially, they became my family at Columbia. What are your plans for after graduation? After graduating, I will be working for Citi Bank as an analyst in their class of 2022 in the Capital Markets Division. I will be staying in the greater NYC area, continuing to explore the city and all that it offers. I also plan on being actively involved in the Columbia alumni community going forward. What advice would you give to a Columbia student starting their GS journey? For someone just about to start their GS journey, the best advice I can offer is to take advantage of all the opportunities that present themselves, and know that academia is just one component in the cadre of opportunities present at Columbia. Tags Student Profile Dual and Joint Degree Programs News May 27, 2022 Join Us: Columbia Reunion Weekend in New York City May 26, 2022 Lewisohn Hall Summer Closure | Summer 2022 Temporary Relocation to Uris Hall May 26, 2022 Postbac Premed Program Institutional Scholarship Application May 24, 2022 GS Celebrates the Class of 2022 at Class Day Ceremony May 24, 2022 Academic Resource Center Summer Offerings Admissions Undergraduate Admissions Postbac Premed Admissions Newly Admitted Students U.S. Military Veterans International Dual Degree Programs Educational Financing Types of Financial Aid Financial Aid for Military Veterans Cost of Attendance Applying for Financial Aid Counseling Appointments Enrollment Update Form Student Account Refunds Academics Undergraduate Postbac Premed Program Applying to Medical School Academic Policies Faculty of Arts and Sciences Student Services Undergraduate Announcements Postbac Premed Announcements Academic Advising Academic Resource Center Campus Services Forms and Guides Graduation Health and Wellness Housing International Students Medical School Fair Planning Your Future Premedical Clinical and Research Positions Student Life Veterans Resources and Initiatives About Leadership Mission History Statistics and Facts Notable Alumni University Policies Events Staff Directory Faculty News Press Coverage Media Inquiries Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close