Skip to Content Menu Audiences Clemson.edu PSA CAFLS Resources A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps Phonebook Apply Now Make a Gift Academics Research Extension About Giving Programs County Offices Who We Are Publications Resources Contact South Carolina Industrial Hemp Program Background Resources Contact Background The new Farm Bill passed in December of 2018 removed hemp from the Controlled Substance List creating a path for banking, insurance, and expanded marketing opportunities. The US Department of Agriculture issued its interim rule on October 31, 2019. The information about the final rule can be found here https://www.ams.usda.gov/rules-regulations/hemp. The new federal guidelines are more restrictive than what South Carolina growers had operated under for 2018 and 2019. Some things that are points of interest include Total THC not to exceed 0.30%, 15-day testing window prior to harvest, and SCDA sampling of specific plant parts for total THC. The South Carolina Department of Agriculture (SCDA) received approval for the new state hemp plan the first part of April 2020. https://www.ams.usda.gov/sites/default/files/media/SouthCarolinaHempStatePlan.pdf The application deadline for 2020 grower permits was March 31, 2020, over 350 farmers applied. Applications for handler and processor licenses are still available on the SCDA website. More information and contact information can be found on the SCDA Industrial Hemp Program webpage. Clemson Extension is working with growers of varying levels of experience as this new industry develops. Clemson Extension serves hemp growers by sharing information, providing in-field consultations, and diagnosing plant and pest problems using the Plant Problem Clinic and Ag Service Lab. Clemson University researchers are conducting field trials on Clemson Research Centers around the state. Hemp Resources Registered SC Hemp Processors Biology (PDF) Production (PDF) Pesticides (PDF) Economics (PDF) Pesticide Information The Department of Pesticide Regulation has released a list of pesticides that will be allowed for use on hemp in South Carolina. Before using any product on this list, growers should check with their buyer/processor to ensure no residue issues will arise. Enterprise Budgets KY Hemp Budgets TN CBD Budget Additional Research NC State University University of Kentucky For all inquires regarding requirements and acquiring a permit to participate in the SC Industrial Hemp Pilot Program, please contact SCDA directly: Vanessa Elsalah, SCDA Hemp Outreach Specialist velsalah@scda.sc.gov 803-734-8339 For other inquiries and general questions please reach out to the Clemson Industrial Hemp Program Team: David DeWitt, Hemp Program Coordinator, Extension Associate Justin Ballew, Production, Extension Associate Nathan Smith, Economics Kelly Flynn, Research Coordinator Connect with the Clemson Hemp Team Clemson Hemp Program Contact Form Name:* Email:* Phone: I am a/an: Choose one Farmer Researcher Processor Government/NGO Worker Academic Other If other: How can the Clemson Hemp team help you? Submit × Clemson University Cooperative Extension Service offers its programs to people of all ages, regardless of race, color, gender, religion, national origin, disability, political beliefs, sexual orientation, gender identity, marital or family status and is an equal opportunity employer. Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson Cooperative Extension Clemson, SC Contact Us Emergency Preparedness Web Accessibility For Employees Page Update Request