Javascript must be enabled for the correct page display Skip to Content × Close Menu Close Academics Academics Academic Programs Academic Programs Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Continuing Education Online Programs Dual Degree Programs Certificate Programs Special Programs Summer Sessions International Programs Schools and Colleges Schools and Colleges Arts and Sciences Business Communication and the Arts Diplomacy and International Relations Education and Human Services Health and Medical Sciences Law Medicine Nursing Theology Additional Resources Additional Resources Experiential Learning Advising Faculty Departments Centers and Institutes Core Curriculum University Libraries Academic Calendar Grants and Research Office of the Provost Admissions Admissions Visiting Seton Hall Tour Schedule Monday - Friday: 10 a.m. and 2 p.m. Saturday: 10 a.m., Noon and 2 p.m. Undergraduate Graduate International Students Catholic Mission Catholic Mission Catholic Mission Catholic Mission Mission and Ministry Priest Community Catholic Studies Theology Additional Resources Additional Resources Mass Schedule Centers and Institutes Archdiocese Athletics Athletics SHUPirates.com Athletics Resources Athletics Resources Schedules Tickets Pirate Blue Facilities eSports and Gaming Alumni Alumni Alumni and Friends Alumni and Friends Alumni Home Alumni Directory Share Your News Benefits and Services E-mail Accounts Request a Transcript True Blue Support Seton Hall Support Seton Hall Why Seton Hall? Ways to Give Give Now About About About Seton Hall Hallmarks Rankings Mission Statement Campus Life Diversity and Inclusion History Visit Seton Hall Office of the President Events PirateNet About About Seton Hall Hallmarks Rankings Mission Statement Campus Life Diversity and Inclusion History Visit Seton Hall Office of the President Events PirateNet SUPPORT SHU University Site Search Academics Academic Programs Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Continuing Education Online Programs Dual Degree Programs Certificate Programs Special Programs Summer Sessions International Programs Schools and Colleges Arts and Sciences Business Communication and the Arts Diplomacy and International Relations Education and Human Services Health and Medical Sciences Law Nursing Theology Additional Resources Experiential Learning Advising Faculty Departments Centers and Institutes Core Curriculum University Libraries Academic Calendar Grants and Research Office of the Provost Admissions Visit Campus Tour Schedule Monday - Friday: 10 a.m. and 2 p.m. Saturday: 10 a.m., Noon and 2 p.m. Visiting Seton Hall Admissions Undergraduate Graduate International Students Catholic Mission Catholic Mission Mission and Ministry Priest Community Catholic Studies Theology Additional Resources Mass Schedule Centers and Institutes Archdiocese Athletics Seton Hall Pirates SHUPirates.com Athletics Resources Schedules Tickets Pirate Blue Facilities eSports and Gaming Alumni Alumni and Friends Alumni Home Alumni Directory Share Your News Benefits and Services E-mail Accounts Request a Transcript True Blue Support Seton Hall Why Seton Hall? Ways to Give Give Now Seton Hall University Human Resources Employment Opportunities at Seton Hall In everything we do, we strive to educate servant leaders who will go out into the world and change hearts, heal divisions and build community while displaying virtues of courage, foresight, empathy and stewardship of the common good. This is more than just a job: it is our mission. Interested in being part of the Seton Hall team and making a difference? Use our Employment Opportunities Web site to search and apply for open positions below. Faculty View Open Positions Admin and Staff View Open Positions Students View Open Positions Information for Applicants Seton Hall University is a major Catholic university. In a diverse and collaborative environment it focuses on academic and ethical development. Seton Hall students are prepared to be leaders in their professional and community lives in a global society and are challenged by outstanding faculty, an evolving technologically advanced setting and values-centered curricula. Seton Hall University is committed to programs of Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) and the principles of affirmative action. It honors diversity and respects the religious commitments of all employees. In turn, its employees respect Catholic beliefs and values, and they support its mission as a Catholic institution of higher education. Before proceeding, please read Seton Hall: A Catholic University or a document containing important excerpts from this publication. Seton Hall requires its employees to be fully vaccinated against COVID-19, subject to exemptions for religious beliefs or health conditions. Therefore, employees are required to provide proof of their COVID-19 vaccinations or declare an exemption due to medical or religious reasons. Employment is contingent upon satisfactory criminal and other relevant background investigations. The determination of satisfactory is at the sole discretion of Seton Hall University. If special accommodations are needed in order to apply for a position, please contact the Department of Human Resources. Questions? Please call the Department of Human Resources at (973) 761-9177. Human Resources Recruitment and Employment Nondiscrimination/Title IX Statement Contact Us Department of Human Resources Member of the New Jersey, Eastern Pennsylvania and Delaware Higher Education Recruitment Consortium Seton Hall University 400 South Orange Ave South Orange, NJ 07079 (973) 761-9000 Privacy Statements Title IX Nondiscrimination Statement and Information Contact Us Student Services Parents and Families Career Center Technology Web Accessibility Visiting Campus Public Safety Disability Support Services Campus Security Report Employment Follow #SetonHall www.shu.edu/social Back to top