Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Law Menu Baylor Law About News Mission Statement and Core Values Baylor Law Learning Outcomes Practice Ready Law Professors, Life Coaches The Quarter System Quick Facts Public Service Legal Clinics Special Events Notice of Non-Discrimination Building Hours Contact Us History 100 Years of Practice Court Baylor Law Virtual Tours Academics Academic Calendar Academic Services Advocacy Transactional Degree Programs Executive LL.M. in Litigation Management Baylor Law Learning Outcomes Experiential Learning Legal Writing Study Abroad at St Andrews Baylor Law Review Admissions Explore Apply Finance Visit Admitted Students Quick Facts Executive LL.M. in Litigation Management Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Alumni & Giving Alumni Resources Get Involved Give Back Baylor Law School Alumni Information Update Submit Alumni Note Career Development Employers Current Students Employment Statistics Contact the CDO Baylor Law School Current Students Academic Services Calendars Health & Wellness Policies and Feedback Professional Development Leadership Development Student Life Title IX ABA Required Disclosures Law School Home Events Event Calendars Emergency and Closure Information Faculty & Staff Faculty and Staff Directory Faculty Scholarship Faculty and Staff News Faculty and Staff Resources Law School Home Library Library Collection Electronic Resources Library Services Policies and Information Library Online Catalog Technology Law School Baylor>Baylor Law>Admissions>Apply>Admissions FAQs Admissions FAQs The LSAT 1. What is Baylor Law's LSAT code? Baylor Law's LSAT code is 7165. 2. How can I obtain LSAT registration information? Visit lsac.org for LSAT information and for more general information about the law school application process. 3. Which LSATs does Baylor Law accept? Baylor Law accepts LSAT scores from this year and the past 5 testing years (a testing year runs from June-May), as long as we have received the score by the application deadline. 4. Is there an LSAT preparatory program taught at Baylor Law? Baylor Law does not offer an LSAT preparatory program. 5. Should I take an LSAT preparatory program? This is a personal decision, and there is no one way to study for the LSAT. 6. Does Baylor Law average my LSAT scores if I take the LSAT more than once? No. Although the Admissions Committee will see all of your LSAT scores, they report and review the highest score. Application Process 1. How much is the application fee? Baylor Law does not charge an application fee. 2. What are the application requirements? Click here for information. 3. What are the application deadlines? Spring: mid-November Fall Early Decision: mid-November Spring Transfer and Visitor: January 15 Summer: mid-March Fall Regular Decision: mid-March Summer Transfer and Visitor: March 15 Fall Transfer and Visitor: July 15 4. What scores do you accept/require? There is no minimum score that we require. However, you may look at our 25th, 50th, and 75th percentiles here to see where your scores fall. 5. How important is the personal statement? The personal statement is an important part of the application. It is an opportunity for the Admissions Committee to get to know you! 6. Does applying to more than one quarter hurt my chances? No. Applying to multiple quarters does not hurt your chances. Each application is evaluated separately. 7. What additional application requirements are there for international students? Click here for information for international applicants. 8. May I request an interview with the Admissions Committee? We offer a number of opportunities for optional interviews. Click here for more details. 9. How do I attach an addendum to my application? You may email any member of the admissions team with your addendum. 10. What if I forgot something when I submitted my application? Email a member of the admissions team, and we will upload it to your file. 11. My contact information has changed. What should I do? Contact a member of the admissions team, and we will change your information. 12. When will my decision be rendered? The Admissions Committee makes decisions on a rolling basis. We try to make decisions as quickly as possible. If it has been more than 6 weeks since your file was completed, please feel free to contact a member of the admissions team. 13. How will I be notified whether I am admitted or denied? Your online status checker will indicate whether or not a decision has been made. You will receive your admissions decision via mail, via email, and/or via the online status checker. Academic Programs 1. Does Baylor Law offer evening classes? No. All of our classes are during work hours, in order to ensure that Baylor Law students begin adapting to an ordinary work schedule. 2. Does Baylor Law offer a part-time program? No. However, there is no quarterly credit requirement, apart from the first three quarters and the two quarters of Practice Court. 3. Does Baylor Law offer classes at any of Baylor's satellite campuses? No. All Baylor Law J.D. classes are offered in the Sheila and Walter Umphrey Law Center in Waco, TX. 4. How do I register for classes? Several weeks before the start of each quarter, you will receive information about how to register for classes. 5. What types of experiential learning opportunities are available to students? Baylor Law offers a number of experiential learning opportunities. Click here to explore offerings. 6. What is Practice Court? Practice Court is a rigorous two-quarter training program required during the last year of study. Visit the Practice Court page for more information. 7. Does Baylor Law offer an LL.M. program? Yes. Baylor Law is the only law school to offer an Executive LL.M. in Litigation Management. 8. What criteria must be met in order for me to be considered for transfer or visiting student admission? Please visit the Transfer and Visiting Student Applicants page for more information. The Quarter System 1. Can I apply to more than one quarter? Yes. You may apply to as many quarters as you desire. 2. How big are the respective classes? The Fall class generally has 80-90 students. The Spring and Summer classes each generally have 20-40 students. 3. Why does Baylor Law believe in the quarter system? We believe the quarter system provides for the greatest flexibility and is a reflection of the work life of a legal professional. Click here for more information. The Timeline 1. How long does it take for a decision to be made once my file goes to the Admissions Committee? The Admissions Committee reviews files on a rolling basis and tries its best to render prompt decisions. However, in the case that the Committee thinks it may be able to offer a favorable decision further in the cycle, it may hold your file for several months. 2. Are applications accepted after the deadlines? Yes, although we appreciate it if you submit your file in a timely fashion. Additionally, if you are taking the LSAT in a foreign country that has a later LSAT date, we will accept your file after you receive your score. The Admissions Committee may choose to extend the deadline for any given term. 3. My file has been complete for several months, but I have not yet received a decision. Whom should I contact for help? You are welcome to contact any member of the admissions team for questions about your file. My Decision 1. How will I be notified of my final decision from the Admissions Committee? You will receive a letter and/or email sent to the address on file. 2. What does being put on the Waitlist mean? Being put on the Waitlist means that the Admissions Committee was impressed with your credentials and would like to admit you to Baylor Law if space becomes available. 3. I have been put on the Waitlist: should I submit additional materials? If you believe that there is relevant or new information the Admissions Committee should know (e.g. new grades, new LSAT score, updated resume, etc.) please feel free to email us with this additional information. It is also acceptable to contact us periodically to express your interest in remaining on the Waitlist. 4. If I am admitted, can my admission be deferred? No. We do not typically accept deferrals. However, the Admissions Committee may consider reactivation requests on a case-by-case basis. If your reactivation request is granted, we will create an application for you for the future term, and the Admissions Committee will review that file early. 5. If I am neither admitted nor taken off the Waitlist, can I be reconsidered for the next year? Yes. You may submit an application for the next year. 6. If I am admitted to or denied for one quarter, may I still apply to another quarter? Yes. You may apply to as many quarters as you like, regardless of other admissions decisions. Each file is reviewed individually. Student Life 1. Is there an Orientation for new students? Is it mandatory? Yes. Baylor Law hosts a three-day mandatory orientation the week before classes begin. 2. Are there apartments close to campus? Yes. There a number of housing options close to campus. You will receive information on housing options further on in the admission process. 3. Where can I park on campus? Students may purchase parking permits for the parking lot directly in front of the law school. Students may also park at McLane Stadium, directly behind the law school, and walk across a bridge to the law school. 4. Is there on-campus transportation available for students? While Baylor University classes are in session, you do have access to the Baylor bus system. For more information on the bus system, click here. 5. Is employment feasible during the first year of classes? Employment is strongly discouraged during the first three quarters and during the rigorous two-quarter Practice Court Program. 6. Does Baylor Law offer free Internet and e-mail service to its students? Yes. 7. Do Baylor Law students have access to other Baylor facilities such as the Student Life Center? You may have access to the Student Life Center and other facilities such as the health center, the counseling center, sporting events, and the marina. 8. What types of student organizations can I join while at Baylor Law? For a full list of Baylor Law student organizations, click here. Contact Us 1. What is Baylor Law's mailing address? Our mailing address is: Baylor Law 1114 South University Parks Drive One Bear Place #97288 Waco, TX 76798 2. How do I contact Baylor Law? Click here to contact us today! Admissions Explore Student Profiles Adan Abu-Hakmeh Lexie Ammons Allison Barber Paolo Ferrel Paige Heitkamp Drake Pew Leah Reyes Sami Shaffer Program Overview Advocacy Transactional Practice Legal Writing Experiential Learning Quarter System Community Career Development Curriculum More Information Request a Viewbook Is Law School Right for You? Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Accreditation Notice of Non-Discrimination Apply Dates and Deadlines Application Requirements JD Applicants Transfer and Visiting Student Applicants International Student Applicants Joint Degree Applicants Denied Application Review Quick Facts Application Status Checker Admissions FAQs Admissions Policies Finance Estimated Costs Financial Aid FAQs Scholarships Loans Veteran Information Financial Aid Step-by-Step Visit Individual Visits External Recruiting Events Open Houses Interviews Virtual Tours Pre-Law Visits Visiting Waco Finding the Admissions Office Admitted Students Next Steps Admitted Students Packet Scholarship Reconsideration Request Pay Your Seat Deposit Apply for Financial Aid Update Your Contact Information Set Up Your Student ID and Email Visits and Events Schedule an Individual Visit Attend an Admitted Students Day Watch a Virtual Tour Attend an Admitted Students Meal View a Recorded Session Attend an Open House Registration and Orientation Quick Facts Executive LL.M. in Litigation Management Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Show More General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Sheila & Walter Umphrey Law Center 1114 South University Parks Drive One Bear Place #97288 Waco, Texas 76798 tel (254) 710-1911 fax (254) 710-2316 Building Hours Monday - Friday 8:00am - 5:00pm Saturday - Sunday Closed Holidays Closed Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 About News Submit News Mission Statement and Core Values Baylor Law Learning Outcomes Practice Ready Law Professors, Life Coaches The Quarter System Quick Facts Public Service Legal Clinics Special Events LEAD Counsel - Making a Difference Conference 2021 | Making a Difference Conference Baylor Law Students 2020 | Vision for Leadership Conference 2019 | Making a Difference Conference 2018 | Making a Difference Conference 2017 | Making a Difference Conference Starr Federalist Papers Lecture Series Presented by John and Marie Chiles R. Matt Dawson Lecture Series Notice of Non-Discrimination Building Hours Contact Us History 100 Years of Practice Court Baylor Law Virtual Tours Academics Academic Calendar Academic Services Advocacy Top Gun National Mock Trial Competition 2021 Top Gun XII Top Gun XI - How We Did It 2020 Top Gun XI 2019 Top Gun X 2018 Top Gun Competition 2017 Top Gun Competition 2016 Top Gun Competition 2015 Top Gun Competition Transactional Practice Ready Transactional Courses Professional Tracks & Capstones Transactional Dual Degree Programs Transactional Faculty Transactional Law & Practice Court Legal Writing Business Law Boot Camp The Closer National Transactional Law Competition 2023 | The Closer 2022 | The Closer 2021 | The Closer 2020 | The Closer 2019 | The Closer 2018 | The Closer 2017 | The Closer In House Counsel Externship Program Competition Opportunities and Results for Current Students Transactional Law Mentorship Program Degree Programs Executive LL.M. in Litigation Management Baylor Law Learning Outcomes Experiential Learning Practice Court Program Legal Clinics Entrepreneurship Clinic Estate Planning Clinic Immigration Clinic IP Law Clinic Trial Advocacy Clinic Veterans Clinic Transactional Capstones Public Service Baylor Law's Pro Bono and Public Service Program Adoption Day People's Law School People's Law School | 2022 People's Law School 2022 Class Schedule People's Law School 2022 Survey People's Law School | 2021 Service Opportunities for Law Students Waco McLennan Pro Bono Challenge Waco McLennan Pro Bono Challenge Hours Recording Form Waco McLennan Pro Bono Challenge Sign-up Waco McLennan Outstanding Pro Bono Advocate Awards DAYL Pro Bono Challenge DAYL Pro Bono Challenge Hours Recording Form DAYL Pro Bono Challenge Sign-Up DAYL Pro Bono Annual Challenge Results DAYL Pro Bono Partners Service Award Resources Student Awards Competitions Intramural Opportunities Intermural Opportunities Externships Leadership Development Program Legal Mapmaker Legal Mapmaker Program Payment Study Abroad Legal Writing Integrated Approach Writing Courses Writing Faculty The Ultimate Writer Competition The Paper Chase Legal Writing Competition Study Abroad at St Andrews Baylor Law Review Admissions Explore Student Profiles Adan Abu-Hakmeh Lexie Ammons Allison Barber Paolo Ferrel Paige Heitkamp Drake Pew Leah Reyes Sami Shaffer Program Overview Advocacy Transactional Practice Legal Writing Experiential Learning Quarter System Community Career Development Curriculum More Information Request a Viewbook Is Law School Right for You? Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Accreditation Notice of Non-Discrimination Apply Dates and Deadlines Application Requirements JD Applicants Transfer and Visiting Student Applicants International Student Applicants Joint Degree Applicants Denied Application Review Quick Facts Application Status Checker Admissions FAQs Admissions Policies Finance Estimated Costs Financial Aid FAQs Scholarships Loans Veteran Information Financial Aid Step-by-Step Visit Individual Visits External Recruiting Events Open Houses Interviews Virtual Tours Pre-Law Visits Visiting Waco Finding the Admissions Office Admitted Students Next Steps Admitted Students Packet Scholarship Reconsideration Request Pay Your Seat Deposit Apply for Financial Aid Update Your Contact Information Set Up Your Student ID and Email Visits and Events Schedule an Individual Visit Attend an Admitted Students Day Watch a Virtual Tour Attend an Admitted Students Meal View a Recorded Session Attend an Open House Registration and Orientation Quick Facts Executive LL.M. in Litigation Management Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Alumni & Giving Alumni Resources Get Involved Give Back Baylor Law School Alumni Information Update Submit Alumni Note Career Development Employers Current Students Employment Statistics Contact the CDO Baylor Law School Current Students Academic Services Calendars Health & Wellness Policies and Feedback Professional Development Leadership Development Student Life Title IX ABA Required Disclosures Law School Home Events Event Calendars Emergency and Closure Information Faculty & Staff Faculty and Staff Directory Faculty Scholarship Faculty and Staff News Faculty and Staff Resources Law School Home Library Library Collection Electronic Resources Library Services Policies and Information Library Online Catalog Technology Law School