Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Collaborative Piano and Opera Coaching MM You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Collaborative Piano and Opera Coaching MM Apply Request More Info Collaborative Piano and Opera Coaching MM Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Ensembles & Performance Master's Audition Requirements Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Master of Music in Collaborative Piano and Opera Coaching Develop the foundation for a professional career as a pianist and vocal coach with a Master of Music in Collaborative Piano and Opera Coaching in Temple’s Boyer College of Music and Dance. Gain the skills needed to successfully train and accompany opera singers. In addition to teaching lessons, graduates with a Collaborative Piano and Opera Coaching MM often pursue positions in higher education and professional performance. Students in this two-year, 30-credit graduate music studies program focus on skills unique to working with singers and opera production. The curriculum is offered on a part- or full-time basis, and it is fully accredited by the National Association of Schools of Music. Highlights of the program include courses focused on the language and diction skills necessary for opera coaching; learning piano skills unique to song and opera repertoire; numerous performance opportunities both on and off campus; and working with complete opera productions as rehearsal pianists and vocal coaches. All students are required to take Diagnostic Examinations in aural skills, counterpoint, harmony and music history prior to the first term of graduate study. To earn your degree, you must complete a comprehensive final project, including an oral presentation or written paper, as well as several required performances with singers in the Boyer College of Music and Dance Voice and Opera programs. Explore Boyer Faculty Faculty Discover keyboard studies faculty in the Boyer College of Music and Dance. Explore Boyer Faculty See faculty members in Boyer keyboard studies degree programs. Classes & Curriculum The Master of Music in Collaborative Piano and Opera Coaching is specifically designed for pianists who desire to accompany opera singers. Courses focus the skills needed to guide rehearsals in professional settings and identify issues specific to opera singers. You’ll graduate with a firm understanding of how to conduct an opera to perform in professional settings. Some of the courses include History of Opera, Pedagogy of Technique, and Piano for Accompanying and Chamber Music Majors. Learn more about Collaborative Piano and Opera Coaching MMus courses. Related Graduate Degrees Collaborative Piano and Chamber Music MM Harpsichord Performance MM Historical Keyboard Performance DMA Music MA Music MS Music PhD Piano Pedagogy MM Piano Performance MM Piano Performance DMA Related Graduate Certificates Professional Studies Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Master of Music offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $1,095.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,458.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Our Advisors Faculty advisors can help you navigate your program and discuss research opportunities, teaching assistantships and more. Learn more about Boyer College of Music and Dance faculty. Program Contact Charles Abramovic, professor in the Keyboard Department, is the faculty program contact for the Master of Music in Collaborative Piano and Chamber Music. Phone: 215-204-7388 Email: charles.abramovic@temple.edu Student Clubs & Organizations Participating in student groups provides peer support and future professional contacts. There are more than 200 student organizations at Temple University. ConTemplum hosts numerous concerts, forums and seminars to foster a community of musicians who are dedicated to exploring contemporary musical ideas and performing new compositions. Music Teachers National Association offers a vast educational network of conferences, continuing education opportunities and small business resources to support the enrichment and professionalism of music teachers. OWLchestra Community Orchestra is a community string orchestra composed of students and community members who want to play music together in a low-stress environment. Learn more about clubs and organizations. Accreditation The Boyer College of Music and Dance is accredited by the American Music Therapy Association, National Association of Schools of Music, National Association of Schools of Dance and Pennsylvania Department of Education. BC-CPOC-MMUS Additional Program Information School/College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Collaborative Piano and Opera Coaching MM Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Ensembles & Performance Master's Audition Requirements Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info