Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Apply Visit Give Information For Current Students Faculty Search BC.edu Links Menu Main Nav Back Back Close About Overview Dean's Message Why the Morrissey College? Contact Open Positions Visit Us Related Links Boston College Mission Office for Institutional Diversity Core Curriculum Majors and Minors BC Veterans Undergraduate Overview The Liberal Arts Advantage Core Curriculum Core Requirements & Courses Jesuit Philosophy The History of Core Renewal Renewed Core Course Goals Complex Problems & Enduring Questions Reflection Sessions CP&EQ Call for Proposals Founding Documents Assessment and Governance Faculty Resources Contacts Core Fellows Majors Minors Cornerstone Seminar Programs The Academic Advising Center Degree Requirements The Advising Process Major & Minor Requirements Pre-Health Program Academic Preparation Exploring Health Professions Preparing for Health Professions Graduate School Undergraduate Fellows Academic Policies Contact Related Links Find Your Program Campus Life Research Opportunities Undergraduate Admission Internship Approval Graduate Overview Admission Financial Support Admitted Students Academic Programs Current Graduate Students New Hire Information Registration & Forms Conference Reimbursement Policies and Procedures Research Funding Thesis Checklist Dissertation Guidelines and Checklist Commencement The Versatile Ph.D. Emergency Fund Application Contact Giving Related Links Graduate Student Life Policies & Procedures Graduate Student Association Graduate Student Emergency Relief Fund Faculty & Research Departments Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Morrissey College Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Current Students Faculty BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Home Undergraduate Minors Undergraduate The Liberal Arts Advantage Core Curriculum Majors Minors Cornerstone Seminar Programs The Academic Advising Center Minors Departmental Minor Interdisciplinary Minors Lynch School Minors Departmental Minor A departmental minor consists of six or seven courses. These must include one introductory level course and at least one upper-level course or seminar. Students choose courses for the minor in consultation with the director of the department’s minor program. No more than two Core courses may be used toward a minor. Core courses not counting toward a departmental major will not count toward a departmental minor. Students may not major and minor in the same department unless that department offers more than one major. Ancient Greek Arabic Studies Art History Biology Chemistry Chinese Computer Science Economics English Film Studies French Geological Sciences German Hispanic Studies History Italian Latin Linguistics Mathematics Music Philosophy Physics Russian Sociology Studio Art Theatre Theology At a Glance How many courses? A Morrissey College Interdisciplinary minors consist of 18 credits Types of Courses Must include either a required introductory course or a concluding seminar or project. Some programs require both. Who is eligible? Minors are open to all undergraduate students and courses prescribed by the requirements of the minor must be accessible to the students. Additional Information The minor should aim for a coherent shape appropriate to the subject matter and offer courses that give students a definite sense of movement, from a beginning to a middle and an end, from introductory to advanced levels, or from general to specialized treatments. Students must select at least three of the courses for nine credits from a combination of three-or-more credit courses or three courses totaling nine credits (at the discretion of the minor program) from three different MCA&S departments. In order to earn an interdisciplinary minor, students must have at least 15 credits in the minor program that are not used to fulfill requirements for another major or minor or a Core requirement. Students carrying a double major are advised not to minor. Each minor will be administered by a coordinating committee, consisting of a director appointed by the Dean and at least two additional members who represent departments included in the minor. Interdisciplinary Minors Course Director(s) Email African and African Diaspora Studies Martin Summers martin.summers@bc.edu American Studies Adam Lewis adam.lewis.2@bc.edu Ancient Civilization Mark Thatcher markthatcher@bc.edu Asian Studies Christina Klein christina.klein@bc.edu Catholic Studies Fr. Charles Gallagher charles.gallagher@bc.edu East European Studies Maxim Shrayer maxim.shrayer@bc.edu Environmental Studies Acting Director Tara Pisani-Gareau tara.pisanigareau@bc.edu Faith, Peace and Justice Joshua Snyder joshua.snyder@bc.edu German Studies Nick Block nicholas.block@bc.edu Global Public Health and the Common Good publichealth@bc.edu International Studies Erik Owens erik.owens@bc.edu Patricia McLaughlin patricia.mclaughlin.3@bc.edu Irish Studies James H. Murphy james.h.murphy@bc.edu Islamic Civilization and Societies Ali Banuazizi ali.banuazizi@bc.edu Kathleen Bailey kathleen.bailey@bc.edu Jewish Studies Donald Fishman donald.fishman@bc.edu John Michalczyk john.michalczyk.1@bc.edu Journalism Angela Ards angela.ards@bc.edu Latin American Studies Ernesto Livon-Grosman ernesto.livon-grosman@bc.edu Managing for Social Impact and the Public Good Lourdes German lourdes.german@bc.edu Kenneth Himes, O.F.M. kenneth.himes@bc.edu Medical Humanities, Health, and Culture Amy Boesky amy.boesky@bc.edu Religion and American Public Life Mark Massa, SJ mark.massa@bc.edu Women's & Gender Studies Sharlene Hesse-Biber sharlene.hesse-biber@bc.edu Students in the Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences completing minors in the Lynch School of Education must fulfill all major, Core, and elective Arts and Sciences requirements, and have credit in at least 32 Morrissey College courses. Students are eligible to enroll in three LSOE minors. It is advisable, regardless of the student’s major area of study, to carefully select Core courses in the freshman year. Foundation in Education Minor All students, except Lynch School students, are eligible to declare this 18 credit minor. The minor consists of six courses (18 credits). This minor does not lead to certification. Foundation in Education Requirements Inclusive Education Minor The minor is designed to (a) introduce students to the world of disabilities and special education, with an emphasis on special education practice, and (b) enhance the ability of future professionals to meet the needs of an increasingly diverse population of students in America’s schools. The minor is compatible with efforts of MCAS and Lynch School’s joint Teachers for a New Era initiative as well as CSON and CSOM’s special interest. The six-course minor (18 credits and a 0 credit filed observation) is consistent with the number of courses/credits required in MCAS and CSOM. It includes two courses that may satisfy the University core for social science and cultural diversity. All student should confirm this with their individual advisor. Classes in this minor address the nature and implications of disabilities as well as effective practices in special education. Inclusive Education Requirements Secondary Education Minor The Lynch School's Secondary Education Minor enables students to combine a liberal arts education and scholarship in a major discipline with professional study and practice. The program is founded on the belief that high school teaching is an important profession, requiring a lifelong commitment to service and professional growth. The program prepares teachers to develop students as knowledgeable, skilled, and caring individuals. This minor prepares teachers who are perceptive and sensitive people, able to communicate well, and are dedicated to the art and science of teaching. Students from MCAS who follow a major in Biology (B.S. or B.A.), Chemistry, Geology (Earth Science), Physics, English, History, Mathematics, French, Hispanic Studies, Latin, or Classical Humanities are eligible. Secondary Education Requirements Applied Psychology and Human Development Minor The Applied Psychology and Human Development minor consists of 18 credits in the Lynch School. Two courses (6 credits) are required and the remaining four courses (12 credits) are electives to be selected from applied psychology courses. Applied Psychology and Human Development Requirements Leadership in Higher Education and Community Settings Minor This interdisciplinary minor is to students in the Lynch School, MCAS, CSON, and CSOM. This minor serves students who are interested in institutions of higher education, in local and international non-government organizations (NGOs) and/or in community-based programs. The minor consists of courses which are in the Lynch School and in the Carroll School of Management. Leadership in Higher Education and Community Settings Requirements Back To Top Back To Top Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences Gasson Hall 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 About Undergraduate Graduate Faculty & Research Departments Contact Departments Art, Art History, and Film Biology Chemistry Classical Studies Communication Computer Science Earth and Environmental Sciences Economics Engineering English German Studies History Mathematics Music Philosophy Physics Political Science Psychology Romance Languages and Literatures Slavic & Eastern Languages and Literatures Sociology Theatre Theology Apply Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College