Skip to content Clemson University Clemson University Search Menu Close Sorry, your browser does not support inline SVG. Sorry, your browser does not support inline SVG. Apply Giving News Resources for Students Faculty & Staff Parents Alumni Clemson University Academics Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Academics Home Employment Opportunities Apply for Admission Colleges College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business College of Education College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences College of Science Graduate School Academic Resources Academic Calendar Registrar Division of Undergraduate Studies Center for Career and Professional Development Academic Success Center GRAD 360° Libraries Outside the Classroom PEER/WISE Call Me MISTER® Creative Inquiry and Undergraduate Research Cooperative Education University Professional Internship and Co-op Program (UPIC) Study Abroad Admissions Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Admissions Home Schedule a Tour Apply for Admission Applying to Clemson First-Year Undergraduate Transfer Undergraduate International Undergraduate Graduate Students Academic Opportunities Majors Graduate Programs Online Graduate Programs Scholar Programs Paths to Graduate School Honors College Experiential Learning Financial Aid Tuition and Fee Calculator Undergraduate Financial Aid Graduate Fellowships and Awards Residency Requirements Campus Life Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Campus Life Home Club Sports Brooks Center for the Performing Arts Join Your Clemson Family Finding Your Community Living-Learning Communities Student Veterans Multicultural Programs FIRST Army ROTC Air Force ROTC Services On Campus Housing & Dining Campus Recreation Parking and Transportation Student Health Services TigerOne Card Services Clemson Athletics Get Involved Clubs and Organizations Fraternity and Sorority Life Orientation Ambassadors Tiger Media Graduate Student Government Undergraduate Student Government Research Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Research Home Clemson University Research Foundation (CURF) Division of Research Research Opportunities Student Research at Clemson Creative Inquiry Research Facilities Postdoctoral Affairs Serving South Carolina Through Research School of Health Research Public Service and Agriculture Clemson Experimental Forest Clemson Extension Clemson Research and Education Centers Public Service and Agriculture Research Farm Services Innovation and Economic Development Corporate Partnerships and Strategic Initiatives Clemson University International Center for Automotive Research (CU-ICAR) Clemson University Restoration Institute (CURI) Clemson University Biomedical Engineering Innovation Campus (CUBEInC) Center for Human Genetics Innovation Campus and Technology Park About Clemson Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back About Clemson Home Clemson News Clemson Athletics For Tigers Applying to Clemson Working at Clemson Traditions Military Heritage Things To Do in Clemson Visit Clemson Campus Resources Employment Opportunities Home and Garden Information Center Brand Guidelines CCIT Academic Calendar Training ClemsonForward Campus Leadership Board of Trustees President Academic Affairs and Provost Inclusion and Equity Student Affairs Faculty Senate Staff Senate Search Resources for Current Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni CU Honors College Academics Forward Arrow Academics Curriculum Tracks Forward Arrow Curriculum Tracks General Honors Departmental Honors Interdisciplinary Honors Back Arrow Back Honors Courses and Seminars Honors Graduation Back Arrow Back Admissions Forward Arrow Admissions First-Year Clemson Honors Students Enrolled Clemson Students Transfer Students Clemson Honors Student Ambassadors Schedule a Visit Newly Admitted Students Back Arrow Back Opportunities Forward Arrow Opportunities Intellectual Growth Forward Arrow Intellectual Growth Dixon Global Policy Scholars Dixon Fellows Program EUREKA! Summer Program for Research Interns Back Arrow Back Professional Development Forward Arrow Professional Development Professional Development Opportunities Employer Networking Back Arrow Back Travel Forward Arrow Travel Conference Travel Grants Christopher J. Duckenfield Scholars Program Educational Enrichment Travel Grants London Internship Program Summer 2022 Mini Grants Back Arrow Back Honors Center Honors Residential College Grants Breakthrough Scholars Program Back Arrow Back Student Support Forward Arrow Student Support Honors Advising Peer Mentors SASH Wellness Ambassadors Connections Welcome Week Back Arrow Back About Forward Arrow About Honors Faculty and Staff Departmental Honors Contacts Honors College Advisory Board Honors Student Advisory Board Inclusive Excellence COVID-19 Information Back Arrow Back Resources Forward Arrow Resources Faculty Forward Arrow Faculty Create an Honors Course Honors Faculty Award Back Arrow Back Alumni School Counselors Parents Back Arrow Back Apply Giving News Sikes Hall Icon Main Menu Forward Arrow Icon Back Arrow Icon Back Clemson University Academics Academics Home Employment Opportunities Apply for Admission Colleges College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business College of Education College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences College of Science Graduate School Academic Resources Academic Calendar Registrar Division of Undergraduate Studies Center for Career and Professional Development Academic Success Center GRAD 360° Libraries Outside the Classroom PEER/WISE Call Me MISTER® Creative Inquiry and Undergraduate Research Cooperative Education University Professional Internship and Co-op Program (UPIC) Study Abroad Admissions Admissions Home Schedule a Tour Apply for Admission Applying to Clemson First-Year Undergraduate Transfer Undergraduate International Undergraduate Graduate Students Academic Opportunities Majors Graduate Programs Online Graduate Programs Scholar Programs Paths to Graduate School Honors College Experiential Learning Financial Aid Tuition and Fee Calculator Undergraduate Financial Aid Graduate Fellowships and Awards Residency Requirements Campus Life Campus Life Home Club Sports Brooks Center for the Performing Arts Join Your Clemson Family Finding Your Community Living-Learning Communities Student Veterans Multicultural Programs FIRST Army ROTC Air Force ROTC Services On Campus Housing & Dining Campus Recreation Parking and Transportation Student Health Services TigerOne Card Services Clemson Athletics Get Involved Clubs and Organizations Fraternity and Sorority Life Orientation Ambassadors Tiger Media Graduate Student Government Undergraduate Student Government Research Research Home Clemson University Research Foundation (CURF) Division of Research Research Opportunities Student Research at Clemson Creative Inquiry Research Facilities Postdoctoral Affairs Serving South Carolina Through Research School of Health Research Public Service and Agriculture Clemson Experimental Forest Clemson Extension Clemson Research and Education Centers Public Service and Agriculture Research Farm Services Innovation and Economic Development Corporate Partnerships and Strategic Initiatives Clemson University International Center for Automotive Research (CU-ICAR) Clemson University Restoration Institute (CURI) Clemson University Biomedical Engineering Innovation Campus (CUBEInC) Center for Human Genetics Innovation Campus and Technology Park About Clemson About Clemson Home Clemson News Clemson Athletics For Tigers Applying to Clemson Working at Clemson Traditions Military Heritage Things To Do in Clemson Visit Clemson Campus Resources Employment Opportunities Home and Garden Information Center Brand Guidelines CCIT Academic Calendar Training ClemsonForward Campus Leadership Board of Trustees President Academic Affairs and Provost Inclusion and Equity Student Affairs Faculty Senate Staff Senate Search close CU Honors College Academics show submenu for Academics Curriculum Tracks show submenu for Curriculum Tracks General Honors Departmental Honors Interdisciplinary Honors Honors Courses and Seminars Honors Graduation Admissions show submenu for Admissions First-Year Clemson Honors Students Enrolled Clemson Students Transfer Students Clemson Honors Student Ambassadors Schedule a Visit Newly Admitted Students Opportunities show submenu for Opportunities Intellectual Growth show submenu for Intellectual Growth Dixon Global Policy Scholars Dixon Fellows Program EUREKA! Summer Program for Research Interns Professional Development show submenu for Professional Development Professional Development Opportunities Employer Networking Travel show submenu for Travel Conference Travel Grants Christopher J. Duckenfield Scholars Program Educational Enrichment Travel Grants London Internship Program Summer 2022 Mini Grants Honors Center Honors Residential College Grants Breakthrough Scholars Program Student Support show submenu for Student Support Honors Advising Peer Mentors SASH Wellness Ambassadors Connections Welcome Week About show submenu for About Honors Faculty and Staff Departmental Honors Contacts Honors College Advisory Board Honors Student Advisory Board Inclusive Excellence COVID-19 Information Resources show submenu for Resources Faculty show submenu for Faculty Create an Honors Course Honors Faculty Award Alumni School Counselors Parents Clemson Home CU Honors College Admissions Current: Newly Admitted Students Newly Admitted Student Resources Congratulations on your acceptance to Clemson Honors! Let's Get Started Our faculty, staff, and students are committed to ensuring that you have the information needed to make the best college choice. We hope that you find the following events and resources engaging and informative! We will update this page as we get new information. Next Steps If your student portal has been updated with an invitation to join the Honors College, congratulations! We hope to see you this fall. Whether you choose to accept or decline our invitation, you will need to: Log in to your Application Status Portal Find the Clemson Honors section Click on “Decision Form” Please note that the Clemson Honors decision form is separate from, and in addition to, your Clemson University Decision Reply form. You must accept both in order to be enrolled at Clemson University as an Honors College student. The deadline for your Honors decision form is May 1. After you accept your invitation to join us at Clemson Honors, review the new student checklist to find out what happens next. Housing If you have recently been admitted to Clemson University and to the Clemson Honors College as a first-year undergraduate student, you can access Honors housing information within 24 hours of submitting your: Honors admission decision reply form in your undergraduate portal. Enrollment deposit, which must be paid before you can apply for housing (housing information will appear 24 hours after payment). You Need to Know Undergraduate students are required to live on-campus during their first year as an undergraduate student; however, housing in the Honors Residential College is not mandatory or guaranteed. Housing priority at Clemson University is determined by your undergraduate application submission date. So the earlier you applied to Clemson, the better your chances are of getting your first choice of housing. Visit the Honors Residential College web page for details about living in the on-campus Honors community. You can also find more information about campus housing through Clemson Home. Finding a Roommate Some Honors students have found roommates through the general Class of 2026 Facebook group. Also, you can search for Honors roommates in the housing application portal once you have completed your housing application and have chosen the Honors Residential College as your community choice. Honors students are given priority for Honors Residential College spaces. Orientation Each summer, incoming Clemson students participate in a new student orientation experience. If you have accepted your invitation to join Clemson Honors in the fall, please visit the University's orientation website for important updates regarding New Student Orientation. As a Clemson Honors student, you will receive priority course registration during orientation as well as additional support, resources, and programming from the Honors faculty and staff throughout your orientation experience. Below are a few important Honors-specific updates for New Student Orientation: All incoming Honors students will register for fall 2022 courses virtually on Monday, June 20. Mark your calendar for this date! More information will be provided once you sign-up for New Student Orientation (sign-up opens on April 27) and begin working through the Virtual Orientation platform (available beginning May 11). There will be an Honors College module in the Virtual Orientation platform that incoming Honors students will be required to complete. The Honors College will host in-person programming during the July sessions only of “Ready, Set, Roar!” – they will be optional two-day campus experiences that are not required but, if you do plan to attend a “Ready, Set, Roar!” experience for your college (each college will have one in June and one in July), you will want to plan to attend the July session in order to attend Honors-specific programming. More details will be sent out via email and included in your future “Ready, Set, Roar!” schedule of events. Below are the July dates for "Ready, Set, Roar!" More information on how to sign-up will be sent out from the University after you sign-up for orientation. For now, just mark your calendar! July 5-6: College of Science July 7-8: College of Behavioral, Social, and Health Sciences July 11-12: College of Architecture, Arts, and Humanities; College of Education; and College of Agriculture, Forestry, and Life Sciences July 13-14: College of Engineering, Computing, and Applied Sciences July 25-26: College of Business We always look forward to connecting with our incoming Honors students! Honors Admitted Student Events Watch Your Student Portal Use the "Visits and Events" tab in your Admitted Student Portal to find details about upcoming events and other information that may be useful to you at Clemson University. We'll be adding events to that tab as they're confirmed! How to Find and Register for Welcome Events Log in to your Admitted Student Portal. Click the Events tab. Register for each event you want to attend. You will receive an email confirmation for each event you register for. In addition, you will receive automated email reminders 24 hours and 1 hour before the start of the events you are attending. Please note that attendance to these events is not mandatory, but prior registration is required. Recorded Events Honors Parent & Student Q&A (March 1, 2022) Admitted Honors Student/Alumni Panel (March 29, 2022) Honors Student and Faculty Spotlights Meet Honors Students Morgan Usher ('22) and Bailey Gibson ('21): Meet Drs. Pocratsky and Catalano, our Faculty-in-Residence at the Honors Residential College: Honors Alumni Profiles Aaron Gordon ('17 - Civil Engineering) I was a Clemson Honors student for all four years and I loved every minute of it. During my time, I was fortunate to participate in the Dixon Fellows Program, the Dixon Global Policy Scholars Program, and several Honors seminars courses. It's not a coincidence that my favorite classes at Clemson were all Honors seminars. These small classroom experiences helped me develop close relationships with professors in nearly every department. My seminars involved amazing discussions including how to influence public policy in the United States, the relationship between the Civil War in the 1860s and the Civil Rights Movement of the 1960s, and the impact that cults and conspiracies have in our society. I met many of my best friends and my fiancée through the tight-knit community of the Honors College and it made a large school feel small. Clemson's Honors College defined my overall Clemson experience. I would do it again in a heartbeat. I am currently a structural engineer at Kimley-Horn Associates in Atlanta, GA. My focus has been large transportation projects with an emphasis on bicycle/pedestrian infrastructure. Most of my work has been for the Atlanta Beltline, a network of trails and light-rail transit that will one day connect the entire city of Atlanta. In addition, I am wrapping up a Master’s degree at Georgia Tech in Civil Engineering which I’ve been doing part-time. Since my projects are in the public sector, the Honors College played a huge role in preparing me for tackling the intersection between engineering and public policy. Planning, designing, and constructing transit projects requires a robust understanding of local politics, funding mechanisms, and legislative priorities. All of these topics and more were covered by the Dixon Global Policy Scholars program and the Honors seminars that I took. These experiences revealed my passion for serving the public through engineering and I don’t think I’d be where I am without them. Furthermore, the education I received at Clemson through the Honors College did an excellent job preparing me for the challenges of graduate school and the responsibilities of balancing work and the classroom.my field of study, and I had opportunities to study abroad in South Africa and the United Kingdom. These opportunities, combined with invaluable mentorship that I found in Clemson Honors, helped me discover the field of infectious disease epidemiology, which is the perfect intersection of my skills in mathematics, my interests in medicine and public health, and my commitment to social justice. Over the past 15 years, since graduating from Clemson and earning a Master's of Public Health from Emory University, I have worked within research institutes, universities, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, and the World Health Organization to better understand the impact of infectious diseases on population health in low- and middle-income countries. My work as an infectious disease epidemiologist has covered a range of topics in settings around the world - from managing data and clinical departments for HIV prevention studies in East and southern Africa and modeling the impact of public health interventions for tuberculosis in South East Asia, to establishing surveillance systems for emerging zoonoses and other infections in the Eastern Mediterranean and assessing pandemic preparedness and response capacities in the Western Pacific. I am grateful that my time in Clemson Honors started me on a path for such an interesting and meaningful career. Shannon Kay ('16 - Industrial Engineering) The Honors College and my Clemson experience proved transformational. Between living in the Honors Residential College and taking honors classes each semester, I found myself surrounded by intellectually engaging people, some of whom remain my best friends today. My life philosophy morphed dramatically while at Clemson, as I learned about and discussed ideas I had never considered before and took classes that challenged my intellectual capabilities in the most rewarding ways. Today, I’m pursuing a dual-degree Master of Engineering Sciences and Master of Business Administration at Harvard University. Clemson and the Honors College contributed greatly to the trajectory I have taken, primarily by nurturing my curiosity and encouraging me to set and passionately chase ambitious goals. While I constantly strive to review my life philosophy, no other time period has proved quite as formative as my experience at Clemson. Rebecca MacPherson ('18 - Genetics) My name is Rebecca MacPherson and I am a second year Ph.D. student in Genetics at the Clemson Center for Human Genetics, originally from Anchorage, Alaska. In 2018, I graduated from Clemson with a B.S. in Genetics and minors in Microbiology and Psychology. I was also a member of the Honors College and graduated with Departmental and General Honors. Simply put, the Honors College changed my life forever. Not only did I meet my husband through the EUREKA! Program, but the experiences afforded to me by the Honors College made applying to graduate school a painless process. The EUREKA! Program, a 5-week long residential research summer camp offered to incoming freshman, gave me relationships that led to recommendation letters for graduate school, research opportunities, multiple jobs, appearances in weddings, a “tailgate family”, and a head start on college. My transition from high school in Alaska to college at Clemson was much easier than I anticipated. Thanks to the EUREKA! Program, I already was familiar with campus and had a swarm of students and Honors College staff that I could lean on for support, before the school year even began. As I continued my undergraduate degree, my involvement with the Honors College continued to contribute to my success. I found that many of my closest friends were also members of the Honors College, living alongside me in the Honors Residential College and taking the same Honors courses. We were all united by a passion for learning, but diverse in our interests outside of classes, which made for many intellectually stimulating late-night discussions and just as many unforgettable adventures. The Honors courses I took also greatly contributed to my academic success. The smaller course sizes made me feel more comfortable asking questions and allowed for more one-on-one instruction in my more challenging science courses. Compared to non-Honors courses, Honors courses were on much more interesting topics, which fostered enthusiasm for my classes and further motivated me to succeed. By taking advantage of opportunities available to me through the Honors College, I built an extremely solid resume for applying to graduate school for a Ph.D. in Genetics. EUREKA! gave me my foot in the door for research and my Departmental Honors undergraduate thesis gave me a taste of how to be successful in graduate school. Additionally, I had an excellent GPA, in part due to the Honors courses that cultivated academic success. At the end of my four years with the Honors College, I had my pick of research programs, research mentors, and stipend packages. As it turns out, I was heavily recruited by my current Ph.D. advisor, a member of the National Academy of Sciences, even though she wasn’t originally planning on taking a student. Just like the transition into undergraduate, my transition into graduate school was made far easier by the opportunities given to me by the Honors College, and for that I am grateful! Campus Tours We often say there's "something in these hills" at Clemson. When you visit campus (either in-person or virtually), you'll see why. You can sign up for an in-person tour, which are being conducted in a limited capacity this spring, or for a guided virtual visit to Clemson University campus. You can also take this virtual tour at your convenience: Virtual Campus Tour | 2020 from Clemson University on Vimeo. Questions? We're happy to help! Please complete this Google form and the appropriate person will respond within 3 business days. University Orientation Information Get Started With EUREKA! This Summer “ “Congratulations on your invitation to join the Honors College! As a member of Clemson Honors, you will have access to a number of enhanced academic experiences, both in and out of the classroom, including Honors courses taught by top Clemson faculty; a series of intellectual engagement activities, such as book and film discussion groups; opportunities to apply for travel grants and for the Dixon Fellows Program; and much more. ” William Lasser Executive Director Clemson University Honors College Celebrate Your Honors Commitment! Share What Belonging to Clemson Honors Means To You Download mobile and computer wallpapers, party printables, postcards, yard signs, and social media filters, frames, gifs and stickers to celebrate your enrollment in the Clemson Honors College! Add #AcceptedClemsonHonors to your post on Instagram or Twitter, and we'll share them too! Download Digital Swag Meet a Clemson Honors Student BIOSCI GRADUATE SERVES AS HOMETOWN’S EXAMPLE OF PURSUING — AND ACHIEVING — BIG DREAMS Amoira Rush was sitting in an Easter Sunday church service the spring of her senior year in high school when she received an email telling her she had been accepted into the Clemson University Honors College. She graduated in December 2021 with a degree in biological sciences and a minor in psychology, and plans to go to medical school and become an OB-GYN. Read Amoira's Story Clemson University Facebook Instagram Twitter Linkedin Youtube Tiktok Policy/Terms of Use Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Copyright © 2022 Clemson University • Clemson, South Carolina 29634 Clemson University Facebook Instagram Twitter Linkedin Youtube Tiktok Resources A-Z Index Campus Map CU Safety Directory Webcams Apply to Clemson