COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Physician Assistant Section Menu PA Program Home About Physician Assistant Program Outcomes Admission Information Master of Physician Assistant Clinical Preceptors Financial Support Career Paths Alumni Emeritus Faculty College of Health Professions Home Faculty / Staff Directory Contact Us emeritus_faculty The Physician Assistant (PA) program at Wichita State University is the only one of its kind in Kansas. The program offers a Master of Physician Assistant (MPA) degree and prepares students to practice medicine in collaboration with a licensed physician. About the program How to apply Contact us Physician Assistant With more than 150 years of combined clinical and more than 85 years of healthcare education experience, the department of Physician Assistant (PA) at Wichita State University has a highly competitive master’s program ranked in the top 35 percent of the nation. Students gain a competitive advantage by learning from practicing faculty who care about their achievement. Our dedicated faculty, program affordability, strong community affiliations and location are key reasons our program has a 20:1 applicant ratio. A rewarding career as a PA offers graduates the opportunity for an excellent salary. Strong demand for PA continues to grow. » Learn more about Department of Physician Assistant Social Media Links / News CHP Facebook CHP Twitter WSU News PA Facebook PA Twitter Aaron McKinney Memorial The Physician Assistant Department at Wichita State University is honored to announce the Aaron McKinney Memorial. We are honored to announce the Aaron McKinney Memorial for PA student scholarship. Aaron McKinney, husband and father of three, graduated from the WSU PA Program 2013. He unexpectedly lost his life in 2014 at the age of 33, when his bicycle was tragically struck by a car as he was training for a triathlon. Visit Aaron's Memorial Crowdfunding Website PA student has passion for community and giving back Abby Warkentine is a clinical student and majoring Physician Assistant. Winner of the Bright Futures Innovation award, Warkentine talks about her love for the community and giving back. Attend Information Session Career Opportunities for Graduates Admission Information Student Handbook (PDF) Preceptor Handbook (PDF) Interprofessional Education Emeritus Faculty 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©