Skip to main content Search Cornell Cornell Video Explore Home Browse Recent Trending Playlists Series Speakers Topics Contributors Submit MyPlaylist Play all in MyPlaylist Ask a Question tbd Name Email Address Question Send or cancel × Ask a Question Successful Thanks, ! Your question has been submitted. × Better access to groceries could reduce food waste, emissions Posted on January 31, 2020 By Cornell SC Johnson College of Business, Media Relations and News, School of Hotel Administration Video Platform Video Management Video Solutions Video Player facebook twitter share interactive transcript request transcript/captions live captions download HD video SD video audio | MyPlaylist start: now end: now reset copy link copy embed X ELENA BELAVINA: In this paper, I looked at how number of grocery stores in the city impact how much food waste is produced in the market. First of all, we waste a lot of food. About 1/3 of everything that we grow just ends up never eaten, never touched, thrown away. And it's a huge amount of emissions associated with all that food that we are producing. All the machinery that goes in it, water, fertilizer, et cetera, et cetera, deforestation, all of that creates a huge amount of emissions. So by the time it just leaves the factory, already 80% of emissions are embedded. Another big factor that we don't think about is the way we dispose of this food. When it goes to the landfill, no air can access inside most of that food. And instead of CO2, methane actually ends up being produced. And as far as global warming is concerned, methane is about 20 to 30 times more harmful than carbon dioxide. What we find is the more stores you have, the lower food waste is going to be. And the main driver for this is households. So we, at home, throw away 10 times more food than the grocery stores. So what happens when you have many grocery stores is that you end up going to the store more often. It's closer to you so you end up going to the store more often. And as a result, you're buying less. What was interesting to me as a result of the study was that very small increases in store density can have very high impact. For example, in Chicago, which is a very representative city, a very small increase in store density, just three to four additional stores per 10 square kilometers, which is a very large area, could lead to about 6% to 9% reduction in food waste and to about 1% to 4% decrease in grocery costs for households. So it's a big win for environment and a big win for consumers. Transcript Request Form Name Email Address Disability Accommodation? Disability Accommodation? Yes No Affiliation -Select- Faculty Staff Student Alumni Other Send Request Cancel X We've received your request You will be notified by email when the transcript and captions are available. The process may take up to 5 business days. Please contact cornellcast@cornell.edu if you have any questions about this request. A new study by Elena Belavina, associate professor at the School of Hotel Administration, Cornell SC Johnson College of Business, finds that in most cities, a small increase in the number of grocery stores would result in less wasted food, a significant contributor to climate change. Related Links Better access to groceries could reduce food waste, emissions (Cornell Chronicle) More About food food waste sustainability civil infrastructure research What to watch next 0:42 MyPlaylist Farming housefly larva meal into animal or fish feed 2:04 MyPlaylist Max Zhang helps sustainable communities grow greener 1:57 MyPlaylist Reimagining everyday waste and turning it into useful resources surprise me Subscribe Submit Content Contact us RSS Cornell on YouTube Give Feedback Name Email Comments Send or cancel × Feedback Thanks for writing. We will be in touch shortly to address any questions, concerns, or technical difficulties you may have. × Schedule of Future Events There are no live broadcasts scheduled. × Email Updates See what's new on CornellCast and find out what's coming up next — and how you can take part. Subscribe to receive weekly CornellCast updates via email. Email address Subscribe or cancel × Subscribe Our hamsters have processed your subscription request and advise that the weekly update messages will contain details on unsubscribing in case you need them. × List Sent Our hamsters have processed your request and advise that a summary has been sent to the email address entered. × RSVP to this Live Event tdb tbd Enter your email below to be notified when this event begins Name Email Address Set reminder for Set reminder for 5 minutes 15 minutes 30 minutes 1 hour 1 day before the event starts. RSVP or cancel × RSVP Successful You should receive an email confirmation shortly. We will send you an email reminder before the show begins. You may request additional reminders for other times if you wish. You can also add this event to a calendar of your choice iCal/Outlook/other Google calendar For iCal, an .ics file will be downloaded to your computer or device. You may need to take additional steps to add the event to your personal calendar. × Settings Let us know your preferences and our accommodating hamsters will snap to it! Autoplay: on off Update or cancel × Follow this tbd tbd Enter your email below to be notified when new related videos become available. Name Email Address Follow or cancel × Thanks for Your Interest You should receive an email confirmation shortly. We will send you an email message when new related videos are posted. ×