Skip to main content Skip to main content Quick Links Canvas Email my.SMU Box HPC Canvas Email My.SMU Box HPC Skip to main content Need help? Follow Us Follow Us Blog Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us Twitter Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content OIT Help Help AV Design/Installation Event Services Classroom Technology OIT Knowledge Base IT Training Web Support Instructional Technology Instructional Technology Academic Technology's Instructional & Teaching Technology Guides Academic Technologies Training Academic Research Academic Technology Service Staff Additional Support Academic Technology Governance Council Classroom Technology Research Research Data Science Support Internet of Things Instructional Technology People Academic Technology Governance Council Other Research Tools Security Security About Our Program Reporting Security Incidents Digital Rights Management IT Procedures Passwords Policies Research Security Security Resouces Security Awareness Security Services Governance & Projects Governance & Projects Proposal Development & Review IT Governance Approval IT Governance Councils IT Governance Schedules IT Project Management Current IT Projects Project Resources Have an Idea for a Project? Services Services Accounts and Access Business Applications Business Intelligence & Reporting Communication and Collaboration Computer Labs Consulting and Development CylancePROTECT Data Science Computers and Printers Email and Calendaring ManeFrame II Inventory and Software Management High Performance Computing MATLAB & Simulink Networks and Servers Security STABLE Support and Training Teaching and Learning Web Development and Hosting Stay Informed Stay Informed Metrics IT Connect blog Change Management Planned Outages OIT on Twitter Technology News Archive Quick Links Quick Links About Us Account Activations Apps.SMU Blogs Box Canvas LMS Changes and Outages (Planned) Digital Signage SMU365 (Sharepoint Online) IT Training Mailing Lists (Lyris) my.SMU Open a Support Ticket Password Reset Tool Qualtrics STABLE Technology Purchases VPN Webmail Wiki A Z Service Index ☰ Office of Information Technology Office of Information Technology Services Zoom Zoom Video Conferencing and Web Conferencing Service Sign In Please Note: To help enhance application and data security, Duo Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA) is required to access this service. Zoom, a cloud-based video conferencing service, is now available to use on campus. This eLearning tool provides easy-to-use, high-definition video/audio conferencing to faculty and students on almost any device. Gettting Started Getting Started Getting Started with Zoom Click the Login button above. At the welcome screen, click the “CONTINUE” button to log in using Single Sign-On. If you are currently logged into another system using Single Sign-On, you will be automatically logged in and directed to Zoom. If you are not logged in to a system using Single Sign-On, login with your SMU ID and your SMU Password. You will then be directed to Zoom. First Time Using Zoom? First Time Using Zoom? If you have not installed or used Zoom before, try joining this test meeting to install the Zoom client and test your speakers and microphone. Joining a Zoom Meeting Not Affiliated with SMU? Joining a Zoom Meeting Not Affiliated with SMU? If you are joining a meeting as someone not affiliated with the University, download the Zoom client here for your convenience. You may also use Zoom through your web browser. Schedule Zoom Practice Schedule Zoom Practice If you would like to practice leading a Zoom session with students, we can help with that! Fill out the Zoom Practice Request form, and one of our technology students will be in touch! The students can join your session and provide help as needed as you try out different aspects of Zoom, such as sharing your screen. First Time Using Zoom? If you have not installed or used Zoom before, try joining this test meeting to install the Zoom client and test your speakers and microphone. For the webinars listed below, you may be prompted to enter your name before joining the webinar. Please Note: Accounts with more than six months of inactivity will have their Zoom access withdrawn. After that time, any active SMU user can obtain a Zoom account by signing in through SMU's Zoom portal using the Sign In button above. Working with Zoom Documentation and Training Zoom Documentation Zoom hosts extensive documentation on using it's service on the Zoom support page. You will find some common support issues below. For a complete list of Zoom support issues and documentation, please visit the Zoom support site. Also, the OIT Knowledge Base for Zoom and the IT Help Desk are available for support. Using Zoom Getting Started on PC & Mac How Do I Schedule Meetings Using Zoom to Produce Videos Recording a Meeting Sharing Your Screen Using the Virtual Background Mute/Unmute All Participants Getting Started with Breakout Rooms Managing Breakout Rooms Troubleshooting Zoom Zoom Cloud Service Status Where Do I Download the Latest Version? How Do I Join A Meeting? How Do I Start or Join a Scheduled Meeting as the Host? How Do I Find My Local Recording? How Do I Set Up Registration for Meetings? What is the URL? My Video/Camera Isn't Working How Do I Join My Computer Audio? Zoom Training Zoom hosts regular public onboarding sessions. The Zoom support team uses a Zoom Video Webinar to host the training. As an attendee, your video and audio will be disabled – you cannot see other attendees – but you can submit questions through the live Q&A panel. Zoom Meetings User Onboarding This Zoom-hosted 90-minute user onboarding session with live Q&A will review many of the Zoom features, including Zoom Meetings and using the Zoom Client software. They will discuss scheduling and hosting your events with an emphasis on best practices. To find the latest dates and times, please visit the Weekly Zoom Training Webinars page. Zoom Video Webinar User Onboarding This 75-minute user onboarding session with live Q&A will review Zoom features applicable to Zoom Video Webinar. We will discuss scheduling, hosting your events, including differences with the Zoom Meeting, plus guides to best practices. To find dates and times, please visit the Weekly Zoom Training Webinars page. Zoom Webinar Licensing Our campus license does not include Zoom Webinar. Webinar licenses can be purchased by a department for an annual fee based on the number of attendees expected. The license is associated with a specific user account. So a department may need multiple licenses if they will have multiple coordinators. To request a license, email help@smu.edu with the following information: user ID number who will be the webinar host, org number for charges, and the type of license you need. Seats; Annual Cost Webinar 500 $1,400 Webinar 1,000 $3,400 Webinar 3,000 $9,900 Webinar 5,000 $24,900 Webinar 10,000 $64,900 Zoom Faculty Researchers Staff Students Need Help? 214-768-HELP help@smu.edu smu.edu/itchat help.smu.edu Zoom Tech Guide: Recording Classes with Zoom (An Overview) Tech Guide: Recording Classes with Zoom Cloud Check Service Status Related Services Microsoft Teams Sharepoint Skype for Business Related Updates More Updates Apply Visit Schools Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share