Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index Office of Research Commercialization Menu Search TTU Research Home Office of Research Commercialization Welcome Welcome to the Texas Tech University Office of Research Commercialization (ORC). It is our privilege to work with researchers and business partners to translate research discoveries into commercial applications and successfully bring them to the marketplace. As part of the innovation ecosystem, it is the responsibility of the ORC to identify, protect, market and license the intellectual property created by faculty, staff and students in the Texas Tech University System, as well as promote entrepreneurship, start-up ventures and economic development for the West Texas community. Vision Our vision is to provide a highly efficient and effective technology transfer organization for TTUS. The hallmarks of our office are centered in professionalism and ethical behavior. We believe this is imperative to earning the trust and respect of our innovators at every step in the commercialization process. In the same way, our business partners will be treated with integrity and honesty. Mission The mission of the Office of Research Commercialization is to partner with TTUS innovators to facilitate the commercial use of their inventions through the process of identifying high potential research, securing patent rights, and executing license agreements with capable business partners. Faculty Students For entrepreneurial programs and venture development, visit the Innovation Hub at Research Park. If you see this don't fill out this input box. We Want to Hear from You! Questions about the patent process? Interested in partnerships? Looking for specific available technologies at TTU? Send us an email and a member of our staff will reply promptly. To submit a disclosure, please visit the Disclose an Invention page. *Name *Email *Message Captcha Verification Submit Reset Office of Research Commercialization Address Administration, 2625 Memorial Circle, Suite 367, MS 2007, Lubbock, TX 79409-2007 Phone 806.742.4105 Email orc@ttu.edu Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock, Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversityJun 24, 2021 8:49 AM Office of Research Commercialization About the Office Office of Research Commercialization About the Office Back What We Do Who We Are Commercialization Success Commercialization Roadmap Student Innovators Office of Research Commercialization Student Innovators Back Commercialization Process Disclose an Invention Entrepreneurship Resources Commercialization Roadmap Faculty Inventors Office of Research Commercialization Faculty Inventors Back Advancing Your Research Protecting Intellectual Property Disclose an Invention Commercializing Technology Office of Research Commercialization Faculty Inventors Commercializing Technology Back I-Corps Commercialization Roadmap Industry & Investors Office of Research Commercialization Industry & Investors Back Industry Partners IP Portfolio & Licensing Centers & Institutes Northwest Texas Small Business Development Center Innovation Hub at Research Park FAQ Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index