Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Christian Higher Education Leadership Seminar Menu Baylor>Christian Higher Education Leadership Seminar Christian Higher Education Leadership Seminar A four-day interactive experience bringing together leading scholars and practitioners to engage in dialogue about issues facing Christian institutions. Participants include faculty and administrators (vice presidents, deans, department chairs) committed to the future of Christian higher education. Session speakers include Christian scholars and leaders nationally-recognized for their work in higher education. Topics include: Racial and Ethnic Diversity Food Insecurity Women in higher education Integration of faith and practice Moral and faith development of emerging adults Organizational leadership Religious Liberty Christianity and Liberal Arts Undergraduate student success Athletics Past, present, and future of Christian higher education View a full list of speakers and topics here. Our hope is to facilitate on-going dialogue to strengthen the mission and purposes of Christian higher education. 2020 Seminar Cost Baylor University has recently launched a new undertaking around the theme of Light (baylor.edu/lights). Baylor desires to be a place that helps others flourish. The Christian Higher Education Leadership Seminar is purposed to help Christian leaders flourish. Therefore, we do not want cost prohibiting any institution from participating. To demonstrate our commitment, we are making the cost of the seminar variable: we ask participants to pay what their institution/department can support. The registration cost covers all meals, lodging on campus, and the costs associated with the seminar itself. We understand that the variable rate is unorthodox; our intention is that finances do not prohibit any Christian leader from receiving the professional development that this seminar offers. To register for the seminar, please fill out the registration form. The registration deadline is April 15th. Christian Higher Education Leadership Seminar About the Seminar 2020 Program 2020 Speakers David Smith Jonathan Tran Julia Daniel George Yancey Nancy Brickhouse Mia Moody-Ramirez Nathan Alleman Perry Glanzer Rishi Sriram Sarah Schnitker Thomas Kidd Tiffany Hogue Cara Cliburn Allen Sarah Madsen Jonathan Eckert Matt Thomas Francis Beckwith Travel and Accommodations Dining History Reviews FAQs Registration Show More General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 About the Seminar 2020 Program 2020 Speakers David Smith Jonathan Tran Julia Daniel George Yancey Nancy Brickhouse Mia Moody-Ramirez Nathan Alleman Perry Glanzer Rishi Sriram Sarah Schnitker Thomas Kidd Tiffany Hogue Cara Cliburn Allen Sarah Madsen Jonathan Eckert Matt Thomas Francis Beckwith Travel and Accommodations Dining History Reviews FAQs Registration