Skip to main content UTS: Promo Links COVID-19 Updates Get Involved Search terms Search icon University of Texas System Toggle navigation Primary Navigation News Institutions Regents Administration Offices Breadcrumbs Home Page title UT System Offices Main page content All offices Academic Affairs Aircraft Operations Board of Regents Budget and Planning Business Affairs Capital Projects Chancellor Collaborative Business Services Communications and Media Relations Contracts and Procurement Controller Education and Research Center at Laredo Employee Benefits Events External Relations, Communications and Advancement Services Facilities Management Finance Financial Shared Services General Counsel Gift Administration, Compliance and Advancement Services Governmental Relations Health Affairs Historically Underutilized Businesses (HUB) Human Resources Information Security Institutional Research and Analysis Police Population Health Risk Management Real Estate Shared Information Services System Audit Office Systemwide Information Services Systemwide Compliance Talent and Innovation Technology and Information Services Telecommunications Services Texas Medical Dental Schools Application Service (TMDSAS) Travel Services University Lands About the Executive Offices The University of Texas System Administration is organized within executive offices, each charged with overseeing specific policies and operations while supporting the Board of Regents and the Chancellor, who serves as the Chief Executive Officer. The executive offices provide direct strategic, administrative, and creative services to the 13 institutions, often providing centralized services in accordance with law and policy. Office of the Chancellor Office of Academic Affairs Office of Health Affairs Office of Business Affairs Office of External Relations, Communications, and Advancement Services Office of General Counsel Office of Governmental Relations The Office of the Chancellor The Chancellor serves as the Chief Executive Officer, providing leadership and support to the presidents of the 13 UT institutions and overseeing the administrative, budget and operations functions of the UT System. The Chancellor reports to the UT System Board of Regents. More information can be found on the Office of the Chancellor page. The Office of Academic Affairs Executive Vice Chancellor: Archie L. Holmes Jr., Ph.D. Academic Affairs Website Academic Affairs works with the presidents of the eight academic institutions to help advance their missions and develop and implement appropriate plans and programs. The responsibilities of the office include overseeing administrative and policy issues related to the academic institutions and monitoring a wide range of issues related to higher education policies and practices. The Office of Health Affairs Executive Vice Chancellor: John M. Zerwas, M.D. Health Affairs Website The Office of Health Affairs works with the presidents of the five health institutions, providing leadership and support for their shared mission of education, clinical care, research and community service. Of the six health institutions, four are health science centers that offer a wide range of degree programs and two are specialty tertiary hospitals with outpatient clinical services. All are engaged in medical research, education and patient care. The Office of Business Affairs Executive Vice Chancellor: Jonathan Pruitt Business Affairs Website The Office of Business Affairs works with business officers at the 13 institutions to establish and ensure compliance with operations and management policies and procedures. The Office of Business Affairs directs and coordinates the following offices: Finance University Lands Capital Projects Contracts and Procurement Systemwide Information Services Employee Benefits Budget and Planning Shared Information Services Controller Historically Underutilized Business (HUB) Office of External Relations, Communications and Advancement Services Vice Chancellor for External Relations, Communications and Advancement Services: Randa S. Safady, Ph.D. External Relations, Communications and Advancement Services Website The Office of External Relations, Communications and Advancement Services connects The University of Texas System with the public through strategic communication and interaction. With five areas of expertise, External Relations is prepared to assist and collaborate with each of the 13 UT institutions and UT System administrative offices to provide the public with an array of resources. The office of External Relations, Communications, and Advancement Services directs and coordinates the following offices: Gift Administration, Compliance and Advancement Services Communications and Media Relations Center for Enhancing Philanthropy Events The Office of General Counsel Vice Chancellor and General Counsel: Daniel H. Sharphorn, J.D. General Counsel Website The Office of General Counsel provides comprehensive legal services and professional expertise to and for System Administration and the 13 UT institutions. The office also coordinates and manages litigation services provided by the Attorney General’s Office and outside counsel; serves as administrator of the UT System medical liability self-insurance plan; and is the UT System’s ethics advisor. Additionally, the Office of General Counsel manages and oversees the following functions: Real Estate Office Office of Governmental Relations Vice Chancellor and Chief Governmental Relations Officer: Stacey Napier, J.D. Governmental Relations Website The Office of Governmental Relations monitors governmental affairs affecting higher education and interacts with state and local governments on behalf of the UT System and its institutions. In collaboration with other UT officials, as well as other higher education entities, the office works closely with legislators, legislative staff and state agencies on a wide variety of issues. UT System Links and Contact Information Academic Institutions UT Arlington UT Austin UT Dallas UT El Paso UT Permian Basin UT Rio Grande Valley UT San Antonio UT Tyler Health Institutions UT Southwestern UTMB Galveston UTHealth UT Health San Antonio UT MD Anderson UT System About SmartBook Office of the Chancellor Board of Regents Administration Offices Directory UT4U Outlook Web Access Info Center COVID-19 Site Policy Library Regents' Rules & Regulations Reports to the State Audit Reports Privacy Statement Linking Notice Copyright Accessibility Open Records Resources Careers Document Library seekUT UT System Dashboard Contact UT System State Links State of Texas Fraud Reporting Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Statewide Search University of Texas System New footer logo © 2022 The University of Texas System. 210 West 7th Street, Austin, Texas 78701-2982. (512) 499-4200 The University of Texas System Menu × Primary Mobile Navigation News Institutions Regents Administration Offices