Skip navigation Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Brown Grad School About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Graduate School Apply News Archive Graduate School Skip to Navigation News Archive Student Research: Study of past California wildfire activity suggests climate change will worsen future fires In the wake of recent wildfires that have ravaged northern and central California, a new study finds that the severity of fire activity in the Sierra Nevada region has been sensitive to changes in climate over the past 1,400 years. The findings, published in Environmental Research Letters, suggest that future climate change is likely to drive increased fire activity in the Sierras. “Our data show that climate has been the main driver of fire on a regional scale,” said Richard Vachula, a Ph.D. student in Earth, Environmental and Planetary Sciences and the study’s lead author. “We find that warm and dry conditions promote fire, which in light of climate model predictions suggests that future fires may be more extensive than we have observed in the last century.” Read more. Brown eliminates GRE test requirement for 24 doctoral programs In enabling Ph.D. program leaders to drop the requirement to submit test scores, the Graduate School looks to attract talented, high-achieving students from an increasingly diverse pool of candidates. “The future success of graduate education at Brown depends on the diverse, innovative and intellectually independent candidates we admit and the varied skill sets they bring to their disciplines,” said Dean of the Graduate School Andrew G. Campbell. “By removing the Graduate School’s GRE requirement and allowing programs to decide whether to require the exam, we will broaden the talent pool of students who apply to and have access to graduate education at Brown.” Read more. Carlo Presents Thesis Show, "References to Salvador Dalí Make Me Hot" The Brown/Trinity Rep MFA program presents its October thesis show, References to Salvador Dalí Make Me Hot, directed by Tatyana-Marie Carlo, a third year MFA directing candidate. "When I listen to José Rivera's words spoken aloud, I hear my family. He writes the way my family, a strong Puerto Rican family with a New York City Edge talk. He paints a vivid picture of my cousins, aunts, and uncles in this play,” says Carlo. The show also stars Brown/Trinity Rep MFA students Anwar Ali, Kalyne Coleman, Danielle Dorfman, Ricardy Fabre and Michael Rosas. Performances run October 3-13 at the Pell Chafee Performance Center. Learn more about the play and Tatyana-Marie Carlo. Student Research: Biology of bat wings may hold lessons for cold-weather work, exercise A new study finds that the muscles in bats’ wings operate at a significantly lower temperature than their bodies, especially during flight. Past research suggests that in most other creatures, including humans, muscles involved in exercise become warmer in response to movement. But the small muscles of a bat’s wing are uniquely vulnerable to heat loss during flight, as they’re covered by only a thin layer of skin — and warming them up would be inefficient from the standpoint of energy use. “We tend to assume that warm-blooded animals are warm all the time,” said doctoral student Andrea Rummel, who authored the study alongside Brown biologists Sharon Swartz and Richard Marsh. “But this research shows that warm-blooded animals have a lot more variation in body temperature than we expected. That has implications for how animals are moving around, including humans.” Read more. Student Research: Diet impacts the sensitivity of gut microbiome to antibiotics Antibiotics save countless lives each year from harmful bacterial infections — but the community of beneficial bacteria that live in human intestines, known as the microbiome, frequently suffers collateral damage.In a new study published in Cell Metabolism, researchers, including lead study author Damien Cabral, a Pathobiology doctoral student and Peter Belenky, an assistant professor of molecular microbiology and immunology, found that antibiotics change the composition and metabolism of the gut microbiome in mice, and that a mouse’s diet can mitigate or exacerbate these changes. Read more. Register for Teaching Intensive Institutions Conference A free conference on October 4 is open to all Brown PhD students who may be interested in careers at teaching intensive institutions. The workshop runs from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. at Westfield State University. Participants will have the opportunity to learn from and network with faculty and deans from a range of teaching-intensive institutions across the New England region. They will be available to review and offer advice on CVs and cover letters as well. Learn more and register. National Rankings include Brown's Graduate School among top universities U.S. News and World Report recognized Brown’s Graduate School in this year’s graduate program rankings, released last spring. A number of graduate programs ranked in the Top 25 in their respective fields, including: applied mathematics (No. 4), English (No. 13), sociology (No. 14), mathematics (No. 14), Earth sciences (No. 15), history (No. 16), public health (No. 17), economics (No. 19) and computer science (No. 25). Separately, Brown’s master of fine arts program in acting, offered in partnership with Trinity Repertory Company, earned the No. 4 rank on Hollywood Reporter's annual “Top Graduate MFA Acting Programs” list. Read more. Free Group Fitness Classes for Graduate Students Beginning this academic year, all medical and graduate students will have free and unlimited access to Brown Recreation's group fitness classes. Nearly 100 classes are offered per week and include strength training, kickboxing, cardio, yoga, dance and more. Starting Tuesday, September 10, Tuesday and Thursday mornings from 7-8 am, the Astronaut Training club will host a graduate/medical student only workout class led by certified group fitness instructors designed to get the heart rate up (through cardio, toning, and interval training) and meet students from other departments. Read more. Student Research: Computer model could help test new sickle cell drugs A team of Brown University researchers, including Lu Lu, a Ph.D. student in Applied Mathematics, has developed a new computer model that simulates the way red blood cells become misshapen by sickle cell disease. The model, described in a paper published in Science Advances, could be useful in the preclinical evaluation of drugs aimed at preventing the sickling process. “There are currently only two drugs approved by the FDA for treating sickle cell disease, and they don’t work for everyone. We wanted to build a model that considers the entire sickling process and could be used to quickly and inexpensively pre-screen new drug candidates,” said Lu. Read more. Community Fellows Info Sessions Community Fellows, both master’s and doctoral students, have the opportunity to create events and projects for the purpose of building graduate student community and fostering a graduate culture that respects and celebrates diversity, inclusion, and equity. Fellows will work in pairs to foster community in the following areas: race and social justice, international community, wellness and health, family-friendly, and master’s student community. Info session is on Monday, September 9 at 4:05 pm in Horace Mann, Room 103 at 47 George St. This session will cover the program’s goals, structure, past successes, funding, application process, and timeline. Learn more. « first ‹ previous … 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 … next › last » Home About the Graduate School Healthy Brown FAQs for Graduate Students Academics & Research Living & Resources Financing & Support Admitted Students & Orientation Application Information For Graduate Students For Faculty and Staff Brown University Brown University Graduate School Box 1867 Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-2600 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Resources Graduate School Handbook Academic Code CareerLAB Brown University Writing Center Sarah Doyle Center for Women and Gender Sheridan Center for Teaching & Learning Top Destinations Admission Inquiry Form Commencement Five-Year Ph.D. Support Open Graduate Education External Funding Application Process International Applicants