Skip to Main Content Brown University News from Brown Site Navigation Featured Events For Journalists Search Menu Graduate School Breadcrumb Home News from Brown News Search Subscribe to our weekly newsletter 37 Results based on your selections. News and Events In three ceremonies, medical, doctoral and master’s graduates celebrate hard-earned degrees May 29, 2022 In addresses at Brown’s Commencement ceremonies on Sunday, May 29, student speakers entreated their peers to make a positive impact using lessons they had learned during the COVID-19 pandemic. Read Article Open details for In three ceremonies, medical, doctoral and master’s graduates celebrate hard-earned degrees News and Events In return to Brown, 2020 doctoral and master’s graduates reflect on two years of perseverance May 28, 2022 Alumni who received their doctoral and master’s degrees in 2020 experienced Commencement and Reunion the way they’d long hoped to — across multiple days, in-person and surrounded by loved ones on College Hill. Read Article Open details for In return to Brown, 2020 doctoral and master’s graduates reflect on two years of perseverance News and Events 2020 doctoral and master’s degree speakers to return to College Hill for in-person addresses May 19, 2022 Mira Nikolova and Abdullah Shihipar, who respectively earned a Ph.D. and master’s from Brown in 2020, will return to campus to address their fellow alumni during a dedicated Commencement ceremony on Saturday, May 28. Read Article Open details for 2020 doctoral and master’s degree speakers to return to College Hill for in-person addresses News and Events Graduate School speakers to embrace vulnerability, the unexpected at Commencement May 17, 2022 As Brown celebrates Commencement 2022, Jiuyang Bai and Amelia Spalter will address their peers in separate Ph.D. and master’s ceremonies on College Hill on Sunday, May 29. Read Article Open details for Graduate School speakers to embrace vulnerability, the unexpected at Commencement News and Events Brown providing comprehensive support for current and incoming Ukrainian students May 5, 2022 In the wake of the war in Ukraine, the University is supporting Ukrainian students with financial assistance, summer housing, counseling and more. Read Article Open details for Brown providing comprehensive support for current and incoming Ukrainian students Science and Technology Differences between the Moon’s near and far sides linked to colossal ancient impact April 8, 2022 New research shows how the impact that created the Moon’s South Pole–Aitken basin is linked to the stark contrast in composition and appearance between the two sides of the Moon. Read Article Open details for Differences between the Moon’s near and far sides linked to colossal ancient impact Science and Technology Brown Ph.D. student working to correct skin color bias in pulse oximeters April 7, 2022 Pulse oximeters often provide inaccurate readings for people with darker skin, a significant health disparity that physics Ph.D. student Rutendo Jakachira is working to eliminate. Read Article Open details for Brown Ph.D. student working to correct skin color bias in pulse oximeters Science and Technology Seen and ‘herd’: Collective motion in crowds is largely determined by participants’ field of vision March 21, 2022 Researchers at Brown University developed a new model to predict human flocking behavior based on optics and other sensory data. Read Article Open details for Seen and ‘herd’: Collective motion in crowds is largely determined by participants’ field of vision News and Events Andrew Campbell to step down as Graduate School dean, return to Brown faculty March 11, 2022 After he finishes a six-year term in June, the accomplished leader who expanded enrollment, funding and student support at Brown’s Graduate School will return to teaching and research as a professor of medical science. Read Article Open details for Andrew Campbell to step down as Graduate School dean, return to Brown faculty News and Events Nobel Prize-winning Class of 1991 Ph.D. alumnus returns to Brown to discuss research in causal relationships March 2, 2022 As part of the Lemley lecture series, Brown Ph.D. graduate and Nobel Laureate Guido Imbens explained how natural experiments can be used to determine cause and effect. Read Article Open details for Nobel Prize-winning Class of 1991 Ph.D. alumnus returns to Brown to discuss research in causal relationships University Initiatives Brown launches online-only master’s degree in public health February 23, 2022 An innovative new version of Brown’s MPH program, delivered exclusively online, will expand access to a top public health education for learners nationally and around the world. Read Article Open details for Brown launches online-only master’s degree in public health Science and Technology For physics Ph.D. student, exploring the unknown universe and mentoring the next generation February 7, 2022 An active voice for women in physics, Brown graduate student Farrah Simpson will conduct research related to the Large Hadron Collider, the world’s most powerful particle accelerator, as a 2022 Graduate Scholar at Fermilab. Read Article Open details for For physics Ph.D. student, exploring the unknown universe and mentoring the next generation Science and Technology Brown physics student earns Ph.D. at age 89 November 12, 2021 After a 30-year career in medicine, Manfred Steiner returned to the classroom to fulfill a lifelong dream of becoming a physicist. Read Article Open details for Brown physics student earns Ph.D. at age 89 Arts and Humanities Conversations on COVID: Studying the pandemic through cartoons October 28, 2021 A free lesson plan created by Brown Ph.D. student Michael Dorney uses political cartoons to teach high school students about American politics and society in the first year of the COVID-19 pandemic. Read Article Open details for Conversations on COVID: Studying the pandemic through cartoons News and Events Brown launches master’s program in data-enabled computational engineering and science September 2, 2021 A new one-year master’s program will take a deep dive into the state-of-the-art simulation, modeling and data science techniques widely used across engineering disciplines. Read Article Open details for Brown launches master’s program in data-enabled computational engineering and science News and Events Brown’s newest students, by the numbers September 2, 2021 A total of 3,038 new undergraduate, graduate and medical students will begin studies at Brown University next week — here’s a look at who is arriving on College Hill. Read Article Open details for Brown’s newest students, by the numbers News and Events Brown acquires residential building to offer affordable, high-quality housing for 270 graduate students July 22, 2021 The University will transition River House, home to a mix of studio, one-bedroom and two-bedroom apartments in the Jewelry District, to affordable, safe, campus-accessible housing for graduate students. Read Article Open details for Brown acquires residential building to offer affordable, high-quality housing for 270 graduate students Science and Technology Initiative to expand Ph.D. student diversity in STEM graduate programs has lasting positive effects July 8, 2021 A study that looked at 10-year outcomes of the Initiative to Maximize Student Development showed that it increased diversity within academic programs and prepared underrepresented students for successful careers in STEM. Read Article Open details for Initiative to expand Ph.D. student diversity in STEM graduate programs has lasting positive effects Social Sciences Driven to create policies for a post-pandemic world, Brown’s largest-ever MPA cohort arrives June 16, 2021 The Watson Institute’s one-year master of public affairs program saw a 58% increase in new students in 2021, due in large part to policy issues laid bare during the COVID-19 pandemic. Read Article Open details for Driven to create policies for a post-pandemic world, Brown’s largest-ever MPA cohort arrives News and Events Brown students, recent graduates earn 27 Fulbright scholarships June 7, 2021 This year’s student Fulbright winners will begin teaching and research assignments in 17 countries around the world in fall of 2021. Read Article Open details for Brown students, recent graduates earn 27 Fulbright scholarships News and Events In socially distanced Graduate School ceremony, speakers call on peers to ‘show up’ and ‘do good work’ May 1, 2021 With an eye toward lives and careers that make an enduring and positive impact, 763 master’s and Ph.D. graduates earned Brown degrees in a Saturday afternoon Commencement ceremony on the College Green. Read Article Open details for In socially distanced Graduate School ceremony, speakers call on peers to ‘show up’ and ‘do good work’ News and Events Graduate School speakers to emphasize community, connection at Commencement April 15, 2021 Bardiya Akhbari, a Ph.D. graduate in biomedical engineering, and Sonya Brooks, a master’s graduate in urban education policy, will speak about the power of human connection, especially in the midst of a global pandemic. Read Article Open details for Graduate School speakers to emphasize community, connection at Commencement News and Events Brown welcomes graduate, medical, transfer students with second Van Wickle Gates procession March 1, 2021 With pandemic safety protocols in place, the students joined others from the Resumed Undergraduate Education and Brown-RISD Dual Degree programs for the tradition marking their official entry into the Brown community. Read Article Open details for Brown welcomes graduate, medical, transfer students with second Van Wickle Gates procession News and Events Brown ranked No. 2 nationally for 2020-21 Fulbright scholarship winners February 18, 2021 For the fifth consecutive year, the University is among the top producers of Fulbright winners, with 38 grants awarded to Brown students and recent alumni. Read Article Open details for Brown ranked No. 2 nationally for 2020-21 Fulbright scholarship winners Student Life For humanities Ph.D. student, three months spent pitching science research offers a competitive edge October 6, 2020 As a participant in the Graduate School’s first Summer Proctorship Program, religious studies Ph.D. student Tara Dhaliwal used her research and writing skills to introduce the work of Brown scientists to industry partners. Read Article Open details for For humanities Ph.D. student, three months spent pitching science research offers a competitive edge News and Events Brown named among world’s top universities in national, international rankings September 14, 2020 The University was ranked No. 14 in U.S. News and World Report and earned high marks in a range of higher education rankings focused on academic experience, undergraduate research, return on investment and more. Read Article Open details for Brown named among world’s top universities in national, international rankings News and Events Virtual convocation marks opening of new academic year at Brown September 8, 2020 With nearly 2,800 new students launching their Brown academic careers this year, President Christina H. Paxson and Associate Professor of Religious Studies Andre Willis urged them to learn from the past and embrace change to help define the “new normal.” Read Article Open details for Virtual convocation marks opening of new academic year at Brown News and Events Graduate students, recent Brown alumni earn 36 Fulbright scholarships July 1, 2020 With COVID-19 complicating international travel, this year’s student Fulbright winners will begin their teaching and research assignments across the globe at the start of 2021. Read Article Open details for Graduate students, recent Brown alumni earn 36 Fulbright scholarships News and Events Brown finalizes contract with graduate teaching, research assistants June 16, 2020 The University and SUGSE/AFT agreed on a three-year collective bargaining agreement covering wages, hours and other terms of employment for graduate teaching assistants, research assistants and proctors. Read Article Open details for Brown finalizes contract with graduate teaching, research assistants News and Events Open Graduate Education Scholars push academic boundaries through their scholarship June 10, 2020 The 10 newest members of the Brown University Graduate School’s open education program will customize their Ph.D. studies by seeking a master’s degree in a secondary field. Read Article Open details for Open Graduate Education Scholars push academic boundaries through their scholarship News and Events For Class of 2020 grads, new degrees and congratulations arrive, virtually May 24, 2020 From locations across the globe, thousands of new Brown graduates and loved ones tuned in to Virtual Degree Conferral celebrations that honored achievements and offered words of wisdom for lives and careers to come. Read Article Open details for For Class of 2020 grads, new degrees and congratulations arrive, virtually News and Events Brown to confer 2,657 degrees at Virtual Degree Conferral ceremonies May 23, 2020 At three Virtual Degree Conferral ceremonies on Sunday, May 24, Brown will confer 2,657 degrees — undergraduate, graduate and medical — in advance of Class of 2020 Commencement activities in Spring 2021. Read Article Open details for Brown to confer 2,657 degrees at Virtual Degree Conferral ceremonies News and Events MPH candidate to urge fellow grads to treat crises as opportunities to help others May 20, 2020 In an address at the Graduate School’s Virtual Degree Ceremony, master’s degree speaker Abdullah Shihipar will urge his classmates to use their degrees in ways that advance all of society, not just themselves. Read Article Open details for MPH candidate to urge fellow grads to treat crises as opportunities to help others Arts and Humanities Slavic literature scholar aims to inspire fellow Ph.D. grads May 19, 2020 Mira Nikolova, a native of Bulgaria and a doctoral candidate in Slavic studies, plans to draw parallels between Ph.D. students and saguaro cacti in her Virtual Degree Conferral ceremony address on Sunday, May 24. Read Article Open details for Slavic literature scholar aims to inspire fellow Ph.D. grads Social Sciences Conversations on COVID: How to persuade loved ones to stay at home April 30, 2020 Rob Grace, a Ph.D. student at Brown, drew from his research on humanitarian negotiation to offer advice on how to convince skeptical friends and family to protect themselves from COVID-19 via social distancing. Read Article Open details for Conversations on COVID: How to persuade loved ones to stay at home Arts and Humanities First from Giza, now from home, Brown Egyptologist dives into innovation in online teaching April 23, 2020 Victoria Almansa-Villatoro, a Ph.D. student in Egyptology, worked with learning designers at Brown to create an interactive online course about the pyramids, kings and societies of the third millennium B.C. Read Article Open details for First from Giza, now from home, Brown Egyptologist dives into innovation in online teaching Arts and Humanities With historians in Newport, Brown archaeologists preserve a crucial piece of African American history March 23, 2020 Three graduate students in archaeology worked with the Historic Cemetery Advisory Commission in Newport, Rhode Island, to create an interactive map of God’s Little Acre, one of the oldest African and African American burial grounds in the country. Read Article Open details for With historians in Newport, Brown archaeologists preserve a crucial piece of African American history Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Snapchat Twitter YouTube Social Media Directory © Brown University Brown University For You Current Students Faculty Staff Parents & Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Featured Events For Journalists Topics Arts and Humanities Environment Health and Medicine News and Events Science and Technology Social Sciences Student Life University Initiatives Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events For You Give to Brown All of Brown.edu People News Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Graduate School Open details for Graduate School Bookmark this Page