Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Student Government right arrow down arrow Programs & Orgs Gable + Allgood Branches right arrow down arrow Legislative right arrow down arrow Senate Tribunals Student Activities Board University Funding Board Student Safety Board Judicial Executive right arrow down arrow Cabinet Resources Feedback right arrow down arrow Your School, Your Voice Web Director Request Form Socials Meet the Candidates right arrow down arrow Slates SALS Home » Campus Life » Student Government Undergraduate Student Government Welcome to the Undergraduate Student Government Official Site! We have worked diligently to ensure that all of our resources are accessible to University of Cincinnati's student body and we will use this site to aid in that effort. Please, look around and reach out to us if we can do better! Student Government is passionate about helping and representing students. SG is more than just any other student organization on campus, we advocate for all of the undergraduate students at UC. We strive to empower students by providing programming, funding, and forums! Undergraduate Student Government is the official representative of all undergraduate students attending the University of Cincinnati. Serving as the primary representative organization of the undergraduate student body, Student Government seeks to act as a liaison between the University administration, governmental authorities, and the student body in order to serve the needs of Bearcats and enhance the student experience at the University of Cincinnati. Located at the Steger Student Life Center room 655 Branches Executive right arrow down arrow The Executive Branch of the Undergraduate Student Government consists of the President, Vice President, Executive Staff, and Cabinet. The President of the Undergraduate Student Government has the enumerated powers to veto any legislation of the Student Senate as well as to nominate members of the Cabinet, Executive Staff, and Student Court. The Executive Branch of the Undergraduate Student Government is responsible for the execution of legislation from the Student Senate as well as acting as liaisons between Student Government and all areas of campus. Judicial right arrow down arrow The Judicial Branch of the Undergraduate Student Government is the Student Court, which consists of one Chief Justice and a maximum of fifteen Associate Justices. Student Court has jurisdiction over interpretation of the Undergraduate Student Government Constitution and Student Senate legislation, disputes between organizations under the jurisdiction of Student Senate (including the Boards), and any dispute in which both parties consent to the jurisdiction of Student Court. The Student Body President appoints justices to the Student Court and Student Court appointments last for the duration of their undergraduate careers. Legislative right arrow down arrow The Legislative Branch of the Undergraduate Student Government consists of the Speaker of Senate, Internal & External Holdover Senators, 8 At-Large Senators, 2 Senators from each undergraduate college, 1 Senator from each Board under Senate's jurisdiction, and a Secretary of Senate. Student Senate is responsible for changing the constitution, bylaws, or rules of procedure for the Undergraduate Student Government. Additionally, Student Senate approves the Undergraduate Student Government budget, makes recommendations to the University on behalf on the Undergraduate Student Body, and elect the rest of the executive team not elected in Student Body elections. Student Senate has jurisdiction over the University Funding Board, Student Activities Board, and the Student Safety Board, who govern all registered undergraduate student organizations except social fraternities, social sororities, and Residence Hall Organizations. Talk to Us Our office is located at the Steger Student Life Center in room 655. We are usually open form 12 - 5 pm, so fill free to stop being if you have any questions are just want to hang out. University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati OH 45220 513-556-5000 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati OH 45220 513-556-5000 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top