Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Lynch School of Education and Human Development Centers & Initiatives Search BC.edu Links IACHE Menu Main Nav Institute for Administrators in Catholic Higher Education IACHE Apply Back Back Close Close Apply Directory A to Z Listing Search Lynch School Website Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Admission Visit Centers & Initiatives BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Each July, the Institute hosts a four-day seminar providing an opportunity for administrators and leaders at Catholic colleges and universities around the globe to interact with scholars and practitioners addressing issues faced by Catholic higher education. Tentative Schedule Contact 2023 Seminar Administrative leaders from around the globe gather annually and ask questions about the mission, culture, and policies of Catholic institutions of higher education. Event Dates July 12–15, 2023 Application Deadline April 1, 2023 Cost $2,500 Event Location The Connors Center Frequently Asked Questions Print Open All Close All Who should attend? The seminar is designed for administrative leaders at Catholic institutions such as presidents, provosts, vice-presidents, deans, mission officers, major program directors, and others in positions responsible for institutional mission and identity. The Institute has attracted administrators from Catholic colleges and universities across the United States, Australia, South America, Belize, Canada, Taiwan, Ghana, Guatemala, the Philippines, Haiti, and South Africa. What questions are addressed? What does it mean to be a Catholic college or university in the 21st century? How do we animate a Catholic campus culture? What role does the Catholic intellectual tradition play to inform curriculum and intellectual life? What defines the nature of the relationships and the appropriate practices between institutions of Catholic higher education and the Church? What are the implications of increased lay leadership in Catholic colleges and universities? How does Catholic social and moral teaching inform campus culture, policies and curriculum? How do we assess the mission? What is the cost to attend the Institute? The comprehensive fee is $2,500 and includes registration, tuition, all Institute-related materials, room and board, and special events. A limited number of partial grants may be awarded based upon indicated financial need. Applicants seeking financial assistance are asked to contact Dr. Michael James at 617-552-0763. Where is the seminar held? Because of the collegial nature of the Institute, participants reside at Boston College's Connors Family Retreat and Conference Center in Dover, MA, approximately 30 minutes away from the Boston College campus. Private baths are available and linens are provided. Participants are asked to provide their own toiletries. The Institute staff will secure participants' accomodations at the Connors Center. If arriving before Sunday or departing after Friday, the participant needs to make their own accommodations outside of the Connors Family Retreat and Conference Center. Will meals be provided? All meals for the week are provided with the exception of Wednesday evening for participants to explore Boston. The daily schedule will designate the times and locations for each meal. Every evening, refreshments will be available. Is transportation provided to and from the Connors Family Retreat and Conference Center? No. Travel accommodations to and from the Institute should be arranged by the participant. Boston taxis provide a convenient, though expensive, method of transportation to and from the Connors Family Retreat and Conference Center in Dover. Metro Cab of Boston : 617-782-5500 Boston Cab : 617-536-5010 Uber What technology is required? Participants are required to bring and use laptops and tablet devices. Devices will be used to access the Institute Canvas site (schedule, readings, contact information) and other necessary materials throughout the Institute. Charging devices for electronics are not provided by Boston College. The internet is accessible on all wifi-compatible devices using the Boston College network. Instructions for connecting to the network will be included in the Institute folder on the Canvas site. How do participants access the Institute's Canvas site? Participants will be sent an email invitation with login credentials to the Institute Canvas site one month prior to the event in order to acces a schedule for each day and all necessary literature provided by Institute faculty. The email address that participants provide as part of their application will be their username. Participants are instructed to enter their login credentials to gain access to the Institute Canvas site. What is the dress code for the Institute? Business casual attire is suggested for the duration of the Institute. Meet the Institute Director Michael James, Ph.D. Institute Director Michael James is the director of the Institute for Administrators in Catholic Higher Education and a full-time lecturer in the Boston College Master of Arts (M.A.) of Higher Education program where he coordinates the degree concentration in Spirituality, Faith and Formation in Higher Education. He also teaches the three-credit course Catholic Higher Education: Administration & Leadership for Boston College students enrolled in the Executive Doctor of Education (Ed.D.) in Higher Education program who elected to complete a concentration in Catholic Higher Education. Students in this optional concentration will attend the annual Institute for Administrators in Catholic Higher Education during their final summer residency, providing an opportunity to network with the international Catholic administrator community. Ed.D. in Higher Education program Profile of Michael James Prior to his appointment at Boston College, Michael served as the Vice President for research and professional development with the Association of Catholic Colleges and Universities in Washington, DC, and as the Senior Officer and Dean of Student Affairs and Enrollment Management at Mount Marty College in Yankton, South Dakota. He has held a variety of student-service administrative positions in admissions, financial aid, and residence life at both Indiana University and the University of Notre Dame. Michael James is a graduate of the University of Notre Dame where he studied Theology and Psychology. He earned his M.A. and Ph.D. in philosophy of education, and educational policy studies and higher education administration from the Indiana University, Bloomington, IN. He is formerly the Chief-Editor of the research journal, Journal of Catholic Education and co-editor for the academic journal, Claritas: A Journal of Culture and Dialogue. Michael lectures internationally on topics including: educational leadership; institutional mission and strategic planning and spirituality, faith and the college student experience. Dr. James is a recipient of the Outstanding Contribution to Scholarship Award bestowed by the Jesuit Association of Student Personnel Administrators. Michael’s most recent book publications include Education’s Highest Aim: Teaching and Learning Through a Spirituality of Communion. 2010. New City Press: Hyde Park, NY. and 5 Steps to Effective Student Leadership. 2014. New City Press: Hyde Park, NY. Michael James Faculty Profile Praise for the IACHE “A colleague told me about the Institute, saying it was life changing and that it would be the most special conference I had ever attended. It was!” Margaret S. Kelly, V.P. for Institutional Advancement, Holy Family University, Philadelphia, PA “This Institute was an important part of my learning and professional development as a Catholic university administrator. The curriculum was responsive to my needs from both the theoretical and practical perspectives. There was great diversity of the attendees representing divisions and departments from all types of Catholic institutions. I thanked my VP for sending me.” Dr. Mary Wardell, Associate Vice President and Dean of Students, University of San Francisco, San Francisco, CA “It was an inspiring and mind-stretching conference. The fact that several of us from the same institution have attended over the years has given us a helpful set of common experiences and ideas.” Dr. Mary Francine Danis, Professor of English, Our Lady of the Lake University, San Antonio, TX “Following the Institute, I returned to Seattle University to become head of a new division of Mission and Ministry. The Institute was my orientation and provided an immersion into the issues, values, and visions of this important area in Catholic higher education. I benefited from the excellent presentations and the opportunity to engage in discussion with others committed to the mission of Catholic higher education.” Rev. Anton Harris, SJ, Former Vice President for Mission & Ministry, Seattle University, Seattle, WA Back To Top Back To Top Institute for Administrators in Catholic Higher Education 617-552-0763 cathhied@bc.edu Carolyn A. and Peter S. Lynch School of Education and Human Development Campion Hall 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 617-552-4200 About Admission Academics Faculty & Research Centers & Initiatives Community Apply Visit Give CONNECT WITH US Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube LinkedIn Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College