Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Search BC.edu Links Agora Portal Directory A to Z Listing Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close BC News > BC in the News Channels Close Home Chronicle Art & Culture Athletics & Recreation Campus & Community Humanities Faith & Religion Science, Tech & Health Nation, World & Society Economics BC Events Let there be light Veterans Remembrance Pops Off the Heights 2020 Pops Off the Heights 2020 Pops Off the Heights wins CASE gold award Pops hits a high note Archives BC News Archive Agora Portal Search News Archive BC in the News - Published on January 04, 2021 Highlights from 2022 Professor of History Heather Cox Richardson, author of the popular blog "Letters from an American," weighs in on gun control efforts and the state of American democracy on PBS "Armanpour & Company." Tragedies such as the shootings in Uvalde and Buffalo evoke collective grief, which occurs when a group of people share an extreme loss. Core Fellow & Visiting Assistant Professor in Sociology Nora Gross comments: CNBC. The stock and bond markets may be tumbling, but the economy has been holding up exceptionally well since its emergence from the pandemic shock, writes Economics faculty member Brian Bethune for MarketWatch. A major conference on Amoris Laetitia in Rome, co-organized by Vice Provost and Canisius Professor James Keenan, S.J., brought together bishops, priests, religious women, and theologians from 25 countries, including Monan Professor in Theology Lisa Sowle Cahill. Her remarks are cited by National Catholic Reporter. Professor Ann Burgess and Steven Constantine of the Connell School of Nursing, authors of the book Killer by Design, are among experts interviewed regarding the case of convicted serial killer Henry Wallace on ABC 20/20. Rising interest rates is fueling demand for adjustable-rate mortgages, which can lead to lower monthly payments, but carry some risk. Liberty Mutual Insurance Professor of Law Patricia McCoy comments for Marketplace Morning Report. Removal of social content during the shooting in Buffalo tests a Texas law prohibiting Big Tech from taking down content it doesn't like, writes BC Law Professor Daniel Lyons in an op-ed for the Dallas Morning News. Employees are seeking to unionize at a Trader Joe’s grocery store in western Massachusetts. Carroll School Professor of Business Law Christine O'Brien comments: Associated Press. Education about terrorism can lead to a more accurate view of the danger, write scholars including Political Science Associate Professor Peter Krause, Psychology Professor Liane Young, and her former student Jordan Theriault Ph.D. '17: LawFare Professor of Philosophy Gregory Fried, whose focus is political philosophy, responses to challenges to liberal democracy, and the rise of ethno-nationalism, discussed the rise of neo-Nazi movements: WGBH News. Pastors should baptize the children of same-sex couples in an affirming and pastorally sensitive way, writes School of Theology and Ministry Professor of Historical and Liturgical Theology John Baldovin, S.J.: Outreach. America assistant editor and former O'Hare Fellow Molly Cahill '20 and Class of 2021 O'Hare Fellows Doug Girardot and Keara Hanlon are among magazine staffers offering advice to new college graduates: America. Dogs may be good at reading our emotions, but we’re not as good at reading theirs. Insights from Assistant Professor of Psychology Angie Johnston, director of BC's Canine Cognition Center: New York Times. Elon Musk's deal to take over Twitter has been paused until he gets more information about fake accounts. BC Law Associate Professor Brian Quinn comments: New York Times 1, New York Times 2, The Guardian (U.K.), Law 360, Grid News A study by Lynch School researchers that showed an uptick in adolescents carrying handguns continues to draw media attention. Sampling: NBC News.com, CBS Boston, NBC Boston, U.S. News, The Hill, Washington Examiner. Where is the economy headed? Insights from Economics faculty member Brian Bethune: Marketplace Radio, Boston Globe. BC Law Professor Kent Greenfield comments on possible motives for and potential impacts of the Supreme Court draft leak: Bloomberg News, CBS Boston, Crux.com, Boston Globe. A new podcasting studio in Stokes Hall will allow students in a course with Associate Professor Dana Sajdi to tell stories in history with researched context. WBZ Newsradio 1030 In a Q&A, Associate Professor of Political Science David Hopkins discusses the U.S. president’s political troubles—and the limits on his ability to resolve them anytime soon. The Signal A Q&A with Professor of Russian, English, and Jewish Studies Maxim D. Shrayer on current events and their impact on his sense of immigrant identity: Jewish Boston. | Also, "The Night Inspection: Vladimir Nabokov at 123" in the L.A. Review of Books. Contrary to popular belief, the ruling classes gorged on meat only on rare occasions, according to an analysis of more than 2,000 skeletons buried during medieval times. Professor of History Robin Fleming comments in the New York Times. The influence of the vast network of U.S. rightwing comedy needs to be taken seriously, Associate Professor of Communication Matt Sienkiewicz, co-author of the new book That’s Not Funny: How the Right Makes Comedy Work for Them, tells The Guardian (U.K.) They can be attached to almost anything and located using a paired iPhone. But Apple AirTags also can be used for more nefarious intentions. Insights from Kevin R. Powers, director of the Woods College M.S. in Cybersecurity Policy and Governance program: Boston.com. | He discusses the legalities of "hacking back" in a JDSupra Cyberside Chat podcast. Connell School of Nursing Dean Katherine Gregory comments on the current nursing shortage, and various barriers to addressing it, in an interview with Boston 25 News. Three of the candidates for state attorney general addressed a forum at BC Law School’s Rappaport Center for Law and Public Policy, making their pitch to become the state’s top law enforcement officer. Boston Globe Pollutants are being spread across Ukraine, with scores of contaminated sites identified. Global Public Health Program Director Philip Landrigan, M.D., comments: Wall Street Journal. | He weighs in on Moderna's move to be first with COVID vaccines for children under six: AP story | AP Video Elon Musk’s "free speech" takeover is part of a new corporate activism wave. Insights from BC Law Associate Professor Brian Quinn: Washington Post Professor of Russian and English Maxim D. Shrayer offered paschal reflections on war, hope, and deliverance in Ukraine in a Passover week essay for the Jewish Journal. Morrissey College physics alumna Melissa Mullen '18 wanted a dating app for people who "value humor in a relationship." So she made one. Boston Globe In her newsletter, "Letters from an American," she "empowers marginalized groups, who she says are more important than ever to the political landscape." Professor of History Heather Cox Richardson is among USA Today's national Women of the Year. Boston College Athletics bid farewell to retiring Schiller Family Head Hockey Coach Jerry York at a press event on April 19. Boston Globe, Boston Herald | Video | Boston Globe: Jerry York’s BC teams played the game the right way Irish Times columnist Frank McNally writes on the concurrence of the Sixth International Conference of the Flann O’Brien Society, held at Boston College and hosted by Burns Library and Professor of the Practice of English Joe Nugent, and the Fifth International Edgar Allan Poe Conference, held in Boston and co-organized by Professor of English Paul Lewis: Irish Times. A report in the American Economic Journal: Microeconomics by Professor of Economics Tayfun Sönmez and colleagues analyzes Taiwan’s unique high school assignment mechanism⁠ and illustrates the limitations of such systems in real-world situations. He comments in an AEA feature. Connell School of Nursing Associate Professor Nadia Abuelezam weighs in on a new report that analyzes vaccination data in the state: Boston Globe. BC Law Associate Professor Brian Quinn comments on how Twitter's board may respond to Elon Musk's takeover bid: Reuters, MarketWatch Punishing all things Russian for Putin's crimes: a reflection by Professor of Russian, English, and Jewish Studies Maxim D. Shrayer in Tablet Magazine. The U.S. death toll from the coronavirus soon will surpass one million, a number that can still seem abstract despite the continued reporting of deaths over the past two years. Professor of Psychology Sara Cordes comments: AP via BCNews.com The imposition of formal state censorship provoked protest at home and abroad, writes historian and interim director of Irish Studies Robert Savage, author of the new book The BBC, Northern Ireland and Censorship in Thatcher’s Britain. The Irish Times In The Washington Post, Global Public Health Program Director Philip Landrigan, M.D., weighs in on the health risks of plastics and on the EPA move to ban chrysotile asbestos, the only form of the toxic mineral still used in new products. He also commented on the uptick of COVID in Boston's wastewater: Boston.com. Economist and Woods College Associate Dean Aleksandar Tomic commented on the ongoing supply chain crisis: Forbes. He also discussed obtaining and managing credit, particularly for immigrants and students, and understanding balance transfers, for MoneyGeek. Moderna Inc. CEO Stéphane Bancel was the featured speaker this week at a gathering of the Boston College Chief Executives Club. Sampling of coverage: Bloomberg Baystate Business, Boston Business Journal, Boston Globe What effect will the hikes have on the competitive local housing market? Associate Professor of Economics Robert Murphy comments for CBS Boston. Catholic moral tradition is more nuanced than anti-abortion slogans or extreme bills, say scholars including Libby Professor of Theology and Law Cathleen Kaveny: National Catholic Reporter. A reflection by Professor of Russian, English, and Jewish Studies Maxim D. Shrayer on the meaning of vodka boycotts: Jewish Journal. The only known surviving copy of a 400-year-old book heralded as a great treasure in Iberian Peninsula music history was found in Portugal and is being digitized by Boston College. Read more "I took up and then put down marathoning in middle age, and along the way I learned something not only about myself and life but about the nature of lessons," writes Professor of English Carlo Rotella. Washington Post Magazine “Smishing" is a practice in which scam texts appear to come from the user's own cell phone number. Kevin R. Powers, director of the Woods College M.S. in Cybersecurity Policy and Governance program, comments: Boston Globe. | He discussed the risks of AirTag tracking on WHDH News 7. Family and friends of Pete Frates '07 gathered on Brighton campus Saturday to dedicate BC's indoor baseball and softball training facility named in his honor. Boston Globe, CBS Boston, 7 News Boston, WBZ Newsradio As clinicians advise patients on reducing disease risk, air pollution exposure should enter into conversations with older patients and those with heart disease, diabetes, or lung disease, Global Public Health Program Director Philip Landrigan, M.D., tells the New England Journal of Medicine. A CDC report shows maternal mortality rates, especially in Black and Hispanic women, increased in 2020. BC School of Social Work Associate Professor and social epidemiologist Summer Sherburne Hawkins comments: Boston.com. Pope Francis asked bishops around the world to join him in a “solemn Act of Consecration of humanity, and Russia and Ukraine in particular, to the Immaculate Heart of Mary." Insights from School of Theology and Ministry Visiting Professor Jeffrey von Arx, S.J.: Boston Globe. Is "unretirement" the answer to the labor shortage? Economics associate professors of the practice Geoffrey Sanzenbacher and Matthew Rutledge discuss findings from their Center for Retirement Research study: ThinkAdvisor. Professor of Economics Pablo Guerron discussed the value of and caveats related to these cards for individuals hoping to build a credit history: WalletHub Q&A. Lynch School Professor Eric Dearing writes on the future of pre-K for The Hechinger Report. Carroll School Marketing Senior Lecturer John Fisher comments on the turmoil currently facing Kohl's department stores: CNN Business. BC School of Social Work Salem Professor in Global Practice Theresa Betancourt, director of the Research Program on Children and Adversity, discussed the impact of the Russian invasion on Ukrainian children: WHYY Radio Times. Seelig Professor of Philosophy Richard Kearney is among experts discussing how the work of French thinker Gaston Bachelard has inspired poets, artists, architects, philosophers, and others: Canadian Broadcasting Co. Lynch School Professor David Blustein discussed changing attitudes toward work in Canada during the pandemic: Canadian Broadcasting Co. BC School of Social Work faculty member Sr. Maryanne Loughry discusses her nearly four decades of work in global humanitarian assistance and the enduring relationship between Jesuit Refugee Service and Boston College, in a Q&A with JRS Insider. Professor of Russian, English, and Jewish Studies Maxim D. Shrayer writes on the punishing of all things Russian for Putin's crimes in Tablet Magazine, and on Ukraine's heroism and the predicament of the country's Jewish defenders for Jewish Journal. Economist and Woods College Associate Dean Aleksandar Tomic is among experts asked to weigh in on the domestic impact of sanctions the U.S. has imposed on Russia: Business Insider. A Center for Retirement Research report on the financial implications for Medicare of Alzheimer's drug Aduhelm is featured by the Boston Globe, with comments by CRR Director Alicia Munnell. BC Ireland Academic Director Mike Cronin discusses the enduring popularity of St. Patrick's Day in the U.S., and the economic impact of postponed parades on host cities in a WalletHub Q&A. Professor of Russian, English, and Jewish Studies Maxim D. Shrayer pens a brief history of the Jewdle in a playful Purim tribute to Judaism's "most majestic of dogs": Tablet Magazine. Assistant Professor of Economics Richard Sweeney provides insights into domestic oil refining vs. the importing of foreign oil: Marketplace Radio. Is the main culprit for surging inflation related to demand or supply? Economics' Brian Bethune weighs in with an op-ed for MarketWatch. The Boston Globe reviews the largest U.S. museum survey to date of British photographer Martin Parr's work, now on view at the McMullen Museum of Art. Read more | The exhibition also has been featured by Art Daily and Antiques and the Arts Weekly To well-intentioned parents who tell their kids not to stare at children with disabilities: rethink this approach, writes Christina Cipriano, who holds a Ph.D. from the Lynch School and is the mother of a student at the Campus School: Washington Post. Following a quick guilty verdict in the first criminal trial related to the assault on the U.S. Capitol, plea deals from hundreds of others charged in the attack may follow, say experts including BC Law Associate Professor of the Practice Jeffrey Cohen: Reuters. Lynch School Professors Philip Altbach and Hans de Wit of the Center for International Higher Education write on academic engagement in "a new, tragic, and uncharted academic and scientific environment": University World News. Monan Professor of Theology Lisa Sowle Cahill comments on the unselfish dedication of the Ukrainian patriots in "using every scrap of ingenuity to foil the invaders’ advance": Religion News Service. President Volodymyr Zelensky has become an embodiment of Ukraine’s fierce resistance to the Russian invasion. Professor of the Practice of Political Science Paul Christensen and Professor of History Seth Jacobs comment in the Boston Globe. The international federation of chess is taking steps to distance itself from Russia. Professor of Russian, English, and Jewish Studies Maxim D. Shrayer discussed the sanctions and chess during the Cold War: New York Times. | Shrayer, a Jewish ex-Soviet whose family history is rooted in the region, reflected on the war in Ukraine in an essay for Jewish Journal, and talked about the experience of Russian-Americans as they watch the crisis unfold on WBUR "Radio Boston." Associate Professor of English and Irish Studies James Smith, co-author of the forthcoming book Redress: Ireland's Institutions and Transitional Justice, comments on various aspects of the subject: Irish Times, Irish Examiner, Irish Independent. Research shows that Americans work 25 percent more hours than their counterparts in Europe. Why? And is it worth it? Carroll School Professor Christine Neylon O'Brien weighs in: WalletHub Q&A. Will Sarah Palin's defamation case against the New York Times go to the Supreme Court? BC Law Professor Kent Greenfield comments for NBCNews.com In separate Q&As with MoneyGeek, Professor of Economics Pablo Guerron discusses factors for consumers to consider when choosing homeowner's insurance and renter's insurance. Joe Rogan is the closest thing to a mass cultural product in the podcast world. How did it happen? Associate Professor of Communication Matt Sienkiewicz is co-author of an essay for The Conversation. Canisius Professor of Theology James Keenan, S.J., vice provost for global engagement, writes on the subject for National Catholic Reporter. At a National Black Catholic Congress virtual forum, theology doctoral students Chanelle Robinson, a Trudeau Foundation scholar, and Byron Wratee discussed church teaching on ecology and their experiences related to environmental racism. National Catholic Reporter. How to incorporate math into everyday interactions with children? Insights from Lynch School Professor Eric Dearing in an edition of the podcast Parenting Understood. Professor of Psychology Liane Young discusses how we understand—or fail to understand—the minds of other people in a segment of the NPR series "The Hidden Brain." The pandemic has magnified many of the problems of time poverty—especially for caregivers and the poor, Woods College Associate Dean and M.S. in Applied Economics program director Aleksandar Tomic tells the BBC. School districts that serve the nation's most vulnerable children don't have the financial resources to rebound from natural disasters, a new Government Accountability Office study shows. Lynch School Associate Professor Betty Lai, whose research focus is in this area, comments: UPI School of Theology and Ministry Professor Rev. Richard Lennan discussed the clergy abuse crisis in Australia during a recent panel event on the handling of the crisis in the U.S. and elsewhere: Catholic News Service. BC Law Professor Kent Greenfield weighs in on Justice Stephen Breyer's retirement announcement and the future of the Supreme Court: Newsweek. Professor of the Practice of Economics Can Erbil discusses how to teach the fundamentals of inequality in economics in a video for Faculti. The opening of 245 Beacon Street, as well as plans for BC's Pine Manor Institute for Student Success, are highlighted by the Boston Business Journal. Pacific Gas & Electric landed five years of probation due to a pipeline explosion that killed eight people. As the probation ends, Carroll School Galligan Chair Sandra Waddock weighs in: Marketplace. Pope Francis' installation of lay men and women in the ministries of lector and catechist is a continuation of the unfinished work of Vatican II. School of Theology and Ministry Professor John Baldovin, S.J., comments for National Catholic Reporter. To make a meaningful impact, business leaders and policymakers should foster a mindset of supporting not only ventures that offer strong returns, but also those that help poorer places achieve sustained self-reliance, writes Carroll School Assistant Professor Suntae Kim, co-author of a piece for Harvard Business Review. Synodality may seem like a new concept, but it's actually an ancient tradition, School of Theology and Ministry Associate Professor of the Practice Rafael Luciani said in a webinar moderated by Sr. Maria Cimperman Ph.D.'03 of Catholic Theological Union. National Catholic Reporter Global Sisters Report In separate WalletHub Q&As, Geoffrey Sanzenbacher and Anqi (Angie) Chen of the Center for Retirement Research provide advice for retirement, and Professor of Economics Pablo Guerron weighs in on choosing an auto insurance provider. In a medical first, doctors transplanted a genetically modified heart from a pig into a human recipient. Walsh Professor of Bioethics Andrea Vicini, S.J., provides a Catholic perspective: America. Editorial choices can impact the amplitude of business cycles even if the information that is reported is correct, according to a study by Associate Professor of Economics Ryan Chahrour and colleagues, published in the American Economic Review and featured by PhysOrg Economics and Business. A tale of lost luggage and a Jewish Christmas miracle, penned by Professor of Russian, English, and Jewish Studies Maxim D. Shrayer, in Tablet Magazine. A Q&A with Global Public Health Program Director Philip Landrigan, M.D., about the pandemic, the importance of vaccines, the Omicron variant, and the way forward: Crux.com Consumer prices for the month of December rose by 7%, the highest increase in nearly four decades. Associate Professor of Economics Robert Murphy discussed the report with CBS Boston. School of Theology and Ministry Professor Thomas Groome commented on Catholic morality and vaccines for the Cape Cod Times. A 201-year-old poem serves as a reminder that the struggle for justice has been ingrained in American history from the start, writes Professor of English Paul Lewis: Boston Globe. Highlights from 2021 In a feature for the holiday season, Professor of English Elizabeth Graver joined other noted authors in recounting their most memorable, meaningful bookish gifts: Boston Globe. Connell School of Nursing Professor Ann Wolbert Burgess, a celebrated forensic and psychiatric nurse who helped revolutionize how the FBI tracks serial killers, is featured by ABC News.com. In an op-ed, Lynch School Professor Dennis Shirley and Professor Emeritus Andy Hargreaves write on why social-emotional learning isn’t enough to help students today: Washington Post. Comments by Professor of History Heather Cox Richardson regarding texts pushing "strategy" to undermine the 2020 election are cited by CNN.com. Matt Schweitzer, associate director at the Institute for Advanced Jesuit Studies, talks about St. Francis Xavier, S.J., one of the first Jesuits, as well as a new IAJS volume of his letters, in an interview with Catholic TV's "This is the Day." The Connell School of Nursing faculty and students who helped Cristo Rey Boston High School hike its COVID-19 student vaxx rate are among "everyday heroes" included in a tribute sponsored in the Boston Globe by leading health care organizations. Francisco Eduardo Cervantes, who will attend BC through the University's participation in QuestBridge, a program that helps high-achieving, low-income students gain admission and scholarships to the nation’s top-ranked colleges and universities, is featured by KRGV-TV News, Texas. School of Theology and Ministry Associate Professor Hosffman Ospino writes on lessons in synodal experience from 50 years of Encuentros for National Catholic Reporter. Carroll School Drucker Professor of Management Sciences Alicia Munnell, director of the Center for Retirement Research, discusses building long-term financial health via career sustainability in a Q&A with PharmExec.com, comments on inflation's effect on benefit checks for Marketplace, and writes on the third study in the center's three-part series on the needs and resources available for long-term care: MarketWatch. Center for Retirement Research Senior Research economist Gal Wettstein talks financial planning for retirement with MoneyGeek. Center on Aging and Work Co-Director Jacquelyn James outlines myths about older workers in a piece for Includr. BC Law School Founders Professor Mary Sarah Bilder was a featured panelist in the U.S. National Archives discussion held on Bill of Rights Day. How can contemporary democracies address the new populism and respond to its challenge? Canisius Professor of Theology James Keenan, S.J., vice provost for global engagement, writes on the topic for America. Professor of Political Science Jonathan Laurence was interviewed about his book, Coping with Defeat: Sunni Islam, Roman Catholicism, and the Modern State, by Al Jareeza. | The book has drawn positive reviews from The Berlin Journal and Survival journal; his essay on the Taliban and the Caliphate is published in the Berlin daily Der Tagesspiegel. Even though the economy is booming and unemployment is falling, stubborn inflation is taking its toll. Murray and Monti Professor of Economics Peter Ireland comments: Boston Globe. Global Public Health Program Director Philip Landrigan, M.D., writes on the importance of renewable energy to New England in an op-ed for CommonWealth. He discussed the cardiovascular risks of air pollution with Healio, and commented on a variety of pandemic-related topics: Everyday Health, Politico, Wall Street Journal 1, Wall Street Journal 2, Boston Globe. Former Suffolk District Attorney Rachael Rollins is now the first Black woman to serve as the state’s top federal law enforcement official. Prior to her Senate confirmation, BC Law Emeritus Drinan Professor George Brown discussed her nomination in an interview with Boston 25 News. Communication regarding cybersecurity in business is critical. Kevin R. Powers, director of the Woods College M.S. in Cybersecurity Policy and Governance program, addressed the topic in an interview with Security Weekly. Tattoos are one of the few ways that religiously unaffiliated persons can express their spirituality, writes Associate Professor of Sociology Gustavo Morello, S.J., in an essay for America magazine. The pandemic has revealed the needs of employees who care for children or other family more clearly than ever. Center for Work & Family Director of Corporate Partnerships Jennifer Sabatini Fraone weighed in: Boston Globe. The 2021 election brought historic firsts for diversity across the country, and it's changing the political conversation about what leadership looks like. Associate Professor of Political Science David Hopkins comments. Fox 13 News (Salt Lake City) Woods College Associate Dean and M.S. in Applied Economics program director Aleksandar Tomic discussed the relationship between inflation, household income, and consumer spending with Forbes, Colorado's tight labor market with the Denver Post, and rising gasoline prices with WBNS News (Columbus, OH). BC Law Associate Professor of the Practice Jeffrey Cohen comments on the ongoing fraud trial and testimony of Elizabeth Holmes, founder of failed blood testing start-up Theranos: Canadian public broadcaster CBC News. BC Law Professor Ray Madoff, director of the Forum on Philanthropy and the Public Good, writes in support of the Accelerating Charitable Efforts Act, which is designed to get more money to America’s charities, faster: Chronicle of Philanthropy. A report co-authored by Carroll School IS Professor Sam Ransbotham offers a detailed analysis of a dynamic between culture, AI use, and organizational effectiveness: MIT Sloan Management Review. Children are especially vulnerable during natural disasters because they are dependent on their caregivers, and still developing their understanding of the world. Lynch School Associate Professor Betty Lai discussed the subject with NPR-affiliate WSKG-FM New York. Carroll School Drucker Professor Alicia Munnell, director of the Center for Retirement Research, is among experts asked to predict the fate of investing based on environmental, social, and governance factors: Wall Street Journal. | Also cited by the WSJ: Center data on cash holdings targets in public pension funds. Pope Francis called for "prayer and dialogue" as the Latin American Ecclesial Assembly opened in Mexico last week. School of Theology and Ministry Associate Professor of the Practice Rafael Luciani discussed the gathering: Crux.com. Writing in Science Magazine, Associate Professor of Psychology and Neuroscience John Christianson provides a perspective on new research that finds the brain's insular cortex plays a central role in calibrating how we respond to signs of danger. The proposed legislation, which would make any protest or demonstration held within 300 feet of an elected Mass. official’s home a crime, will test the limits of free speech. BC Law Professor Robert Bloom weighs in for CBS News Boston. What does the Elizabeth Holmes fraud trial mean for Silicon Valley? BC Law Assistant Professor of the Practice Jeffrey Cohen comments: New York Times. | He also was quoted on developments in the Varsity Blues case: NYT. Students of economics increasingly expect to connect the subject with issues such as globalization, digitalization, unemployment, inequality, and climate change. Professor of the Practice of Economics Can Erbil is quoted: Christian Science Monitor. A Philadelphia DA says prosecutors hid evidence for years in a 2003 murder case. BC Law School Professor R. Michael Cassidy comments on disclosure requirements for the Philadelphia Inquirer. The campaign for justice outlined in Ireland and the Magdalene Laundries, co-authored by Associate Professor of English James Smith, is "deeply inspiring" and "a much-needed exercise in truth-telling," according to the editor of The Irish Examiner. The book also has been highlighted by RTÉ.com, The Dublin Review, TheJournal.ie, and The Tablet (U.K.). Carroll School Associate Professor of Marketing Gerald Smith, author of Getting Price Right, discussed rising inflation and related price hikes on Bloomberg Baystate Business. Debbie Hogan, an instructor in the Woods College M.S. in Sports Administration program, discussed the impact of the pandemic and fantasy sports on the athletics industry, and what makes a good sports city, in a Q&A with WalletHub. Environmental Studies major Julia Horchos '23, part of BC's delegation to COP26, was among young attendees at the summit interviewed by the Associated Press and the Boston Globe. Though the coronavirus is unlikely to be eradicated, the day will come when it's no longer a pandemic. Global Public Health Program Director Philip Landrigan, M.D., discussed the transition with CNN Health. He also commented on vaccines for children: CNN Health. Researchers including Lynch School Associate Professor Betty Lai shared advice on the important process of seeking out and applying for grant funding: APA Monitor. Canisius Professor of Theology James Keenan, S.J., vice provost for global engagement, outlines seven lessons learned from the Vatican's recent symposium on artificial intelligence: National Catholic Reporter. Have central banks gone soft on inflation risks? Murray and Monti Professor of Economics Peter Ireland weighs in: Reuters. Kevin R. Powers, director of the Woods College M.S. in Cybersecurity Policy and Governance program, discussed cyber threats to small businesses, and how they can manage the risk, in a Q&A with AdvisorSmith. A trick-or-treater dressed up as Pete from the new CBS sitcom "Ghosts" unwittingly ended up at the door of the actor who plays the character: BC grad Richie Moriarty '02. Boston Globe. COVID-19 delayed the graduation ceremony of Molly Cahill '20 and her classmates. She reflects on what returning to campus for Commencement this semester meant to her in an essay for America magazine, where she is now an assistant editor. As his views seem set to become more influential, will Clarence Thomas fill the shoes of the court's former leading conservative, the late Antonin Scalia? BC Law Professor Kent Greenfield weighs in for Newsweek. Woods College Associate Dean and M.S. in Applied Economics program director Aleksandar Tomic discussed strategies for organizations weighing opportunity costs, and the pros and cons of no-annual-fee credit cards, in Q&As with personal finance site Money Geek. As the two-year global consultation process leading to the 2023 Synod begins, School of Theology and Ministry Associate Professor of the Practice Rafael Luciani highlights the event as a turning point in the life of the Church: Vatican News. Connell School of Nursing Professor and behavioral scientist Ann Wolbert Burgess comments on various aspects of the case. Newsweek, Fox News, NewsNation Now Global Observatory on Pollution and Health Director Philip Landrigan, M.D., comments on the observatory-led study of the human and economic cost of air pollution in Africa published in The Lancet Planetary Health and featured by Eos. Why are Joe Biden’s approval ratings dropping in U.S. opinion polls? Associate Professor of Political Science David Hopkins talks presidential popularity in a polarized age, in an interview with The Signal. The McMullen Museum showcase of celebrated avant-garde painter Mariano Rodríguez, a prolific 20th century artist whose exposure in the U.S. was cut short after the Cuban Revolution, is featured by PBS NewsHour. Federal Reserve chairman Jerome Powell’s term expires in February 2022. Murray and Monti Professor of Economics Peter Ireland provided historical perspective on the central bank's role for National Review. In the aftermath of Colin Powell's death, Professor of History Seth Jacobs was among those discussing the career of the former U.S. secretary of state: CBS Boston/WBZ-TV 4. A Center for Retirement Research analysis estimates that the 5.9 percent cost of living adjustment to benefits in 2022 could deplete the combined Social Security trust fund reserves at an even faster clip if lawmakers don’t move to bolster its finances. The researchers comment: New York Times, Wall Street Journal. An essay on cultural intelligence and climate change by Associate Professor of the Practice of Philosophy David Storey, to be published in a forthcoming Routledge Handbook of Applied Climate Ethics, is excerpted in the Post-Progressive Post. The first major U.S. exhibThe first major U.S. exhibition on Cuban modernist painter Mariano Rodríguez, on view at the McMullen Museum of Art, was featured by a number of media outlets: WGBH Open Studio, WGBH Boston Public Radio, Art Daily, MetroWest Daily News, Artscope Magazine. Woods College Associate Dean and M.S. in Applied Economics program director Aleksandar Tomic comments on supply-chain issues for the Atlanta Journal-Constitution and on a new clean energy plan that rewards if utilities change their ways—and punishes if they don't—for Popular Science magazine. A study by the Center for Retirement Research looks how much help older Americans will need and for how long. The findings are highlighted by the New York Times. China's new Personal Information Protection Law imposes new rules for multinational companies in the region. Kevin Powers, director of the Woods College M.S. in Cybersecurity Policy and Governance program, comments for Bloomberg Law. There's no such thing as the "perfect" Bible translation, but some might be better for Catholic readers than others. School of Theology and Ministry Professor Emeritus of Old Testament Richard Clifford, S.J., comments for America magazine. As lawyers gave their closing arguments in the first trial of the Varsity Blues scandal, BC Law Assistant Professor of the Practice Jeffrey Cohen commented for the New York Times. Removal of lead paint from U.S. homes won't be inexpensive, but it will be a cost-effective one-time investment that prevents disease and neurodevelopmental disability for children, writes Global Public Health Program Director Philip Landrigan, M.D., in an op-ed for JAMA (Journal of the American Medical Association) Pediatrics. | He is cited as a hero for his advocacy in this area in a segment on CBS Morning News (at 4:08). The World Health Organization tightened its guidelines in September 2021, hoping to spur countries toward clean energy and prevent deaths and illness caused by air pollution. Visiting scholar Kurt Straif, co-director of BC's Global Observatory on Pollution and Health, comments for Reuters. Keara Hanlon '21 talks about her experience suffering from thoracic outlet syndrome in an essay for America magazine, where she is an O'Hare Fellow in media. In a Q&A, Carroll School Assistant Professor of Marketing Megan Hunter discusses the impact on consumers of insurance company reviews and advertising: WalletHub. If the Eucharist is an encounter with the living person of Jesus Christ, then disaffiliation from the Eucharistic liturgy is defection from Christ, writes Associate Professor Emeritus of Theology Rev. Robert Imbelli for Commonweal. A series of online public talks to mark the centenary of the partitioning of Ireland, produced by Queen's University Belfast, the U.K. and Irish governments, and the BBC, includes a segment by historian and Interim Director of Irish Studies Robert Savage. Listen BC Law Assistant Professor Ryan Williams discusses why justices must do more to ensure a nonpartisan Supreme Court in an op-ed for NBC News Think. The essay also is cited by the Boston Globe. Associate Professor of Communication Matt Sienkiewicz weighs in on the ascension of Fox News’ late night talk show “Gutfeld!” and right-wing comedy in an essay for The Conversation. U.S. COVID-19 deaths have now topped the total number of deaths attributed to the 1918 influenza pandemic. Global Public Health Director Philip Landrigan, M.D. comments on the milestone for the Boston Globe. | He took listener questions regarding booster shots for adults and vaccines for kids, among other topics, on WBUR "Ask the Doctors." What happens when prices rise quickly and just keep going up? Woods College Associate Dean and M.S. in Applied Economics program director Aleksandar Tomic defines hyperinflation for Business Insider. I He discussed ways to consider risk when planning for retirement in an interview with: Forbes. A free, pop-up day camp for children provided some relief for families displaced by California wildfires. Lynch School Associate Professor Betty Lai comments on the trauma kids experience from such natural disasters: NBC Today.com The criminal fraud trial of fallen Silicon Valley superstar Elizabeth Holmes is under way. BC Law Assistant Professor of the Practice Jeffrey Cohen discussed questions facing the jury: Yahoo Finance. A remembrance of long-time BC community member Marian Brown St. Onge, founding director of the Office of International Programs, who died in August at age 77: Boston Globe. School of Theology and Ministry Professor of Liturgy John Baldovin, S.J., was interviewed about Pope Francis’ decision to place significant restrictions on the celebration of the Tridentine Latin Mass for "Inside the Vatican," a podcast from America magazine. The former bishop of Ebbsfleet in the Church of England has resigned his office to become a Roman Catholic, a path that is uncommon but not unprecedented. Associate Professor of Theology and Episcopal priest James Weiss comments for America magazine. Professor of English Carlo Rotella interviews a Chicago school principal, one of seven teachers, administrators, and service providers asked to discuss what remote teaching is really like: New York Times Magazine More than 1,200 from New England are being monitored for Ground Zero exposure-related illness. Global Public Health Program Director Philip Landrigan, M.D., comments: Boston 25 News | He weighs in on a new paper regarding actions needed to limit global warming: AP Associate Professor of Political Science Peter Krause discusses teaching about 9/11, and the impact of the legacy of 9/11 hero Welles Crowther '99 on today's students: WCVB-TV CH. 5 News A reflection on art, vanity, and mortality by Professor of Russian, English, and Jewish Studies Maxim D. Shrayer. Tablet Magazine. School of Theology and Ministry Associate Professor of the Practice Rafael Luciani—an expert advisor for the theological commission of the Secretariat for the next Synod of Bishops—comments on the preparation process for Religion News Service, here via the Washington Post, and for Crux. The TRUST Act sounds like a benign piece of bipartisan legislation, but it could lead to major Social Security and Medicare cuts, writes Carroll School Drucker Professor and Center for Retirement Research Director Alicia Munnell: MarketWatch One way to address the wealth gap is to stop "MacGyvering" Social Security, according an op-ed by Center for Retirement Research fellow Geoffrey Sanzenbacher, associate professor of the practice of economics: The Hill | He also talked about retirement issues on the Motley Fool podcast. Both liberal and conservative legal scholars say it's urgently important to pull the Supreme Court's shadow docket into the light. Professor of History Heather Cox Richardson discussed it as a guest on WBUR "On Point." As Allbirds files to go public, what does the footwear company's status as a public benefit corporation really mean? Insights from BC Law Associate Professor Brian Quinn: Fashion Law World use of leaded gasoline officially ended when Algerian service stations stopped selling it in July. Global Public Health Program Director Philip Landrigan, M.D., who worked on research that resulted in the U.S. banning the fuel, is interviewed by BBC News and CNN Business. | In an op-ed, he advocates for passage of a toxic pesticides act in New York: Albany Times-Union. Thirty-nine prisoners remain at Guantanamo Bay 20 years after 9/11, including some who have never been charged. Insights from Kevin R. Powers, director of the M.S. in Cybersecurity and Governance program at the Woods College and former legal advisor to the Department of Defense: NBC News, Business Insider. NewsTalk Radio New Zealand As Labor Day approaches, a survey shows that nearly 1 in 3 Americans worry about job security. Professor of Economics Pablo Guerron discusses this and other findings about workers' attitudes on the impact of the pandemic: WalletHub Associate Professor of Political Science Peter Krause discussed the conclusion of America's longest war in interviews with NBC 10 Boston and a WTIC News (CT) podcast. A tiny fish once at the center of an Endangered Species Act controversy has been removed from the imperiled list. BC Law Professor Zygmunt Plater, who originally petitioned the government in the 1970s to declare the snail darter A "swarm" of earthquakes has rattled Peabody, Mass., in recent weeks, so officials turned to Weston Observatory geophysicist John Ebel of the Department of Earth and Environmental Sciences for some answers. Boston Globe, CBS Boston The Massachusetts House has approved sports gambling but the state senate is lukewarm on it. Carroll School Associate Professor of the Practice of Finance Richard McGowan, S.J., discussed the struggles of sports betting and casinos in the state with CBS Boston. Global Public Health Program Director Philip Landrigan, M.D., discussed evolving COVID-19 statistics and protocols on the "Ask the Doctors" segment of WBUR "Radio Boston" and on Bloomberg Baystate Business (at 59:18). He also commented on coronavirus metrics and pediatric infections for the Boston Globe. Wealthier older adults are more likely to volunteer, but lower-wealth volunteers may gain even greater health benefits from the experience, according to a report, co-authored by BC School of Social Work Assistant Professor Cal Halvorsen, published in the American Journal of Preventive Medicine: MSN Money Talks. Professor of Russian, English, and Jewish Studies Maxim D. Shrayer writes on the state of antisemitism and the prospect for Jewish life in America in an op-ed for the Jewish Journal and Jewish News Syndicate. Woods College Associate Dean and M.S. in Applied Economics program director Aleksandar Tomic discusses challenges facing immigrants looking to establish credit in the U.S. in a Q&A with WalletHub. The Institute for Advanced Jesuit Studies' Journey with Ignatius is among apps for faith, prayer, and contemplation featured by Denver Catholic. Professor of History Heather Cox Richardson, whose newsletter, "Letters from an American," has made her the most successful individual author of a paid publication on Substack, is named to the 2021 Most Creative People in Business list by Fast Company. Associate Professor of Political Science Peter Krause weighs in on reactions to the rapid and chaotic fall of Afghanistan following U.S. withdrawal in an interview aired on NECN and NBC Boston. Assistant Professor of Sociology Wen Fan weighs in on varying attitudes toward remote work among employees and their managers: Marketplace. U.S. "opportunity zones" use tax breaks for developers to help poor neighborhoods. But are they choosing wisely? Carroll School Assistant Professor of Business Analytics Dmitry Mitrofanov is co-author of an essay in The Conversation. Fighting has displaced 364,000 children, and efforts to reunite families are slow and complex. School of Social Work Salem Professor in Global Practice Theresa Betancourt, director of the school's Research Program on Children and Adversity, comments on the lasting consequences: The Telegraph (U.K.). Rising life expectancy and falling birth rates mean the world's average person is getting older—and likely to be working longer, which offers an opportunity to rethink the future of work. BC School of Social Work Associate Professor Christina Matz discussed the topic with Bloomberg News (segment begins at 1:08). Donald Trump’s company and its longtime finance chief were charged last week in what a prosecutor called a “sweeping and audacious” tax fraud scheme, BC Law Kenealy Professor James Repetti weighed in on the case for the Associated Pres BC Law Professor R. Michael Cassidy discusses accusations of homicide detectives trading sex and drugs for testimony: Philadelphia Inquirer. A second confirmed earthquake in two weeks rattled the North Shore city. Weston Observatory geophysicist John Ebel, a professor in the Department of Earth and Environmental Sciences, discussed it with Boston 25 News and NBC Boston. The pandemic has fueled the growth of "Buy Nothing" groups, formed in response to the wastefulness of consumer culture. Insights from Professor of Sociology Juliet Schor, who studies consumption, and doctoral candidate Gaëlle Bargain-Darrigues, who has researched the groups, in Fortune. Athletes Simone Biles and Naomi Osaka, along with the pandemic, have sparked a larger interest in mental health across society. Lynch School Buehler Assistant Professor Betty Lai comments: Vox.com For all her connections to divine power, Mary has a lot in common with people who often get overlooked. Assistant Professor of Theology Amey Victoria Adkins-Jones, whose scholarship focuses on Mariology, comments: Associated Press via America. School of Theology and Ministry Associate Professor Hosffman Ospino discusses barriers to acceptance of the vaccine among Hispanics: PBS "Nova" Next Islam is spiritually disarmed in France at an unsuitable time, writes Professor of Political Science Jonathan Laurence in an op-ed for La Croix. If 2020 was unforgettable for all the wrong reasons, then the pressure is on to make 2021 unforgettable for the right ones. But can you make memories? Scott Slotnick, a professor in the Department of Psychology and Neuroscience, author of the Cognitive Neuroscience of Memory, weighs in: Washington Post Carroll School Associate Professor of Finance Vyacheslav Fos, discussed his new paper on shareholder record dates, and how corporations can disclose such dates in ways that leave retail investors and some sophisticated shareholders in the dark. The Deal Dogs don’t return the favor after strangers feed them, according to a new a report. Assistant Professor of Psychology Angie Johnston, who was not involved in the study, weighs in for Smithsonian Magazine. | Her comments on behavioral differences in young dogs vs. wolf pups recently appeared in Scientific American. One of three Latin American theologians chosen as consultants for the upcoming Synod of Bishops, School of Theology and Ministry Associate Professor of the Practice Rafael Luciani discusses the role of the laity as decision makers in a Q&A with Crux.com. Infantilizing language is common in the health care industry—emblematic of a larger issue in how the U.S. treats older adults, and particularly older women. An op-ed on ageism and sexism by new BC School of Social Work graduate Hilary Dobel M.S.W. '21, written for a BCSSW course, is published by Ms. Magazine. A build-your-own charcuterie board shop in Beacon Hill, the brainchild of Carroll School marketing major Gilli Rozynek '20, is also a showcase space for artists—including Morrissey College grad Henry Dunkelberger. Rozynek, who had the idea while studying in Madrid, later participated in the SSC Venture Partners accelerator program for BC startups. Boston Globe The high court decisions in Citizens United v. Federal Election Commission and in Burwell v. Hobby Lobby Stores Inc., in the aftermath of financial and environmental catastrophes, sparked a rise in shareholder activism that is reshaping global financial markets, BC Law Professor Kent Greenfield tells Roll Call. An Instagram account chronicling Catholic dating solicits submissions of strange or funny overtures encountered in the digital wilderness. Philosophy Assistant Professor of the Practice Kerry Cronin, who has studied Catholic young people and dating, comments: Religion News Service, here via America. School of Theology and Ministry Associate Professor Hosffman Ospino discusses barriers to acceptance of the vaccine among Hispanics: PBS "Nova" Next Internet users can't get enough of food content, whether it's on Instagram, TikTok, or YouTube. Department of Psychology and Neuroscience part-time faculty member Rachel Herz, author of Why You Eat What You Eat, explains our online obsession with food. USA Today Professor of History Heather Cox Richardson is among 50 women over 50 who are "leading the way in impact" and "changing their communities and the world." Forbes. | The scholar-turned-Substack- star talks about her newsletter and 19th-century parallels with today’s U.S. politics in an int.erview with the Financial Times Is a "free" credit card really free? Insights from Carroll School Senior Lecturer in Finance Drew Hession-Kunz in a Q&A with WalletHub.com. In light of the announcement that Princeton University's Classics Department will no longer require majors to know Greek or Latin, Libby Professor of Theology and Law Cathleen Kaveny reflects on her study of Augustine's Confessions in the original Latin: Commonweal. The problem of supplies coming up short as demand suddenly rebounds is widespread—and complicated. Woods College Associate Dean for Strategy, Innovation, and Technology Aleksandar Tomic comments: Atlanta Journal-Constitution. President Biden’s net neutrality recommendations for the FCC are likely to trigger legal challenges--but the agency is expected to have to defend why reversing course yet again is justified. BC Law Professor and Associate Dean Daniel Lyons comments: Bloomberg Law. Professor of History Heather Cox Richardson is among 50 women over 50 who are "leading the way in impact" and "changing their communities and the world." Forbes | The scholar-turned-Substack- star talks about her newsletter and 19th-century parallels with today’s U.S. politics in an interview with the Financial Times. A study of real-life data by the Center for Retirement Research has found that less than a quarter of 65-year-olds will require the type of intensive care—both in terms of severity of the illness and length of recovery—that causes so much financial drain. CRR research economist Anqi Chen discussed the findings with Forbes. Coping With Defeat: Sunni Islam, Roman Catholicism, and the Modern State, new from Professor of Political Science Jonathan Laurence, is deemed a refreshing, provocative take on history and its place in current geopolitics in a review by the Wall Street Journal. Pope Francis has revoked the ruling of Pope Benedict XVI that allowed any Catholic priest to celebrate Mass using the rubrics of the pre-Vatican II liturgy. School of Theology and Ministry Professor John Baldovin, S.J., provides historical perspective for America and comments in the Boston Globe. Lynch School Professor Jacqueline Lerner discusses ways to reduce the number of rural youths disconnected from school or work, and related topics, in a Q&A with WalletHub.com. Global Public Health Program Director Philip Landrigan, M.D., provided perspective on the July uptick in COVID-19 cases in Massachusetts, and also underscored the need for people to be vaccinated to protect themselves and others, in an interview with the Boston Globe. Inflation can start from perceptions—which is why the Federal Reserve surveys consumers. Carroll School Assistant Professor of Finance Francesco D’Acunto comments on Marketplace Radio. Why do we buy what we buy? A Q&A with Professor of Sociology Juliet Schor, about the history of modern American consumerism: Vox.com. Tesla CEO Elon Musk defended in court his company's $2.6 billion acquisition of SolarCity. BC Law Associate Professor Brian Quinn discussed the case with Reuters. | Video An essay on Of Politics and Pandemics: Songs of a Russian Immigrant, the first collection of verse by Professor of Russian and English Maxim Shrayer, was published in the Los Angeles Review of Books. Teachers serve a noble purpose, says Lynch School of Education and Human Development Donovan Dean Stanton Wortham, whose comments lead a guide for those contemplating the profession in U.S. News & World Report. Donald Trump’s company and its longtime finance chief have been charged with what prosecutors called a “sweeping and audacious” tax fraud scheme. BC Law's Kenealy Professor James Repetti discussed the charges with the Boston Globe, Associated Press, Politico. "Journey with Ignatius," a new app from the Institute for Advanced Jesuit Studies designed to guide users through a virtual Ignatian pilgrimage, has been downloaded by nearly 8,000 users from 97 countries. IAJS Associate Director Matthew Schweitzer discussed the app on Catholic TV’s “This is the Day.” In the post-pandemic landscape, employers such as NY-based Kickstarter are rethinking workplace flexibility. Professor of Sociology Juliet Schor comments: CNBC How is the Delta variant impacting the U.S.? Global Public Health Program Director Philip Landrigan, M.D., weighs in for CNN.com and takes listener questions on WBUR "Radio Boston." The Biden administration is seeking to tackle the issue of appraisals undervaluing properties in Black communities. Liberty Mutual Insurance Professor of Law Patricia McCoy discusses the steps needed to end discrimination: Bloomberg Law. The Facebook antitrust ruling left open the possibility that the federal plaintiffs could refile their case, but it illustrates how antitrust-law standards can be tough for regulators to meet. BC Law Associate Professor David Olson comments for the Wall Street Journal. Speaking at the Catholic Theological Society of America virtual panel on the CTSA's history, Professor Emeritus of Theology M. Shawn Copeland put out an "altar call" for action on issues of inclusion and racial justice. National Catholic Reporter The time for a dramatic reconceptualization of schooling is long overdue, writes Lynch School Professor Dennis Shirley, currently a Richard von Weizsäcker Fellow at the Berlin-based Robert Bosch Academy. | "Wraparound" services are crucial to school reopenings, according to Joan Wasser Gish, director of strategic initiatives at the Lynch School Center for Optimized Student Support, writing for CommonWealth. Carroll School IS Associate Professor Sam Ransbotham has been studying corporate adoption of AI during the pandemic. He discusses findings from a report to be released later this year: Wired. Though some people barely held it together during the pandemic, they also feel pressured to have somehow learned or grown from the experience. Lynch School Professor David Blustein comments: Vox.com. The pandemic seems to have worsened childhood obesity, but it also suggests ways of fighting it, including a report on how expanding COVID adaptations could improve USDA summer feeding programs. Biology Assistant Professor of the Practice Rebecca Franckle, a report co-author, comments in the New York Times Magazine. A new spotlight is shining on the ways that charitable giving can exacerbate economic inequality. A conversation with BC Law Professor Ray Madoff, who advocates for a bipartisan policy change to address the issue, on GBH "Greater Boston." Boston College pitcher Samrath Singh '22, believed to be the first observant Sikh to ever play Division 1 baseball, is featured by NBC News. Two Trump appointees to the Supreme Court joined the majority in upholding the Affordable Care Act. Law Professor Kent Greenfield comments on the ruling: NBC 10 Boston Mass. lawmakers held a hearing on legalizing sports gambling in the state. Economist and Associate Professor of the Practice of Finance Richard McGowan, S.J., cautioned about the potential effect of legalization on young people in an interview with NBC 10 Boston. The Routledge International Handbook of Irish Studies, edited by BC Ireland Academic Director Mike Cronin with contributions from BC scholars, "offers an unmissable opportunity to consider the state of an energetic and vibrant field of scholarship in the context of what may prove a transformative moment." Irish Times The ability to generate designer proteins using multiple non-natural building blocks will unlock countless applications, writes Associate Professor of Chemistry Abhishek Chatterjee in a perspective piece for Science Magazine. | The piece is cited by the Financial Times. Debate continues over whether Catholic politicians whose public policy positions are at odds with Church teaching should be denied Communion. School of Theology and Ministry Professor John Baldovin, S.J., provides historical perspective: Washington Post. Professor of the Practice of English Joseph Nugent joined a discussion of the role of music in James Joyce's books and stories: GBH radio Researchers in the lab of Associate Professor of Psychology and Neuroscience Liane Young explore how people interpret the moral actions of others, and the brain regions underlying these judgments. The team's work is featured by the American Psychological Association magazine, APA Monitor. When he was 17, Augustin P. Rac '21 journeyed from his native Guatemala to the U.S. in search of opportunity. Eight years later, he is a U.S. citizen and a graduate of the Carroll School of Management. His story is featured by the Worcester Telegram & Gazette. BC Law Professor Ray Madoff, director of the school's Forum on Philanthropy and the Public Good, discusses a Senate bill that would impose annual payout requirements on donor-advised funds and hasten distributions from foundations: New York Times. Protests and an inquiry in Brazil focus on the handling of a pandemic that has left more than 460,000 in the country dead, one of the worst rates in the world. BC Law Associate Professor Paulo Barrozo comments: Vox.com The compressor station in North Weymouth, Mass., has had four near-misses in nine months. It's time to shut it down, according to Global Public Health Program Director Philip Landrigan, M.D., co-author of an op-ed for WBUR "Cognoscenti". Kevin Powers, director of the M.S. in Cybersecurity Policy and Governance program at the Woods College, discussed recent cyberattacks on businesses, including the Steamship Authority, in an interview with Bloomberg Baystate Business. Comments by Moakley Professor of Political Science Kay L. Schlozman regarding American democracy and efforts to undermine voting rights are cited by a columnist for the Boston Globe. Policies that ban convicted drug felons from federal programs aimed at alleviating the effects of poverty and food insecurity are inconsistent with the need to support reentry for formerly incarcerated people, writes BC School of Social Work Associate Professor Margaret Lombe in The Conversation. Eucharistic adoration—a practice with roots in the medieval church—is now an integral part of ministry to young Catholics. Theresa O'Keefe, associate professor of the practice of youth and young adult faith at the School of Theology and Ministry, comments for America. Morrissey College graduate Daniel Grace '93, owner of Il Molino di Grace vineyards in Chianti, Italy, returns to Boston several times a year. He talks about all things travel in a Q&A with the Boston Globe. Massachusetts Governor Charlie Baker and Lt. Governor Karyn Polito '88 honored the NCAA champion women’s lacrosse team at the State House on June 2. Boston Globe Food waste accounts for as much as 10 percent of global greenhouse gas emissions. Can food waste apps help? Core Fellow and Visiting Assistant Professor of Environmental Studies Jonathan Krones weighs in: Salon. Findings from a study of the giving habits of midlevel donors by BC School of Social Work Assistant Professor Cal Halvorsen are featured in the Chronicle of Philanthropy. Racial trauma isn’t in the official manual that mental health care providers use to make diagnoses. But it should be, Lynch School Professor Janet Helms, director of the Institute for the Study and Promotion of Race and Culture, tells WGBH News. A report by ABC Washington, D.C., affiliate WJLA News shows the FDA knew about concentrations of toxic metals in baby foods and failed to take meaningful action. Global Public Health Program Director Philip Landrigan, M.D., is among experts interviewed for an in-depth series: Part One | Part 2 | Part 3 | He comments on traces of Benzene in hand sanitizer and sunscreen for Bloomberg News. The sanctuary movement provides great inspiration for parishes to respond to the need for continued vigilance and aid for the vulnerable at this stage of the pandemic, writes School of Theology and Ministry Associate Professor Hosffman Ospino. Catholic News Service Popular destinations, travel strategies for families, and costly mistakes to avoid are among the topics in a Q&A with retired Carroll School of Management marketing professor Arch Woodside: WalletHub. The exclusive New England presentation of "Taking Shape: Abstraction from the Arab World, 1950s–1980s" at the McMullen Museum of Art is featured by WGBH News, Art Daily, and Antiques and the Arts Weekly COVID-19 provides opportunities to not only study unnecessary medical care but also examine areas of insufficient care, Connell School of Nursing Dean and Professor Susan Gennaro tells the Washington Post. May 2021 marks the 130th anniversary of Pope Leo XIII’s landmark encyclical on human labor, “Rerum Novarum.” What would he say about today's gig economy? Read an essay by Professor of Theology Kenneth Himes, O.F.M., in America. After a year of anxiety, anger, and burnout, many people are struggling with returning to pre-pandemic behaviors. Lynch School Professor Rebekah Levine Coley, whose research shows the pandemic's effect on mental health, comments: National Geographic. The pandemic showed that work-from-home and flexible schedules make it much easier for caregivers to work full-time jobs, Center for Work & Family Executive Director Brad Harrington tells CNN.com. Pope Francis' new ministry of catechist may help shrink the clergy-laity gap, according to Joseph Professor of Catholic Systematic Theology Richard Gaillardetz, in an essay for National Catholic Reporter. To move forward in bridging theology's liberal/conservative divide, what is needed is cultivation of the capacity to be at home with both the old and the new, writes Visiting Assistant Professor of Theology Ligita Ryliškytė, SJE for America. Global Public Health Program Director Philip Landrigan, M.D., discusses the risks, particularly to children, of exposure to Benzene emissions, a common refinery-related pollutant: Philadelphia public radio WHYY. | He comments on evolving COVID precautions in the Boston Globe and Hartford Courant. As new president of the Academy of Catholic Hispanic Theologians of the United States, School of Theology and Ministry Associate Professor Hosffman Ospino "hit a home run" with his address at the group's colloquium, according to National Catholic Reporter. President Biden's nominee for assistant secretary for civil rights is Catherine Lhamon, who held the same position during the Obama administration. O'Neill Professor of American Politics R. Shep Melnick, who studies Title IX, is quoted regarding the choice by Inside Higher Ed. A Trump-fortified conservative majority is making its presence felt at the Supreme Court. BC Law Professor Kent Greenfield comments for AP and the Boston Globe. A group of money managers wants to woo investors to conservative-leaning funds. Associate Professor of Political Science David Hopkins is quoted: Wall Street Journal Across Illinois, Arab Americans were dying from COVID-19—but the government wasn’t counting, which some say cost lives. Connell School of Nursing Assistant Professor Nadia Abuelezam, who studies health-related inequities, comments for CBS Chicago. Many Americans mismanage their Social Security benefit, which can cost them dearly. Center for Retirement Research Director Alicia Munnell is among experts discussing potential missteps: Wall Street Journal How will federal policy changes regarding freelance workers affect companies? Woods College Associate Dean and M.S. in Applied Economics program director Aleksandar Tomic comments for Forbes. Tax incentives can influence cities' economic growth and opportunity if strategically targeted to the right businesses and business behaviors, writes Carroll School Assistant Professor of the Practice Lourdes Germán, co-author of an essay for Brookings Institution's "The Avenue." The cyberattack on a major pipeline system underscored again that vulnerabilities of critical infrastructure threaten to impede operations. Economics faculty member Brian Bethune commented for the Associated Press, and later warned against gasoline hoarding in USA Today. In his remarks at the Carroll School of Management's three-day webinar series on politics, the economy, and global markets, Federal Reserve Bank of Boston Eric Rosengren expressed optimism about the near future. Boston Globe, Reuters A number of factors come into play. Global Public Health Program Director Philip Landrigan, M.D., weighs in for the Boston Globe. Professor of the Practice of Economics Can Erbil discusses the outlook for jobs, changes in consumer spending habits, and strategies to help the hard-hit leisure and hospitality industries: WalletHub Q&A. Stanley Black & Decker VP Julie Fitton of the Woods College M.S. in Cybersecurity Policy and Governance program faculty is hailed for integrating cybersecurity into production design, build, and operation at the historically non-digital manufacturer. SC Magazine BC Law Professor R. Michael Cassidy discusses convictions that occur over recanted statements: Philadelphia Inquirer. According to a new data analysis by Law Professor Ray Madoff, “working charities” lost $300 billion in recent years due in large part to the proliferation of donor-advised funds: Chronicle of Philanthropy. Law Professor Daniel Lyons and Associate Professor David Olson weigh in on the ongoing trial Epic Games v. Apple for, respectively, the Associated Press and CNet News. Vaccine hesitancy and viral variants may make herd immunity more elusive, but sound public health strategies—including masks—can help make COVID-19 manageable. Associate Professor of Law Dean Hashimoto, M.D., author of The Case for Masks: Science-Based Advice for Living During the Coronavirus Pandemic, is interviewed by New York Daily News Libby Professor of Theology and Law Cathleen Kaveny discusses the distinction between interpreting canon law and interpreting American common law: National Catholic Reporter. President Joe Biden and Federal Reserve Chair Jerome Powell appear to be heading in the same policy direction designed not just to rescue the economy from a recession but to reset its trajectory. Murray and Monti Professor of Economics Peter Ireland comments for Reuters. What accounts for Joe Biden's popularity—and will it last? Associate Professor of Political Science David Hopkins discusses the challenge of holding majority support in a divided country in a Q&A with The Signal. Some older workers may have fared worse during the pandemic than they did during the Great Recession, according to recent research conducted by Associate Professor of the Practice of Economics Geoffrey Sanzenbacher of the Center for Retirement Research. CNBC.com. Was Joe Biden preaching Catholic social teaching in his address to Congress? Professor of Theology Kristin Heyer comments for America magazine. President Biden's address laid out a plan that presents a mixed bag for business leaders, Woods College Associate Dean and M.S. in Applied Economics program director Aleksandar Tomic tells Forbes. Morality clauses and similar requirements are in the news as companies wrestle with how much they can police employees’ behavior outside of the workplace. BC Law Professor Dean Hashimoto comments for Utah's Deseret News. The paintings of Egyptian artist, feminist, and political dissident Inji Efflatoun, created during her imprisonment, are “a window into a world that had been hidden from sight,” Sultan Sooud Al Qassemi, a visiting instructor in the Islamic Civilization & Societies Program, tells the New York Times. In the Chemical & Engineering News podcast Stereo Chemistry, Global Public Health Program Director Philip Landrigan, M.D., discusses children’s exposures to neurotoxic elements in food. | He comments on the need for regulation to prevent contaminants in prenatal vitamins with WJLA News. Although overall purchasing confidence continues to rise, a comparison of Americans across the income spectrum shows that not everyone is equally optimistic. Woods College Associate Dean Aleksandar Tomic, program director of the M.S. in Applied Economics program, comments: Forbes. While its timing is a coincidence, a new book by Seelig Professor of Philosophy Richard Kearney addresses a subject that is especially topical during a worldwide pandemic and its social isolation. He discussed Touch in an interview with WGBH News. A visit by Vice President Kamala Harris to New Hampshire fueled speculation about a possible 2024 presidential bid. Associate Professor of Political Science David Hopkins comments: Boston Herald Despite a wave of public statements by corporations opposing legislation that would make it harder for people to vote, election reform advocates doubt U.S. capitalism is really coming to the rescue of American democracy. Associate Professor of Communication Michael Serazio weighs in for the U.K.'s Guardian. A group of nursing students led by Connell School Clinical Assistant Professor Donna Cullinan is conducting health and wellness clinics and visiting the homebound this week in Aroostook County, Maine, an under-resourced region near the Canadian border, in cooperation with Catholic Charities Maine and the Maine Department of Public Health. The Pilot | Bangor Daily News | The County (Presque Isle, ME) The term arose 30 years ago to describe the principles of free-market capitalism that the IMF, World Bank, and U.S. executive branch urged developing-country governments to embrace in exchange for debt relief. Is it still relevant? Professor of Sociology Sarah Babb is co-author of an op-ed on the subject for WashingtonPost.com. Senator Ed Markey has introduced a bill that would add four seats to the U.S. Supreme Court. BC Law Professor Kent Greenfield discussed the proposal on NBC Boston. The Mass. Supreme Judicial Court is expected to rule on whether those convicted of federal corruption charges should be barred from lobbying state officials for 10 years after their conviction. Drinan Professor of Law George Brown comments for the Boston Globe. More employers than expected have opted out of the state's paid leave system. Will the program suffer as a result? Professor of Economics Kit Baum is among experts weighing in for WGBH News. Guiding principles and an entrepreneurial approach enable global spirits maker Beam Suntory, led by president and CEO Albert Baladi P'19, to meet both changing consumer demands and community needs, writes Carroll School IS Professor and Shea Center for Entrepreneurship faculty director Gerald Kane: Deloitte/Wall Street Journal.com. The push for negotiation classes for adults and gender equality in the workforce is critical but it may be starting too late, writes Associate Professor of Psychology Katherine McAuliffe, co-author of an op-ed—based on findings from her recent study—in Scientific American. Global Public Health Program Director Philip Landrigan, M.D., answered listener questions about vaccine eligibility and virus variants on WBUR "Radio Boston," and commented on young people and the virus in the Wall Street Journal. BC Law Professor Robert Bloom commented on the second week of testimony in the trial of a former Minneapolis police officer in the death of George Floyd: Huffington Post. BC Law School Concurrent Professor of Law and Philosophy Thomas Kohler discusses challenges to hard-hit industries during COVID-19 and related topics in a Q&A with WalletHub. As restrictions loosen up when more people are vaccinated, the busier the economy will become, Associate Professor of Economics Robert Murphy tells CBS Boston. Will there be a fourth round of checks? Vaccinations, the economy, and politics all come into play. Associate Professor of Political Science David Hopkins weighs in for Money.com. Major League Baseball has cancelled plans for Atlanta to host the 2021 All-Star Game due to Georgia's controversial new voting law. Associate Professor of Communication Michael Serazio writes on the GOP response in an op-ed for the Washington Post. Because there is no health identifier for Arab Americans, they are counted as white patients, hindering efforts to see how COVID-19 affects this population. Research findings and comments by Connell School of Nursing Assistant Professor Nadia Abuelezam, who studies health disparities among the Arab American community: CNN.com. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has proposed a rule to prevent a wave of foreclosures this fall, when certain COVID-era protections for homeowners are set to expire. Insights from Liberty Mutual Insurance Professor of Law Patricia McCoy: CNBC. Stimulus checks and other government measures kept many borrowers from bankruptcy last year despite high unemployment, but economists worry it won’t last. Assistant Professor of Economics Jaromir Nosal comments: Wall Street Journal The School of Theology and Ministry's mission to bring ordained, religious, and lay ministers together as collaborators in ministry is highlighted—with comments from Associate Dean Jacqueline Regan and STM alumna Krista Chinchilla, now a campus minister at Marian University—by America magazine. Health experts including Global Public Health Program Director Philip Landrigan, M.D., urge people to remain vigilant about protocols: Wall Street Journal. | He comments on Pfizer's announcement that its vaccine protects younger teens: AP. Special purpose acquisition company mania is still going strong, but it has raised new concerns about potential high risks to individual investors. Insights from BC Law Professor Renee Jones: ABC News.com. The Massachusetts attorney general’s office has spent nearly $1 million in legal fees defending three former prosecutors for roles in one of the state's drug lab scandals. BC Law Professor R. Michael Cassidy comments: WBUR News. Lynch School Assistant Professor Gabrielle Oliveira, whose research focuses on immigration and mobility, discusses the immigration crisis at the U.S. border in an interview with Globo TV Brazil ( in Portuguese). Carroll School grad Justin Robinson '11—co-founder of Boston-based delivery service Drizly Inc., recently acquired by Uber for over $1 billion—is the latest contributor to SSC Venture Partners, a fund, startup accelerator, and mentor network for Boston College startups. Boston Business Journal In two decisions, the CDC has signaled that the pandemic still has months to go. Insights from Global Public Health program director Philip Landrigan, M.D.: Marketplace Radio. As many workers resist COVID-19 vaccines, calls grow for Massachusetts to make shots mandatory. BC Law Professor Kent Greenfield weighs in: Boston Globe. Woods College Associate Dean Aleksandar Tomic, director of the M.S. in Applied Economics program, discussed recovery from the Suez Canal debacle and prevention of a future supply chain crisis in an interview with Forbes. Center for Work and Family Executive Director Brad Harrington is among experts asked to weigh in on how the experience of the past year will reshape our world going forward. CommonWealth Magazine As with many disaster anniversaries, the one-year milestone for COVID-19 lockdowns can trigger heightened emotions. Insights from Buehler Sesquicentennial Assistant Professor Betty Lai: Elemental Religious organizations can help people manage stress—but first it's essential to recognize the depth of the problem. Lynch School Professor Usha Tummala-Narra is among experts commenting for National Catholic Reporter. Findings from a global study, led by BC's Global Observatory on Pollution and Health, of the threat to human health posed by ocean pollution is featured by National Catholic Reporter "EarthBeat," with comments by observatory director Philip Landrigan, M.D. Read more Though adding the District of Columbia as a state is viewed by some as a partisan move, it is not without precedent for a state to be added for that reason. Comments by History Professor Heather Cox Richardson: Washington Post. An event marking the 40th anniversary of the founding of the Friends of Ireland in Congress by Senator Edward M. Kennedy featured a conversation between Taoiseach Micheál Martin and Irish Institute/GLI Director Robert Mauro, followed by a panel on the Kennedy legacy in Ireland moderated by Mauro. Watch the event here What if, instead of giving up candy or screen time for Lent, teenagers gave up things like negative self-thoughts, self-harm and comparison? An essay written for a BC journalism course by Morrissey College senior Michael Lyons is published by America magazine. After people visualize themselves in a balloon, they tend to make more far-sighted financial decisions, according to research by Carroll School of Management Associate Professor of Marketing Min Zhao, cited by Bloomberg News. A new instruction from the Vatican's Secretariat of State has banned the practice of individual Masses inside St. Peter's Basilica and places limits on the use of the Latin rite. School of Theology and Ministry Professor John Baldovin, S.J., comments for National Catholic Reporter. Debbie Hogan, a faculty member in the Woods College M.S. in Sports Administration program and assistant director of the BC School of Social Work doctoral program, is among experts weighing in on the annual prognostication mix: WalletHub.com Lynch School Research Professor Philip Altbach writes on why Latin America needs world-class universities: University World News Following statements by U.S. Catholic bishops about the morality of taking the coronavirus vaccines, Catholic leaders and ethicists, including Monan Professor of Theology Lisa Sowle Cahill, weighed in: Washington Post. How best to navigate a semi-vaccinated world? Insights from Global Public Health Program Director Philip Landrigan, M.D.: Time. Attempts by people farther down the list to get ahead of those deemed higher priority are not only unethical but may also undermine trust in the vaccine rollout, writes BC Law Professor Katharine Young. The Conversation. The Biden administration will examine regulations put in place by former Secretary of Education Betsy DeVos. O'Neill Professor of American Politics R. Shep Melnick, author of The Transformation of Title IX, comments: New York Times A year after churches locked down, School of Theology and Ministry Associate Professor Hosffman Ospino reflects on how he has "returned" to Mass celebrated outdoors, even in winter: National Catholic Reporter. Associate Professor of Economics Robert Murphy discussed what the latest jobs report may signal about economic recovery: GBH "Morning Edition." The disparity between the reception to President Barack Obama’s 2009 stimulus plan and President Biden’s is the result of several seismic shifts in American politics. Associate Professor of Political Science David Hopkins comments: Washington Post. Pope Francis is visiting the war-torn country, where the coronavirus still rages. Comments from Walsh Professor of Bioethics Andrea Vicini, S.J.: New York Times. A growing share of the U.S. economy operates outside strict regulatory oversight. BC Law Associate Dean and Professor Renee Jones comments for Dow Jones MarketWatch. An essay by Haitian-American scholar and Associate Professor of Romance Languages and Literatures Régine Jean-Charles on “Madan Sara,” a film about the power of Black women in a global economy: Ms. Magazine. The Johnson & Johnson vaccine gives the U.S. another badly needed tool at a critical time in the pandemic. Global Public Health Program Director Philip Landrigan, M.D. weighs in for the Washington Post. The president's executive order requiring a 100-day review of key aspects of the nation’s supply chain reminds all business leaders of the importance of being prepared for any crisis situation, Aleksandar Tomic, Woods College associate dean for strategy, innovation, and technology, tells Forbes. Women of color are increasingly leading Boston, which is on the cusp of having its first Black woman as mayor. Clough Millennial Professor of History James O'Toole and Irish Studies Program interim director Robert Savage comment on Boston's political history and evolution: Associated Press via Los Angeles Times It isn’t uncommon to have feelings of depression and alienation after losing a job. Lynch School Professor and Duganne Faculty Fellow David Blustein discusses coping mechanisms with the Wall Street Journal. A new analysis co-authored by Buehler Sesquicentennial Assistant Professor Betty Lai of the Lynch School and published in the Journal of the American Medical Association Network Open sheds new light on the trajectory of post-traumatic stress that youths experience after a natural disaster. She discusses the findings: Gizmodo. "I went on a date in college for extra credit. What it taught me about love and worthiness was priceless," writes Morrissey College graduate Molly Cahill '20, now an O'Hare Fellow at America magazine, about her experience with Philosophy Associate Professor of the Practice Kerry Cronin's storied dating assignment. America A study of the politicization of health and science, co-authored by Assistant Professor of Communication S Mo Jones-Jang and published in the journal Health Communication, finds that political leaders can have a notable impact on vaccine risk assessment. PsyPost Carroll School of Management student Enmanuel Cabrera '23 transferred to BC through the University's partnership with Service to School’s VetLink program, which expands opportunities and access for highly qualified veterans transitioning to higher education. He talks about the program and his experience at BC so far in an S2S Q&A. BC's Montserrat program has receives 5,000 face masks a from a California hospitality firm that learned about Montserrat—which provides support for low-income students at BC—from an employee whose daughter is enrolled in the program. Boston Globe Richard Clifford, S.J., professor emeritus and founding dean of the School of Theology and Ministry, reflects on the Book of Ruth, and its call to take seriously the lives of ordinary people: America. Pope Francis has criticized the politics of both the left and the right. Community organizing offers a third way, writes BC Law School Dean Vincent Rougeau in America. Forecasters are increasingly optimistic about economic growth this year, though less so about the labor market’s prospects, a new Wall Street Journal survey shows. Economics faculty member Brian Bethune commented on the upbeat projections: Wall Street Journal Professor Emeritus of Theology M. Shawn Copeland is among experts asked to reflect on the biggest lessons from the past year in the hope that they might help us find a better way forward: America. Singer-songwriter Eric Nam '11 has joined with other Korean American artists in raising awareness about mental health by publicly sharing their personal journeys. Associated Press via Washington Post. Some Dunkin' fans go so far as to think of the brand as an extension of themselves. Carroll School Associate Professor of Marketing Nailya Ordabayeva comments on elements of the company's strategy: Refinery29. Financial-services companies reduced monetary settlements to consumers assumed to be Black or lower-income, according to a published working paper by Carroll School Assistant Professor of Finance Rawley Heimer and doctoral candidate Charlotte Haendler. Dow Jones MarketWatch British medical journal The Lancet has released a report by 33 scientists, including Global Public Health Program Director Philip Landrigan, M.D., that attributes 22,000 deaths in 2019 to the former president's regulatory rollbacks. Bloomberg News | Landrigan writes on the findings in the Boston Globe. Abuse in childhood can “ripple through the life course” and elevate the risk of becoming involved with extremist groups, according to BC School of Social Work Associate Professor Scott Easton, quoted in a Boston Globe column that highlights BCSSW initiatives and includes comments by Dean Gautam Yadama. Read more When a brutal war births a generation of child soldiers, why do some succumb to despair while others recover and thrive? A pivotal study led by BC School of Social Work Salem Professor in Global Practice Theresa Betancourt suggests connection and community may be key to healing. Christian Science Monitor Associate Professor of Romance Languages and Literatures Régine Jean-Charles, a Haitian American scholar, writes on Haitian president Jovenel Moïse’s refusal to step down in an op-ed for Ms. Magazine. Work as we know it has been changed by COVID-19. Now is the time for managers to envision the office that employees will return to, according to Carroll School IS Professor Gerald Kane, writing for Sloan Management Review. Does mixing sports and politics in Super Bowl commercials benefit brands? Associate Professor of Communication Michael Serazio weighed in for Adweek. As the pandemic persists, every month about 130 billion disposable face masks end up in landfills, rivers, and oceans worldwide—the latest example of the environmental impact of single-use consumption. Core Fellow and Visiting Assistant Professor in Environmental Studies Jonathan Krones comments in the New York Times. America's jobs recovery has lost steam, according to the latest report. Associate Professor of Economics Robert Murphy comments for CNN Business. | He weighs in on tightened credit, HELOC fraud, and related topics in a Q&A with WalletHub. Financial-services companies reduced monetary settlements to consumers assumed to be Black or lower-income, according to a newly published working paper by Carroll School Assistant Professor of Finance Rawley Heimer and doctoral candidate Charlotte Haendler. Dow Jones MarketWatch Shemekia Copeland reigns as the greatest blues singer of her generation. Now she wants to fuse politics with the blues. Read a feature on her by Professor of English Carlo Rotella in the Washington Post Magazine. Carroll School of Management finance faculty weigh in on the GameStop saga: Cleary Professor Jeffrey Pontiff for the Washington Post and Haub Family Professor Ronnie Sadka for Reuters. Associate Professor of Sociology C. Shawn McGuffey, director of African and African Diaspara Studies, joined a panel of experts discussing how issues of racial trauma are passed down from one generation to the next: WGBH "Basic Black." Professor of Biology Philip Landrigan, M.D., comments on signs of progress in battling COVID-19: Associated Press. | He explains why ocean pollution is a clear danger to human health, based on findings from the recent BC-led global study, for The Conversation. As the pandemic continues, it's important for people to maintain a hopeful but also a realistic view of the situation, Lynch School Professor David Blustein tells CNN.com. "His life’s work was communicating the language’s vitality to generations of students, including me," writes Libby Professor of Theology and Law Cathleen Kaveny in a remembrance of Reginald Foster, O.C.D., the celebrated Latinist who died in December 2020: Commonweal. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau is expected to become a more aggressive consumer watchdog under the Biden administration. Liberty Mutual Professor of Law Patricia McCoy comments for CNBC. Associate Professor of the Practice of Economics Matthew Rutledge of the Center for Retirement Research joined Yahoo Finance Live to discuss the outlook for retirement planning during the new administration. Associate Professor of the Practice of English Allison Adair was among poets discussing the performance of Amanda Gorman at the presidential inauguration, as well as why poetry matters and how it is evolving, on New Hampshire Public Radio. School of Theology and Ministry Assistant Professor of the Practice Barton Geger, S.J., a research scholar at the Institute for Advanced Jesuit Studies, writes on the history and possibilities of the question for America magazine. BC Law Associate Professor Kari Hong discussed President Biden’s 100-day deportation “pause,” and the move to block it by a Texas federal judge, in Time magazine and the Washington Post. Saks Fifth Avenue owner Hudson’s Bay Co. is reportedly looking to split Saks.com from Saks brick-and-mortar. Insights from BC Law Associate Professor Brian Quinn: The Fashion Law Turkey has been hit hard by COVID-19. Assistant Professor of Biology Emrah Altindis, who has been following progress of the pandemic in his native country, comments for NPR "Morning Edition." The thousands of Massachusetts children migrating to private schools for in-class instruction could have long-term consequences for the public education system. Lynch School Professor Dennis Shirley and Economics Associate Professor of the Practice Chandini Sankaran weigh in for Boston 25 News. Professor of Russian, English, and Jewish Studies Maxim D. Shrayer and his daughter, award-winning poet Tatiana Rebecca Shrayer, have translated a cycle of poems by David Shrayer-Petrov, Maxim's father and her grandfather. Read them in the 25th anniversary issue of the international journal of Russian poetry in translation: Four Centuries. BC Law Professor Kent Greenfield commented on the road ahead for Trump's second impeachment in USA Today while Law Assistant Professor Daniel Farbman discussed the proceedings with Boston 25 News. Professor of Theology Boyd Taylor Coolman and his wife, Holly—who have adopted five children and have a wide array of birth families and former foster families in their lives—are among those highlighted in a magazine cover story on how Catholics find God in the ties that bind: U.S. Catholic. After improving slightly in 2019, the outlook for financial security in retirement for U.S. workers deteriorated in 2020, according to a study released by the Center for Retirement Research. Wall Street Journal Professor of History Heather Cox Richardson discussed the historical significance of President Biden's inauguration in an interview with NPR's "All Things Considered." President Biden has promised to make strengthening Title IX a priority. O'Neill Professor of American Politics R. Shep Melnick, author of The Transformation of Title IX: Regulating Gender Equality in Education, comments for Inside Higher Ed. "Luxurious and sophisticated," the pastry selection prepared under the direction of BC Dining Executive Pastry Chef Tim Fonseca, is at the level of a five-star hotel, according to a feature on WCVB-TV "Chronicle." Professor of History Heather Cox Richardson and her hit newsletter “Letters from an American” were featured by the Boston Globe. | She discussed the storming of the Capitol with Moyers on Democracy and is quoted regarding security at the Biden inauguration on NPR affiliate GPB-Atlanta. The Biden administration has an opportunity to restore basic labor protections to the people who deliver our groceries and drive for Uber and Lyft, according to Professor of Sociology Juliet Schor, co-author of an op-ed in the New York Times. Associate Professor of Communication Michael Serazio weighed in on the importance of checking in with one another during a pandemic. ABC News Tampa Bay Carroll School Associate Professor of Marketing Min Zhao discussed credit card rewards, and their pros and cons for consumers, in a Q&A with WalletHub. (Note: Q&A will load following a short delay.) Prior to the historic vote by the House of Representatives that made Donald Trump the only U.S. president to be impeached twice, BC Law Professor Kent Greenfield provided perspective on the topic on BBC World News, while Professor of History Heather Cox Richardson discussed with BBC NewsNight reports that top GOP Senator Mitch McConnell was pleased at the prospect of impeachment. Associate Professor of Political Science David Hopkins weighed in on the race to lead Boston in the wake of the nomination of Woods College alumnus Mayor Marty Walsh to the U.S. Cabinet: New York Times. He also commented on Walsh's record for Bloomberg News and the Boston Globe. Whether red-state or blue-state oriented, today's media outlets have strayed far from any recognizable journalistic standards, writes Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences faculty member Martha Bayles in National Affairs. BC Law Professor Catharine Wells discusses key things to do in dealing with insurance companies following a car accident in a Q&A with WalletHub. More than a thousand legal experts nationwide have signed BC Law Professor Kent Greenfield's letter detailing the importance to democracy of pursuing the impeachment of President Trump. Greenfield weighed in on the subject for CBS Boston, and on the prospects for criminal charges against Trump on WPIX NY. Associate Professor of Economics Robert Murphy discussed the latest unemployment numbers from the Labor Department and the outlook for 2021 in an interview with GBH Radio News. Woods College Associate Dean Aleksandar Tomic, director of the M.S. in Applied Economics program, commented on the impact of the affordable housing crisis on employee recruitment: Forbes. Public school enrollment in N.E. is down, and even when kids are enrolled, it can be a struggle to get some to show up. Global Public Health Program Director Philip Landrigan, M.D., joined a conversation on the subject: New England News Collaborative. | He commented on COVID-19 testing challenges for the Boston Globe. Professor of History Heather Cox Richardson discussed President Trump's effort to influence election results in Georgia in an interview with WGBH News. Highlights from 2020 Professor of History Heather Cox Richardson's newsletter on current events has made her a breakout star on Substack. Read a feature on her work in the New York Times. Questions multiply fast as new strains of the coronavirus arise. Global Public Health Program Director Philip Landrigan, M.D., discussed the facts with AP; pickups of the story range from the Washington Post to Japan Today. | He also commented on COVID-19 vaccines for Politico. Once rare, dual-share structures have become the norm in a sizzling tech IPO market, resulting in more power for startup founders. BC Law School Associate Dean for Academic Affairs and Professor Renee Jones commented for the Wall Street Journal. The only woman now on federal death row was convicted of murdering a pregnant woman and abducting the unborn child. Connell School of Nursing Professor Ann Wolbert Burgess, who has studied the phenomenon of fetal abduction, discussed the crime: Agence France Presse, here via the Straits Times and Latin Post. Burns Librarian Christian Dupont and Irish Music Librarian Beth Sweeney discussed the life and career of Mícheál Ó Súilleabháin—who as a visiting professor three decades ago laid the groundwork for the University's Irish music resources—on Ireland radio Clare FM. Listen online Amazon is launching a new shared network on an opt-out basis. Kevin Powers, director of the Woods College M.S. in Cybersecurity Policy and Governance program, discussed privacy concerns with NBC Boston. Professor of Russian, English, and Jewish Studies Maxim D. Shrayer discusses Of Politics and Pandemics: Songs of a Russian Immigrant, his first book of poetry in English, in an interview with the Moscow Times. Displaced students and teachers balancing storm recovery and a mix of in-person and virtual classes need support, but most schools lack funding or capacity for mental health services. Buehler Sesquicentennial Assistant Professor Betty Lai of the Lynch School, comments: Louisiana's Southerly Magazine, with the Hechinger Report. A unique opportunity exists for the federal government to acknowledge the sacrifices made by nurses during the pandemic, write GYN surgical oncology nurse Sara Bowen and operating room nurse Emily Bower, —both students in the Connell School's Doctor of Nursing Practice program—in an op-ed for American Healthcare Journal. Despite the pandemic and the loss of its founder to ALS, Boston's Christmas in the City is back in a diminished capacity, with help from Auxiliary Services' Purchasing and Vendor Relations Manager Cal Brokamp, who oversees its volunteer food effort. Boston Globe Local meteorologist Dave Epstein has gained a cult following for his musings on weather, horticulture, and life. Boston College Magazine editor John Wolfson writes on Epstein, who holds an M.S. in counseling psychology and an M.B.A. from BC, for Boston Magazine. Leveraged buyouts could become more difficult after a court said creditors could go after a company’s former directors if a private equity buyer saddles the business with an unsustainable amount of debt. BC Law School Associate Professor Brian Quinn comments for the Financial Times. Initial vaccine phases will likely ease the burden on hospitals, but may not slow the spread, particularly if people become cavalier about following safety protocols. Global Public Health Program Director Philip Landrigan, M.D., comments in the Boston Globe. Could Facebook be forced to spin off WhatsApp and Instagram? That’s what the U.S. government is seeking in a long-awaited antitrust lawsuit filed last week. BC Law Professor Daniel Lyons weighs in for the Associated Press. A group of mixed martial artists are suing the Ultimate Fighting Championship, accusing it of abusing monopoly power to suppress pay. BC Law Assistant Professor Hiba Hafiz discusses the unique relationship between sports performance and pay: New York Times. An America notoriously divided and increasingly inimical to “the other side” would benefit from the theory of sympathy, concept of the impartial spectator, and vision of virtue in Adam Smith's The Theory of Moral Sentiments, writes Professor of Political Science Ryan Patrick Hanley for National Review. The recent, and continuing, spree of federal executions is a historically anomalous moment of unparalleled violence in America, writes Vice Provost and Canisius Professor James Keenan, S.J., in National Catholic Reporter. With many Republicans in Congress still unwilling to acknowledge President-elect Joe Biden’s election win, what does the future hold for the party at large? Professor of History Heather Cox Richardson discusses the topic as a guest on WGBH "Greater Boston." Associate Professor of Communication Michael Serazio comments on the Biden administration's likely effect on the politicization of sports, which grew during the Trump years: Boston Globe. Despite uncertainties over the president-elect's approach, major U.S. companies are optimistic about the business outlook under the new administration. Woods College Associate Dean Aleksandar Tomic, director of the M.S. in Applied Economics program, weighs in for Zenger News, here via Forbes. There are now six Catholics on the U.S. Supreme Court. Nathaniel Romano, S.J., a visiting faculty member and Drinan Scholar at BC Law School, reflects on how they may approach cases involving capital punishment in an essay for America. When widespread toxins in the oceans make landfall they imperil the health and well-being of more than three billion people, according to a report by an international coalition of scientists led by BC's Global Observatory on Pollution and Health. Director Philip Landrigan, M.D., discussed the findings: WBUR News | WGBH News | Earth.com Across Massachusetts, cranberry bogs are feeling the impacts of climate shifts. Associate Professor of Sociology Brian Gareau, who has published a study of how growers think about climate change, is quoted, and the research cited, by National Geographic. Associate Professor of Economics Robert Murphy discussed unemployment numbers and the potential for a double-dip recession as a guest on WGBH "Morning Edition." As society looks to rebound from COVID-19, the ideas and resources needed to cope and succeed will look different than before. Among experts asked to weigh in, Lynch School Professor and Duganne Faculty Fellow David Blustein comments on better protections for workers: BBC.com (scroll down). | He also offered advice on how to maintain self-esteem after job loss: Wall Street Journal. BC Law Professor Ray Madoff has teamed up with philanthropist John Arnold to create The Initiative to Accelerate Charitable Giving, a broad coalition dedicated to promoting common-sense, non-partisan charitable giving reforms. Chronicle of Philanthropy | Bloomberg News BC Law Associate Professor Brian Quinn weighs in on legalities surrounding LVMH Moët Hennessy Louis Vuitton's multi-billion deal to acquire Tiffany & Co. The Fashion Law President-elect Joe Biden has named ex-Federal Reserve chair Janet Yellen as his nominee for treasury secretary. BC Law School Liberty Mutual Insurance Professor Patricia McCoy reflects on Yellen's past influence on Wall Street oversight: CNN.com A pair of earthquakes shook the South Shore in November. Professor of Geophysics John Ebel of the Earth and Environmental Sciences department and Weston Observatory discussed the likelihood of future seismic activity in Boston Magazine. | He also commented, along with Professor and Weston Observatory Director Alan Kafka, in South Coast Today. A project-based approach to civics assessment would enrich the variety of forms of assessment the state uses and values, and help to prepare students for active citizenship, according to Lynch School Associate Professor Patrick McQuillan, co-author of an op-ed in CommonWealth magazine. America has become so polarized that presidential bellwether counties—those that consistently back the national winner, switching between parties in the process—are nearing extinction. Associate Professor of Political Science David Hopkins weighs in: Wall Street Journal. President-elect Joe Biden's Catholic faith has shaped his life and approach to politics. How will it shape his presidency? School of Theology and Ministry Professor Thomas Groome comments: Boston Globe The “gig economy” was once universally referred to as the “sharing economy.” So what went wrong? And is it possible to bring back that original promise of flexibility, autonomy, and respect? An interview with Professor of Sociology Juliet Schor: Australian Broadcasting Co. Center for Work & Family Executive Director Brad Harrington is among experts discussing difficulties faced by working parents during the pandemic for Harvard Business Review. He is quoted regarding stay-at-home dads in the Washington Post and on the effect of the pandemic on work-family gender roles in Boston Globe Magazine and on WBUR "Radio Boston." Global Public Health Program Director Philip Landrigan, M.D., comments on renewed calls for people to keep their guard up against the coronavirus during the holiday season in the Boston Globe and on the likely progress of vaccine distribution on WBUR "CommonHealth." What should the United States do, if anything, about the growing alignment between China and Russia? Associate Professor of Political Science Timothy Crawford and doctoral candidate Khang Vu write on the subject for national security policy journal War on the Rocks. Born between 1997 and 2012, Generation Z is entering the job market for the first time during the COVID-19 crisis. Aleksandar Tomic, director of the Woods College M.S. in Applied Economics program, comments in a piece that also cites Center for Retirement Research findings regarding the effect on graduating millennials of the 2008 recession: Al Jazeera Schools need to hire more counselors, writes Betty Lai, Buehler Sesquicentennial Assistant Professor at the Lynch School of Education and Human Development, in an op-ed for the Boston Herald. Vice Provost for Global Engagement and Canisius Professor James Keenan, S.J., talks about the significance of the sculpture "Angels Unawares" in an interview with Vatican Radio. While young children may not be able to articulate the difference, they value deep friendships over casual connections. Senior lecturer in psychology Barry Schneider, author of Childhood Friendships and Peer Relations: Friends and Enemies, comments in the New York Times. Donald Trump's departure will bring some positive changes for American and international higher education, but Trumpism is far from gone, write Center for International Higher Education director Hans de Wit and founding director Philip Altbach: University World News | The 2020 Nobel Prize in Chemistry awarded to Jennifer Doudna and Emmanuelle Charpentier has relevance for higher education and society in a number of ways, writes Altbach: University World News. Billionaire philanthropist Robert F. Smith has admitted to hiding profits in offshore accounts and filing false tax returns for 10 years. BC Law Professor Ray Madoff comments: Washington Post. BC Law School Professor Robert Bloom weighed in on election legal challenges raised by President Trump in an interview on CBS News Boston. The last incumbent president to lose an election was George H.W. Bush in 1992. While he could be a no-holds-barred campaigner, he was gracious in concession, retired professor of history Patrick Maney tells the Boston Globe A magnitude 3.6 quake in Buzzards Bay rattled southern New England on November 8. Professor and geophysicist John Ebel comments on possible future seismic activity: Boston Globe. Janet Helms, Augustus Long Professor at the Lynch School and director of its Institute for the Study and Promotion of Race and Culture, has studied how Americans relate to one another across our racial differences. She discusses her research in this American Psychological Association feature. Why do some states receive more federal funding than others? Is the current allocation fair? Insights from Woods College Associate Dean Aleksandar Tomic, director of the school's M.S. in Applied Economics program: MoneyGeek. Findings from the Artificial Intelligence Global Executive Study 2020 conducted by Carroll School Professor of Information Systems Sam Ransbotham and colleagues are now available: MIT Sloane Management Review. | He also co-hosts the new podcast series "Me, Myself and AI" Though several states had yet to be called in favor of either presidential candidate, President Trump’s campaign was already filing lawsuits and threatening to take the legal battle all the way to the Supreme Court. BC Law School Professor Kent Greenfield discussed the situation with WCVB-TV News and NBC 10. How do people with no credit acquire a credit card to establish a credit history? Associate Professor of Economics Robert Murphy is among experts asked to provide tips for WalletHub. There is nothing more a vote can do respecting the U.S. Supreme Court and Roe v. Wade, but there are other pro-life issues to consider before voting November 3, writes Libby Professor of Theology and Law Cathleen Kaveny, co-author of an op-ed in the Chicago Tribune. The FDA allows use of the solvent methylene chloride for decaffeination, as long as only trace amounts remain. Pediatrician and Global Public Health Program Director Philip Landrigan discusses the chemical's health risks to unborn children whose mothers are advised to switch to decaf during pregnancy: WJLA-TV News. A paper co-authored by Carroll School of Management Associate Professor of Finance and Hillenbrand Family Faculty Fellow Vyacheslav Fos that explored how Chinese government interventions shape the production competition with the U.S. is cited by a columnist for Bloomberg News. The pandemic has forced campus ministry to enter a new era of digital spirituality. Boston College Campus Ministry is among programs highlighted by America magazine. The pandemic has forced campus ministry to enter a new era of digital spirituality. Boston College Campus Ministry is among programs highlighted by America magazine. Amid nationwide concerns about security and disruption, officials are closely monitoring the elections and the internet. Kevin Powers, director of the M.S. in Cybersecurity Policy and Governance Program at the Woods College, weighs in: WGBH News. The importance of entrepreneurship, or self-employment as a form of work, increases significantly with age, according to a report by Cal Halvorsen and Jacquelyn James of the School of Social Work's Center on Aging & Work. The research is highlighted by the New York Times By some estimates, 40 to 45 percent of Catholics in the United States are Latino, including more than 60 percent of Catholics under the age of 18—yet no U.S. cardinals are Latino. School of Theology and Ministry Associate Professor Hosffman Ospino comments in America Professor of Political Science Jonathan Laurence talked about growing tensions between France and Turkey, and secularism vs. Islam, on Turkish state broadcaster TRT and on Euronews "Good Morning Europe." In an op-ed, BC Law Professor Kent Greenfield advocates responding to SCOTUS politicization with a new, specialized court to decide constitutional questions: New York Times. The real problem with the originalist theory is that it allows no room for ethical, moral, or political growth, contends Professor of History Heather Cox Richardson, writing with U.S. Senator Angus King Jr. of Maine, in The Atlantic. Many issues face Catholic voters in this year's presidential election. Joseph Professor of Catholic Systematic Theology Richard Gaillardetz and School of Theology and Ministry Professor Thomas Groome make the case in favor of a Catholic vote for Joe Biden in an op-ed for the Philadelphia Inquirer. As America’s demographic landscape becomes increasingly more diverse, what is—and will be—the impact on national voting behavior? Insights from retired Professor of History Patrick Maney in a Q&A with WalletHub. Global Public Health Program Director Philip Landrigan, M.D., weighs in on state efforts to control the spread of the coronavirus: Boston Globe A Harvard researcher added up the number of years that Americans who died from the pandemic might have lived had they reached a typical life expectancy. Connell School of Nursing Assistant Professor Nadia Abuelezam comments: New York Times In a new documentary, quotes from Pope Francis suggest that civil union laws may provide a way for countries to protect the legal rights of persons in same-sex relationships. Joseph Professor of Catholic Systematic Theology Richard Gaillardetz comments for NBC Boston; School of Theology and Ministry Professor Thomas Groome on WBUR Radio Boston and WHDH 7 News; and both appear in a segment by NECN. Elections officials across the Commonwealth are working overtime to process mail-in ballots—but also to prevent online threats. Kevin Powers, director of the M.S. in Cybersecurity Policy and Governance Program at the Woods College, discussed the cyber risks on Boston 25 News. Watch the video In August, Gordon Wayne ’23 walked 550 miles from Virginia to his "dream school" at the Heights to raise awareness and funds for homelessness, an issue with which he has personal experience. His journey was featured Friday on ABC World News Tonight with David Muir Associate Professor of Romance Languages and Literatures Régine Jean-Charles, a Haitian American scholar, reflects on Amy Coney Barrett's descriptions of her Black adopted children during her confirmation hearings in a piece for Ms. magazine. This year marks the 150th anniversary of the birth of Ivan Alekseevich Bunin, the first Russian writer to receive the Nobel Prize in Literature. Professor of Russian, English, and Jewish Studies Maxim D. Shrayer writes a commemorative essay for the Los Angeles Review of Books. Through the lens of a spring semester course interrupted by a lockdown, Professor of English Carlo Rotella reflects on the meaning of a college literature class—during a pandemic and always—in the cover essay of Washington Post Magazine. | He also likened the Trump-Biden debate to a boxing match in a piece for Politico. A discovery by a BC Law student working with the Boston College Innocence Program was key to the release of Thomas Rosa, Jr., of Chelsea, who served 34 years for a crime he did not commit. More from BC Law Magazine | Sampling of coverage: Boston Globe | AP National | MassLive | U.S. News | CBS Boston President Trump has called on Attorney General William Barr to immediately launch an investigation into unverified claims about Democratic candidate Joe Biden and his son Hunter. BC Law Professor R. Michael Cassidy comments: AP via Washington Post. Aleksandar Tomic, director of the M.S. in Applied Economics program at the Woods College, weighs in on the best U.S. economic sectors for work in a pandemic: Zenger News | He also comments on why Canada's job market is recovering from COVID-19 faster than the U.S. Yahoo Finance. Philip Landrigan, M.D., director of BC's Global Public Health program, was interviewed for a USA Today series on systemic racism and COVID-19: How racist history fuels deaths | COVID in Louisiana's "Cancer Alley" | He discussed the rise of state COVID cases on Bloomberg Baystate Business and the health risks of the pesticide chlorpyrifos on Public Radio Exchange's "Living on Earth." The recent Vatican letter "Samaritanus Bonus: On the Care of Persons in the Critical and Terminal Phases of Life" reaffirms Church opposition to euthanasia and says patients planning to end their lives cannot receive the sacraments. Walsh Professor of Bioethics Andrea Vicini, S.J., writes on the document: National Catholic Reporter. A study co-authored by BC political scientist Michael Hartney finds that local political conditions—not science or the severity of COVID-19—were the most important factor in determining whether K-12 public school districts chose to offer in-person classes this fall. New York Times BC Law Professor Kent Greenfield responds to Amy Coney Barrett's "originalist" view that the meaning of the U.S. Constitution's text does not change over time: WBUR Cognoscenti | While Barrett's nomination highlights the rise of Catholics on the Supreme Court, Catholics do not share identical views on all issues, School of Theology and Ministry Professor Thomas Groome tells the Boston Globe Social media companies face heightened scrutiny and pressure to do more to keep their platforms from becoming vectors of misinformation, election meddling, and all-around disorder. Associate Professor of Communication Michael Serazio comments: Bloomberg News Associate Professor Emeritus of Theology Rev. Robert Imbelli explores the significance of the writings of influential 20th-century theologian Karl Rahner, S.J., to present and future Christians, in an essay for America magazine. COVID-19 has brought the world to a point of crisis. We have a once-in-a-generation opportunity to emerge and build a cleaner, healthier, and a more just world, writes Philip Landrigan, M.D., professor of biology and director of BC's Global Public Health Program, co-author of an essay published in The Lancet Planetary Health. What happens to the political parties they lead if Trump wins and Biden loses? What about the other way around? How would either of these outcomes affect the struggle between the establishment and insurgent wings in each party? Moakley Professor of Political Science Kay Schlozman and Associate Professor David Hopkins are among experts asked to weigh in: New York Times. Audio recordings of grand jury proceedings in the case, including witness testimony but not jurors’ deliberations or prosecutors’ recommendations, were released last Friday by the Kentucky attorney general's office. BC Law School Professor R. Michael Cassidy commented for the Wall Street Journal. The president contracting COVID-19 has raised questions about how temporary transfer of power works, and about how various scenarios could affect the upcoming election. Insights from BC Law Professor Kent Greenfield: Boston Globe | WCVB-TV News Professor of Biology Philip Landrigan, director of BC's Global Public Health and the Common Good program, is among epidemiologists asked to weigh in on the president contracting COVID-19: Boston Globe There's a complex relationship between fatigue and mental health. When is lethargy something more? Insights from Lynch School Buehler Family Sesquicentennial Assistant Professor Betty Lai, who studies how children and families respond to trauma: Huffington Post Circumstances stemming from the pandemic are forcing many women, especially mothers, to leave the workforce. How do we move forward? Jennifer Sabatini Fraone of the Center for Work and Family comments: Boston Globe The pandemic has dramatically worsened inequalities within the higher education and research sector—among students, faculty, and institutions, and between countries, write Center for International Higher Education director Hans de Wit and founding director Philip Altbach: University World News | When will India build world-class research universities? Altbach addresses this question, also for University World News. Professor of Near Eastern Studies Franck Salameh contends that a millennium of French “emotional attachment” to Eastern Catholics, Lebanon’s Maronites in particular, has ended following Emmanuel Macron's visit to Lebanon on September 1. The National Interest Upon completing the M.S. in Cybersecurity and Governance program at the Woods College, Boston College's inaugural Fulbright Ireland-USA TechImpact Cybersecurity Scholar, Dublin native Conor Quinn, is featured in a Q&A with the Irish Times. The opening on the Supreme Court created by the death of Ruth Bader Ginsburg has spurred a battle that Republicans are rushing to win. BC Law Professor Kent Greenfield weighs in: NBC Boston | With Amy Coney Barrett, SCOTUS would have six Catholics. School of Theology and Ministry Professor Thomas Groome comments: AP BC Law School Professor Ray Madoff is among experts asked to respond to the New York Times report on President Donald Trump's tax returns: Boston Globe. Aleksandar Tomic, director of the M.S. in Applied Economics program at the Woods College, discussed the uneven impact COVID-19 has had on various industries: Bond Buyer (p. 2) | He also addressed the origins and impact of the Great Depression for Business Insider. François Fénelon, a 17th century thinker and political figure, contends that freedom from the anxiety and misery that plague relentless pursuits of wealth and recognition requires liberation from the grip of self-love, writes Professor of Political Science Ryan Patrick Hanley in an essay for Psyche. BC Law Professor Kent Greenfield discussed Ruth Bader Ginsburg's legancy and influence on CBS Boston and NBC Boston. | Read a remembrance of the late Supreme Court justice by first-year BC Law student Jamie Ehrlich: CNN.com What are the security risks of TikTok and WeChat? Insights from Kevin Powers, director of the M.S. in Cybersecurity Policy and Governance Program at the Woods College: Boston 25 News The largest acquisition in the history of the luxury goods sector—Tiffany’s $16 billion sale to LVMH (Moët Hennessy Louis Vuitton)—is collapsing. BC Law Associate Professor Brian Quinn comments for the London-based international report Business of Fashion. The pandemic is causing some Americans, including younger people, to renew their interest in religion, according to a Pew Research Center survey. School of Theology and Ministry Professor Thomas Groome comments on the findings for Boston 25 News. In an essay on Catholic voting this fall, Vice Provost and Canisius Professor of Theology James Keenan, S.J., provides resources from Scripture and the tradition on mercy, the common good, and the capability for leadership. National Catholic Reporter. Aleksandar Tomic, associate dean for strategy, innovation, and technology in the Woods College of Advancing Studies, suggests three questions to help colleges define a strategy for entering, or scaling their presence in, the online education space, in an essay for The Evolllution. BC Law Professor Kent Greenfield discussed Ruth Bader Ginsburg's legancy and influence on CBS Boston and NBC Boston. | Read a remembrance of the late Supreme Court justice by first-year BC Law student Jamie Ehrlich: CNN.com What are the security risks of TikTok and WeChat? Insights from Kevin Powers, director of the M.S. in Cybersecurity Policy and Governance Program at the Woods College: Boston 25 News The largest acquisition in the history of the luxury goods sector—Tiffany’s $16 billion sale to LVMH (Moët Hennessy Louis Vuitton)—is collapsing. BC Law Associate Professor Brian Quinn comments for the London-based international report Business of Fashion. The pandemic is causing some Americans, including younger people, to renew their interest in religion, according to a Pew Research Center survey. School of Theology and Ministry Professor Thomas Groome comments on the findings for Boston 25 News. In an essay on Catholic voting this fall, Vice Provost and Canisius Professor of Theology James Keenan, S.J., provides resources from Scripture and the tradition on mercy, the common good, and the capability for leadership. National Catholic Reporter. Aleksandar Tomic, associate dean for strategy, innovation, and technology in the Woods College of Advancing Studies, suggests three questions to help colleges define a strategy for entering, or scaling their presence in, the online education space, in an essay for The Evolllution. Amid daunting challenges, some K-12 schools are rising to the new challenges of remote learning—and other pandemic-related issues—through innovation. Lynch School Associate Professor Martin Scanlan, who worked with local school leaders during the summer, was interviewed by WCVB Ch. 5 News With the death of Mass. Supreme Judicial Court Chief Justice Ralph D. Gants, Governor Charlie Baker has the chance of an historic remaking of the oldest continuous sitting appellate court in the Western Hemisphere. Professor of History Alan Rogers comments: Boston Globe Long a refuge for travelers and locals alike, Logan's Our Lady of the Airways is the nation's oldest airport chapel. University Historian and scholar of American Catholic history James O'Toole sheds light on its origins on WBUR "Radio Boston." Associate Professor of African and African Diaspora Studies and French Régine Jean-Charles reflects on adjusting her teaching for a semester in which the nation grapples with the challenges of both COVID-19 and systemic racism, in a piece for Boston Globe "Ideas." Researchers including Assistant Professor Joshua Hartshorne of the Department of Psychology and Neuroscience are exploring the pandemic's effect on the language development of children not in school and interacting less with peers. He comments on the research: New York Times | CBS Baltimore Six months after Governor Baker declared a state of emergency in response to the pandemic, Massachusetts' Supreme Judicial Court hears a case challenging his authority to close businesses. BC Law School Assistant Professor of the Practice Jeffrey Cohen discussed the case on Bloomberg Baystate Business (segment begins at 32:38). Rural counties in Pennsylvania voted for Donald Trump in a landslide in 2016. Will this time be different? Insights from Associate Professor of Political Science David Hopkins in the New York Times. Will the Trump campaign's amplification of scenes of unrest in the nation appeal to swing voters? Professor of History Heather Cox Richardson weighs in for Time magazine Middle managers face potentially competing interests to protect themselves, support others, and advance their work, but can play an important role, according Carroll School Associate Professor Bess Rouse, who writes about her research in this area for LSE Business Review. What financial factors should be considered when deciding where to retire? Insights from BC School of Social Work Assistant Professor Cal Halvorsen in a Q&A with WalletHub. Labor Day traditionally signals the end of summer and a return to routine--but this year is different. Lynch School Professor David Blustein, author of The Importance of Work in an Age of Uncertainty, comments for CNN.com. Ronnie Qualls, a client of the Boston College Innocence Program at BC Law School, was exonerated following his wrongful conviction in a 1992 double homicide: CBS Boston. What can the stock market expect if Joe Biden wins the general election? Woods College of Advancing Studies Associate Dean Aleksandar Tomic, director of the M.S. in Applied Economics program, weighs in for U.S. News & World Report Widespread unemployment heightens the risk of people not being prepared to retire, the Center for Retirement Research reports. A brief by director and Drucker Professor Alicia Munnell, assistant director of savings research Anqi Chen, and research economist Wenliang Hou is highlighted by the Washington Post. Munnell also commented on Joe Biden's plans for 401(k)s: Forbes. Preliminary research from Lynch School Professor James Mahalik and colleagues confirms the concept that men who identify with certain macho qualities are less likely to wear a mask, as are those with penchant for individualism and skepticism towards science. Their study is highlighted by Fast Company. Murray and Monti Professor of Economics Peter Ireland comments on the Federal Reserve's signals on inflation and on the U.S. economy's recovery from the COVID-19 pandemic: CNBC | Bond Buyer Professor of Sociology Juliet Schor discussed her research into the sharing economy's community-based enterprises and platform cooperatives, the basis of her new book After the Gig, on Marketplace Morning Report and in a Bloomberg News podcast. Lynch School Associate Professor Karen Arnold, whose pioneering work on transitions of low-income students brought the term “summer melt” to the vernacular, comments on this year's phenomenon: Washington Post. Murray and Monti Professor of Economics Peter Ireland comments on the Federal Reserve's signals on inflation and on the U.S. economy's recovery from the COVID-19 pandemic: CNBC | Bond Buyer Professor of Sociology Juliet Schor discussed her research into the sharing economy's community-based enterprises and platform cooperatives, the basis of her new book After the Gig, on Marketplace Morning Report. Lynch School Associate Professor Karen Arnold, whose pioneering work on transitions of low-income students brought the term “summer melt” to the vernacular, comments on students who signed up for college last spring but did not show up for the start of fall classes: Washington Post. Because school systems have had more time to prepare, Lynch School Professor Martin Scanlan expects to see improvements in remote education this fall, and he believes expectation should be high for both families and educators. Fox 25 Boston Fr. Matthew Hood of the Archdiocese of Detroit recently discovered that his baptism as an infant had been invalid. School of Theology and Ministry Professor John Baldovin, S.J., comments on the issue of sacramental validity for America. Due to the pandemic, oil and gas operations, government facilities, and other sites won permission to stop monitoring for hazardous emissions or otherwise bypass rules to protect health and the environment, the Associated Press reports. Global Public Health Program Director Philip Landrigan comments: AP via New York Times. New CDC data suggest that young adults—both those who are going back to college and those who are not—may be suffering particularly hard when it comes to mental health. Lynch School Buehler Sesquicentennial Assistant Professor Betty Lai, who studies mental health in the aftermath of disasters, comments. New York Times The penalty for early filing, and the bonus for delaying, are based on old formulas that don’t reflect gains in life expectancy, resulting in a system that hurts lower-income people the most. Center for Retirement Research Director Alicia Munnell weighs in. Associated Press via New York Times Professor of Sociology Juliet Schor, author of the forthcoming book After the Gig: How the Sharing Economy Got Hijacked and How to Win it Back, comments on contract workers for a special report on "The Economy Reimagined" from Marketplace. Racial gaps in retirement security were large before the coronavirus struck, and the economic disruptions caused by the pandemic could worsen the problem. A study by the Center for Retirement Research, with comments from co-author Geoffrey Sanzenbacher, is cited by the New York Times. Associate Professor of Political Science David Hopkins writes on Joe Biden's choice of Kamala Harris as a running mate: New York Times | He also comments for Bloomberg Baystate Business and the Washington Post. | He also comments on the evolution of the Democratic Party: Wall Street Journal. Turkish officials have delayed plans to reopen schools as medical experts warn of rising infection rates throughout the country. Assistant Professor of Biology Emrah Altindis, who has been studying the epidemic in his native country, comments for D.C.-based Middle East news source Al-Monitor. lia Salita, president and CEO of Genesis Philanthropy Group, miracle-maker of Jewish philanthropy, died this summer. An essay by Professor of Russian, English, and Jewish Studies Maxim D. Shrayer recalls Salita's formative years in Moscow. Tablet Magazine Lynch School Augustus Professor Janet Helms, director of the Institute for the Study and Promotion of Race and Culture, comments on the stresses related to the experience of racial trauma: CNN.com. Technology has an important role in schools to make good teaching and learning better. But even as a hybrid, it should not be the main driver or leverage for reimagining better learning in schools, writes Lynch School Professor Emeritus Andy Hargreaves. Washington Post Carroll School senior lecturer in real estate Edward Chazen weighs in on the best and worst cities for renters, common mistakes renters make, and tips on how to get the best value in a Q&A with WalletHub. On the 75th anniversary of the bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki, a moral reflection by Professor of Theology Kenneth Himes, O.F.M., is published by the theological journal Asian Horizons. In an op-ed, Vice Provost and Canisius Professor of Theology James Keenan, S.J., writes on ordination, competency, and the case for women cardinals in the Catholic Church. National Catholic Reporter BC Law School Dean Vincent Rougeau and his mother, Shirley Small-Rougeau, whose lives were intertwined with the late Rep. John Lewis and the fight for social justice, were guests on WBUR "Radio Boston." What are the some of the safety considerations for businesses (and their customers) and public schools during a pandemic? Insights from Connell School of Nursing Assistant Professor Nadia Abuelezam: Marketplace | WBUR News BC Dining strategies for fall focus on streamlining and safety, but realistic plans still leave room for the culinary creativity the program is known for, Executive Chef Frank Bailey tells Food Management Magazine. Six centuries ago, the Yongle emperor moved the capital of the Ming dynasty from Nanjing unto Beijing. Associate Professor of Art History Aurelia Campbell, author of the new book What the Emperor Built, explains how his constructions sent a message of power. South China Morning Post Magazine Protracted protests, the pandemic, and the central government’s new national security law raise concerns about the future of higher education in Hong Kong, writes Center for International Higher Education founding director Philip Altbach: University World News. What behaviors lead people into credit card debt? How can they avoid it? Insights from Associate Professor of Economics Robert Murphy in a Q&A with WalletHub. BC Law School Dean Vincent Rougeau and his mother, Shirley Small-Rougeau, whose lives were intertwined with the late Rep. John Lewis and the fight for social justice, were guests on WBUR "Radio Boston." President Trump's suggestion that the coming election could be postponed has drawn criticism even from members of the GOP. Law Professor Kent Greenfield weighed in on NBC Boston. Assistant Professor of Sociology and International Studies Ali Kadivar discussed how protests for racial justice in the U.S. have affected the nation's global image in an interview with NPR. A federal appeals court overturned the death sentence of Boston Marathon bomber Dzhokhar Tsarnaev, and ordered a new trial. BC Law Professor Robert Bloom comments: AP via New York Times | Boston Globe Offices that have transitioned to remote mode must consider how to strategically balance what work used to be with what it is now, writes Carroll School Assistant Professor Beth Schinoff: Sloan Management Review. Vice President and University Secretary Casey Beaumier, S.J., director of the Institute for Advanced Jesuit Studies, discusses how Ignatian principles can help at this profound moment in time: Angelus News. The process of reopening K-12 schools during the pandemic must be driven by educational professionalism that serves the broader purpose of maximizing learning and addressing students’ holistic needs, Lynch School Associate Professor Martin Scanlan writes in Teachers College Record. Who are the federal officers deployed to Portland, Oregon? BC Law School Associate Professor Kari Hong discussed the situation in an interview with NECN . Professor of Economics Christopher Baum outlines findings from his study of the economic well-being of refugees granted asylum in Sweden in a piece for the country's leading daily newspaper, Dagens Nyhete. Jennifer McLarnon '96, M.Ed. '00, C.A.E.S. '18, currently pursuing an M.S. in Cybersecurity Policy and Governance at the Woods College is featured by tech journal Toggle. School of Social Work faculty member Tsana Dimanin discusses factors that contribute to youth being "disconnected" from school and work, and ways to address the problem, in a Q&A with WalletHub. Alumnus and Professor Emeritus of Sociology John Donovan, a World War II veteran who at age 102 received France's highest honor for military and civil accomplishments, is featured by the Boston Globe and WCVB-TV Ch. 5 News. About 75 percent of those who’ve lost jobs are now at risk of being unable to maintain their standard of living in retirement—a more than 20 percent increase since the pandemic began, a Center for Retirement Research study shows: Marketplace President Trump’s threat to send federal agents to major cities controlled by Democrats may be difficult to defend in court, say experts including BC Law Professor Kent Greenfield: Reuters Massachusetts' Supreme Judicial Court is considering whether police need a search warrant to check the MBTA's CharlieCard data logs. Law Professor R. Michael Cassidy weighs in on considerations for the court: Boston Globe The Spirit’s guidance leads to deeper understanding of systemic racist violence and moves toward racial justice, writes Professor Emerita of Theology M. Shawn Copeland in Commonweal. The COVID-19 infection rate among employees at Mass General Brigham hospitals dropped significantly when all workers were required to wear masks, a new report shows. Dean Hashimoto, associate professor at BC Law School and chief medical officer for Occupational Health Services at Mass General Brigham, comments on the findings in the Boston Globe. In July 1943, the first trial of Nazi war criminals took place in Krasnodar, Russia. Professor of Russian, English, and Jewish Studies Maxim D. Shrayer shares his investigation of the landmark court case in an essay for The Tablet A kitchen can become a laboratory when you make just about anything, says Lynch School of Education and Human Development Professor Eric Dearing, who discusses ways to help parents support kids' math learning through everyday activities on Boston 25 News. Before the pandemic, the band Midland had arrived on the verge of country stardom. Professor of English Carlo Rotella accompanied Midland on the road and writes about the band for the Washington Post Magazine. Vigilant mask wearing might have spared nearly 140 people from catching the coronavirus at a hair salon, according to a report published by the CDC. Epidemiologist and Connell School of Nursing Assistant Professor Nadia Abuelezam comments: New York Times Experts including Professor of Biology Philip Landrigan, M.D., director of the BC's Global Public Health program, weigh in on White House efforts to sideline Anthony Fauci: Boston Globe Project Entrepreneur at Boston College Law School, launched to help address the barriers to starting a business faced by those with criminal records, leads a story on initiatives to assist former inmates' return to the workforce: Boston Globe. Recommendations of the global research report released by the Schiller Center for Integrated Science and Society and partner organizations are outlined in a post for the World Economic Forum. As it reopens following a four-month COVID-19 shutdown⁠—and before that a year and a half of not living up to gambling revenue expectations⁠—MGM Springfield faces steep challenges. Carroll School Associate Professor of the Practice of Finance Richard McGowan, S.J., comments: Springfield Republican via MassLive.com. Members of the Bhutanese community in western Massachusetts are drawing on their own experience to keep their community safe and self-sufficient during the pandemic, writes Jenna Berent of the School of Social Work's Research Program on Children and Adversity: Dig Boston. A Center for Retirement Research study looks at several concerns that will impact older workers’ careers. The research is highlighted, with comments by center director Alicia Munnell, by CNBC. Professional life has changed dramatically for many over the past few months. Lynch School Professor David Blustein discussed how to navigate this new normal in an interview with News 12 Long Island. Chief Justice John Roberts earned the ire of conservatives on some recent decisions. How will that play out for the court in the long term? Perspective from BC Law Professor Kent Greenfield in an op-ed for The Hill. The hacking of a Maine intelligence agency that revealed personal information of alleged crime victims and suspects should be a lesson for those in government charged with safeguarding sensitive data, Kevin Powers, founding director of the M.S. in Cybersecurity and Governance Program at the Woods College, tells the Bangor Daily News. A new SEC rule for financial services professionals is getting mixed reviews from industry observers. Carroll School of Management Associate Professor of Finance Jonathan Reuter weighs in for Dow Jones MarketWatch. Experts worry that state reopening plans could open the door for another COVID-19 surge. Epidemiologist and Connell School of Nursing Assistant Professor Nadia Abuelezam discussed the issues on WBUR News and commented on surges elsewhere in the U.S.: Wall Street Journal. Are there constitutional issues associated with limiting interstate travel due to the pandemic? BC Law Assistant Professor Daniel Farbman comments: Boston Globe. The pandemic has sharpened the prophetic call of Pope Francis's encyclical letter Laudato si' to care for our common home and each other, writes Libby Professor of Theology and Law Cathleen Kaveny: Commonweal. Universities including Boston College are seeking to document this unprecedented moment in time through archival collections. Burns Librarian Christian Dupont comments on BC's project: Boston Globe. BC Law Associate Professor Kari Hong weighs in on the implications of the U.S. Supreme Court ruling on asylum-seekers' claims: Vox.com | She is quoted regarding Sonia Sotomayo As Massachusetts continues to reopen, parents' thoughts turn to what summer play can and should be like for kids. Insights from Psychology Research Professor Peter Gray on WBUR "Radio Boston." Rhetoric that that turns mask-wearing into a politically fraught action could lead to more deaths and infections, Connell School of Nursing Assistant Professor Nadia Abuelezam tells the Associated Press. Catholic schools across the country are facing declining enrollment and closures due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Roche Center for Catholic Education Executive Director Melodie Wyttenbach comments for Boston 25 News. The town of Milton, Mass. needs curricula and policies to guide teachers and educate students about racism, writes resident and Associate Professor of African Diaspora Studies and French Régine Jean-Charles in an op-ed for the Boston Globe. School of Theology and Ministry Associate Professor Hosffman Ospino was among experts taking part in an Association of Catholic Publishers virtual session to help parents and educators talk to children and teens about issues of race. The event is highlighted by Crux.com. Center for Work & Family Executive Director Brad Harrington discusses expectations and realities for contemporary dads, especially during these challenging times, on WNPR-Connecticut Public Radio's "Where We Live." O'Neill Professor of American Politics R. Shep Melnick, author of The Transformation of Title IX: Regulating Gender Equality in Education, analyzes the Education Department's final rules in an essay for the Brookings Institution, and writes on the regulations focused on K-12 in a piece for Education Next. Should federal resources be allocated to states according to how much they pay in federal taxes, or should some states subsidize others? Two BC economists respond in Q&As with WalletHub.com: Professor of the Practice Can Erbil | Associate Professor Pablo Guerron. As unemployment claims rise in Massachusetts, so do reports of businesses laying off workers and closing doors permanently. Associate Professor of Economics Robert Murphy comments for WBZ-TV/CBS Boston. BC Dining Services Director Beth Emery outlines strategies for keeping students and staffers safe this fall, in an interview with Food Service Director magazine >> Multiple-employer plans, hailed as a cure for those who don't have workplace retirement plans, come at a cost, according to a paper by BC Law Donahue Assistant Professor Natalya Shnitzer. Investment News Writing for the international Catholic daily La Croix, Joseph Professor of Catholic Systematic Theology Richard Gaillardetz examines new report on the Catholic Church in Australia. Part 1 | Part 2 Some fear that organized religion might falter unless the faithful gather, against public health advice. But, contrary to expectations, social distancing might increase religious devotion, writes Associate Professor of History Benjamin Braude. National Catholic Reporter. More than 47 million Americans could lose their jobs due to the pandemic. How can they cope? Lynch School Professor David Blustein shares his research insights in a Boston Globe podcast and with WMC News-Memphis. As budgets are strained, how can states best protect residents and keep services running? Associate Professor of the Practice of Economics Chandini Sankaran responds in a Q&A with WalletHub. Associate Professor of Communication Ashley Duggan weighs in on state health care infrastructures and challenges, and the uptick in telemedicine, also in a WalletHub Q&A. BC Law Professor Kent Greenfield comments on President Trump's warning that he would use federal forces to quell protest and violence across the nation: Associated Press, New York Times. President Trump's effort to regulate social media companies' content decisions may face an uphill battle from regulators who have previously said they cannot oversee the conduct of internet firms. Law Professor Daniel Lyons weighs in: Reuters. What if the ethos of the Confederacy didn't just survive the Civil War, but actually came to dominate American politics and culture, right up to the present day? That's the thesis proposed by Professor of History Heather Cox Richardson in her new book, How The South Won the Civil War: Oligarchy, Democracy, and the Continuing Fight for the Soul of America. She discussed it on C-SPAN and WGBH News "The Scrum." How do we make sure that we're acting ethically during the pandemic? Boston Magazine asked Walsh Professor of Bioethics Andrea Vicini, S.J., for advice on responsible decision-making. The pandemic will have long-lasting repercussions for the Catholic Church. Joseph Professor of Catholic Systematic Theology Richard Gaillardetz comments: The Tablet (U.K.) The coronavirus outbreak has scrambled many Americans' financial futures, magnifying already existing issues. Center for Retirement Research Director Alicia Munnell comments in the Washington Post, which also cites center reports. The growing costs of the pandemic have put an unexpected strain on states' finances. Insights from Associate Professor Robert Murphy in a Q&A with WalletHub. Concurrent Professor of Law and Philosophy Thomas Kohler contrasts work-related culture and policies, as well as unemployment levels, in the U.S. and Germany on PBS Newshour (begins at 15:00). As offices in Massachusetts reopen with reduced occupancy, new challenges arise. Shea Center for Entrepreneurship Executive Director Jere Doyle comments: Boston.com. Professor of Economics Kit Baum comments on factors affecting recent Consumer Price Index reports on Marketplace Radio. Houses of worship have been given a green light to reopen in Massachusetts, despite concerns that church gatherings may exacerbate spread of the coronavirus. Law School Professor Kent Greenfield weighed in on the decision for WBUR News and the Boston Globe, while School of Theology and Ministry Associate Professor Hosffman Ospino addressed the impact on ministry: Crux.com. Low-interest credit cards are on the rise. Are they what they seem? Insights from Associate Professor of Economics Robert Murphy in a Q&A with WalletHub. Young adults, especially those without a college degree, are particularly vulnerable in recessions, and may be at a lasting disadvantage. A brief by Center for Retirement Research Director Alicia Munnell and Research Economist Wenliang Hou is highlighted by the New York Times. Munnell also commented on the age-related implications of the "Safer at Home" directive: Boston Globe. During a pandemic, people with disabilities and their families need an alternative to congregate care. Self-direction in care is a proven model, writes BC School of Social Work Professor Emeritus Kevin Mahoney in an op-ed: Boston Globe. The current employment crisis--jobs being abruptly ended, reduced or transformed--and its impact on mental well-being presents some unique challenges. Lynch School Professor David Blustein discussed the issues in the New York Times. The Wisconsin Supreme Court ruling overturning the state's stay-at-home order highlights a widening U.S. debate on the pandemic. Law School Professor Kent Greenfield comments: USA Today. It will take time to understand the true spiritual effects of the pandemic, says School of Theology and Ministry Professor John Baldovin, S.J., in an interview with America magazine. The spring of 2020--for human beings, at least--has become the season that isn't. English doctoral candidate Matthew Mersky comments through the lens of literature: AP via New York Times. Economics Professors Tayfun Sönmez and Utku Ünver, with colleagues from Harvard and MIT, propose a market strategy to address the shortage of plasma for coronavirus patients. Bloomberg News. Edgar Allan Poe's dark tales of plagues anticipated America's polarized response to the coronavirus pandemic, Professor of English Paul Lewis writes in an op-ed for the Baltimore Sun. The White House has rejected CDC guidelines for reopening. Connell School of Nursing Assistant Professor Nadia Abuelezam joined a panel discussing the subject on MSNBC "A.M. Joy" Catholic parishes in South Carolina are among the nation's first to reopen for in-person services. School of Theology and Ministry Professor Thomas Groome comments: Reuters via New York Times. Living with others in quarantine requires some basic rules of mutual care, according to School of Theology and Ministry Associate Professor Hosffman Ospino in an essay for Conversations magazine. As a guest on MSNBC "Morning Joe," epidemiologist and Connell School of Nursing Assistant Professor Nadia Abuelezam discussed concerns as states begin reopening their economies; she also commented on "leaky" social distancing for CNN.com. The U.S. Department of Labor reports 20.5 million jobs lost in April. Associate Professor of Economics Robert Murphy discussed the latest report as a guest on WGBH "Morning Edition." What does the new reality of social distancing ourselves from others mean for our mental health? School of Social Work Associate Professor of Clinical Practice Susan Tohn addressed the subject on WBUR "Radio Boston." Webinars for leaders of women religious communities on coping with stress, anxiety, and grief during the pandemic, offered by BCSSW faculty member and psychologist Sr. Maryanne Loughry, are highlighted in two pieces by National Catholic Reporter's Global Sisters Report: 1, 2. Post-pandemic, what if you can't retire? BCSSW Assistant Professor Cal Halvorsen weighed in on rethinking retirement for "On the Brink" podcast. How can principals best prepare for the eventual reopening of schools? Jenne Colasacco, executive director of the Carroll School of Management's Lynch Leadership Academy, is co-author of an essay outlining the supports required: Education Dive. The pandemic and accompanying economic upheaval could have lasting effects on Social Security benefits for millions of Americans, according to a new report by Center for Retirement Research Director Alicia Munnell, who writes about it for Dow Jones MarketWatch; it's also highlighted by Forbes, Financial Planning. | A tactic to help fix the U.S. retirement system could be to suspend property taxes for retirees, she said in the Washington Post. The U.S. state pensions system has been hard hit by the pandemic as well. CRR Associate Director of State and Local Research Jean-Pierre Aubry comments: Financial Times. Even when the pandemic passes, close relationships will be forever altered, writes Associate Professor of Communication Ashley Duggan in a guest post for Psychology Today. Epidemiologist and Connell School of Nursing Assistant Professor Nadia Abuelezam is co-author of a piece on what it means to "distance" ourselves from one another and from disease: Medium Elemental. She also joined a discussion of the evolving information regarding the pandemic on Bloomberg Baystate Business News, commented on states reopening in the Washington Post; on changes in how Massachusetts coronavirus cases are counted in the Boston Globe; and on COVID-19 tracing apps: AP Are we at a transformative moment for online learning? Lynch School Professor and Center for International Higher Education Director Hans de Wit and the center's founding director, Research Professor Philip Altbach, weigh in for University World News. Why is there so much pressure to be productive during the pandemic? Lynch School of Education and Human Development Professor David Blustein weighed in as a guest on WNYC's "The Takeaway." With the closing of schools and day care centers, and looming questions regarding summer camps, some parents will face steep challenges juggling work and child care. Center for Work and Family Director of Corporate Partnerships Jennifer Fraone commented in a front-page story on the subject in the Boston Globe. The bachelor's degree program in criminal and social justice offered through the Woods College of Advancing Studies is highlighted by Diverse Issues in Higher Education in an exploration of a growing number of such programs at colleges and universities. The piece includes comments by program faculty member Judge James Menno, as well as program alumna Stephanie Gigliotti. One of the most striking elements of the coronavirus crisis is how easily the response has been folded into America's partisan culture war. How did that happen? Insights from Associate Professor of Political Science David Hopkins: Vox.com. | Many Democrats seem much more determined to vote now than they were four years ago, putting fears of the pandemic second to the desire to deny President Trump a second term. Political Science Assistant Professor Masha Krupenkin comments. Reuters Conversations around lifting pandemic restrictions are premature, epidemiologist and Connell School of Nursing Assistant Professor Nadia Abuelezam said in an interview with WGBH "Morning Edition." She commented on other aspects of the outbreak to CNN International, and on Massachusetts as a coronavirus hotbed in the Boston Globe. Connell School Associate Professor Joyce Edmonds, chair-elect of the American Public Health Association Nursing Section, is co-author of a call to action for public health nurses during the pandemic, published in the journal Public Health Nursing. Is the pandemic exacerbating the crisis facing Social Security? Center for Retirement Research Director Alicia Munnell is quoted in an opinion piece for DowJones MarketWatch. She weighs in on retirement challenges in general, also for MarketWatch, and on the loosening of rules for tapping a 401(k): Associated Press. Boisi Center for Religion and American Public Life Director Mark Massa, S.J., and Libby Professor of Theology and Law Cathleen Kaveny are among experts responding to the U.S. surgeon general's comments connecting a divine plan to the pandemic: National Catholic Reporter. What's next for schools after coronavirus? Lynch School Research Professor Emeritus Andy Hargreaves identifies five big issues and opportunities in an essay for The Conversation. With casinos closed, the state of Rhode Island is watching its revenue evaporate. Will it ever recover? Carroll School Associate Professor of the Practice of Finance Richard McGowan, S.J., comments. Boston Globe As individuals attempt to refinance mortgages, a new wrinkle arises: does an appraiser need to enter the house to close the deal? Professor of the Practice of Economics Can Erbil weighs in on NBC News 10 Boston. In the wake of the 2016 election—in which, not for the first time, a candidate who lost the popular election entered the White House anyway—talk about the Constitution's "defects" has become more insistent. Why can't America be more like other countries? Political Science Professors Dennis Hale and Marc Landy provide perspective in an essay for Real Clear Politics. A pandemic such as this is a reminder that health is not an individual good but a social one, Walsh Professor of Bioethics Andrea Vicini, S.J., tells National Catholic Reporter. He outlines some of the ethical challenges of the moment in the Rome-based Jesuit journal La Civiltà Cattolica; that piece was also highlighted by National Catholic Reporter. School of Theology and Ministry Professor Mary Jo Iozzio writes on concerns for people with disabilities during the pandemic in an essay for Georgetown's Berkley Center for Religion, Peace, and World Affairs. | Why are even the best credit card rates still so high? Insight from Associate Professor of Economics Michael Grubb: WalletHub BC Law Professor of the Practice Mary Ann Chirba discusses the best states for children's health care in 2020, also with WalletHub (scroll down). Connell School of Nursing epidemiologist Nadia Abuelezam comments on the usefulness of Chinese data on the coronavirus spread: NBCNews.com, and on the prospect that 'herd immunity' will be needed to end the pandemic: Boston Globe. A Center for Retirement Research study shows that three out of four U.S. workers aged 50 to 62 didn't have an employer-provided retirement plan and health insurance, a statistic that is even more sobering in light of the pandemic. Center director Alicia Munnell discussed the findings with the New York Times. The past few weeks have brought an unemployment surge in Massachusetts, with claims reaching historic numbers. Associate Professor of Economics Robert Murphy comments: WBUR News The Trump administration has carried out nearly 10,000 summary deportations or "expulsions" since March 21, using emergency public health measures to bypass immigration laws. BC Law Associate Professor Kari Hong comments: Washington Post Although the coronavirus brings to mind plagues from centuries ago, there are differences in response. Historian and Professor of Italian Franco Mormando was interviewed by Catholic News Service, here via Crux.com. An essay by Associate Professor of English Eric Weiskott explores the reading of medieval literature in the midst of a pandemic. Public Seminar In a Q&A, Woods College of Advancing Studies Dean Karen Muncaster and Associate Dean for Strategy, Innovation, and Technology Aleksandar Tomic discuss ways in which continuing education divisions, having worked with distance learning for years, are valuable resources for institutions faced with quickly developing efficient online environments for their learners: The EvoLLLution. Lynch School Research Professor Emeritus Andy Hargreaves outlined 19 tips for carrying out distance learning from home in a piece for a supplement to the Times of London, picked up by the Washington Post. Implications of the pandemic for higher education will be considerable, amplifying gaps and inequalities between learners, institutions, and countries, write Lynch School Professor and Center for International Higher Education Director Hans de Wit and founding director and Research Professor Philip Altbach. University World News Associate Professor of the Practice Patricia Riggin and senior Nicole Hayes discuss their experience of an online Theatre Department course in a piece written by Billy McEntee '14 for Backstage.com. The closing of campuses to slow the spread of COVID-19 brought new burdens for some students who were the first in their family to go to college. First-gens Darnell Fils '22 and Chantal Sanchez '20, who remain on campus, and Learning to Learn Director Rossanna Contreras-Godfrey discussed the challenges with WGBH News. Turkey has one of the world's fastest-growing coronavirus outbreaks, but its president has resisted urgent action. Assistant Professor of Biology Emrah Altindis, who has been studying the epidemic in his native country, discussed the subject in a Q&A with the New Yorker, and comments in the Financial Times. As the coronavirus epidemic stretches ahead, will people become too comfortable in quarantine? Libby Professor of Theology and Law Cathleen Kaveny explores the question in a piece for National Catholic Reporter. An essay by Vice Provost and Canisius Professor James Keenan, S.J., addresses new understandings of social mission drawn from the pandemic: National Catholic Reporter. The coronavirus is fundamentally changing aspects of Catholic life. Joseph Professor of Catholic Systematic Theology Richard Gaillardetz and Boisi Center for Religion and American Public Life Director Mark Massa, S.J., are among experts asked to reflect on the subject: National Catholic Reporter. Faith can offer people a framework for how to think about the crisis, Libby Professor of Theology and Law Cathleen Kaveny tells the Washington Post. University faculty, staff, and alumni have stepped in to help students displaced by COVID-19—from providing food, storage, financial support, language services, and transportation to opening their homes to those who had nowhere to go. Boston Globe Boston College's Day of Caring is among examples of college giving days refocused during the pandemic that were highlighted by the Chronicle of Higher Education. Millions of people around the world have lost their jobs to the COVID-19 crisis--what Lynch School of Education and Human Development Professor David Blustein, who studies the roles of work in psychological functioning, calls "a global pandemic of unemployment": BBC News. Undocumented immigrants are among workers who do not qualify for unemployment benefits under the current system. Associate Professor of Economics Robert Murphy comments: WBUR News. Professor of Philosophy Marina McCoy outlines seven spiritual strategies for a time of pandemic: IgnatianSpirituality.com. C21 Center Associate Director Elise Italiano Ureneck writes on Christian calling and social distancing in her "Finding God in All Things" column for Catholic News Services, here via The Pilot. What makes the coronavirus so deadly? Connell School of Nursing Assistant Professor Nadia Abuelezam, an epidemiologist, discussed the virus on MSNBC "All in with Chris Hayes." She also was among health care experts taking questions from listeners on WBUR "Radio Boston," weighed in on how New York's spiraling outbreak relates to Massachusetts for the Boston Globe, and commented on how anti-virus lockdowns might eventually be lifted: Associated Press. Unemployment numbers have reached historic highs at the national level and in Massachusetts. Associate Professor of Economics Robert Murphy comments: CBS News Boston. Associate Professor of Theology Jeremy Wilkins is quoted regarding the Vatican's offering of new plenary indulgences to those around the world affected by the coronavirus. National Catholic Reporter Woods College Associate Dean Aleksandar Tomic, director of the M.S. in Applied Economics program, weighed in on the industry disruption caused by social distancing, and the type of companies best equipped to weather it: InvestorPlace. Should professional sports be revived? Connell School Assistant Professor Nadia Abuelezam, an epidemiologist, on the pros and cons of such a move: Boston Globe. She also was interviewed about the pandemic in a separate Boston Globe article and on Bloomberg Business Radio (at :53). Professor of Biology and Global Public Health Program Director Philip Landrigan, M.D., is quoted regarding Governor Charlie Baker's handling of COVID-19 response in Massachusetts. Boston Globe Drucker Professor Alicia Munnell, director of the Center for Retirement Research, comments on the economic fallout as it affects the financially fragile and Social Security recipients. Forbes, CNBC In Italy, students under a coronavirus lockdown are learning from masterpieces inspired by Europe's historic plagues. The piece includes comments from Professor of Italian Franco Mormando, chair of the Romance Languages and Literatures Department. Wall Street Journal Connell School of Nursing Assistant Professor Nadia Abuelezam, an epidemiologist, took questions about the coronavirus as a guest on WBUR 'Radio Boston' and discussed how COVID-19 is affecting communities of color on WBUR 'CommonHealth.' The market reaction to COVID-19 has raised fears among retirees and those nearing retirement. Center for Retirement Research Director Alicia Munnell weighs in for Marketplace Radio. Latino Catholics may have an advantage in nurturing a church life that cannot accommodate large-scale gatherings. School of Theology and Ministry Associate Professor Hosffman Ospino comments: National Catholic Reporter. Lynch School of Education and Human Development Professor Usha Tummala-Narra, a licensed psychologist, discussed challenges related to working remotely: Boston 25 News. Associate Professor of Political Science David Hopkins comments on the coronavirus effect on voter turnout in today's primaries and other aspects of the presidential campaign: Wall Street Journal To contain the spread of the coronavirus pandemic and save thousands of lives, the economy is going to take a hit. Is a recession inevitable? Murray and Monti Professor of Economics Peter Ireland is quoted by the Boston Globe. Throughout the Southwest, a surge in Catholic parishes has been dramatic, and church leaders are both excited by the possibilities and aware of daunting challenges. School of Theology and Ministry Associate Professor Hosffman Ospino comments for the Associated Press, here via the New York Times.To contain the spread of the coronavirus pandemic and save thousands of lives, the economy is going to take a hit. Is a recession inevitable? Murray and Monti Professor of Economics Peter Ireland is quoted by the Boston Globe. Throughout the Southwest, a surge in Catholic parishes has been dramatic, and church leaders are both excited by the possibilities and aware of daunting challenges. School of Theology and Ministry Associate Professor Hosffman Ospino comments for the Associated Press, here via the New York Times. A suburban revolt against President Trump helped the party win the House of Representatives in 2018. Now it's helping Joe Biden. Associate Professor of Political Science David Hopkins commented on the factors at play: The Atlantic. The coronavirus has prompted changes to some Catholic traditions at Mass, such as the exchange of peace. School of Theology and Ministry Professor Thomas Groome comments: Reuters via New York Times. He also discusses the St. Patrick's Day tradition in Ireland, in light of the cancellation of the country's annual parades: Washington Post. | Oil prices, one barometer of economic vitality, crashed on Monday. Carroll School Cleary Professor of Finance Jeffrey Pontiff is quoted by the Boston Globe. | Assistant Professor of Political Science Masha Krupenkin comments on patterns of economic confidence along party lines: New York Times. | Is it appropriate to joke about the virus? Professor of English Paul Lewis weighs in for Wired. Can you be too old to be president? Jacquelyn James, a faculty member in the BC School of Social Work and director of the Sloan Research Network on Aging and Work, weighs in on WGBH 'Greater Boston.' Why no 15-hour workweek? In 1930, economist John Maynard Keynes thought technology might make it so. What happened? Professor of Sociology Juliet Schor weighed in for Marketplace Morning Report. Researchers including Carroll School of Management IS Professor Gerald Kane have developed a framework to help managers understand the process of crowdsourcing to identify innovative ideas. MIT Sloan Management Review Associate Professor of Communication Michael Serazio discussed charitable giving by the ultra-wealthy on WGBH 'Greater Boston.' By pushing the National Association for College Admission Counseling to abandon fundamental ethical principles, the Justice Department has made unbridled competition among colleges its top priority and has reduced the college admission process to a financial transaction, writes Vice Provost for Enrollment Management John Mahoney: Inside Higher Ed. International branch campuses are risky ventures because they are hostage to several potentially unstable forces, write Lynch School Professor and Center for International Higher Education Director Hans de Wit and the center's founding director, Research Professor Philip Altbach. Times Higher Education While the concept of the leap year has been around since ancient times, the current calendar year has its origins in the Catholic Church. Associate Professor of Theology Rev. James Weiss explains: Catholic News Service. The Amazon synod, its final document, and the new papal exhortation signal the start of a 'new phase' of Francis' pontificate, one that will have a fundamental role in Latin America, writes School of Theology and Ministry Associate Professor of the Practice Rafael Luciani for National Catholic Reporter. | Pope Francis's letter did not include action on celibacy to address the region's priest shortage. STM Professor Thomas Groome discussed the subject on WNYC/New York Public Radio 'The Takeaway.' While 90 percent of fathers take some time off after their children are born, the majority take fewer than 10 days away from the job. But, according to a white paper from the Center for Work & Family, men who were given parental leave at their full salaries took a lot more of it. Executive Director Brad Harrington discussed the survey findings with New York Times. There are as many parenting approaches as diet plans. But in the great nature-nurture debate, there's really no debate at all, writes Boston College Magazine editor John Wolfson. Boston Globe Magazine A 2.0 magnitude earthquake was recorded just west of Conway, N.H., on February 17, according to officials at BC's Weston Observatory. Professor John Ebel of the Earth and Environmental Sciences Department, a senior research scientist at the observatory, discussed it with the Boston Globe. Libby Professor of Theology and Law Cathleen Kaveny reflects on the afterlife following the death of her mother, in an essay for Commonweal. The coronavirus is prompting businesses in China to consider employees working from home, arrangements that tend to be less common in Asia than in the U.S., according to a study by the Center for Work and Family. Jennifer Sabatini Fraone, the center's director of corporate partnerships, comments in Time. Pope Francis has ruled against ordaining married men in the Amazon region as a means of addressing the shortage of Catholic priests. Joseph Professor of Catholic Systematic Theology Richard Gaillardetz discussed the development on WBUR 'Morning Edition.' A complaint filed by a lawyer in Texas could serve to shape the court system's evolving view of plea bargaining. BC Law School Professor R. Michael Cassidy weighed in for the Washington Post. A new documentary film that focuses on the Vatican during World War II features commentary by Associate Professor of History Charles Gallagher, S.J. View the trailer here. Center for Work & Family Executive Director Brad Harrington discussed social expectations for fathers as caregivers, and the impact an involved father has on the family, emotionally and financially, as a guest on WNPR/Connecticut Public Radio's 'Where We Live.' Is division the new reality for the U.S.? Professor of History Heather Cox Richardson was among experts weighing in on WGBH 'Greater Boston.' The three challenges facing both the U.S. Catholic Church and this country right now are segregation, polarization, and resignation, School of Theology and Ministry Associate Professor Hosffman Ospino said in a recent keynote address featured by Catholic News Service, here via National Catholic Reporter. BC Law School Liberty Mutual Insurance Professor Patricia McCoy spoke to CNBC about the impact of new rules on the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. Law School Associate Professor Brian Quinn commented on Tesla Inc. settling a shareholder lawsuit over the company's acquisition of SolarCity Corp., leaving Tesla CEO Elon Musk as the lone defendant. Reuters Amateur, or retail, investors are trying to make up for decreasing yields by getting into risky markets they aren't familiar with and don't fully understand. Carroll School of Management Assistant Professor of Finance Rawley Heimer, co-author of a paper on retail investors, weighs in for Bloomberg News. Social Security is a "great equalizer" in American society, according to a report from the Center for Retirement Research, featured by the Boston Globe. Professor of History Heather Cox Richardson's daily digest of all things impeachment, titled Letters From An American, has attracted something of a cult following. She discusses the project with WGBH News. BC Dining's commitment to using diverse, locally-based food startups is cited by the Boston Globe. Marking his father's 84th birthday, Professor of Russian, English, and Jewish Studies Maxim D. Shrayer of the Slavic Languages and Literatures Department presents a portrait of refusenik writer and medical scientist David Shrayer-Petrov as a New England poet. The essay is published in the daily online magazine of Jewish news, ideas, and culture: Tablet. Bishop Nelson J. Perez of Cleveland is the first Latino to be named archbishop of Philadelphia and the third to head any American archdiocese. School of Theology and Ministry Professor Thomas Groome comments to Reuters, here via the New York Times. Former Gasson Professor Jeffrey von Arx, S.J., who continues to teach in the School of Theology and Ministry, responds to a recent op-ed about the Christian vision of hell in a letter to the New York Times (scroll down). Professor Emeritus of Theology Harvey Egan, S.J., tackles the same topic in a letter to international Catholic news weekly The Tablet. Does impeachment require a crime? Law School Professor Kent Greenfield is among Constitution scholars weighing in for the Associated Press. Professor of Political Science Robert Ross comments on the trade deal between the U.S. and China: Boston Globe. Childhood precocity does not necessarily guarantee enduring success and attention throughout life. Professor of Psychology Ellen Winner comments on how geniuses navigate the uncertain journey to adulthood. BBC Carroll School Associate Professor of the Practice of Finance Richard McGowan, S.J., weighs in on a leadership change for MGM Springfield in the Boston Globe and on projected tax revenue from gaming iin Massachusetts for WBUR News. Libby Professor of Theology and Law Cathleen Kaveny comments on the growing emphasis on the Catholic Church and 'personal remove': Washington Post. The controversy surrounding publication of a book co-authored by Benedict XVI underscores the need to rethink norms for retired popes, writes Joseph Professor of Catholic Systematic Theology Richard Gaillardetz in National Catholic Reporter. Assistant Professor of Sociology and International Studies Ali Kadivar discussed the causes of and reaction to the widespread anti-government protests in Iran, both in recent weeks and last fall, in a number of media appearances, including two interviews with independent newshour "Democracy Now" (1, 2), and opinion pieces for the Washington Post and Foreign Affairs. Three members of the Class of 2012 are on Forbes magazine's 2020 list of "young, creative, and bold minds" who are "changing the course--and the face--of business and society": Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences alumnus Bryan Patenaude, a healthcare economist and Johns Hopkins faculty member specializing in examining the most effective interventions for disease, and Ivan Alo and LaDante McMillon of the Carroll School and Morrissey College, respectively, who are co-founders of New Age Capital, a seed stage venture fund investing in tech startups founded and led by Black and Latino entrepreneurs. The SECURE Act aims to help Americans without workplace retirement plans. Carroll School Drucker Professor Alicia Munnell, director of the Center for Retirement Research, weighs in for NPR. | Her comments on U.S. workers delaying retirement are cited by the Wall Street Journal and Forbes. Companies must recognize and embrace transformative powers of artificial intelligence, Carroll School Professor of Information Systems Sam Ransbotham contends in a Sloan Management Review podcast. Monan Professor of Theology Lisa Sowle Cahill is among leading Catholic ethicists and moral theologians asked for commentary following the assassination of Iranian General Qassem Soleimani, and the subsequent escalation of tensions between the two countries. National Catholic Reporter School of Theology and Ministry Associate Professor Hosffman Ospino writes about an Austin, Texas, organization that helps economically disadvantaged, and mostly Hispanic, children to attend Catholic schools in a column distributed nationally by Catholic News Service. James Madison's account of the Constitutional Convention includes a famous conversation about causes for impeachment. But the relevant portion of his notes isn't what it seems, writes Founders Professor of Law Mary Sarah Bilder. The Atlantic By allowing loyalty to President Trump to overwhelm loyalty to the Constitution, Senate leader Mitch McConnell is violating two oaths, contends Kentucky native and BC Law Professor Kent Greenfield in an op-ed for the Louisville Courier-Journal, the highest-circulation newspaper in McConnell's constituency. The piece was picked up by USA Today, and has drawn attention from Newsweek, MSNBC, Salon, and The Hill, among other outlets. He discussed it in interviews with CNN and WGBH 'Boston Public Radio.' Associate Professor of Political Science Peter Krause discussed the death of Iranian general Qasem Soleimani and its potential international, national, and local consequences in interviews with NECN 'Primary Source' and WCVB-TV News.< Associate Professor of Political Science Peter Krause discussed the death of Iranian general Qasem Soleimani and its potential international, national, and local consequences in interviews with NECN 'Primary Source' and WCVB-TV News. The conventional wisdom has been: if you want a child to learn a second language, start them as young as possible. But research by Assistant Professor of Psychology Joshua Hartshorne has shown there's more leeway than previously thought. He discussed the findings on WGBH 'Innovation Hub.' Highlights from 2019 James Madison's account of the Constitutional Convention includes a famous conversation about causes for impeachment. But the relevant portion of his notes isn't what it seems, writes Founders Professor of Law Mary Sarah Bilder. The Atlantic By allowing loyalty to President Trump to overwhelm loyalty to the Constitution, Senate leader Mitch McConnell is violating two oaths, contends Kentucky native and BC Law Professor Kent Greenfield in an op-ed for the Louisville Courier-Journal, the highest-circulation newspaper in McConnell's constituency. The piece was picked up by USA Today, and has drawn attention from Newsweek, MSNBC, Salon, and The Hill, among other outlets. He discussed it in interviews with CNN and WGBH 'Boston Public Radio.' Canisius Professor James Keenan, S.J., proposes an alternative 'culture of vulnerability' as a path to a 'servant priesthood' and a 'servant episcopacy' in a paper featured by National Catholic Reporter. School of Theology and Ministry Professor Thomas Groome looks at the changes and defining moments in religion over the past ten years as a guest on WBUR 'Radio Boston.' It's been a tough period for Bay State casinos. Carroll School of Management Associate Professor of the Practice of Finance Richard McGowan, S.J., weighed in for WGBH News and Bloomberg Baystate Business Radio. Carroll School of Management student Joey Reda '21 and Quinn Usry '22 of the Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences provide perspectives on generational stereotypes of baby boomers for the Wall Street Journal. A Pew Research Center report analyzed nearly 50,000 sermons in 2019. School of Theology and Ministry Professor John Baldovin, S.J., comments in the Washington Post Alan Kafka, associate professor in the department of Earth and Environmental Sciences and director of BC's Weston Observatory, is featured by the Seismological Society of America. More The Psalms give voice to every aspect of human experience, according to School of Theology and Ministry Professor Emeritus and founding dean Richard Clifford, S.J., in an essay that cites STM Associate Professor Melissa Kelley: America. A Pew Research Center report analyzed nearly 50,000 sermons posted online by 6,431 churches in 2019 to find out how long Christian clergy preach and the words they use that distinguish them from one another. School of Theology and Ministry Professor John Baldovin, S.J., comments in the Washington Post The Psalms give voice to every aspect of human experience, according to School of Theology and Ministry Professor Emeritus and founding dean Richard Clifford, S.J., in an essay that cites STM Associate Professor Melissa Kelley: America. The Social Security Administration forecasts that its trust fund will be depleted in 2035. Carroll School Drucker Professor and Center for Retirement Research Director Alicia Munnell is among experts asked to weigh in on how to shore up the program solvent: CNBC. Lawyers representing convicted 26-year-old Boston Marathon bomber Dzhokhar Tsarnaev go before a three-judge panel of the U.S. Court of Appeals today to argue that their client did not receive a fair trial in 2015. BC Law Professor Robert Bloom commented in advance of the hearing: NPR, heard locally on WGBH, Reuters, AP. Law School Professor Ray Madoff discussed the implications of the 2017 tax act on charitable giving and problems associated with donor-advised funds in an interview with Bloomberg Radio. Top investors sharing ownership in both companies could make a deal between the HP and Xerox more likely, Carroll School Professor of Finance and Hillenbrand Family Faculty Fellow Thomas Chemmanur tells CRN News. Hailed as a clean 'transition' fuel, natural gas also is associated with health and environmental hazards and reduced social welfare at every stage of its life cycle, write Global Public Health and the Common Good Director and Professor of Biology Philip Landrigan and colleagues in the New England Journal of Medicine. In 1919, John Maynard Keynes foresaw the chaos that would follow from the Versailles peace treaty, writes Professor of Political Science Jonathan Kirshner in an op-ed for the New York Times. The Founding Fathers feared foreign influence--and devised protections against it. BC Law Founders Professor Mary Sarah Bilder is among experts commenting for History.com. Has the GOP been forever changed by the Trump presidency? Professor of History Heather Cox Richardson joined a panel on WGBH 'Greater Boston.' Libby Professor of Theology and Law Cathleen Kaveny writes about what culture warriors get wrong when they debate political and religious issues in an essay for Commonweal magazine. Dueling senses of humor appreciation mark the divisions ripping America apart, writes Professor of English Paul Lewis, who weighs in on the use of ridicule in contemporary politics in a commentary for the Chicago Tribune. An exhibition on view at Boston's ICA addresses the global migration crisis by asking: What is a home? And why do more than 60 million people lack one? Santiago Ramos, a part-time faculty member in the Philosophy Department, writes about it for Commonweal. Murray and Monti Professor of Economics Peter Ireland, a member of the Shadow Open Market Committee, discusses why the Fed's 2019 "reversal" made sense, among other topics, in a podcast for The Bond Buyer. Demographic changes have tilted the system against lower earners who claim benefits early, even as they've rewarded higher earners who claim later, according to a report by Center for Retirement Research Director Alicia Munnell and Assistant Director Anqi Chen. Los Angeles Times, Boston Globe In Bong Joon-Ho's film The Parasite, the class narrative hinges on the ways in which environmental disruption exacerbates simmering conflict between working class and wealthy, writes Professor of English Min Song for the Chicago Review of Books. Vice Provost for Enrollment Management John Mahoney joined admission leaders from Harvard and UMass-Boston for a popular annual program presented to demystify the college application process. Listen online: WBZ 'NightSide with Dan Rea.' A controversial natural gas compressor station approved for Weymouth, Mass., has drawn health and safety concerns from experts including Global Public Health and the Common Good Director and Professor of Biology Philip Landrigan. Boston Globe Should the Social Security full retirement age be increased? Center for Retirement Research Director Alicia Munnell weighs in: CNBC. She answers questions about the 'bridge strategy' of using retirement assets to delay taking benefits in a Q&A in Barron's, and imagines what life will look like for future retirees: Dow Jones MarketWatch. Can the GOP win back the suburbs? An op-ed by Associate Professor of Political Science David Hopkins in the New York Times. He discussed Deval Patrick's entry into the Democratic presidential race on NECN 'Primary Source' and commented on the candidates' focus on pocketbook issues: Washington Post. Professor of History Heather Cox Richardson joined a discussion of the presidential impreachment proceedings on WGBH 'Greater Boston.' How can people transcend a culture of consumption and embrace more ecological practices? Professor of Sociology Juliet Schor weighs in for Sierra. A study that showed close relationships between adult grandchildren and grandparents resulted in fewer symptoms of depression for both, conducted by Associate Professor of Sociology Sara Moorman and then-doctoral candidate Jeffrey Stokes, is cited iin the New York Times. Professor of Political Science Peter Skerry examines the evolving institutional context of refugee policy in an essay for The Forum: A Journal of Applied Research in Contemporary Politics. In a Q&A, Professor of Political Science Jonathan Laurence analyzes the debates on Islam that shake France and assesses how politicians have been managing the issue for three decades: Le Monde. A new study led by Center for Work and Family Executive Director Brad Harrington on gender and parental leave is featured by the U.K.'s Guardian. Boston College Dining Services' latest "global eats" program includes a weekly detour into unexplored culinary corners of the world, designed to get the kitchen crew excited about new flavors and techniques. Food Management Assistant Professor of Art History Oliver Wunsch writes on the identity of a sitter in the early Toulouse-Lautrec painting Black Countess, and on the role of Black women in 19th-century French painting, for The Burlington Magazine. The seeds of the #MeToo movement were planted a century ago, when a significant cohort of women entered the newspaper industry, writes Associate Professor of the Practice of English Lori Harrison-Kahan: CNN.com. Boston College Law School Professor Kent Greenfield provided analysis of the impeachment inquiry and discussed the next steps in an interview with NECN 'Primary Source.' The seeds of the #MeToo movement were planted a century ago, when a significant cohort of women entered the newspaper industry, writes Associate Professor of the Practice of English Lori Harrison-Kahan: CNN.com. Presidential hopeful Elizabeth Warren has released details of her Medicare for All plan. Associate Professor of Political Science David Hopkins comments: Boston Globe. In a report, the Center for Retirement Research places the number of nontraditional job holders at about 20 percent of 50- to 62-year-old workers. Director Alicia Munnell comments in the New York Times. To Boston College Law School Dean Vincent Rougeau, the study and practice of criminal law at the school is animated by Jesuit values and ideals, including that of forming lawyers who understand that a passion for justice must include a fierce moral commitment to the needs of the least among us. He writes on the subject for AJCU Connections. Associate Professor of the Practice of Theology Natana Delong-Bas, whose research focus is the Middle East, comments on the announcement of the death of ISIS leader Al-Baghdadi. NBC10 Boston. Three years after Colin Kaepernick's protests, the sport hasn't changed, and neither have fans, writes Associate Professor of Communication Michael Serazio for Vox.com. President Trump draws fervent support from conservatives who believe the president is willing to restore the country to its moral and constitutional foundations. Professor of Political Science Ken I. Kersch writes on the topic for The Atlantic. Massachusetts lawmakers weigh a bill that would make saying the "B" word in a derogatory way an offense that could result in a $200 fine. BC Law School Professor Kent Greenfield weighs in for the Boston Globe. Law School Professor R. Michael Cassidy comments on prosecutorial procedure in light of a Rhode Island grand jury's failure to indict a detention facility officer who drove a pickup truck into a group of protesters: Boston Globe. Johnson & Johnson has lowered its previously reported third-quarter profit by $3 billion to account for a proposed opioid settlement payment. Law School Associate Professor Brian Quinn is quoted on the development by Reuters, via the New York Times. Research by Professor of Biology Phil Landrigan, director of BC's Global Public Health Program is cited in a new survey on toxins in baby foods, and he comments on the report's findings: The Hill, New York Daily News, Fox Business News, Miami Herald, USA Today. Professor of Political Science Marc Landy is quoted regarding the president's dealmaking in trade andforeign affairs: Washington Post. Will Ohio elect the next president? Associate Professor of Political Science David Hopkins weighs in for the Christian Science Monitor. Professor of History Heather Cox Richardson provided perspective on a range of subjects related to President Donald Trump's interactions with other countries as a guest on WGBH 'Greater Boston.' Will Ohio elect the next president? Associate Professor of Political Science David Hopkins discussed the possibilities with the Christian Science Monitor. Companies ready to confront the ethical challenges inherent in accelerated digital transformation are well positioned to take advantage of innovative opportunities, writes Carroll School of Management Professor of Information Systems Gerald Kane. Wall Street Journal 'CIO Journal' Boston College Executive Director of Public Safety and Chief of Police Bill Evans, who joined the University in 2018 after serving as police commissioner for the City of Boston, talks about his new role in an interview with WBZ Radio News. A collaboration between BC School of Social Work and nonprofit FXB Rwanda, Sugira Muryango ('Strengthening Families') is a home-visiting program that targets Rwanda's poorest households with children under three to help the nation's parents⁠—especially fathers⁠—become more supportive caregivers. The program is featured by QuartzAfrica. Associate Professor of Communication Michael Serazio writes on the NBA's handling of its relationship with China in the aftermath of a team GM's tweet in support of protesters in Hong Kong: Washington Post. Study findings suggest that emphasizing the transformational nature of recycling--providing products with a future use--would better motivate people to do it, according to researchers including Carroll School Associate Professor of Marketing Gergana Nenkov, writing in The Conversation. Larry Gennari, an adjunct faculty member and head of BC Law's Project Entrepreneur program, advocates for the elimination of unnecessary and punitive restrictions that prevent people with criminal records from getting a job, in an op-ed for Bloomberg News. Professor of History Heather Cox Richardson provided historical perspective on the impeachment investigation on WGBH 'Greater Boston' and WBUR News. Her comments on similarities between current and pre-Civil War America were highlighted by Newsweek. BC Law School Professor Kent Greenfield was interviewed regarding the impact of the whistleblower complaint and whether the president may have violated his oath of office: NBC News 10; USA Today Neenan Millennium Professor of Economics James Anderson weighed in on the Trump administration's threat to impose a 25 percent tariff on a variety of goods imported from the European Union: WBUR News. School of Theology and Ministry Associate Professor Hosffman Ospino and Associate Professor of the Practice Rafael Luciani comment on the upcoming Synod of Bishops for the Amazon--the fourth synod of Pope Francis' papacy, but the first to focus on the church's work in a particular region of the world. National Catholic Reporter Carroll School of Management Associate Professor of Marketing Henrik Hagtvedt discussed the business of luxury goods, while Woods College of Advancing Studies adjunct faculty member Peter Moloney provided an analysis of Brexit, on Bloomberg Baystate Business. While the majority of U.S. Catholics under 18 are Latino, only 4 percent of Latino children are enrolled at Catholic schools. The TWIN-CS program, a method of teaching that respects their language and culture, is helping to change that, according to Kristin Melley, director of professional development at the Lynch School's Roche Center for Catholic Education, which established the program in 2012. America Since June, U.S. Catholic bishops have released more than 10 statements reflecting their displeasure with a broad range of White House decisions on immigration. Professor of Theology Kristin Heyer discusses the topic in light of Catholic social teaching: America. In two articles in the Washington Post, Drinan Professor of Law George Brown is quoted regarding legalities of Donald Trump's interactions with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky and potential impeachment. D.C. statehood is a modest partisan ploy compared with the mass admission of underpopulated western territories that boosts the GOP even 130 years later, writes Professor of History Heather Cox Richardson. The Atlantic To build a national majority, the Democrats have to win the areas around smaller cities, which have resisted the blue wave,according to Associate Professor of Political Science David Hopkins, writing in the New York Times. Liberty Mutual Insurance Professor of Law Patricia McCoy, who helped found the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau with Elizabeth Warren, is quoted in a profile of the presidential candidate in the New York Times. A judge scrutinized for his handling of the arraignments of counter-demonstrators after Boston's Straight Pride Parade is being investigated by the Massachusetts Commission on Judicial Conduct. Law School Professor Robert Bloom comments in the Boston Globe. Gokce Akin-Olcum, an economist with the Environmental Defense Fund and an adjunct faculty member in the Economics Department and the Woods College's M.S. in Applied Economics program, comments on the impact of the Trump Administration on international efforts to address climate change. Boston Globe While digital disruption may seem like a technology problem, it's really a people problem, according to an interview with Carroll School of Management IS Professor Jerry Kane, co-author of the book The Technology Fallacy, in an MIT Sloan Management Review podcast. What drives success in the online learning space? Woods College of Advancing Studies Associate Dean for Strategy, Innovation, & Technology Aleksandar Tomic weighs in for Evolllution. Connell School of Nursing Professor Ann Wolbert Burgess, whose groundbreaking collaboration with the FBI on the criminal profiling of serial killers was the inspiration for a main character on the Netflix hit 'Mindhunter,' talks about what the crime thriller series gets right: Pittsburgh Post-Gazette. Martha Bayles of the Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences writes on Beijing's move to co-opt the American film industry as it seeks to penetrate the world's largest market: The Atlantic. When savings run short, some retirees turn to freelancing to help fill the gap. School of Social Work Assistant Professor Cal Halvorsen, who studies later-life self-employment and entrepreneurship, weighs in for the New York Times. Savers, particularly those near retirement age, are not getting enough return from their accounts or fixed investments. Carroll School Drucker Professor Alicia Munnell, director of the Center for Retirement Research, comments: New York Times. Medicare for All, once a fringe issue, is now at the center of national discourse. BC Law Professor of the Practice and John C. Ford, S.J., Distinguished Scholar Mary Ann Chirba is quoted: Boston Globe. BC Law School Professor Robert Bloom discussed the clash over prosecution of protestors at Boston's Straight Pride parade: Bloomberg Baystate Radio (13:47). Should parents bring children to the workplace? Center for Work and Family Executive Director Brad Harrington comments to the Associated Press. Professor of Political Science Peter Skerry explores contemporary populism and its historical antecedents in a perspective piece for The American Interest. Part One | Part Two Labor ideals in sports have changed, along with the labor market in the broader world, writes Associate Professor of Communication Michael Serazio in an op-ed for the Washington Post. Lyft Inc.'s co-founders are donating more than 1.5 million shares of the company to one of the largest operators of donor-advised funds. Law School Professor Ray Madoff is quoted on the move by Bloomberg News. Law School Associate Professor Brian Quinn comments on the role of shareholders in the planned merger between Philip Morris International and Altria Group: Wall Street Journal. In an op-ed, Law School Professor Daniel Lyons calls for an end to the Space Force gag order so the experts from 'America's space think-tank' can contribute their viewpoints to the discussion. Wall Street Journal News of NFL quarterback Andrew Luck's retirement shocked fans and the media. Associate Professor of Communication Michael Serazio, author of The Power of Sports: Media and Spectacle in American Culture, weighs in with an op-ed for the New York Times, and in an interview with WBUR 'Radio Boston.' His book was excerpted by Sports Business Journal. Historian Peter Moloney of the Woods College of Advancing Studies provided an update on the Brexit movement in Britain--and what it will mean to the UK, the EU, and British-American trade--on WBZ-FM's 'Boston Sunday Review.' Was 'Easy Rider' a time capsule of the 1960s or a lasting work of art? Philosophy Department faculty member Santiago Ramos looks back at the film on its 50th anniversary: Commonweal.In an op-ed, Law School Professor Daniel Lyons calls for an end to the Space Force gag order so the experts from 'America's space think-tank' can contribute their viewpoints to the discussion. Wall Street Journal Grandparents, whether near or far, can shape the faith life of their grandchildren, according to School of Theology and Ministry Professor Thomas Groome, who comments for America magazine. School of Theology and Ministry Associate Professor Hosffman Ospino writes on Catholics and immigrants in a column for Catholic News Service. Associate Professor of Romance Languages and Literatures Régine Jean-Charles weighs in on proper representation of French involvement in the slave trade and the experiences of enslaved people. More Bryan Blakeley, executive director of the Center for Digital Innovation in Learning, discusses the importance of research in the adoption of new ed-tech tools aimed at improving student learning: Inside Higher Ed. Research by University Provost, Dean of Faculties, and Professor of History David Quigley of the economic relationship between New York and the Southern cotton trade is cited in the New York Times Magazine's 1619 Project. More (scroll to sidebar titled 'How Slavery Made Wall Street.') Law School Professor Ray Madoff comments on charitable organizations finding themselves targets of vocal dissent due to actions of their benefactors: New York Times. Carroll School Associate Professor of the Practice of Finance Richard McGowan, S.J., comments on early revenue reports from new casino Encore Boston Harbor in the Boston Globe and CommonWealth magazine. Professor of Theology Catherine Cornille discusses interfaith dialogue as a guest on an Australian Broadcasting Co. Radio National podcast. Law School Professor Daniel Lyons comments in the Los Angeles Times on the CBS-Viacom merger and on the appointment of Shari Redstone as chairwoman. Is Social Security running out? The Center for Retirement Research's Alicia Munnell discussed the situation with WBUR 'Here and Now'; and Matthew Rutledge with Bloomberg Baystate Business. Murray and Monti Professor of Economics Peter Ireland weighs in on the Fed's recent interest rate cut in an essay for E21. Coordinating services for students pays huge dividends, and a comprehensive approach to needs should become standard in schools, writes Lynch School Kearns Professor Mary Walsh, director of BC's successful integrated services initiative City Connects. CommonWealth Magazine Professor of History Heather Cox Richardson was among experts discussing the history of racism and the U.S. presidency on WBUR 'Radio Boston.' In the past 10,000 years--a barely perceptible sliver of evolutionary time--virtually every feature of childhood has changed, particularly in industrialized societies, writes Dorsa Amir, postdoctoral research fellow in the Psychology Department, in an op-ed for the Washington Post. Murray and Monti Professor of Economics Peter Ireland comments in advance of the Federal Reserve July 2019 meeting: CNBC, Boston Globe. BC Law School Professor Daniel Lyons writes on the road ahead for Sprint and T-Mobile following Justice Department approval of their merger, in a blog post for American Enterprise Institute 'Ideas.' The U.S. ended orphanages in the 1960s, but the detention facilities on the nation's southern border have revived them, contends Law School Associate Professor Kari Hong, in an op-ed for WBUR 'Cognoscenti.' The most effective responses to digital disruption don't make use of technology at all, writes Carroll School Professor of Information Systems Gerald Kane for Sloan Management Review. Why do members of 'The Squad' stick together? Associate Professor of Sociology C. Shawn McGuffey, director of African and African Diaspora Studies, comments for the Huffington Post. Law School Professor Kent Greenfield takes aim at Fox News in an op-ed for WBUR 'Cognoscenti.' By forming their own corporation, ride-share workers could win leverage over Uber and other companies that refuse to consider them employees, writes BC Law School Assistant Professor Hiba Hafiz in an op-ed for the New York Times. Looking beyond the nation's rosy employment numbers tells a different story for American workers, according to an op-ed by Lynch School of Education and Human Development Professor David Blustein, author of the new book The Importance of Work in an Age of Uncertainty: The Conversation. U.S. industries should no longer be allowed to propose new uses for asbestos while ignoring its inevitable effects on human health, writes BC's Phil Landrigan, M.D., co-author of an op-ed for the New England Journal of Medicine. Landrigan and the Global Observatory on Pollution and Health he directs, are highlighted by Wired magazine. After five years serving 10 U.S. dioceses with burgeoning Latino populations, 36 women religious have graduated from the U.S.-Latin American Sisters Exchange Program, and are returning to their home countries with Boston College degrees customized to their needs by the Woods College of Advancing Studies: National Catholic Reporter's Global Sisters Report. BC School of Social Work Assistant Professor Cal Halvorsen, weighs in on ageism in presidential politics and racial disparities in entrepreneurship over age 50 in op-eds for PBS Next Avenue, both picked up by Forbes. He also discussed a new poll that found one in four Americans have no intention of ever retiring, as a guest on WGBH 'Greater Boston.' Weston Observatory Director Alan Kafka, associate professor in the Department of Earth and Environmental Sciences, discussed the major earthquake in California, and the history of seismic activity in New England, in an interview with WBZ Radio. | Professor John Ebel, senior research scientist at Weston, commented on the California quake in USA Today. Can animals replay scenes from the past and reminisce? A perspective from Professor of Psychology Scott Slotnick, who studies cognitive neuroscience in memory, in Fast Company. Saying "I don't" instead of "I can't" when telling someone "no" frees participants from demands, according to a study co-conducted by Carroll School of Management Associate Professor of Marketing Henrik Hagtvedt and cited by Forbes. Beginning in 1995 and every four years since, the Trends in International Mathematics and Science Study has measured student achievement around the world. Ina V.S. Mullis and Michael O. Martin, executive directors of BC's TIMSS & PIRLS International Study Center, write on lessons learned from the data: Education Week. In The Technology Fallacy, lead author and Carroll School of Management Professor of Information Systems Gerald Kane contends the best way to respond to digital disruptions involves changes to organizational dynamics. The book is highlighted by the Wall Street Journal and CIO Magazine. President Trump's celebration was a departure from how Independence Day festivities in the capital have traditionally been marked. BC professors of history weighed in prior to the event, Patrick Maney in an interview with NPR and Heather Cox Richardson on WBUR 'Radio Boston.' There are now 200 detention centers for immigrants spread across the U.S. BC Law School Associate Professor Kari Hong writes on the need to shut them down in op-ed for WBUR 'Cognoscenti.' Associate Professor of Political Science David Hopkins writes on the Republican Party in light of a Roy Moore Senate run in 2020: Washington Post. To help students to achieve the best possible academic outcomes, an increasing number of educators and government officials, in Ohio and elsewhere, are looking at those things outside the classroom that add up to success, such as the Lynch School's national integrated student services model, City Connects. Dayton Business Journal, Dayton Daily News. The initiative also drew praise for its success in an op-ed by former Mass. education secretary Paul Reville: The Hechinger Report. Unless government officials act, Social Security benefit cuts are coming. Carroll School Drucker Professor Alicia Munnell, director of the Center for Retirement Research, weighs in on the seriousness of the issue in the New York Times. New York legislators have voted to ban the harmful pesticide chlorpyrifos; officials across the country should do the same, writes Professor of Biology Philip Landrigan, M.D., director of BC's Global Public Health Program, in an op-ed for the Albany Times-Union. Economist John Taylor's monetary policy rule helps make sense of the Fed's shifting expectations, writes Murray and Monti Professor of Economics Peter Ireland for E21. Democratic presidential candidates are pledging support for federal funding for abortion even as the public remains divided on the issue. Associate Professor of Political Science David Hopkins comments: Wall Street Journal. Boston Archbishop Cardinal Sean O'Malley is now 75, the age at which he is required to submit his resignation to the pope, who may or may not accept it. School of Theology and Ministry Professor Thomas Groome discussed the cardinal's legacy on WBUR 'Morning Edition.' During the 2019 Colloquium for the Academy of Catholic Hispanic Theologians of the United States earlier this month, participants discussed hundreds--or thousands--year-old texts in light of their modern implications. School of Theology and Ministry Associate Professor Hosffman Ospino, president-elect of the academy, comments for National Catholic Reporter. The Vatican has opened the door to ordaining older married men to the priesthood in remote areas of the Amazon. Joseph Professor of Catholic Systematic Theology Richard Gaillardetz discussed the development on NECN 'The Take.' Professor of History Heather Cox Richardson writes on the Republican Party, partisanship, and America's traditional rule of law from the Nixon through the present in an op-ed for the U.K.'s Guardian. The disappearance of the accuser's smartphone in the Kevin Spacey sexual assault case could have significant consequences for the prosecution, BC Law Professor R. Michael Cassidy tells the New York Times. Liberty Mutual Insurance Professor of Law Patricia McCoy discusses factors that may have led to the settlement amount in the Quicken Loans mortgage fraud case: Cleveland Plain Dealer. It's hard to resist puppy-dog eyes--and according to a new study, dogs' faces are structured for such complex expression thanks to a special pair of facial muscles. Assistant Professor of Psychology Angie Johnston comments in The Atlantic. BC Law Professor Ray Madoff writes on the philanthropy of Lewis Cullman, who died June 7 at the age of 100: Wall Street Journal. Boston College Ireland Academic Director Mike Cronin writes on the centennial anniversary of the first non-stop flight across the Atlantic--the flight of Alcock and Brown from Canada to Connemara in July 1919--for Irish national broadcaster RTÉ. In his new book, The Power of Sports, Associate Professor of Communication Michael Serazio looks at the barriers facing female athletes and journalists. His related essay on the subject for The Conversation appears on news sites across the country, including the San Francisco Chronicle and Houston Chronicle. | He also discussed "deepfakes" technology and its impact on the disinformation war: NECN "The Take." A 2016 survey by the Pew Research Center showed fathers were nearly one out of five stay-at-home parents in the U.S. Center for Work and Family Executive Director Brad Harrington comments for Marketplace Radio and AM New York. Center research on contemporary parenthood also is cited by the Los Angeles Times, Fast Company, and O, The Oprah Magazine. Is inequality in internationalization of higher education on the rise? Center for International Higher Education Director Hans de Wit is co-author of an op-ed on the subject for University World News. The deep-sea dragonfish is able to hide its enormous teeth from prey because the teeth are transparent, according to a new report. Assistant Professor of the Practice of Biology Christopher Kenaley, who was not involved in the study, was asked for comment by the Washington Post and the Associated Press, here via ABC News How will the Federal Reserve respond to a slowing jobs report, pressures from the Trump administration, and threats of trade wars? Murray and Monti Professor of Economics Peter Ireland comments on factors facing the Fed in the Boston Globe and Reuters, here via the New York Times. Law School Professor Kent Greenfield weighs in on delays facing House Democrats' investigations of President Trump: USA Today. Professor of Political Science Peter Skerry discussed the Trump administration's plan to include a citizenship question on the U.S. census as a guest on WGBH 'Greater Boston.' How do 'micromoves' affect workplace relationships? Carroll School of Management Assistant Professor Beth Schinoff weighs in: Harvard Business Review. Canisius Professor and Jesuit Institute Director James Keenan, S.J., comments on hierarchy and the need for 'a culture of vulnerability' in resolving the clergy abuse crisis: National Catholic Reporter. Libby Professor of Theology and Law Cathleen Kaveny weighs in on Benedict XVI's recent letter in an op-ed for Commonweal, and comments on divisions within the U.S. conference of bishops in National Catholic Reporter. Joseph Professor of Catholic Systematic Theology Richard Gaillardetz writes on Pope Francis' draft on curial reform in an op-ed for National Catholic Reporter, and discussed fallout from a controversial tweet by a Rhode Island bishop as a guest on WBUR 'Radio Boston.' The Faith Feeds parishioner-led conversation initiative, adapted by the Church in the 21st Century Center from its popular Agape Latte program, is showcased by The Pilot. There are still some glimmers of hope as to climate policy and implementation, writes BC Law School Professor David Wirth, who specializes in international environmental law, in a letter to the New York Times. In 1942, Lt. Commander John J. Shea, a 1918 alumnus serving in the Pacific on the aircraft carrier Wasp, wrote to his five-year-old son just weeks before the naval officer died trying to save his men during a torpedo attack. The 'Jackie Letter,' widely circulated in its day for celebrating the values of honor, duty, family, and religion, is featured by the Boston Herald. Sporting events have become America's great sanitized way of remembering—and then forgetting about—the troops, writes Associate Professor of Communication Michael Serazio in an op-ed drawn from his new book, The Power of Sports: Media and Spectacle in American Culture. Washington Post. Boston College Global Public Health Program Director Philip Landrigan, M.D., a former medical epidemiologist at the CDC, draws a comparison between risks of a methane gas compressor station planned for Weymouth, Mass., and another well-known public safety incident: the water crisis in Flint, Michigan. Boston Sunday Globe 'Ideas,' WGBH News, Bloomberg Baystate Business News (segment begins at 47:45). A deepening divide between the haves and have-nots is making it harder for them to see one another as neighbors, writes Professor of English Carlo Rotella, author of the new book The World is Always Coming to an End: Pulling Together and Apart in a Chicago Neighborhood, in an op-ed for the New York Times. A study by the Center for Retirement Research found that 37 percent of workers retired earlier than planned. Study co-author and center associate director Geoffrey Sanzenbacher comments in the New York Times. Judges and prosecutors should be trained before trying abuse cases, writes Lynch School of Education and Human Development Professor Lisa Goodman in a letter to the New York Times. A new India law that provides a 10% quota for the poor in education and government jobs raises several implementation questions--which can be addressed using the science of matching theory, writes Professor of Economics Tayfun Sönmez in The Hindu. Jacqueline Regan, associate dean of student affairs and career services at the School of Theology and Ministry, discusses attitudes toward the Church among today's young Catholics, including STM students: National Catholic Reporter. At a watershed moment in society, when thinking about men and masculinity is evolving, how can the Catholic Church help? School of Theology and Ministry Associate Professor Margaret Eletta Guider, O.S.F., chair of the ecclesiastical faculty, comments in America. Communities are taking steps to try to control future measles outbreaks by prohibiting religious exemptions from vaccines. Connell School of Nursing Assistant Professor Nadia Abuelezam is interviewed by NECN 'The Take.' In a Q&A, Carroll School Professor of Business Law Christine Neylon O'Brien discusses challenges facing working mothers and how they might be addressed. WalletHub.com Communities are taking steps to try to control future measles outbreaks by prohibiting religious exemptions from vaccines. Connell School Nursing Assistant Professor Nadia Abuelezam is interviewed by NECN 'The Take.' Law Professor Robert Bloom discusses the controversy surrounding a Harvard Law professor joining the Harvey Weinstein defense team in a Q&A with NPR 'All Things Considered.' Law Associate Professor David Olson, who testified before the Senate Judiciary Committee regarding intellectual property and price of prescription drugs, provides perspective on NECN 'The Take.' In a Q&A, Carroll School Professor of Business Law Christine Neylon O'Brien discusses challenges facing working mothers and how they might be addressed. WalletHub.com BC Law Keanealy Professor James Repetti discusses reaction to a New York Times report on President Trump's taxes in an op-ed for The Hill, and in comments to Fortune and NBC 10 Boston. Has the U.S. entered a constitutional crisis? Professor of History Heather Cox Richardson comments: Quartz.com. People are more likely to eat more chips when they're labeled 'crunchy,' according to Carroll School Associate Professor of Marketing Nailya Ordabayeva, whose research of the impact of the sound of food on consumption is published in the journal Appetite. Men's Health, Houston Chronicle Jabril Robinson, assistant director of career education and diversity initiatives at the Boston College Career Center, discussed career planning with a focus on students of color on WGBH-TV's 'Basic Black.' Associate Professor of Sociology and African and African Diaspora Studies C. Shawn McGuffey commented on President Trump's changing responses to 2017's deadly rally in Charlottesville, Virginia: Washington Post. Visiting Assistant Professor of History Jesse Tumblin Ph.D. '16 discusses military tactics in an assessment of the latest battle in the final season of 'Game of Thrones.' Washington Post The U.S. immigration court system is facing a backlog of 850,000 cases, has fewer than 450 judges nationwide to handle them, and faces a pileup of new asylum applications and other claims. BC Law School Associate Professor Kari Hong comments in the Washington Post. Church in the 21st Century Center Associate Director Elise Italiano Ureneck, who writes the "Finding God in All Things" column for Catholic News Service, reflects on lessons drawn from the aftermath of the fire at Notre Dame Cathedral. The Pilot 'Echoes.' An op-ed writer who has struggled to master French during the 15 years since she moved to Paris in her 30s turns to Assistant Professor of Psychology Joshua Hartshorne, whose research focuses on the critical period for acquisition of a second language. New York Times Murray and Monti Professor of Economics Peter Ireland, a member of the Shadow Open Market Committee that monitors Federal Reserve policy, comments on a proposed program that could be another version of 'quantitative easing.' CNBC Comments by Joseph Professor of Catholic Systematic Theology Richard Gaillardetz on shifting power in the Catholic Church are prominent in episode 11 of an America Media audio series on the clergy abuse crisis. He also is interviewed in episode 10 regarding accountability. More The Massachusetts Gaming Commission has ruled that Wynn Resorts will not lose the license for the casino it plans to open in Everett. Carroll School of Management Associate Professor of the Practice of Finance Richard McGowan, S.J., discussed the ruling with WBUR News. Professor of Sociology Juliet Schor comments on why people join the rental and sharing economy: NPR. The social responsibility component of internationalization has rarely been a focus in the broad agenda related to higher education--an imbalance that needs to be addressed, according to an op-ed co-authored by Center for International Higher Education Director Hans deWit. University World News Associate Professor of Economics Robert Murphy discusses credit card fees for foreign transactions in a Q&A with WalletHub. Some of the nation's most powerful people, including the president, seem to have no knowledge of or interest in history. Why should they? Esquire magazine asked three preeminent historians including Professor of History Heather Cox Richardson to respond to that question. More How should those who care about the Constitution interpret the Mueller report? BC Law Professor Kent Greenfield provides a lens on the limits and powers of the presidency in an op-ed for WBUR 'Cognoscenti.' Bloomberg Baystate Business News aired live from the Boston College Chief Executives Club session featuring Merck CEO Kenneth Frazier. The broadcast included interviews with Professor of Biology Phil Landrigan, M.D., director of BC's Global Public Health Programs, and Global Leadership Institute Director Robert Mauro. Audio The CDC reports more than 500 confirmed cases of measles in 20 states. Connell School of Nursing Assistant Professor Nadia Abuelezam discussed the outbreak on NECN 'The Take.' Eight centuries of priceless history were consumed as fire engulfed Notre Dame Cathedral in Paris. School of Theology and Ministry Professor Thomas Groome was interviewed by NECN; Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences Associate Professor of History Julian Bourg by CBS News Boston. Pope Benedict XVI, who expressed his intent to 'remain hidden' following his abdication of the papacy in 2013, issued a letter on the clergy sexual abuse crisis. Joseph Professor of Catholic Systematic Theology Richard Gailardetz commented in National Catholic Reporter Professor of Biology Philip Landrigan comments on the stymying of the EPA's chemical carcinogenicity and toxicity assessments: The Lancet. As the Brexit deadline approaches, Professor of Political Science David Deese talks about the fallout for travel, trade, and Ireland. NECN "The Take" | Professor of History Oliver Rafferty, S.J., comments for a report surveying Irish Brexit watchers in Boston: WGBH News. The death of Nathan Glazer in January, a month before his 96th birthday, has been noted as the end of an era in American political and intellectual life. Professor of Political Science Peter Skerry reflects in the American Interest. China's global higher education role is about to change significantly--with implications for the rest of the world, Lynch School Center for International Higher Education Research Professor Philip Altbach writes. University World News In many Disney films, including the new live-action reboot of 'Dumbo,' mothers are either absent, marginalized, or meet a heartbreaking fate. Why? Associate Professor of the Practice of English Bonnie Rudner, whose course Studies in Children's Literature is popularly dubbed 'the Disney class,' weighs in for Vogue. In the era of digital disruption, leaders need a blend of traditional and new skills to steer their organizations into the future, according to an article co-authored by Carroll School IS Professor Gerald Kane for Sloan Management Review. U.S. Senator Elizabeth Warren says if she's elected president, she'd direct the Department of Justice to break up the so-called "big three": Google, Amazon, and Facebook. Boston College Law School Assistant Professor Hiba Hafiz discussed the legal aspects of this plan on WBUR "Radio Boston." U.S. states that adopt stricter gun laws have safer schools, according to a new study co-authored by School of Social Work Associate Professor Summer Sherburne Hawkins, Professor of Economics and Social Work Christopher Baum, and Marco Ghiani, Ph.D. '18, and published in the Journal of Epidemiology and Community Health. Sampling of coverage: London Economic (U.K.), Health Day via U.S. News & World Report Professor of Political Science David Deese, newly returned from the U.K., outlined the issues surrounding a physical border between Northern Ireland and Ireland, a chief stumbling block for Brexit, on NECN 'The Take.' Professor of History Heather Cox Richardson discussed the history of the Electoral College, and whether the reasons for its creation still exist: NECN 'The Take.' Growing mistrust between China and the West may hit universities hard, writes Lynch School Research Professor Philip Altbach in an op-ed for the South China Morning Post. While the modern version of the St. Patrick's Day holiday may have strayed from its roots, the shamrock is authentically Irish in nature, BC Ireland Academic Director Mike Cronin tells Time magazine. Clough Millennium Professor of History James O'Toole discusses the history of Catholics in America for a piece by Irish national media outlet RTÉ on the influence of Hollywood star Bing Crosby in the election of President John F. Kennedy. Hundreds of Boston College students journeyed to some 40 U.S. locations during Spring Break to serve communities in need as part of BC Campus Ministry's Appalachia Volunteers. NC: WITN News | SC: Greenwood Index Journal, WMBF News | WV: Huntington Herald-Dispatch. Educators say Generation Z is uniquely bad at dating. Enter Philosophy Department faculty member Kerry Cronin's widely-chronicled dating assignment, featured by the Wall Street Journal. Facebook removed, then restored, an ad from Elizabeth Warren's campaign that sharply criticized the social media giant and other tech companies. Associate Professor of Political Science David Hopkins discussed the development and its impact: NBC Boston. Libby Professor of Theology and Law Cathleen Kaveny writes on Catholic moral theology's 'false crisis': Commonweal. Major League Baseball Commissioner Rob Manfred was the featured guest at the Boston College Chief Executives Club, speaking in conversation with Red Sox President Sam Kennedy. Sampling of coverage: Associated Press 1, Associated Press 2, Boston Globe, Boston.com, Boston Herald, Boston Business Journal, State House News Service, MLB.com. Teens in states that have decriminalized or legalized medical marijuana, or both, are not smoking pot more than they used to, according to a recent study led by Lynch School Professor Rebekah Levine Coley and published in the American Journal of Drug and Alcohol Abuse. Reuters Health, Health Day, U.S. News and World Report, San Francisco Chronicle, Daily Mail (U.K.), Earth.com Paradoxically, the factors that have put rural education on the margins of federal attention could turn out to be their savior, writes Lynch School Research Professor Emeritus Andy Hargreaves in an op-ed for Education Week. Carroll School Senior Lecturer in Finance Drew Hession-Kunz discussed credit card enticements and advertisements in a Q&A with WalletHub. Calling disliked things 'medieval'—as a reporter characterized the proposed border wall—is inaccurate and unhelpful, writes Associate Professor of English Eric Weiskott, who specializes in literature of the period. Vox.com Interim CEO Anne Klibanski, the first woman to lead Partners HealthCare, undertakes a very complex job, Carroll School of Management Professor Judith Gordon tells the Boston Globe. School of Theology and Ministry Professor Thomas Groome discussed the Vatican summit on the clergy sexual abuse crisis as a guest on NPR 'Here and Now' and WBUR 'Radio Boston'; Professor of Theology Stephen Pope did so with the Boston Globe. | Comments on the crisis by Libby Professor of Law and Theology Cathleen Kaveny were cited in an editorial by National Catholic Reporter. Sister Veronica Openibo, one of only three women to address the gathering, challenged the Church to provide complete transparency. The Nigerian-born nun, who was elected as the first African leader of her religious order, holds degrees from STM and the School of Social Work. CNN.com | Full text of her remarks here.In an op-ed, Carroll School Drucker Professor Alicia Munnell, director of the Center for Retirement Research, contends that the cap on the deduction of state and local taxes might induce some people to put more money in 401(k)s. Wall Street Journal Professor of History Heather Cox Richardson discussed President Trump's declaration of a national emergency on WBUR 'Radio Boston.' Joseph Professor of Catholic Systematic Theology Richard Gaillardetz commented on the laicization of ex-cardinal Theodore McCarrick: NBCNews.com School of Theology and Ministry Professor Thomas Groome, Canisius Professor of Theology James Keenan, S.J., and School of Social Work Professor of the Practice Tiziana Dearing were quoted in an article on Boston archbishop Cardinal Seán O'Malley, O.F.M. Cap., and his role in the Church's response to the clergy abuse crisis: The Atlantic. Professor of Theology Stephen Pope weighed in on the crisis response from Church leadership: Boston Globe. Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences faculty member Martha Bayles writes on the controversies surrounding elected officials in Virginia and on the narrative surrounding blackface in an essay for The American Interest. GOP Senator Marco Rubio proposes an end to stock buybacks' tax advantage. Carroll School of Management Cleary Professor of Finance Jeffrey Pontiff weighs in for CNN Business Americans expecting refunds due to President Trump's tax plan may be in for a surprise. Murray and Monti Professor of Economics Peter Ireland comments in the Boston Globe. Health insurance and retirement packages don't always cover necessities, forcing some to continue in the workforce. BC School of Social Work Assistant Professor Cal Halvorsen is quoted in a column running in the Daily Iowan and Des Moines Register. BC Law Associate Professor Daniel Lyons discussed round 4 in the fight over the FCC’s repeal of net neutrality rules in a Bloomberg News podcast. Hear multimedia and branding guru Martha Stewart at the BC Chief Executives Club, plus an interview with Carroll School IS prof Jerry Kane and more on Bloomberg Radio. Economist Sam Richardson comments on President Trump and prescription drug pricing for WBUR News and the Washington Post. Center for Retirement Research Director Alicia Munnell comments on the proposed Social Security 2100 Act: Bankrate.com. In addition to improving children's reading abilities and interests, priority must also be given to mathematical skills, writes Lynch School Professor Emeritus Andy Hargreaves, co-author of a piece for The Conversation. | His remarks on standardized testing are cited in The Scotsman. Federal prosecutors are investigating whether charges should be brought against Pennsylvania dioceses under the RICO Act. Libby Professor of Law and Theology Cathleen Kaveny weighs in, writing for Commonweal. Professor of Political Science Marc Landy writes on presidential use of emergency powers in an op-ed for Real Clear Politics. Beyond 'I Have A Dream': An op-ed in America on the message of Martin Luther King, Jr. by Associate Professor of French and African and African Diaspora Studies Régine Michelle Jean-Charles. Title IX's reach extends far beyond its original purpose, contends O'Neill Professor of American Politics R. Shep Melnick, author of the 2018 book The Transformation of Title IX: Regulating Gender Equality in Education, in a Q&A with the Chronicle of Higher Education. The 2019 'Worldwide Threat Assessment' issued by the intelligence community contradicts President Trump's stances on a range of matters. Assistant Professor of Communication Michael Serazio discussed the topic on WGBH 'Greater Boston.' BC Law School Assistant Professor Kari Hong responded to the immigration plan proposed by the Trump administration in a Q&A with WalletHub.com. Massachusetts' legalization of marijuana was opposed by the Archdiocese of Boston and faith groups. Carroll School Associate Professor of the Practice of Finance Richard McGowan, S.J., comments in a piece running nationally through Religion News Service. The National Labor Relations Board failed to conduct the legally required economic analyses on the potential impacts of its "joint employer" proposal on small businesses and labor unions, according to a group of academics including BC Law School Assistant Professor Hiba Hafiz, who discusses the subject with Bloomberg News. The first U.S. government shutdown dates back to 1879, Professor of History Heather Cox Richardson tells NPR 'All Things Considered.' | Will mounting pressure points such as longer airport delays hasten an end to the current shutdown? BC Law Associate Professor Katharine Young comments in the Philadelphia Inquirer. Murray and Monti Professor of Economics Peter Ireland weighs in on how the longest shutdown in U.S. history may effect Federal Reserve policy and the wider economy: Boston Globe. BC Law Professor David Wirth discusses the impact of a spike in U.S. carbon emissions on global efforts to curb the effects of climate change: Washington Post. Associate Professor of the Practice of Theology Natana J. Delong-Bas, who specializes in Islamic studies, comments on a growing tide of resentment among Saudi women against the male guardianship system. Wall Street Journal School of Theology and Ministry Professor Thomas Groome and STM student Angelo Jesus Canta comment on keeping the faith in the face of the current clergy abuse crisis: WBUR News. Visiting Assistant Professor of International Studies Mara Willard provides an historical perspective on protests in the Church in an op-ed for The Conversation. Professor of Political Science Peter Skerry writes on the Church and the migrant caravan in an op-ed for The American Interest. Winnowing down the possessions of a lifetime shows what really matters, writes Professor of English Suzanne Matson in an essay on aging for Boston Globe Magazine. Highlights from 2018 The Chicago guitarist and singer-songwriter set the standard for the slow blues in his life as well as in his music, according to Professor of English Carlo Rotella, writing for New York Times Magazine. The discovery of a recent Antarctic ice sheet collapse raises fears of a new global flood. Earth and Environmental Sciences paleoclimatologist Jeremy Shakun comments: Science Magazine, USA Today, International Business Times School of Social Work Assistant Professor Cal Halvorsen offered cautionary advice for starting a business while nearing retirement age. Next Avenue via Forbes BC Law Associate Professor Daniel Lyons comments on the 'ping-pong' cycle outlook for net neutrality in 2019: Bloomberg News. STM Associate Professor Hosffman Ospino discusses the U.S. Church and Hispanic Catholics in a Q&A with Crux.com. Associate Professor of the Practice of Economics Sam Richardson weighs in on the impact of state health care developments in 2018 in an interview with WBUR News. Social Security was devised for an era when the nature of family and employment patterns were totally different. It's time to update, writes Carroll School of Management Drucker Professor Alicia Munnell, director of the Center for Retirement Research, in the Wall Street Journal. BC Law Distinguished Scholar Mary Ann Chirba comments on a federal judge's ruling that the Affordable Care Act is unconstitutional: Boston Globe. America's workers deserve a tax system that creates a level playing field for manufacturing in the U.S., writes BC Law School Kenealy Professor James Repetti in an op-ed for The Hill. U.S. media is often clueless about foreign-language journalism funded by its own government, contends Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences faculty member Martha Bayles, writing in the American Interest. Global climate negotiators have struck a deal that moves forward with plans to curb carbon emissions but falls short of the breakthrough that scientists say is needed. BC Law Professor David Wirth comments in the Washington Post and on NECN 'The Take.' Associate Professor of the Practice of Theology Natana J. Delong-Bas discussed the U.S. relationship with Saudi Arabia: NECN 'The Take.' Professor of History James Cronin weighed in on Brexit and its impact on the U.S. economy: NECN 'The Take.' U.S. media is often clueless about foreign-language journalism funded by its own government, contends Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences faculty member Martha Bayles, writing in the American Interest. Lynch School of Education Assistant Professor Gabrielle Oliveira, author of the new book Motherhood across Borders: Immigrants and Their Children in Mexico and New York, discussed the impact on families when mothers in Mexico leave to work in the U.S.: WNYC Radio The restorative justice movement offers a valuable resource repairing the damage to social trust within the Catholic Church, writes Professor of Theology Stephen Pope in America. Is there objectively 'good' art? Professor of Psychology Ellen Winner, author of the new book How Art Works, weighs in for Australia's ABC Radio. Discussion of the late President George H.W. Bush's politics and public service, and the evolution of the GOP, with Professor of History Heather Cox Richardson on WBUR 'Radio Boston' and School of Social Work Professor of the Practice Tiziana Dearing on NECN 'The Take.' BC Law School Drinan Professor George Brown commented on the lawsuit surrounding President Trump's dealings with foreign governments to Reuters. BC Law Assistant Professor Kari Hong was interviewed regarding a U.S. appeals court ruling against a federal immigration law: Associated Press. Associate Professor of the Practice of Economics Sam Richardson writes on the impact of the merger of Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center and Lahey Health in an op-ed for WBUR CommonHealth; he also commented in the Boston Globe. The multi-media showcase of the work of artist Carrie Mae Weems at the McMullen Museum of Art is deemed 'a must see exhibition' and 'a vital lens on our times' in a segment that features an interview with co-curator and Professor of English Robin Lydenberg: WGBH News. Alaska lies in an area prone to powerful earthquakes, said Weston Observatory geophysicist John Ebel of the Department of Earth and Environmental Sciences, discussing the 7.0-magnitude quake that struck the Anchorage area. Boston Globe American society place little market value on caregiving as far as Social Security benefits are concerned, according to a survey by Center for Retirement Research Director Alicia Munnell and Associate Director Andrew Eschtruth: New York Times. BC Law School Professor Ray Madoff writes on the acting U.S. attorney general and donor-advised funds in an op-ed for the Washington Post. In a New York Times essay on caring for her elderly mother, Professor of English Suzanne Matson writes on dementia, helplessness, the body's incessant and inevitable failure, and death itself. An introduction to the Leading Economic Index with Ataman Ozyildirim, director of business cycles and growth research at the Conference Board and faculty member in the M.S. in Applied Economics program of the Woods College of Advancing Studies: NPR 'Planet Money.' Why does it matter that Americans read more poetry now? Insights from Associate Professor of English Eric Weiskott in an op-ed for Inside Higher Ed. Math must now be as much of a priority as literature has been, writes Lynch School of Education Research Professor Emeritus Andy Hargreaves, co-author of an op-ed in The Conversation. The election of Jair Bolsonaro as president of Brazil capped one of the most polarizing and violent campaigns in the country's history. BC Law Associate Professor Paulo Barrozo comments in Our Sunday Visitor. Law Professor Kent Greenfield discussed constitutional rights for corporations, the subject of his new book, on Bloomberg Radio and WBUR 'Radio Boston.' Math must now be as much of a priority as literature has been, writes Lynch School of Education Research Professor Emeritus Andy Hargreaves, co-author of an op-ed in The Conversation. BC Law School Assistant Professor Daniel Farbman addressed the lawsuit filed by CNN against the Trump Administration on NECN 'The Take.' Entrepreneurship is a high-risk, high-reward endeavor, and those approaching retirement age need to weigh these two elements carefully, writes BC School of Social Work Assistant Professor Cal Halvorsen in Fast Company. The upside to the debate about mandatory nurse staffing ratios in Mass. hospitals is that it has served as a clarion call for change, writes Connell School of Nursing Carroll Professor Judith Vessey in the Journal of Advanced Nursing. Professor of History Heather Cox Richardson weighs in on the gains by Democrats and the effects of gerrymandering in an op-ed for the U.K.'s Guardian. Bank of America President and CEO Brian Moynihan addressed the latest gathering of the Boston College Chief Executives Club. Sampling of coverage: Boston Business Journal, Boston Herald, Bloomberg News, Bloomberg TV (video) | Bloomberg Baystate Business' live radio coverage of the event includes interviews with Global Leadership Institute Executive Director Robert Mauro and Carroll School of Management Professor of Finance Ronnie Sadka: Listen. Prior to the Patriots' defeat of Packers on Nov. 4, scholars from Massachusetts and Wisconsin were asked to use hard statistical data to determine a winner in the Tom Brady vs. Aaron Rodgers debate. Associate Professor of the Practice of Economics Sam Richardson put his stats to work for team Brady during the pre-game show on NBC Sports. BC Law School Assistant Professor Hiba Hafiz weighed in on the NLRB 'joint employer' plan for Bloomberg News. Associate Professor of David Hopkins, who provided live election commentary on Bloomberg Radio News, had discussed the midterms in advance of election day on Irish national broadcaster RTE (scroll down to view video). Whether the deciding vote on Question 1 is NO or YES, nursing's authority in determining how best to meet patient care needs will still be constrained, writes Judith A. Vessey, a hospital-based nurse scientist and the Leila Holden Carroll Professor at the Connell School of Nursing. More Corporate personhood is on the Mass. ballot this year: Question 2 calls for the creation of an unpaid citizen commission to draft a U.S. constitutional amendment to overturn Citizens United. BC Law School Professor Kent Greenfield weighs in: Boston Globe 'Ideas.' Professor of History Heather Cox Richardson discussed voter fraud, recent modern history of voter suppression, and messages on national unity on NECN 'The Take.' | Audio of her recent speaking engagement on the history of the GOP is available courtesy of Minnesota Public Radio, and both she and BC Law School Assistant Professor Kari Hong joined a panel discussing President Trump's responses to birthright citizenship and the migrant caravan on WGBH 'Greater Boston.' Air pollution, climate change, and non-communicable diseases are three linked threats to planetary health that share common origins and joint solutions. It's time to work together to address them, writes Professor of Biology Philip Landrigan, director of BC's Global Observatory on Pollution and Health, in The Lancet. 'Voter fraud' is a myth that helps Republicans win, even when their policies aren't popular, contends Professor of History Heather Cox Richardson in an op-ed for Boston Globe 'Ideas.' A central phenomenon of the 2018 election: a record-setting gender gap. Comments by Moakley Professor of Political Science Kay Schlozman are cited by a columnist for the New York Times. It was the world's biggest lottery jackpot—only it wasn't. Carroll School Associate Professor of the Practice of Finance Richard McGowan, S.J., comments for the Associated Press. Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences faculty member Martha Bayles writes on American society, political rhetoric, and populist culture in an essay for The American Interest. Connell School of Nursing Associate Professor Judith Shindul-Rothschild provides commentary on Mass. Ballot Question 1, regarding nurse-patient ratios in Mass. hospitals, on WGBH 'Greater Boston,' WBUR News, CommonWealth magazine, and as co-author of an op-ed in the Boston Globe. It was the world's biggest lottery jackpot—only it wasn't. Carroll School Associate Professor of the Practice of Finance Richard McGowan, S.J., comments for the Associated Press. Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences faculty member Martha Bayles writes on American society, political rhetoric, and populist culture in an essay for The American Interest. The approaching caravan of thousands, largely from Central America, has reignited the U.S. immigration debate. Professor of Theology Kristin Heyer discussed the subject through the eyes of Catholic social teaching in an interview with America; BC School of Social Work Associate Professor of the Practice Westy Egmont, director of the school's Immigrant Integration Lab, weighed in on NECN 'The Take.' BC Law Professor Ray Madoff talked about estate and inheritance tax laws live on C-SPAN "Washington Journal" (segment begins at 11:00). Murray and Monti Professor of Economics Peter Ireland and Associate Professor of Economics Robert Murphy weighed in on the U.S. labor market and economic outlook for Fortune and CNN Business, respectively; Murphy also addressed considerations for students beginning a credit history in a Q&A with WalletHub.com. The Connell School of Nursing's End of Life Simulation program--which prepares students to face the needs of dying patients and their families--is highlighted by longtime registered nurse Rosemary Phalen '78 in a letter to the Boston Globe. As the Catholic Church changes, Latino lay men and women are taking leadership roles. School of Theology and Ministry Associate Professor Hosffman Ospino comments in U.S. Catholic and National Catholic Reporter. Philip Altbach, founding director of the Center for International Higher Education, assesses India's strategies for transforming its universities in an op-ed for Times Higher Education. Visitors to Boston's Old Corner Bookstore, which has four eateries on its ground floor, would never guess that it nurtured American literature, writes Professor of English Paul Lewis, who advocates repurposing the site as a literary museum in an op-ed for the Boston Globe Magazine. The measure of a well-functioning democracy is a tax system that fairly apportions its burdens, writes BC Law Professor Ray Madoff in an op-ed for the New York Times. She also spoke on philanthropy and donor-advised funds with 'Bloomberg Markets: The Close,' The Atlantic, and NECN 'The Take.' Joseph Professor of Catholic Systematic Theology Richard Gaillardetz discussed changes in the Catholic Church, including the resignation of Cardinal Wuerl, in an interview with CBS Boston. Associate Professor of Economics Robert Murphy weighed in on the pros and cons of secured and unsecured credit cards for people with bad credit in a Q&A with WalletHub.com. Associate Professor of the Practice of Theology Natana Delong-Bas, a faculty member in Islamic Civilization and Societies, discussed the disappearance of Saudi journalist and Washington Post columnist Jamal Khashoggi and the relationship between the U.S. and Saudi Arabia, in an interview with NECN 'The Take.' The English and Americans both approach Islam differently. Professor of Political Science Jonathan Laurence addresses the distinction in The Economist. Digital tools help ensure the academic success of students who are first in their families to go to college, write Lynch School of Education Professor Ana M. Martinez Alemán and Associate Professor Heather Rowan-Kenyon and Ph.D. alumna Mandy Savitz-Romer, co-authors of an op-ed for Inside Higher Ed. With U.S. Supreme Court Justice Brett Kavanaugh now confirmed, BC Law Assistant Professor Kari Hong is among experts asked to comment on pending cases in light of the new composition of the panel: Boston Globe. Connell School of Nursing Associate Professor Judith Shindul-Rothschild, former president of the Massachusetts Nurses Association, discussed her stance on Ballot Question 1 as a guest on NECN 'The Take.' When and how will Catholic school school faculties begin to reflect changing student demographics? School of Theology and Ministry Associate Professor Hosffman Ospino, Roche Center for Catholic Education Executive Director Patricia Weitzel-O'Neill, co-directors of the 2016 report "Catholic Schools in an Increasingly Hispanic Church," and Roche Center Director for Professional Development Kristin Melley comment in America. The also is cited in a related America editorial. In an op-ed for the New York Times, Professor of Biology Philip Landrigan, director of BC's new Global Public Health Initiative, outlines concerns about the E.P.A. sidelining its top children's health advocate. The appearance by Visa, Inc. CEO Alfred F. Kelly, Jr., at the Boston College Chief Executives Club, was highlighted on Bloomberg Baystate Business in a segment that included interviews with CEO Club Executive Director Warren Zola, Shea Center for Entrepreneurship Director Jere Doyle, and Carroll School Associate Professor of Operations Management Joy Field. Bloomberg Radio | Watch the full event on NECN. What would the Supreme Court be like if Brett Kavanaugh is confirmed? BC Law Professor Kent Greenfield weighs in on NECN 'The Take.' There is nothing wrong about the current conception of human rights that cannot be cured by the best elements of America's own tradition, writes Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences faculty member Martha Bayles for The American Interest. What happens to innocent people who are freed after years in prison following wrongful conviction? BC Law School Professor Sharon Beckman, faculty director of the Boston College Innocence Project, discussed the challenges they face: WGBH News. School of Theology and Ministry Associate Professor Hosffman Ospino, who was among the architects of the nationwide consultations with the U.S. Hispanic Catholic community that culminated at the national V Encuentro, wrote on the gathering for Catholic News Service. His comments also were featured by Catholic News Service, National Catholic Reporter, The Tablet, Aleteia (Spain), Vatican News, and Crux.com. Earth and Environment Sciences Professor John Ebel, senior scientist at BC's Weston Observatory, discussed a 1.7-magnitude earthquake that shook Nashua, N.H., with the Boston Globe and Union-Leader. The success of this pontificate likely represents the last, best chance for decades to come for the decisive realization of the vision of Vatican II, writes Joseph Professor of Catholic Systematic Theology Richard Gaillardetz in the U.K.'s The Tablet (free registration required). The roots of the Vatican-China agreement can be traced to Napoleon, writes Gasson Professor Jeffrey von Arx, S.J., in an essay for America. Libby Professor of Theology and Law Cathleen Kaveny reflects on the modern role of Catholic moral theologians in light of presentations at the recent Catholic Theological Ethics in the World Church conference in Sarajevo, which was co-organized by BC faculty: Commonweal. The world's richest man has announced plans for philanthropic organizations to support homeless families and preschools for low-income communities. Law Professor Ray Madoff weighs in for the Washington Post The issue of delayed reporting is in the news in relation to the assault allegation against U.S. Supreme Court nominee Brett Kavanaugh. BC School of Social Work Assistant Professor Jessica Shaw, a community psychologist, discusses the factors that may keep a victim from coming forward: Washington Post. An extraordinary number of women are running for office in Massachusetts and across the country. Associate Professor of Political Science David Hopkins is among panelists discussing the phenomenon on WBUR "Radio Boston." Assistant Professor of Communication Michael Serazio comments on branding, corporate social responsibility, and consumer expectations in the U.K.'s Guardian. The John F. Kennedy Presidential Library and Museum has digitized 1,700 vintage Kennedy family snapshots, all now viewable online. Professor of History Patrick Maney comments: AP via Boston Globe, USA Today Turkey's central bank has sharply raised interest rates in an attempt to counter the country's economic problems. Professor of the Practice of Economics Can Erbil discussed the move in the Wall Street Journal. Professor of Psychology Ellen Winner's forthcoming book, How Art Works, is deemed exhilarating and exciting by a reviewer for The New Yorker. O'Neill Professor of American Politics R. Shep Melnick, discussed his National Affairs essay 'The Strange Evolution of Title IX', as part of CSPAN's 'Washington Journal.' A new project called 'Let Grow' advances the benefits of allowing kids independence, free time, and self-directed play. Psychology Research Professor Peter Gray, a longtime advocate of "free play" for children, weighs in for WGBH News. His comments also are cited in an op-ed on the importance of teaching today's children to shape a better political climate in the future: New York Times. The New York Times anonymous op-ed on the Trump Administration was the subject of conversation among panelists including Professor of History Heather Cox Richardson on WBUR 'On Point.' Associate Professor of Political Science David Hopkins is quoted on topics related to the Mass. primary election: Boston Globe, Boston Herald, Bloomberg News, Lowell Sun. He discussed Ayanna Pressley's primary victory in the state's 7th Congressional District with WHDH News. Law School Professor Kent Greenfield clarifies the impeachment process and discusses whether a president can be criminally indicted: BBC. Rates of sexually transmitted diseases are at an all-time high in the U.S., according to new CDC data. Connell School of Nursing Clinical Instructor Alison Marshall addresses some of the issues behind the troubling statistics: Time. While there's no dating script these days, both men and women are often uncomfortable when a women offers to pay. Lonergan Institute Associate Director Kerry Cronin, whose extra credit dating assignment for students has garnered national attention, comments in the Wall Street Journal. Boston Cardinal Sean O'Malley met with some 600 priests from the archdiocese amid growing scandals within the Catholic Church. School of Social Work Professor for Macro Practice Tiziana Dearing weighed in on the meeting and wider issues regarding clergy abuse: WBUR 'Radio Boston,' NECN 'The Take' | Ahead of Pope Francis' visit to Ireland, Professor of the Practice of History Robert Savage commented on the differences in Ireland since the last papal visit in 1979. Washington Post | School of Theology and Ministry Professor Thomas Groome and Associate Professor of Theology Rev. James Weiss were among scholars asked to comment on a letter released by former Holy See diplomat Archbishop Carlo Maria Vigano for the Boston Herald. Professor Hosffman Ospino and Associate Professor of the Practice Rafael Luciani write on Medellín, the first and perhaps one of the most successful exercises of appropriation of the Second Vatican Council at the continental level, for America. In addition, Ospino commented on how Hispanic Catholics have reacted to reports of abuse in the Church: America. Saudi Arabia and its allies in the Persian Gulf continue to attack Yemen, including an attack in which nearly four dozen school children were killed. School of Social Work Associate Professor of the Practice Westy Egmont comments on the growing humanitarian crisis. NECN 'The Take' Will the tight labor market finally boost prospects for workers in their 50s and 60s, many of whom lost jobs at the peak of their careers during the economic downturn? Associate Professor of the Practice of Economics Matthew Rutledge, a researcher with the Center for Retirement Research, comments for the Boston Globe. Regardless of how large the justices loom over American life, nothing in the Constitution mandates that there be nine of them, writes Founders Professor of Law Mary Sarah Bilder in the Boston Globe. Professor of History Patrick Maney weighs in on what the Manafort and Cohen court cases could mean for the Trump presidency as a guest on NPR's All Things Considered. School of Theology and Ministry Professor Richard Lennan discussed the planned 2020 Plenary Council for the Catholic Church of Australia with ABC Radio (Australia)'s "Religion and Ethics Report." School of Social Work Associate Professor Tom Crea talked about how social workers can help migrant children separated from their parents deal with trauma on KJZZ Radio "The Show." Professor of the Practice of Economics Can Erbil addresses what led to the crisis and where the country's economy can go from here, as co-author of an analysis in The Conversation. The Democrats are reclaiming language they ceded to the GOP decades ago--and are putting a liberal spin on it, writes Professor of History Heather Cox Richardson in The New Republic. School of Theology and Ministry Professor Thomas Groome comments on a letter by Pope Francis to the church's 1.2 billion followers condemning the sexual abuse of children by Roman Catholic clergy. WBUR 'On Point' | The Boston Globe | Boston Herald The Catholic world is watching as the church in Australia moves towards the Plenary Council 2020, according to Joseph Professor of Catholic Systematic Theology Richard Gaillardetz, speaking with Australia's Catholic Leader. He also discussed calls for change in the church in a radio interview via the Australian Broadcasting Corporation. Professor of the Practice of Economics Can Erbil addresses what led to the crisis and where the country's economy can go from here, as co-author of an analysis in The Conversation. 5.2 million people crammed into Boston? That was a prediction made in 1900 about what the city would be like a century later. Professor of History Marilynn Johnson weighs in: Boston Globe. Aretha Franklin was a bridge between religion, pop culture, and civil rights, Associate Professor of Sociology C. Shawn McGuffey, director of African and African Diaspora Studies, tells the Boston Herald. The sudden rise in nationalism and populism in many countries has implications for higher education, write Hans de Wit and Philip Altbach of the Lynch School's Center for International Higher Education. Inside Higher Ed The U.S. is seeing an influx of high-tech toilets, already popular abroad. Will consumers buy them? Carroll School of Management Associate Professor of Management and Organization Mary Tripsas weighs in on the challenges for U.S. News & World Report. Martha Baylesof theMorrissey College of Arts and Sciences writes on Nigeria's new media in an op-ed for The American Interest. Controversial donor-advised funds are a draw for gifts of cash, stock, real estate, art, and even cryptocurrencies. BC Law Professor Ray Madoff comments in the New York Times and San Francisco Chronicle. The moral and ethical obtuseness on display at the border is the product of a long and complex history, writes Professor of Political Science Peter Skerry in The American Interest Can the party's unruly coalition take shape against Trump without one wing predominating? Associate Professor of Political Science David Hopkins is quoted by the New York Times. Fringe conspiracies are going mainstream with followers of the mysterious internet persona QAnon now showing up at Trump rallies. Is the group a curiosity or a threat? Assistant Professor of Communication Michael Serazio joined the discussion on WGBH 'Greater Boston.' At a first-of-its-kind meeting of nearly 500 moral theologians and ethicists in Sarajevo, co-organized by Canisius Professor James Keenan, S.J., Pope Francis in a letter praised the event's focus on discerning how academics can better respond to the shifting global geopolitical environment. National Catholic Reporter 1; National Catholic Reporter 2 | Fr. Keenan was interviewed by N1, a CNN affiliate in Bosnia, and he wrote about the genesis of the conference for Chicago Catholic. | Other coverage of the event ranged from Catholic News Service and America to the magazine of the Instituto Humanitas Unisinos in Brazil. Title IX has become a major factor in America's culture wars. O'Neill Professor of American Politics R.Shep Melnick, author of a new book on the subject, explains why on WBUR 'Radio Boston.'What's driving second-quarter economic growth, and can it be sustained? Associate Professor of Economics Robert Murphy talks to Marketplace Radio and CBS MoneyWatch. Associate Professor of French and African and African Diaspora Studies Régine Michelle Jean-Charles weighs in on national identity and the World Cup in a piece for WBUR 'Cognoscenti.' About 56 percent of crypto startups that raise money through token sales die within four months of their ICOs, according to a study by Carroll School of Management Assistant Professor of Finance Leonard Kostovetsky and doctoral candidate Hugo Benedetti. Bloomberg News, Wall Street Journal, Yahoo! Finance, Business Insider Australia Drew Hession-Kunz, a senior lecturer in finance at the Carroll School of Management, discusses the overall climate for new businesses, and the state-level tax, policy, and economic factors that promote them, in a Q&A with WalletHub.com. Center for International Higher Education Director Hans de Wit writes on the evolution of international student flows over the past decade, and assesses important trends, in a piece for University World News. Why do kids fear monsters under the bed? It likely has roots deep in human evolution, says Psychology Research Professor Peter Gray in an interview with Fatherly. American history demonstrates that party conflict does not necessarily hurt electoral success, according to Associate Professor of Political Science David Hopkins, co-author of an op-ed in the New York Times. | President Trump's nomination of Brett Kavanaugh to the Supreme Court and his meeting with Vladimir Putin are connected, and one cannot understand one without the other, writes BC Law Professor Kent Greenfield: WBUR "Cognoscenti." | Has the Great Experiment failed? Professor of History Heather Cox Richardson explores the question in an op-ed for CNN.com. MGM Resorts International plans to sue hundreds of victims of last year's mass shooting in Las Vegas using an obscure U.S. law never tested in court. BC Law Professor Alfred Yen is quoted by the Associated Press, here via the New York Times; Carroll School of Management Associate Professor of the Practice of Finance Richard McGowan, S.J., by the Boston Herald. Authorities detected asbestos in steam pouring from the pipe that ruptured in Manhattan's Flatiron district raises concerns about a substance that can cause a number of severe health problems. Dr. Philip J. Landrigan '63, a global leader in public health and preventive medicine, comments in the New York Times. Nearly 500 moral theologians and ethicists from 80 countries will gather in Sarajevo at the end of July for a first-of-its-kind meeting on responses to the shifting global geopolitical environment, as well as to iissues such as climate change and migration. Canisius Professor James Keenan, S.J., director of the Jesuit Institute, is among three co-organizers of the event. National Catholic Reporter About 56 percent of crypto startups that raise money through token sales die within four months of their initial coin offerings, according to a study by Carroll School of Management Assistant Professor of Finance Leonard Kostovetsky and doctoral candidate Hugo Benedetti. Bloomberg News, Wall Street Journal, Yahoo! Finance, Business Insider Australia Drew Hession-Kunz, a senior lecturer in finance at the Carroll School of Management, discusses the overall climate for new businesses, and the state-level tax, policy, and economic factors that promote them, in a Q&A with WalletHub.com. Center for International Higher Education Director Hans de Wit writes on the evolution of international student flows over the past decade, and assesses important trends, in a piece for University World News. It's an oddly universal fear--and it likely has its roots deep in human evolution, says Psychology Research Professor Peter Gray in an interview with Fatherly. What's next for psychology? Lynch School of Education Augustus Long Professor Janet E. Helms is among influential psychologists asked to identify critical questions the discipline must answer: APA Monitor on Psychology. Immigrant children separated from their parents at the border will need help coping with trauma, write BC School of Social Work Associate Professor Thomas Crea and colleagues: Village Voice. China is less dependent on the American market than it was even a decade ago and in some ways is better able to withstand a trade war. Professor of Political Science Robert Ross comments on NPR 'Morning Edition.' What are the pros and cons of credit card rewards? Carroll School of Management Associate Professor of Marketing John Fisher discussed them with WallletHub.com. The National Fifth Encuentro highlights the need to strengthen outreach to Hispanic youth and young adults. School of Theology and Ministry Associate Professor Hosffman Ospino, a member of the V Encuentro leadership team, discussed the need with Catholic News Service. BC Law School Professor Kent Greenfield weighed in on President Trump's nomination of federal appeals court judge Brett Kavanaugh to the U.S. Supreme Court: Marketplace Radio; Libby Professor of Theology and Law Cathleen Kaveny comments in National Catholic Reporter. Law Assistant Professor Kari Hong discussed the politicization of the nomination process with NBC Boston. BC School of Social Work Professor of the Practice Tiziana Dearing discussed immigration, affirmative Action, and pay equity issues in the news on WBUR 'Radio Boston.' Key considerations for launching an online education program are outlined by Aleksandar Tomic, associate dean for strategy, innovation, and technology at the Woods College of Advancing Studies: Evolllution The encyclical Humanae Vitae, issued 50 years ago this summer by Pope Paul VI. marked a turning point in the way Catholics view the teachings of the Church. Professor of Theology Mark Massa, S.J., director of the Boisi Center for Religion and American Public Life and author of The American Catholic Revolution: How the '60s Changed the Church Forever, comments for NPR. Amid calls for the elimination of U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, or ICE, the White House is ratcheting up its defense of the agency. BC Law School Assistant Professor Kari Hong discussed the debate in an Q&A with CNN.com. The Indian government hopes to attract 200,000 international students to the country's campuses by 2023. Lynch School of Education Professor Hans de Wit, director of Center for International Higher Education, is co-author of a perspective on the initiative: Inside Higher Ed | | Are Indian universities awakening to the challenges of the 21st century? CIHE founding director Philip Altbach weighs in for The Hindu. Offering a Middle East and North Africa identifier in federal statistics could improve understanding of disease risk and prevention, writes Connell School of Nursing Assistant Professor Nadia N. Abuelezam, co-author of a piece for Public Health Post. Amazon's acquistion of online pharmacy PillPack, which delivers medications to customers in 49 states, could decrease prices, but also raises privacy concerns. Economics Associate Professor of the Practice Sam Richardson commented on NBC 'Nightly News.' Federal regulators are exploring the conspicuous absence of the numeral '4' in quarterly reports, prompted by the release of a paper co-written by Carrol School of Management Associate Professor of Finance and Giuriceo Family Faculty Fellow Nadya Malenko that found evidence of companies nudging up earnings results. Wall Street Journal Historic battles between business and ordinary people have played out in America's top court before. Now, it is happening again, writes Professor of History Heather Cox Richardson. The Guardian (U.K.) With Justice Anthony Kennedy announcing his retirement, President Trump has a second chance to reshape the U. S. Supreme Court. Law School Professor Kent Greenfield is co-author of an op-ed on the subject in the New York Times, and discussed it on WGBH 'Greater Boston.' BC's Law's Kari Hong suggests a nominee to fill the vacancy, writing for WBUR 'Cognoscenti,' Cut Time, an immersion in the boxing world by Professor of English and director of American Studies Carlo Rotella, is named one of the five best sports books of all time by the author of The Existentialist's Survival Guide, writing in the Wall Street Journal. Monan Professor of Theology Lisa Cahill leads a video report on the 24th general assembly of the Pontifical Academy for Life, held at the Vatican on the theme of human ecology. Catholic News Service President Trump has referred to 'the deal of the century' when it comes to Middle East peace talks between the Israelis and the Palestinians. Associate Professor of Political Science Peter Krause addressed the topic on NECN "The Take." In Trump v. Hawaii, the U.S. Supreme Court ruled to uphold the travel ban. BC Law School Professor Kent Greenfield discussed the ruling on NECN 'The Take,' and Assistant Professor Kari Hong did so on WBUR "Radio Boston." More than 40 percent of households headed by people aged 55 through 70 lack sufficient resources to maintain their living standard in retirement, according to a Wall Street Journal analysis based on data provided by BC's Center for Retirement Research. Theresa Betancourt , the inaugural Salem Professor in Global Practice at BC School of Social Work, discussed the immediate and long term effects the family separation policy could have on immigrant children: NECN 'The Take.' The U.S. should grant asylum to families separated and those wrongfully prosecuted, writes Law School Assistant Professor Kari Hong: Huffington Post. | She also discussed the U.S. Supreme Court's decision to uphold the Trump travel ban case on WBUR 'Radio Boston.' On her way to visit detention facilities in Texas, Melania Trump wore a green jacket that read 'I really don't care, do U?' on the back. BC School of Social Work Professor of the Practice Tiziana Dearing weighed in on the choice for WBUR 'Cognoscenti.' Some 36 percent of all American Catholic parishes are now designated as bicultural. School of Theology and Ministry Associate Professor Hosffman Ospino discussed ways to build multicultural community in National Catholic Reporter. Center for Work and Family Executive Director Brad Harrington discussed contemporary fatherhood and millennial stay-at-home dads in a Father's Day interview for NPR's 'All Things Considered.' Two hundred women who spent time in one of the Magdalene institutions gathered for the first time at a Dublin Honours Magdalenes event. Associate Professor of English James Smith wrote on the occasion for the Irish Times and Irish Examiner, and discussed it on RTE Radio. Reactions to President Trump's meeting with North Korean leader Kim Jong Un from Professor of Political Science Robert Ross in the Boston Globe and Korea Foundation Visiting Assistant Professor of History and International Studies Ingu Hwang on NECN 'The Take.' AT&T's $85 billion purchase of Time Warner has won approval. Law School Associate Professor Daniel Lyons weighs in for CBS News, Boston Herald. He also commented on the impact of the end of net neutrality: Money. The constitutional question is settled in Ireland, in that abortion is no longer a matter of constitutional law. But the discussion of other questions, both legal and moral, is just beginning to open up, writes Libby Professor of Theology and Law Cathleen Kaveny in Commonweal. Today's young adults are falling behind in preparing for retirement—but there's a way they can catch up, writes Carroll School of Management Drucker Professor Alicia Munnell, director of the Center for Retirement Research, in Politico. A report on vulnerabilities of older inmates in the Massachusetts prison system includes commentary by Law Professor R. Michael Cassidy: WGBH News. Seniors are paying more for name-brand drugs, while getting fewer of them, according to a government report. Economics Associate Professor of the Practice Sam Richardson weighs in for NBCNews.com. This year marks the 50th anniversary of the May 1968 uprising of students and workers in France. Associate Professor of History Julian Bourg writes on its significance for Times Higher Education and PublicBooks.org, and comments in Smithsonian Magazine, New Internationalist, Gazeta do Povo (Brazil), La Revista (Ecuador), and Przegląd Dziennikarski (Poland). Countrywide Financial became an unstoppable mortgage machine that made it easy--too easy--for millions to own a home. Liberty Mutual Insurance Professor of Law Patricia McCoy, co-author of the book The Subprime Virus, comments for CNN Money. One area where Pope Francis has begun to advance Catholic teaching rather remarkably is health care, writes Canisius Professor of Theology James Keenan, S.J., in an op-ed for America. Could the actions of a rogue FBI agent derail the NCAA corruption probe? Law School Professor Michael Cassidy weighs in for Sports Illustrated. Carroll School of Management Assistant Dean Amy Donegan offers advice for students on choosing and landing summer jobs and internships in a Q&A with WalletHub.com. As an Australian scientist's decision to end his life renews debate over the 'right to die' at will, Walsh Professor of Bioethics John Paris, S.J., expresses concern over an approach that emphasizes human sovereignty: Vox.com Just as the wealth and income gap between the well-to-do and working people is growing, so is retirement inequality, according to a post by the Center for Retirement Research 'Squared Away' blog, highlighted by the Los Angeles Times. What does the Supreme Court decision on sports betting mean for Massachusetts? The Carroll School's Richard McGowan, S.J., talks about it on WBUR-News. A fast-growing type of charitable account gets big tax breaks but little oversight. Law School Professor Ray Madoff discusses donor-advised funds: The Atlantic The Iran deal is out, North Korean prisoners are home. Should President Trump's detractors yield some credit? Professor of History Heather Cox Richardson was among guests discussing the topic on WGBH-TV "Greater Boston." Jailhouse informants often lie, says BC Law Professor Bob Bloom in testimony at a Connecticut murder trial. New Haven Register. The fight over net neutrality returns as supporters launch a bid to resurrect the rules. Law Associate Professor Daniel Lyons comments in the Los Angeles Times. Constituents in gerrymandered political districts are more likely to lose economic security, according to a report by an international team of researchers including Carroll School of Management Assistant Professor of Finance Rawley Heimer. He discussed the findings on NPR 'Morning Edition' The Chief Executives Club of Boston College, which this year marks two decades of hosting some of the biggest names in business, is featured by NECN. The Mass. State Lottery seeks to stop making massive payouts to frequent winners. Carroll School of Management Associate Professor of the Practice of Finance Richard McGowan, S.J., discussed the subject with WBUR News. A new book has emerged from the landmark conference that brought U.S. bishops and theologians to campus to discuss Amoris Laetitia. The volume, co-edited by Canisius Professor James Keenan, S.J., an organizer of the event, is featured by National Catholic Reporter. Lonergan Institute Associate Director Kerry Cronin discusses the nationwide screening of 'The Dating Project,' a documentary film based on an assignment in her popular philosophy course: Chronicle of Higher Education, America The killing of a Yarmouth Police officer has renewed statewide debate over capital punishment for cop killers. Law School Assistant Professor Kari Hong discussed the subject on WGBH "Greater Boston." Why is there no 'liberal Tea Party'? An op-ed co-authored by Associate Professor of Political Science David Hopkins: New York Times. Associate Professor of Theology James Weiss was interviewed for several installments of CNN's six-week series "The Pope: The Most Powerful Man in History." For a sampling, view the trailers for the segment on Pope Benedict IX during the Middle Ages and on the resignation of Pope Benedict XVI. School of Social Work Professor of Macro Practice Tiziana Dearing discussed how Catholic innovation is helping migrants in an interview with NECN 'The Take.' Carroll School of Management Associate Professor of the Practice of Finance Richard McGowan, S.J., weighed in on the prospect of Wynn Resorts selling its partially-built casino in Everett, Mass. to MGM on NPR's 'All Things Considered.' Initiatives that place Boston College Dining Services at the frontier of colleges and universities amping up convenience for students are highlighted by the Boston Globe. Small business hiring is reportedly up, but it's also harder to find people to fill the jobs. Associate Professor of Economics Robert Murphy weighed in on the findings for Marketplace Radio. Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences faculty member Martha Bayles writes on how the "Xi change" under China's president Xi Jinping is causing 'an invisible earthquake': The American Interest. School of Theology and Ministry Professor James Bretzke, S.J., discussed Pope Francis' exhortation Gaudete et Exsultate with the Washington Post. The document is deeply Ignatian, writes Theology Associate Professor Emeritus Rev. Robert Imbelli in an essay for America. Associate Professor of Communication Ashley Duggan commented on the impact of big races on neighborhoods and other aspects of the Boston Marathon for WalletHub.com. As President Trump directs National Guard troops to the U.S. southern border, Professor of History Heather Cox Richardson discussed an 1878 act that limits the role of the military on U.S. soil: WBUR 'Radio Boston.' One-third of college students worldwide now attend private schools. Lynch School of Education Research Professor Philip Altbach discussed the development with Voice of America. Recruitment and retention of teachers of color is a statewide issue in Massachusetts. Lynch School of Education Director of Urban Outreach Initiatives Catherine Wong, says the school has partnerships in place to help young teachers make it through the pipeline: WBUR News Why do school-age Catholic Latino children remain underrepresented in U.S. Catholic schools? School of Theology and Ministry Associate Professor Hosffman Ospino comments in America. As the probe into Wynn Resorts' finances continues, Carroll School of Management Associate Professor of the Practice of Finance Richard McGowan, S.J., discussed the status of the company's casino in Everett with the Boston Globe, and the hiring of an outside firm for the investigation with the Boston Herald. Scrutiny of President Trump's finances is increasing as three different legal teams with different agendas attempt to look at the books. Drinan Professor of Law George Brown comments in the Washington Post. Talk of new border legislation is raising DACA concerns. Law School Assistant Professor Kari Hong responds on NBC10. How well do taxpayer dollars turn into government services? Carroll School Associate Professor of Accounting Gil Manzon weighs in for WalletHub.com. Assistant Professor of Communication Michael Serazio comments on the brand boycott facing Fox News' Laura Ingraham: Boston Herald. Internationalization perceived solely in terms of mobility across borders ignores the fact that most students and faculty will not have an opportunity to travel, writes Center for International Higher Education Director Hans de Wit for University World News. According to School of Theology and Ministry Associate Professor Hosffman Ospino, who is deeply involved in the Fifth National Encuentro for Hispanic Ministry, the nation must harness the potential of Hispanic Catholics or risk losing the future of the U.S. Church. Crux.com | He writes on the prospect of an Hispanic U.S. cardinal in his column for Catholic News Service Professor of History Kevin Kenny discussed the 19th-century Irish secret society the Molly Maguires as part of a St. Patrick's Day exploration of Irish American culture and identity on Backstory (segment runs from 8:00-21:00). BC Ireland Academic Director Mike Cronin commented on the celebration of St. Patrck's Day in the U.S. for Voice of America and U.S. News & World Report. Older adults who are socially isolated may not necessarily seek medical attention more often than their more socially connected peers, a research review suggests. BC School of Social Work Assistant Professor Christina Matz-Costa, who was not associated with the review, comments on the findings for Reuters. BC School of Social Work Professor of Macro Practice Tiziana Dearing discussed the personality matchup of President Trump and Kim Jong Un on NECN 'The Take.' School of Theology and Ministry Professor James Bretzke, S.J., discussed Pope Francis' papacy five years on, in an interview with Canada's CTV News Channel. What does it mean to give to charity, from a moral and religious perspective? An essay by Libby Professor of Law and Theology Cathleen Kaveny for Commonweal. How to use digital platforms to support diversity? Carroll School of Management Professor of Information Systems Gerald Kane weighs in for Sloan Management Review Risky mortgages are primed for a comeback with the U.S. Senate's latest attempt to roll back key financial reforms, writes Liberty Mutual Insurance Professor of Law Patricia McCoy in an op-ed for American Banker. In punishing Delta for choosing not to associate with the NRA, legislators likely violated the airline's First Amendment rights, according to Law Professor Kent Greenfield, writing for Slate. Forty-seven U.S. Catholic bishops took part in three February seminars--one at Boston College--aimed at helping them better understand and implement Pope Francis' 2016 apostolic exhortation on family life, Amoris Laetitia. Jesuit Institute Director and Canisius Professor of Theology James F. Keenan, S.J., one of the series' organizers, outlines seven takeaways from the seminars in an essay for National Catholic Reporter. The University's Center for Teaching Excellence is among college initiatives that are 'centers of the pedagogical universe,' in a piece that includes comments by CTE Director John Rakestraw. Inside Higher Ed Red and blue states are moving in opposite directions on health policy, leaving Americans with starkly divergent options for care depending on where they live. Economics Associate Professor of the Practice Sam Richardson comments in the Wall Street Journal. Post-crisis theories that survivors or victims made it all up or were part of a troupe of paid 'crisis actors' are not new, says Professor of History Heather Cox Richardson; similar tactics were used in the Civil War-era, she tells the New York Times. Cardinal Robert Sarah, the Vatican's most senior liturgy official, opposes the widely accepted practice of receiving Communion in the hand. School of Theology and Ministry Professor John Baldovin, S.J., comments for America. School of Theology and Ministry Associate Professor Hosffman Ospino writes on the Latino effect of Pope Francis at year five of his pontificate: The Pilot. Associate Professor of French and African and Africa Diaspora Studies Régine Michelle Jean-Charles was among panelists discussing ways to move forward after #MeToo at a WGBH Facebook Live event. Associate Professor of the Practice of Political Science Paul Christensen comments on the upcomng presidential elections in Russia: Huffington Post. BC Law School Assistant Professor Kari Hong discusses the debate over immigration in the U.S. on NECN 'The Take.' Church doctrine must be life-giving, not oppressive, says Joseph Professor of Catholic Systematic Theology Richard Gaillardetz, who discusses challenges facing the Church in a Q&A with Crux.com. AT&T Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Randall Stephenson was the featured speaker at the latest gathering of the Boston College Chief Executives Club. Sampling of coverage: Boston Globe, Boston Herald, Boston Business Journal, Bloomberg Radio (starts at 29:20). A climate project BC faculty members Carling Hay, Jeremy Shakun, David Deese, and Donnah Canavan were among experts in various disciplines interviewed about New England's changing climate on NBC Boston. How rich are the rich? It's not about a single year of earnings but rather about the accumulation of wealth over time, writes Carroll School of Management Associate Professor of Accounting Gil Manzon, who looks at U.S. wealth inequality in an op-ed for 'The Conversation.' The Dow plunge There is no one glaring reason why the Dow took that sudden downturn on Feb. 5, Carroll School of Management Cleary Professor of Finance Jeffrey Pontiff told the Boston Herald. 'Chain migration' The term is too valuable to be politicized, writes Associate Professor of History Arissa Oh in the Washington Post. Immigration reform Much changed for immigrants in the U.S. following a reform law enacted in 1996; Law School Assistant Professor Kari Hong argues for its repeal in the Huffington Post. Transition at the Fed Murray and Monti Professor of Economics Peter Ireland commented on the transition of leadership at the Federal Reserve for CNBC. Tax reform and charities In the Wall Street Journal, Law School Professor Ray Madoff weighed in on the effect of the tax reform bill on charities and donor-advised funds. Credit scores; credit cards for business The Philip E. Strahan and Drew Hession-Kunz of the Carroll School of Management Finance Department respectively addressed these subjects for WalletHub.com. The future of the NFL Business Law faculty member Warren K. Zola commented on economic issues facing the NFL for WalletHub.com and in an interview on NECN, at the link above Casinos amd Wynn investigation The Mass. Gaming Commission is investigating the sexual misconduct charges against Steve Wynn, owner of a $2-billion casino resort under construction in Everett. The Carroll School of Management's Richard McGowan, S.J., commented to WBUR 'Morning Edition,' at the link above, as well as to AP and NBC Boston, among other media. Hispanic children in Catholic schools In a column for Catholic News Service, School of Theology and Ministry Associate Professor Hosffman Ospino writes on the imperative of educating Hispanic children in Catholic schools. The state of the governor BC School of Social Work's Tiziana Dearing discussed the administration of Massachusetts Governor Charlier Baker on WBUR 'Radio Boston.' Dilemmas for higher ed The political currents of the past year will continue to have an impact on higher education in 2018 and beyond, writes Lynch School of Education Research Professor Philip Altbach for University World News. Brady body language On NBC Boston, psychologist Joseph Tecce analyzed Patriots QB Tom Brady's body language in discussing whether he'd be sidelined with a hand injury. Trump and immigration African and African Diaspora Studies faculty react to President Trump's reported use of vulgar language with regard to Haiti and countries in Africa: On NPR 'All Things Considered' (at the link above), Associate Professor of French Régine Michelle Jean-Charles and on NBC-Boston, Associate Professor of Sociology Zine Magubane. Dual-language first In partnership with the BC's Roche Center for Catholic Education, the Archdiocese of Omaha plans to launch its first dual-language education program. Brady and Belichick Psychologist Joseph Tecce discussed the body language of N.E. Patriots coach Bill Belichick and QB Tom Brady, who dismissed reports of their disagreements. Wave of the future BC geophysicist Carling Hay discussed the impact of Boston's rising tides, such as the record high that followed the Jan. 4 blizzard, with NBC-Boston. Immigration policy reform BC Law's Kari Hong weighs in on President Trump's proposal to 'trade' DREAMers protection for a border wall in an op-ed for WBUR 'Cognoscenti' (at the link above), and on the 'rule of law' as it pertains to sanctuary cites in a piece for The Crime Report. A python regime In The American Interest, Martha Bayles of the Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences writes on the gradual, deadly constriction of freedom in Cambodia. 'Time's up' On NECN 'The Take,' BCSSW's Tiziana Dearing discussed a 2018 agenda for putting #MeToo into action. She also wrote about the challenges facing workplaces moving forward, for WBUR 'Cognoscenti.' North Korea-South Korea Professor of Political Science Robert Ross comments in the Boston Herald on the public olive branch Kim Jong Un extended to South Korea in a New Year’s Day speech. Highlights from 2017 From 'criminals' to cops Professor of History Marilynn Johnson provides insights into the rise of the nation's urban police forces as part of a History.com look at evolving stereotypes of the Irish in America. Charities and the tax bill BC Law Professor Ray Madoff, co-founder and director of the school's Forum on Philanthropy and the Public Good, discussed the likely effect of the tax overhaul on charitable giving on CNBC. Death of Cardinal Law BC faculty were sought for commentary on the passing of Cardinal Bernard F. Law, the former influential Archbishop of Boston who resigned in 2002 in the wake of the clergy abuse scandal. BC School of Social Work Professor of Macro Practice Tiziana Dearing, former head of Catholic Charities in Boston, joined live coverage by NBC Boston (begins at 4:30) and was interviewed by WGBH News (at the link above). School of Theology and Ministry Professor James Bretzke, S.J., was quoted by National Public Radio, WHDH News, and the Boston Globe, for a piece that included comments by Clough Millennium Professor of History James O'Toole; O'Toole also spoke to the Washington Post, AP, and America. The latter piece included remarks by Associate Professor Charles Gallagher, S.J. School of Theology and Ministry Professor Thomas Groome spoke to NECN "The Take," and to AP, here via the Boston Globe, among other interviews. From 'criminals' to cops Professor of History Marilynn Johnson provides insights into the rise of the nation's urban police forces as part of a History.com look at evolving stereotypes of the Irish in America. The dividend disconnect Many do not fully appreciate that stock dividends come at the expense of price decreases, according to a research paper co-authored by Carroll School of Management Assistant Professor of Finance David Solomon, highlighted by Bloomberg News. Last-minute tax break A late revision to the GOP tax plan supplied a break based on real estate investments. Law School Kenealy Professor James Repetti comments to Bloomberg News. Net neutrality rollback BC Law Associate Professor Daniel Lyons comments on the FCC vote to repeal net neutrality rules to Bloomberg Radio News, at the link above, and NBC News, CVS-Aetna deal Will it lead to a chain of mergers? BC health economist Sam Richardson weighs in for NBC News. Leading with mercy In an essay for Commonweal, Professor of Theology and Law Cathleen Kaveny weighs in on the canonical prohibition against granting Communion to the divorced and civilly remarried. Net neutrality rules The FCC is expected to vote to repeal the rules requiring equal access to all internet content. Law School Associate Professor Daniel Lyons comments on WGBH News, at the link above, and in the New York Times. Strategy on North Korea Tougher sanctions on North Korea won't solve the problem, BC political scientist Robert Ross tells the Huffington Post. Charities and the tax bill BC Law Professor Ray Madoff, director of the school's Forum on Philanthropy and the Public Good, discussed how provisions in both the House and Senate tax bills could hinder donations to charities and non-profits, in an interview on the PRI-WGBH-WNYC talk program 'The Takeaway' (begins at 7:34). Reviewing sexual assault law On NECN 'The Take,' BC Law's Kari Hong discussed the need to review the definition and prosecution of rape. Economic outlook Associate Professor of Economics Robert Murphy comments to the Associated Press on the outlook for consumer spending and economic growth this holiday season. Elder care conversations On NPR 'On Point,' BC School of Social Work's Kathleen McInnis-Dittrich weighs in on the difficult discussions many families face regarding aging and caregiving. Preparing dual-language teachers As Massachusetts re-adopts bilingual education, the Lynch School Teaching Dual Language Learners certificate program is highlighted in a WGBH report on the need for qualified teachers. CFPB politics After the drama at the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, what happens to its open investigations? BC Law's Patricia McCoy comments to CNN Money. The impact of scandals On NECN's 'The Take,' BC School of Social Work's Tiziana Dearing discusses complications of the scandal over celebrity sexual predators. Best slalom skier Mikaela Shiffrin, who seems a sure bet for Olympic gold, has the essential traits of a prodigy, as identified by Professor of Psychology Ellen Winner and noted in The New Yorker. A stunning price The sale of a Leonardo da Vinci painting for $450.3 million has drawn questions from art experts, including McMullen Museum director Nancy Netzer, who comments in The Boston Globe. Taxes and the trade deficit On Marketplace Radio, economist Robert Murphy comments on whether or not the tax plan could further President Trump's goal to reduce the U.S. trade deficit. Decline in international students An annual report cites a decrease in the number of international students seeking to study in the U.S. Lynch School Research Professor Philip Altbach, who last year predicted such a drop, comments to Voice of America. Tax plan reality Kenealy Professor of Law James Repetti spoke with Marketplace Radio about the real impact on U.S. families of state, sales, and healthcare taxes. The AT&T deal Law School Associate Professor Daniel Lyons discussed AT&T's planned $85.4 billion takeover of Time Warner in an interview with Bloomberg News. Improving services for veterans Connell School of Nursing Professor Ann Burgess and BC's Collegiate Warrior Athlete Program project director Erin Flaherty '20 discuss issues of homelessness and health care. The not-so-magic kingdom Martha Bayles of the Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences writes on the U.S. entertainment industry's relationships with China for the American Interest. Facebook and fakes In the New York Times, Communication Assistant Professor Mike Serazio weighs in on challenges related to the social platform's efforts to verify accounts. Immigrants' legal status BC Law's Kari Hong comments in the Boston Globe on the proposed revocation of Temporary Protected Status. The GOP tax plan Experts worry it could hurt some in Massachusetts. Kenealy Professor of Law James Repetti comments. Make way for 'parennnials' Millennial parents are challenging commonly held beliefs about the American family. Center for Work and Family Executive Director Brad Harrington comments in the New York Times. A different kind of workplace Millennials, now the biggest generation of workers, also value different aspects of employment, Center for Work and Family Assistant Director Jennifer Sabatini Fraone tells Boston Globe Magazine. Political blame game Polisci prof Peter Krause discussed the response to the terror attack in New York as a guest on WGBH 'Greater Boston.' 'The digital humanities'? The problem with the formulation 'the digital humanities' is that it equates a new institutional investment with a new form of knowledge, writes Assistant Professor of English Eric Weiskott for the Chronicle of Higher Education Review. In N. Africa, fears of Iran's shadow Don't expect the competition for leadership from the Persian Gulf to be resolved anytime soon, writes Professor of Political Science Jonathan Laurence in a commentary for Reuters. Prospect for new Fed chair President Trump's expected replacement for Janet Yellen would not be expected to dramatically change the agencies policies, said Murray and Monti Professor of Economics Peter Ireland, commenting in the Boston Herald. Tuam scandal is tip of the iceberg Ireland seems no closer to the truth of what happened to children born to the nation's institutional care system during the 20th century, contends Professor of English James Smith in an op-ed for IrishCentral. Is the pope a Catholic? Joseph Professor of Catholic Systematic Theology Richard Gaillardetz, addressed the efforts of some to 'correct' the pope for doctrinal irregularities in a recent essay for The Tablet. JFK tapes release What to expect? Presidential historian Patrick Maney commented to AP, at the link above, and WCVB-TV. The market for human bodies Almost anyone can sell the dead, BC Law professor Ray Madoff tells Reuters. Celebrating immigrants Campaigns celebrating immigrants are on the rise. BCSSW's Westy Egmont, who developed the 'Dreams of Freedom' exhibition in Boston, comments in the Boston Globe. Q&A on Colin Kaepernick BC Law School Professor Alfred Chueh-Chin Yen discussed legalities of the grievance filed by the former San Francisco 49ers QB, which alleges that owners colluded to keep him out of the league. Moral language of evil There has been radical change in the way we talk about evil, contends Professor Emeritus of Political Science Alan Wolfe, author of the book Political Evil, who discusses the topic with The Atlantic. Diet as a cancer therapy Professor of Biology Thomas Seyfried discusses the benefits of the ketogenic diet and other alternative therapies with South Africa's national daily newspaper Business Day. Today's 'price of freedom' Professor of History Heather Cox Richardson reflects on changes in NRA approaches to gun control since the early 20th century in an op-ed for BillMoyers.com. More trouble for Wells Fargo BC Law Liberty Mutual Professor of Law Patricia McCoy tells CNN Money the bank wrongly hit homebuyers with fees to lock in mortgage rates. The power of a team BC Ireland Academic Director Mike Cronin provides a historical perspective on the current NFL protests in an op-ed for the Irish Times. Nationalism and higher ed How will the rise of nationalism sweeping across many countries affect the efforts of universities to internationalize? Lynch School professors Professors Hans de Wit and Philip Altbach write on the subject for University World News. Challenge to papal writings A "filial correction" letter claims Pope Francis' writings put forth heretical positions regarding marriage and Communion. BC STM professor James Bretzke, S.J., calls the criticism counterproductive. "Magnum principium" In The Pilot, BC Theology's Msgr. Liam Bergin writes on the papal document on the translation of liturgical texts. The first U.N. speech Professor of History Heather Cox Richardson discusses President's Trump first speech before the United Nations General Assembly as a guest on WBUR 'Morning Edition,' and on NECN 'The Take' (at the link above). Religious commitments, public life A judge's moral views are relevant to his or her behavior on the bench, writes Libby Professor of Theology and Law Cathleen Kaveny in an op-ed for the Washington Post. California sues over border wall The suit alleges that the Trump administration has overstepped its powers in expediting construction of the wall. BC Law's Kari Hong comments in the Los Angeles Times. Palestinian unification in Gaza In an interview with ABC Radio in Australia, Assistant Professor of Political Science Peter Krause provided insights into a possible Fatah-Hamas unity agreement for the Palestinians following months of sanctions on Gaza and regional tensions. House flippers and the crash A National Bureau of Economic Research working paper co-authored by Assistant Professor Jaromir Nosal challenges the narrative that subprime borrowers caused the 2007-09 market crash, and explores the role of house-flipping speculators. Nest egg variables A study by BC's Center for Retirement Research, highlighted in the Wall Street Journal, finds differences in retirement saving between young people who had completed college and those who failed to obtain a degree. Scalia's Constitution BC political scientist R. Shep Melnick is a contributor to the new book Scalia's Constitution: Essays on Law and Education. He was among panelists discussing the book at a live-streamed event in Washington, D.C. CFPB chief under fire BC Law's Patricia McCoy speaks to CBS 'Sunday Morning' about the embattled head of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. Hillary and the GOP Republicans want Hillary Clinton to vanish, according to an op-ed for the U.K. Guardian by historian Heather Cox Richardson, who contends the former presidential candidate should remain on the public stage. New technologies and community The Web still represents a crucial tool for working out communal concerns in times of crisis and insecurity, such as that facing Diaspora Jews today, writes Associate Professor of Communication Matt Sienkiewicz in the Jerusalem Post. Minor earthquake in Mass. BC geophysicist John Ebel of Weston Observatory provides analysis for the Boston Globe. Pope Francis in Colombia Colombian native Hosffman Ospino of the School of Theology & Ministry comments on the papal visit for National Catholic Reporter, at the link above, Reuters, and the New York Times. If Harvey happened here Environmental Studies Director and associate professor Noah Snyder talks to NBC Boston about extreme rainfall events. Relief efforts for Texas What happens now? BCSSW's Tiziana Dearing on immediate and long-term challenges, in an interview with WBUR 'Radio Boston.' Trump and DACA Law School Assistant Professor Kari Hong discussed the president and the policy on NECN 'The Take.' Women and Ivanka In Fortune, Center for Work and Family visiting scholar Lauren Stiller Rikleen weighs in on the First Daughter's approach to advocacy for women. The 'Top Chef' trial BC Law prof Jeffrey Cohen, a former prosecutor, comments on the acquittal of four local Teamsters charged with attempting to extort the TV show. Downside of downloads Why can't you download all the streaming media you want? BC Law prof Dan Lyons explains in Wired. Assessing MAGA BC's Heather Cox Richardson is among historians examining Donald Trump's plans to 'Make America Great Again'—and considering what he was thinking when he said 'again'—for BillMoyers.com. Facebook, Airbnb go on offense Companies historically have steered clear of trying to determine what is good and what is evil, Carroll School IS professor Jerry Kane tells Bloomberg News, but that may be changing. U.S. and North Korea As heated rhetoric escalates, what will be the role of China? Professor of Political Science Robert Ross weighs in for the Boston Herald. Comparative perspective A chapter by Professor of History Kevin Kenny in the new Cambridge Social History of Modern Ireland "should be required reading for anyone interested in emigration--and not only Irish--in global history," according to a reviewer in the Irish Times. Lessons on immigration In the Boston Globe, insights from Professor of History Marilynn Johnson on immigrants' contributions to Boston-area economic growth. Corporations for good? A growing number of businesses report approaching their enterprises with an eye to environmental sustainability and workers' rights. BC Law's Kent Greenfield weighs in for PBS Newshour. Not enough inflation? Inflation persistently below targets is a reason not to clamor for more interest rate hikes, Monty and Murray Professor of Economics Peter Ireland tells the New York Times. International students in U.S. Lynch School researchers Hans de Wit and Phil Altbach write on challenges to international recruitment for Times Higher Education. Auto loan defaults soar Could it lead to a credit crisis? BC Law Liberty Mutual Insurance Professor Patricia McCoy weighs in for Bloomberg Radio. Europe and terrorism Professor of Political Science Jonathan Laurence discusses why some countries, particularly in Europe, may be safer from terrorism than others, in an interview with The Week. Border lawsuit filed BC Law's Kari Hong discusses a lawsuit filed on behalf of asylum seekers reportedly turned away at the U.S.-Mexico border, in an interview with Radio Sputnik. The collusion question Was the meeting with a Russian lawyer described in Donald Trump Jr.'s emails treasonous? A discussion in the ongoing WBUR podcast series co-hosted by Professor of History Heather Cox Richardson. Is there a retirement crisis? For many Americans, the situation remains serious, Center for Retirement Research Director Alicia Munnell tells CNBC. SCOTUS and the travel ban BC Law's Kent Greenfield discusses the Supreme Court travel ban ruling, among other SCOTUS-related issues, on NECN 'The Take.' The Amazon-Whole Foods deal Beyond acquiring hundreds of stores and affluent customers, the real value is in all of that customer data, Kenneth Sanford of the Woods College M.S. in Applied Economics program tells CNBC. On investment strategies Award-winning research by the Carroll School's Jeffrey Pontiff, which showed the effectiveness of investing strategies seems to diminish, but not disappear, after publication, is highlighted by the New York Times. Tech and economic fluctuation A 2006 paper by Professor of Economics Susanto Basus on the contractionary effect of technological improvements is cited as a seminal work on the subject in a piece by The Economist. Lessons from Banco Popular Spain's fifth-largest bank collapsed earlier this month, forcing it into the arms of its rival, Banco Santander. Carroll School finance prof Ed Kane comments on the meltdown and rescue in the New York Times. Reflections of a translingual writer An essay by Professor of Russian and English Maxim D. Shrayer for The Odessa Review on the pleasures and challenges of writing translingually. Credit cards for bad credit Can you use them to improve a credit score? Advice from Associate Professor of Economics Robert Murphy in a Q&A with Wallet Hub. Working relationship with health Working longer isn't necessarily a bad thing, says Center on Aging & Work co-director Jackie James, who discusses research on the positive relationship between working and health with WGBH News. The future of privacy BC Law's Robert Bloom weighs in for CBS News in on Fourth Amendment issues related to use of surveillance and policing technologies under the Trump administration. Is the Constitution colorblind? O'Neill Professor of American Politics R. Shep Melnick writes on Antonin Scalia's record on race and education for Education Next. China's new naval power Professor of Political Science Robert Ross discusses what this means for the Trump administration in a Carnegie-Tsinghua Center for Global Policy podcast. Collaborative e-textbooks Assistant Professor of English Eric Weiskott writes on his experience using custom MediaKron-built websites and engaging his medieval poetry students as collaborators. Leadership, servitude, service School of Social Work Professor of the Practice Tiziana Dearing writes on leadership and the Trump Administration in an op-ed for WBUR "Cognoscenti." Retirement and gender Women gain more than men do from working longer, according to a Center for Retirement Research study highlighted by the Wall Street Journal. Suicide or homicide? The trial of a 20-year-old Massachusetts woman who allegedly urged her boyfriend--through text messages--to kill himself, is under way. BC Law's Sharon Beckman comments on the case, including the unusual nature of trying a suicide as a homicide, for BuzzFeed News. Beyond the border Amid growing concerns related to immigration, globalization, the border wall, and NAFTA, can the U.S. and Mexico find common ground and work past the rhetoric? Political scientist Peter Skerry is among experts discussing the issues on PRI 'The World.' Psychiatric patients on hold Patients' long wait times for ER psychiatric beds is a problem that has been brewing for decades, the Connell School's Judith Shindul-Rothschild tells WBUR News. Her study on wait times, conducted with Connell Associate Professors Catherine Read, Kelly Stamp, and Jane Flanagan, was published in the Journal of Emergency Nursing. 'Semantic racketeering' Associate Professor of Eastern and Slavic Languages Franck Salameh reflects on the European reaction to the Manchester and Minya massacres in an op-ed for the Jerusalem Post. The impeachment process Law School Professor Kent Greenfield provides NECN's 'The Take' with a look at the process from Constitutional and historical perspectives. ACA's breastfeeding provision The 2010 Affordable Care Act may have helped more women in the U.S. breastfeed as a result of its coverage of breast pumps, suggests a new study by School of Social Work Assistant Professor Summer Hawkins and BC colleagues. Their report, published in the American Journal of Public Health, is featured by Reuters. What becomes of valedictorians? Research tracking their post-graduation progress by Lynch School prof Karen Arnold is included in new book by Carroll School MBA alumnus Eric Barker, and featured by Money magazine (at the link above) and CNBC. Sanctuary cities While the president's executive orders on immigration play out in federal court, a number of Massachusetts communities are designing their own immigration policies. BC Law's Dan Kanstroom comments for WBUR News (at the link above) and the Washington Post. International student mobility Writing for University World News, Lynch School of Education Professors Hans de Wit and Philip Altbach contend that revolutionary changes are imminent for higher education internationalization. Trump's first tour President Trump's nine-day, two-continent tour that begins with a trip to Saudi Arabia marks a break with tradition set by previous presidents, Associate Professor of Political Science David Hopkins tells the Washington Examiner. Hernandez now innocent The murder conviction of former NFL star Aaron Hernandez has been vacated by a Mass. Superior Court judge. BC Law prof Bob Bloom weighs in for Esquire magazine. Is the gig economy working? An analysis by The New Yorker references a study conducted by Professor of Sociology Juliet Schor. 'Red line' in relations Professor of Political Science Robert Ross comments on China's relations with North Korea for CNN.com The first MAGA president Was Andrew Jackson a 'make American great again' president? BC historian Heather Cox Richardson weighs in on NECN 'The Take.' JFK at 100 The upcoming centenary John F. Kennedy's birth brings fresh appraisals of the first--and so far, only--Catholic to attain the presidency. BC historians James O'Toole and Patrick Maney comment in a piece running nationally via Catholic News Service. The GOP and health care Political scientist David Hopkins discusses Republican efforts to repeal and replace Obamacare in an interview with Salon.com. The first 100 days BC historian Heather Cox Richardson co-hosts a new WBUR podcast series on the Trump administration, viewed through the lens of American history. | Professor of History Patrick Maney discusses the '100 day' presidential standard set by Franklin Roosevelt for NPR's WLRN-Miami and on NECN 'The Take.' Tweets and trade deficits Economist Robert Murphy weighs in on President Trump's tweet on trade deficits and the economy for Marketplace Radio On the Internet BC Law's Daniel Lyons comments on FCC moves to rollback net neutrality policy on WBUR 'Bostonomix.' Brady's buddies Tiziana Dearing of the BC School of Social Work discussed Tom Brady's arrangement with Best Buddies on NECN 'The Take.' Is there a retirement-savings crisis? Center for Retirement Research Director Alicia Munnell is one of two experts who look at the same data for the Wall Street Journal, and come to very different conclusions. Lessons in math education What can the U.S. learn from the performance of students in East Asian countries? Lynch School Prof Ina V.S. Mullis discusses findings from the latest Trends in International Math and Science Study on WBUR. Trump and deported DREAMer A federal judge whom then-candidate Donald Trump criticized last year will hear the case of a man who claims he was unfairly deported by U.S. authorities. BC Law's Kari Hong comments in USA Today. Crime and posting Carroll School prof Jerry Kane weighs in on the trend toward posting crimes on Facebook in an op-ed for the New York Daily News. Is poetry dead? No, writes Assistant Professor of English Eric Weiskott, who looks at new ways to approach it in an essay for Inside Higher Ed. Global higher ed 'faces anarchy' It could be the result of expansion without a well-defined strategy, according to a report from the Lynch School's Center for International Higher Education. Co-author Phil Altbach discusses it with Times Higher Education. Believing false things Political scientist Emily Thorson's research showing the residual effect of negative news about a candidate, even if it's later shown to be false, is cited by the New York Times. No place like...the office Center for Work and Family Executive Director Brad Harrington comments for CBS News on companies' growing shift away from employees working remotely. The prospect for Russia's Jews Outwardly secure and flourishing, the community is a fraction of its former size and dwindling. What troubles the minds of those who stay? Professor of Russian and English Maxim D. Shrayer weighs in for Mosaic magazine, at the link above, and in Tablet Magazine. Societal implications of astrobiology School of Theology and Ministry Associate Professor Andrea Vicini, S.J., in La Civiltà Cattolica, the unofficial voice of the Vatican on matters of social life, and the Huffington Post (at the link above.) The star witness Law Professor Robert Bloom talks to the Boston Globe about testimony in the murder trial of ex-NFL star Aaron Hernandez, and is featured by the New Haven Register regarding use of jailhouse informants in a murder case in Connecticut. Tax policy; DAFs Law Professor Ray Madoff—who recently organized a meeting, featured by the NonProfit Times, of leaders of some of the nation's largest tax-exempt organizations to discuss federal tax policy--comments on donor-assisted funds for The Economist (at the link above). Women in theology in Africa Professor of Theology M. Shawn Copeland cites the role of women in the Christian faith as one of the key issues concerning theology on the African continent. Experiential learning BC Law students' argument at the 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals on behalf of a client facing deportation is highlighted by the Associated Press. Civilians and Tirgiran Valley Associate Professor of History Devin Pendas discusses the war in Afghanistan and the alleged deaths of civilians in Tirgiran Valley in 2010, in an interview with Radio Live-New Zealand. Invoking Jackson's legacy President Trump will visit the grave of Andrew Jackson in Nashville; Professor of History Heather Cox Richardson comments in the New York Times. Pope Francis and Church culture As Pope Francis enters his fifth year, Monan Professor of Theology Lisa Sowle Cahill is among theologians discussing his shaping Church culture in National Catholic Reporter. Cautionary tales, complicated legacies Associate Professor of Sociology and African and African Diaspora Studies Zine Magubane writes on W.E.B. Du Bois, Booker T. Washington, and Historically Black Colleges and Universities for WBUR "Cognoscenti." The tragedy of Tuam More must be done to address the revelations of human remains--thought to be those of some 796 children--buried at the former Sisters of the Bon Secours' Children's Home in Tuam, Ireland, writes Associate Professor of English James Smith in the Irish Examiner. The revised travel ban Does President Trump's latest moratorium illegally discriminate against Muslims? BC Law's Kari Hong weighs in on NECN 'The Take.' Civil rights and culture wars How civil rights enforcement got swept into the culture wars, and what a new administration can do about it—an op-ed by O'Neill Professor of American Politics R. Shep Melnick in the Hechinger Report. Deportation nation Law Professor Dan Kanstroom offers his take on ICE—Immigration and Customs Enforcement—as a guest on WBUR 'Radio Open Source.' The U.S. voice abroad As the nation's Broadcasting Board of Governors is slated to be abolished, Martha Bayles of the MCAS Honors Program outlines on lessons for the new CEO of international broadcasting in American Prospect. Polarization and Hispanic Catholics School of Theology and Ministry Assistant Professor Hosffman Ospino—deemed one of the nation's 'most influential and creative interpreters of Latino/a Catholic experiences'—explains why polarization threatens the future for Hispanic Catholics in a Q&A with Crux.com. Vatican commission change C21 Center Director Thomas Groome talks with WBUR 'Morning Edition" regarding the resignation of Marie Collins, the only abuse survivor on the Vatican commission looking into the clergy abuse crisis. Working longer, better The context of aging and work is changing, due to factors including health, longevity, and education, Center on Aging and Work Co-Director Jacquelyn James tells the New York Times. The new working class Professor of English and Director of American Studies Carlo Rotella writes on the life journey of Nate Awan, a Boston pipe fitter, for a New York Times Magazine focus on today's Americans at work. (scroll to No. 9). Growing pains in the Church In Amoris Laetitia, Pope Francis is reminding Catholics of the proper role of doctrine within the life of the mature Church, writes Joseph Professor of Catholic Systematic Theology Richard Gaillardetz (free registration required). Higher ed challenges, innovations Higher education in emerging and developing countries struggles between past colonial influences and current challenges, writes Center for International Higher Education Director Hans de Wit. In praise of partnerships The University's successful collaborations with the Archdiocese of Boston, including the Lynch School's St. Columbkille Partnership School and Urban Catholic Teacher Corps initiatives, are highlighted by Superintendent of Catholic Schools Kathy Mears. A ramble in Ireland On BBC Radio 4, BC-Ireland Academic Director Mike Cronin tours Derrigimlagh bog, where two remarkable 20th century events occurred. The Healy family Clough Millennium Professor of History James O'Toole explores the life and legacy of the nation's first African-American bishop, Bishop James Augustine Healy, and his family, in a three-part series for The Pilot. Part 1 is at the link above; Part 2, Part 3. Will Mexico fund the wall? Professor of History Kevin Kenny is among experts asked to weigh in. Poverty and children's maladies Add asthma and ADHD to the list, according to a new study. Lynch School of Education Professor Rebekah Levine Coley comments for the Pittsburgh Post-Gazette. Chaos as the new normal How should the media and voters respond? Professor of History Heather Cox Richardson on NECN 'The Take.' Syrian war crimes reports Associate Professor of History Devin Pendas discussed reports of chemical weapons attacks and large-scale hangings in an interview with NECN 'The Take.' Trump and the economy The unexpected resignation of a top official gives Trump a profound opportunity to reshape the Federal Reserve, says BC economist Peter Ireland (at the link above). | The chair of the White House Council of Economic Advisers won't be part of the president's cabinet. BC's Bob Murphy, a former council member, comments on Marketplace Radio. More money or more time? Some people are sacrificing money and high-powered careers to better tend to family needs. Center for Work and Family executive director Brad Harrington weighs in. A shock event? Was the travel ban a 'shock event' calculated to distract from other issues? Historical perspective from Professor Heather Cox Richardson in the Dallas Morning News, at the link above, on WBUR News and NECN, and in the Boston Globe and USA Today. Immigrants and refugees Westy Egmont, director of the School of Social Work's Immigrant Integration Lab, discussed the impact of the executive order as a guest on NECN 'The Take,' at the link above, in an op-ed for the Boston Herald, and with Reuters. | The Law School's Kari Hong addressed the topic in a piece for WBUR 'Cognoscenti' and discussed it with CNN, USA Today, Bloomberg Radio, and the Tampa Bay Times. Holocaust remembrance Assistant Professor of Communication Matt Sienkiewicz writes on President Trump's statement on Holocaust Remembrance Day in an op-ed for Tikkun Daily. In the mobility era International faculty are an increasingly important part of the global academic labor force, writes Lynch School of Education Research Professor Phil Altbach. The more things change... The war against the liberal consensus began as a backlash against Roosevelt's New Deal, according to Professor of History Heather Cox Richardson in an op-ed for the U.K.'s Guardian. A refusenik protest remembered The dawn of perestroika revisited by Professor of Russian and English Maxim D. Shrayer. Wishes of the dead The law helps dead people make the living comply with their wishes, says Law prof Ray Madoff. 'Minimalists' on Netflix 'Minimalism: A Documentary About the Important Things' explores living with less stuff from a variety of perspectives, including that of Professor of Sociology Juliet Schor, whose research focuses on issues of consumption and sustainability. Pink & Blue: Colors of Heredity Professor of Sociology Sharlene Hesse-Biber discusses her research as part of an award-winning film on the lives of women and men who carry a BRCA genetic mutation that places them at a high risk of developing breast and other cancers. Inauguration commentary GOP historian Heather Cox Richardson discussed opportunities and challenges facing the Trump Administration, during a panel moderated by NPR's Tom Ashbrook at the JFK Library (video at the link above). | Political scientist Jonathan Laurence provided commentary on the inauguration for French television news network BFM. | Professor of History Patrick Maney provided live commentary for WHDH-TV News. | Professor of Political Science Marc Landy was interviewed by WBZ-AM. Obama's last day, legacy Professor of History Patrick Maney commented on President Obama's last day and legacy for CNBC.com (at the link above) and Fox News. The progressive agenda In a piece for 'The Conversation', Carroll School Galligan Professor Sandra Waddock applies her research on how to affect large system change to the situation now facing progressives in the new administration. Miraculous victory? Some contend that divine intervention led to the outcome of the presidential election. Religion News Service asked theologians including School of Theology and Ministry Professor James Bretzke, S.J., to weigh in. State of the City School of Social Work Professor of the Practice Tiziana Dearing was part of a WBUR panel discussion related to Boston Mayor Marty Walsh's third annual State of the City address. The U.S. and retirement... Center for Retirement Research Director Alicia Munnell discussed retirement in the U.S. with Bloomberg Radio (segment begins at 14:30). ...or is it 'unretirement'? Many Americans continue to earn during retirement, according to research by Professor of Economics Joseph Quinn—conducted with Ph.D. alumni Kevin Cahill and Michael Giandrea, and highlighted in a Dow Jones Marketwatch look at improvements to Norway's retirement system. Cardinal named to Vatican office Cardinal Seán P. O'Malley has been appointed by Pope Francis to the Congregation for the Doctrine of Faith, the Vatican office that reviews sex abuse cases. School of Theology and Ministry Professor Thomas Groome comments in the Boston Globe. Deporting criminal noncitizens BC Law's Kari Hong writes on the president-elect's softened approach to immigration in an op-ed for the Washington Post. Trial in meningitis deaths The federal trial begins for a pharmacist charged in the deaths of 25 patients injected with steroids from his lab. BC's Law Robert Bloom comments for USA Today. Keeping new year's resolutions CNBC offers tips for kicking bad habits from researchers including the Carroll School's Henrik Hagtvedt. Can people die of a broken heart? The perennial question arose in the aftermath of the deaths, within a day of one another, of celebrities Carrie Fisher and her mother, Debbie Reynolds. Connell School of Nursing Dean Susan Gennaro comments for Voice of America. Highlights from 2016 Loneliness and aging School of Social Work Ahearn Professor James Lubben talks about the growing health threat of social isolation with Next Avenue, at the link above, and the Columbus Dispatch. Traveling DACA students Undocumented students traveling abroad are being advised to return to the U.S. before the presidential inauguration. Law School Associate Clinical Professor Mary Holper weighs in for WBUR. Lost girls Young women are disproportionately locked up for misdemeanors in Maryland's juvenile justice system, and are more likely than boys to be taken before a judge for probation offenses. Law School Clinical Professor Francine Sherman comments in the Baltimore Sun. Giving in solidarity A different approach to holiday giving can help to re-establish community, and show solidarity with others, writes School of Social Work Professor of the Practice Tiziana Dearing in an op-ed for CNN.com. Joaquim de Carvalho Award Cristiano Casalini, a research scholar at Boston College's Institute for Advanced Jesuit Studies, received the honor from the University of Coimbra in Portugal for his book, Aristotle in Coimbra: Cursus Conimbricensis and Education at the Collegium Artium. Whither the American Dream? School of Social Work Professor of the Practice Tiziana Dearing discussed the aspiration that members of each generation will fare better than their parents on NECN 'The Take.' Deal or no deal? Economics prof Bob Murphy weighs in on financing deals for car purchases in Car and Driver. Does daycare make kids aggressive? A study conducted by Lynch School Professor Eric Dearing and researchers in Norway is highlighted by Boston Magazine. An underappreciated election fact There was a massive generation gap, writes Assistant Professor of Political Science David Hopkins in the Washington Post. Macho may lead to miserable A new study explores a relationship between strict adherence to certain masculine norms and mental health problems. Lynch School of Education Professor James Mahalik weighs in for the Christian Science Monitor. Cautionary tale for the EPA Former EPA attorney Lauren Rikleen of BC's Center for Work and Family writes on Donald Trump's choice to head the agency in an op-ed for WBUR 'Cognoscenti.' DuPont head at BC CEO Club The incoming presidential administration is not likely to have an impact on DuPont's planned merger with Dow Chemical, DuPont chief executive Ed Breen said. More N.E. quakes than you think New England experiences several every year, but most people don't notice them. Weston Observatory Director and Earth and Environmental Sciences Associate Professor Alan Kafka explains in the Boston Globe. New narrative for global economy To overcome the tide of populism and nationalism sweeping the West, a new, more powerful narrative is desperately needed, writes Carroll School of Management Galligan Professor Sandra Waddock for 'The Conversation.' IKEA parental leave policy IKEA's expanded policy was influenced in part by a finding from the 'New Dad' study by BC's Center for Work and Family. Associate Director Jennifer Fraone comments in The Atlantic. Exiting the climate deals President-elect Donald Trump is seeking quick ways to withdraw the U.S. from a global accord to combat climate change. Law Professor David Wirth discusses the subject in the UK's Guardian. Hybrid giving vehicles New vehicles of charitable giving are blurring lines between business and the social sector. Law Professor Ray Madoff comments in the Financial Times. The year of Easter Rising With 2016 drawing to a close, BC Ireland Academic Director Mike Cronin discussed commemorations of the Easter Rising centenary, as a guest on RTÉ Radio. Body language and the election Did the presidential candidates' nonverbal communication have an effect on the popular vote? Professor of Psychology Joseph Tecce weighs in on NECN "The Take." Employment discrimination Law Professor Mark Brodin is quoted by the Boston Globe regarding an employment discrimination lawsuit against the Mass. State Police. Presidency vs. business interests Can Congress and the courts enforce Donald Trump's pledge to cut ties to his businesses? Law School Associate Professor Brian Quinn addresses the subject on NECN 'The Take,' at the link above, and in comments to Reuters. The 'Professor Watchlist' Professor of History Heather Cox Richardson, who was briefly among academics included on the list when it launched, responds in an op-ed. What's next for Hispanics? Catholic scholars including Libby Professor of Law and Theology Cathleen Kaveny and School of Theology and Ministry Assistant Professor Hosffman Ospino assess the future for Hispanics in the U.S. in light of the presidential election. Justice and reconciliation A post-election op-ed by Professor of Theology Stephen Pope in Commonweal. Flag burning consequences? Law School Professor Robert Bloom discusses First Amendment protected expressions in an interview with CBS Boston. President and CEO? President-elect Donald Trump says there will be no conflict of interest between his business ventures and his presidency. Law School Associate Professor Brian Quinn weighs in on CBS News. History and the time of Trump How will Donald Trump govern, and what will relative moderates do now? GOP historian Heather Cox Richardson writes in The Guardian (at link above) and is featured in a Q&A with Pacific Standard Magazine. Sapir Book Prize Lynch School of Education Charles F. Donovan, S.J., Dean Stanton Wortham has received the 2016 Edward Sapir Book Prize for Discourse Analysis beyond the Speech Event. Wealth and charitable giving Law Professor Ray Madoff, director of the Forum on Philanthropy and the Public Good, comments on a new study that shows a small group of wealthy donors giving more money than ever before, while less-wealthy donors are giving less. Jews of Lebanon An article by Associate Professor of Near Eastern Studies Franck Salameh in the Journal of the Middle East and Africa mines an early history of modern Lebanon by placing a special focus on the country's Jewish community. From Puritans to legal pot First casinos, then legal marijuana. Is traditional morality at risk in Massachusetts? Carroll School prof Richard McGowan, S.J., on NECN 'The Take.' Trump and SCOTUS Law School faculty members Kent Greenfield and Kari Hong discuss how Donald Trump could reshape the Supreme Court, respectively in the Boston Globe (at the link above) and on NECN. A former Soviet Jew's political journey Professor of Russian, English, and Jewish Studies Maxim Shrayer, a former Soviet refusenik, reflects on the election in an essay for Tablet magazine. New Zealand earthquake The 7.8 magnitude quake could trigger months of aftershocks, Weston Observatory's John Ebel tells the Boston Herald. Prosecutorial misconduct Possible disciplinary sanctions against a Martha's Vineyard assistant district attorney reflect a national trend, according to BC Law's Michael Cassidy in the Boston Globe. A migration lesson from the U.S. A lesson of the just completed campaign is that efforts to define immigration neatly in terms of illegal versus legal have come undone, according to Professor of Political Science Peter Skerry, writing for the Netherlands Institute of International Relations. Academic freedom under threat In the current political climate, it is perhaps the most contested aspect of higher education, write Center for International Higher Education Director Hans de Wit and Lynch School graduate student Kathryn Hanson for Inside Higher Ed. Let a new conversation begin No matter who wins the presidential election, the U.S. needs a dramatically improved national dialogue, writes Center for Work and Family Executive Director Brad Harrington in the Huffington Post. The candidates and student debt Lynch School Professor Ana Martínez Alemán outlines the effect either the presidency of Hillary Clinton (at the link above) or Donald Trump could have on the issue. From BC Bookmarks: ●Professor of English Elizabeth Graver writes on taking her nearly 80-year-old mother back to her childhood home in an essay for The Tablet. ● Professor of German Studies Michael Resler has published Daniel Von Dem Blühenden Tal, a critical edition of Daniel, one of the earliest post-classical Arthurian romances (see link above). ● Kim Garcia of the English Department has published Drone, a new book of poetry that is a meditation on modern warfare in a technological age. ● In Philosophy and Dissidence in Cold War Europe, Assistant Professor of Philosophy and International Studies Aspen E. Brinton examines the ways Cold War dissidents in Central and Eastern Europe turned to the past for inspiration in order to change and transcend their present entrapment. ●Professor of Theology Stephen Pope reviewed Doing Good . . . Says Who?: Stories from Volunteers, Nonprofits, Donors, and Those They Want to Help for America magazine. ●Professor of English Elizabeth Graver writes on taking her nearly 80-year-old mother back to her childhood home in an essay for The Tablet. DraftKings - FanDuel merger? It could spark a new round of legal costs as the companies seek approval from the FTC and Department of Justice, according to law prof Brian Quinn in the Boston Globe. Claims of rigged elections? There's precedent for such claims, historian Heather Cox Richardson telles WGBH News (see link above); the latest DNC-CNN flap feeds Trump's campaign narrative, says political scientist Dennis Hale in the Boston Herald. Marijuana on the ballot Carroll School prof Richard McGowan, S.J., comments on archdiocesan opposition to legalization of pot in Massachusetts, in The Atlantic. This 'toxic' election The 2016 campaign is certainly divisive, but must be kept in perspective, historian Patrick Maney tells National Catholic Reporter. The 'anti-helicopter parent' Let kids play, one parent pleads in a New York Times Magazine article. Professor of psychology Peter Gray concurs. A diversionary tactic Donald Trump's stance on the election result is the act of an intuitive showman, political scientist Jonathan Laurence tells Agence France-Presse. Avoiding analytical myopia It's easy to focus on the metrics, but analytics' bigger picture benefits managers more, writes Carroll School Associate Professor Sam Ransbotham for Sloan Management Review. 2016 hottest; 2017 hotter? NASA predicts this year is likely to be the hottest on record. What happens next? Climate scientist Jeremy Shakun comments. Catholics and the candidates In the Boston Globe, School of Theology and Ministry Professor James Bretzke, S.J., comments on the complexities facing voters in this presidential election. Asset or distraction? Professor of History Patrick Maney, author of the Bill Clinton biography A New Gilded Age, comments to CNN.com on the role of the former president in the current campaign. Molecular machinery In addition to this year's Nobel Prize winners, a Science Transitional Medicine writer takes note of other outstanding work in the molecular machinery field, including the molecular ratchet developed by Vanderslice Professor of Chemistry T. Ross Kelly. Girls and criminal justice Are young girls 'more severely punished' than boys? Juvenile justice experts including Law School Associate Clinical Professor Fran Sherman, lead author of a report on gender injustice, weigh in. Trump's tape and the GOP Professor of History Heather Cox Richardson writes on the effect of the Access Hollywood tape for Quartz.com. Biggest worry about jobs? A new Pew survey shows that for Americans it's not immigration, but irrelevance. Lynch School Professor David Blustein comments for NBC.com. Coaching the candidates Psychologist Joe Tecce discusses body language during debates on NECN (at link above) and WCVB-TV News. Tax genius or evasion? Kenealy Professor of Law James Repetti discussed Donald Trump's take on the tax code with NECN 'The Take.' The VP debate Libby Professor of Theology and Law Cathleen Kaveny is among experts asked to weigh in for National Catholic Reporter. Prize-winning molecular machines The recipients of this year's Nobel Prize in Chemistry are an outstanding choice, Vanderslice Professor T. Ross Kelly tells Chemical and Engineering News. What's it like to be an at-home dad? Center for Work and Family Executive Director Brad Harrington shares center research on trends in fatherhood. Tiny state, big effect on workers Law Professor Kent Greenfield is among scholars who argue that the practice of allowing corporations to be governed by Delaware law is undemocratic. Voting beyond policy Catholic voters need to choose between candidates in terms of character and competence, not just between issues, writes Libby Professor of Theology and Law Cathleen Kaveny in Commonweal. Down to the details For all the differences between Clinton and Trump during the first debate, perhaps the most stark centered on the willingness to get specific, political scientist David Hopkins contends, writing for the Washington Post.com. Five critical questions The answers to could reveal a lot about what will happen when the campaign circus is over and the realities of governing set in, according to an op-ed by the School of Social Work's Tiziana Dearing for CNN.com. Candidates and stress Body language can be an indicator of a candidate's stress level during debates, psychologist Joe Tecce tells Fox 25. Should college be free? Who doesn't like free stuff? But as the old saying goes, 'there is no such thing as a free lunch,' writes Lynch School of Education Professor Diana Pullin. The Yahoo breach What does the hacking mean to Verizon's $4.8 billion acquisition of Yahoo's core business? Law prof Brian Quinn outlines two options in the New York Times. Terror and the campaign trail Professor of History Heather Cox Richardsons joins a WGBH 'Greater Boston' discussion of the presidential candidates' reactions to recent terror incidents. Syria peace bid derailed? Can the peace plan in Syria succeed if President Assad stays in power? Islamic Civilization and Societies faculty member Natana DeLong-Bas weighs in on NECN "The Take." ISIS and the terror threat Political scientist Peter Krause discussed the recent incidents in New York, New Jersey, and Minnesota on WGBH 'Greater Boston' (at the link above), MSNBC, and NECN 'The Take' (at 2:00). An uncommon decision In FTC v. AT&T Mobility, the court broadly exempted common carriers from a key antitrust law designed to promote fair competition, a ruling that could have far-reaching implications for the future of internet regulation, writes BC Law's Daniel Lyons. Incomes up, poverty down BC School of Social Work's Tiziana Dearing discusses the lastest U.S. Census Report findings on NECN, at the link above, and on Marketplace Radio. Seniors sharing homes Lack of retirement savings may be prompting more seniors to consider renting out extra rooms, Center for Retirement Research Director Alicia Munnell tells the Wall Street Journal. Memory card resale risks An investigation of refurbished cards shows many still contain personal information of previous owners. The Carroll School's Sam Ransbotham suggests safeguards on NECN. U.S., China, and human rights Professor of Political Science Robert Ross assesses the Obama Administration's approach toward relations with China in the New York Times. Lost in translation Interpreting body language isn't as easy as some may think, BC profs tell NBCNews.com. Conservative millennials A new report suggests the trend toward growing polarization among Americans is guided by increasingly conservative millennials. Political scientist David Hopkins responds on CNN.com. Macro musings How does the Fed set out to achieve its objectives? This and other topics in a podcast with Murray and Monti Professor of Economics Peter Ireland. Immigration policy Westy Egmont of the School of Social Work discussed Donald Trump's visit to Mexico on NECN (at the link above); the Law School's Kari Hong weighed in for ABC News. Global income inequality Will future generations be worse off than their parents in parts of the world? Social Work prof Tiziana Dearing discussed findings of a recent McKinsey report with CCTV America, the English-language news channel of China Central Television. Law in U.S. culture In Pacific Standard magazine, Law Professor Judith McMorrow weighs in on America’s abiding obsession with series about crime and punishment. Amending the Constitution Hillary Clinton's promise is different from all other presidential amendment pledges in the last generation, in that it just might happen, writes Law School Associate Professor Richard Albert. Italy's earthquake BC geophysicist John Ebel discussed seismic readings and other aspects of the quake with NECN's 'The Take.' Latin American essay prize The American Philosophical Association has awarded its 2016 Essay Prize in Latin American Thought to Sebastian Purcell, who received his Ph.D. in philosophy from the University in 2011. 'Citizen Kane' at 75 In America magazine, Professor of Film Studies Richard A. Blake, S.J., writes about the relevance and timelessness of the classic film. 'This Must Be the Place' Author and Professor of English Elizabeth Graver reviews the latest book by Maggie O'Farrell for the New York Times (at the link above). Islam in Europe Fearing extremism and lack of integration, European governments want more of the continent’s imams to be home-grown. Polisci's Jonathan Laurence comments in The Economist. The street-feeding debate Sides disagree on whether giving meals to the homeless on the street is helpful or harmful. GSSW's Tiziana Dearing weighs in. Manafort's ties Professor of Political Science Marc Landy on the significance of Trump campaign manager Paul Manafort's ties to a pro-Kremlin political party in Ukraine. The fight against ISIS Assistant Professor of Political Science Peter Krause was a guest on NECN's 'The Take.' The post-Trump GOP If Trump loses, can the Republican Party rebound? Professor of History Heather Cox Richardson comments in the U.K.'s Guardian. Trump's immigration ban A country-based ban hits the persecuted along with their persecutors, among other issues, Westy Egmont of the School of Social Work tells The Atlantic. Toward digital transformation An effective digital culture is critical to digital maturity, writes the Carroll School's Gerald Kane for Sloan Management Review. Praise for City Connects 'If City Connects were a company, Warren Buffett would snatch it up,' according to a New York TimesSunday Review writer, who lauds the Lynch School student support initiative for cost-effectively narrowing the achievement gap. Ride-hailing; body cams From ride-hailing regulations to the push for police body cameras, School of Social Work Professor Tiziana Dearing discusses a range of local news issues on WBUR 'Radio Boston.' Prominent, yet divisive Climate change is a tough campaign topic for both parties, political scientist David Hopkins tells the Christian Science Monitor. Support for parents Lynch School Professor Eric Dearing talks about his report outlining the need for a national framework of assistance in an interview with WBZ News. Can a dog have a will? Law Professor Ray Madoff discusses a range of issues related to the legal rights of the dead as a guest on WBUR's 'You're the Expert.' The Art of the Quran The first major U.S. exhibition of Qurans will open at the Smithsonian Institution this fall. Calderwood Professor of Islamic and Asian Art Sheila Blair, who will deliver several lectures during an accompanying conference, comments to AP, at the link above, and the Times of Israel. Stock in Social Security With a mixed stock-and-bond portfolio, Social Security is far more likely to stay fully funded over the next 75 years, or 56 years longer than current projections, reports BC's Center for Retirement Research in Money. The digital future The Carroll School's Gerald Kane and Sam Ransbotham write, respectively, on findings from the fifth annual digital business global executive study and research report, and on effective data experiments that augment managerial intuition, for Sloan Management Review. At the conventions The symbolic presence of grieving mothers at both parties' conventions this year is an outgrowth of what once was one of the only ways for women to participate in the political system, Professor of History Heather Cox Richardson tells the Washington Post. | Assistant Professor of Political Science David Hopkins comments on the DNC's 'war on climate change' platform for New England Public Radio. From BC Bookmarks Fine Arts prof Andrew Tavarelli's travels through Bali and Southeast Asia have inspired Star Fragments, a novel of his words and watercolors. |Writing in First Things, Theology Associate Professor Emeritus Rev. Robert Imbelli provides an appreciation and critique of Jesuit theologian Karl Rahner as he is featured in a new book of essays on Catholic intellectual tradition. | Lynch School of Education lecturer Michael James and alumni Dennis Carr and Hannah Trost combine student affairs best practices with Ignatian spirituality in their book 5 Steps to Effective Student Leadership: Insights & Examples. The CBO and Social Security In her latest post for Dow Jones MarketWatch, Carroll School of Management Drucker Professor Alicia Munnell, director of the Center for Retirement Research, questions a Congressional Budget Office figure that triples Social Security's 75-year deficit estimate. Europe, Islam, the Ottoman Caliphs Writing in the Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung (English translation),Professor of Political Science Jonathan Laurence contends that Europe risks repeating past mistakes on Islam. His piece is highlighted by The Economist. Verizon's Yahoo Deal Murray and Monti Professor of Economics Peter Ireland comments on what the $4.83 billion deal could mean for both companies and for shareholders: Boston Herald. 'Commonsense' guidelines A group of top executives including Warren Buffett and GM's Mary Barra have issued a joint document outlining basic business principles—a useful move, the Carroll School's Amy Hutton tells 'Marketplace.' Ailes Out at Fox News Roger Ailes is out, Rupert Murdoch in. Assistant Professor of Communication Matt Sienkiewicz comments on the development for the Los Angeles Times. America and Trump It would be easy to believe that Americans are falling in love with Donald Trump, according to Assistant Professor of Political Science Emily Thorson, who reflects on the election for an audience outside the U.S. in an essay for The Hindu. Origins of racial tension Racial bias is not the only factor fueling racial tension in the U.S., said Associate Professor of Sociology Zine Magubane, in an interview with NECN (her comments begins at :50 at the link above). A call to address racism Professor M. Shawn Copeland is among theologians commenting on how the U.S. Catholic Church can address racism in practice as well as in teaching. Unrest in Turkey Professor of Political Science Ali Banuazizi, director of the Islamic Civilization and Societies program, discussed the attempted coup. What can Mike Pence do for Trump? Vice presidential picks provide a window into the presidential candidates who select them, according to a blog post by BC political scientist David Hopkins, quoted by the Christian Science Monitor. Social Security to expand? A growing number of legislators and policy makers advocate for Social Security benefits to be modernized. Center for Retirement Research Director Alicia Munnell comments in the New York Times. Promises, promises Are presidential campaign promises made to be broken? Historian Patrick Maney comments in USA Today. Deflategate deflated? Now that a federal court has upheld Tom Brady's suspension, what's next? Law Professor Fred Yen considers the case in the Washington Post. After Dallas School of Social Work Professor of the Practice Tiziana Dearing discussed the memorial service for the slain police officers in Dallas, as well white America's response to the message of Black Lives Matter, in interviews with WBUR 'Radio Boston' (at the link above) and NECN 'The Take.' On the brink of racial crisis In an interview with the Boston Herald, Associate Professor of Sociology C. Shawn McGuffey said the bloodshed in Dallas could either bring people together or, if stoked by divisive leaders, prompt a series of violent protests across the country. Faith, hope, and love At a vigil for the fallen police officers, Dallas Mayor Mike Rawlings '76 said all three virtues would be needed for the city and nation to heal. Scroll to fourth clip at the link above to watch his speech on NBC Dallas-Fort Worth. Pope Francis' teaching Monan Professor of Theology Lisa Cahill comments to the Washington Post on bishops' responses to the call for mercy toward divorced and remarried Catholics. Not such good news A working paper co-authored by Carroll School finance prof Ronnie Sadka suggests that some execs downplay good news for personal gain. The research is highlighted by CBS MoneyWatch (at the link above), and he discussed it on CNBC 'Nightly Business Report' (at 12:38). Salaries in the NBA Business Law's Warren Zola comments on the pro-basketball salaries in the New York Times. Post-Brexit chaos History's Peter Moloney talks to CNBC about the political reverberations of Britain's vote to leave the European Union. 'It's the wild west' There's a clumsy architecture for regulating emerging stem cell therapies, Law School prof Mary Ann Chirba tells Reuters. Harvard v. Micron Technology Law School prof David Olson comments on the latest controversial patent infringement suit brought by a university. From meteorites to shrapnel Professor of English Carlo Rotella reviews Ian Frazier's new collection of essays Hogs Wild for the New York Times. Who is Guccifer 2.0? Linguistics experts including BC's M.J. Connolly analyze messages from the DNC hacker. Brexit and Boston's Brits Professor of History James Cronin weighs in on the likely impact that Britain's vote to leave the European Union will have on British citizens living in Boston. A world without work To some, the vision of a world in which work is handled by robots rather than humans is a bleak prospect. Why? Psychology research professor Peter Gray suggests one answer in The Atlantic. SCOTUS on affirmative action BC Law's Kent Greenfield comments to Business Insider on the effect Antonin Scalia's absence may have had on the Supreme Court ruling. Undermining of charity Writing for the The New York Review of Books (at link above), Law School prof Ray Madoff argues that the growth of donor-advised funds obstructs the flow of money to those in need. More from the Washington Post. Why B corporations? The trend in corporate governance that has led to "triple-bottom line" thinking has also led to a new organizational form, writes Carroll School prof Suntae Kim in Harvard Business Review. Making the middle class again If it's true that the middle class was a blip that's over, then it will have to be actively recreated, writes BC School of Social Work's Tiziana Dearing for The Hill. Banking and philosophy Cultural norms inside banks and regulatory agencies have crowded out fundamental moral principles, contends Carroll School prof Ed Kane, who advocates for a renewed focus on training in ethics. Landscape for today's fathers Center for Work and Family Executive Director Brad Harrington discusses changing roles and workplace leave policies on the nationally-syndicated 'Diane Rehm Show'. Two decades for children's rights Founder of the Juvenile Rights Advocacy Program at BC Law School, clinical professor and RFK Children's Action Corps honoree Fran Sherman is featured by the Boston Globe. Campaign rhetoric The 'timely genius' of Libby Professor of Law and Theology Cathleen Kaveny's latest book Prophecy Without Contempt is cited by a writer in Commonweal. A party divided BC politicial scientist David Hopkins and Harvard's Theda Skocpol debate how and when the Democratic party will heal the rifts of the primary. Charging the widow Law Professor Robert Bloom looks at the case against the wife of Orlando shooter on WRKO Morning News. 'Justice and mercy' A strong BC presence at the Catholic Theological Society of America annual conference included president-elect and University Chair in Human Rights and International Justice David Hollenbach, S.J., and School of Theology and Ministry Associate Professor of Theology and Latino/Latina Ministry Nancy Pineda-Madrid, respondent to a plenary address, among numerous others. Bill Clinton, 'First Gentleman' Professor of History Patrick Maney, author of Bill Clinton: New Gilded Age President, looks at how the former president might handle an unprecedented role. Net neutrality upheld BC Law's Daniel Lyons comments on the decision that will preserve equal access to the Internet on Bloomberg Radio, as well as in the Washington Post and Chicago Tribune. ISIS and Orlando Assistant Professor of Political Science Peter Krause discussed homophobia and ISIS in relation to the shooting in Orlando on NECN 'The Take' (segment begins at 4:38). Notes from the 14th century A document from the Mass. Historical Society archives believed to be written in Middle English is actually in Latin, says Assistant Professor of English Eric Weiskott in the Boston Globe. Campaign 2016 BC profs weigh in: Is Bernie Sanders the future of the Democratic party? Vox.com, at the link above. | What's the effect of Elizabeth Warren's nod to Hillary Clinton? Boston Herald | Can body language predict the election outcome? Fox News Boston Steve Wynn at CEO Club Wynn Resorts Chairman and CEO Steve Wynn talked Massachusetts casinos and presidential politics at the latest meeting of the Boston College Chief Executives Club. National auto-IRA? Universal access to workplace retirement plans could be an efficient way to close the coverage gap, says Center for Retirement Research Director Alicia Munnell. Aging workers' job hunt Employers have preconceptions about older workers that are hard to shake, says Center on Aging & Work's Jacquelyn James. Constitutional vs. states' rights Law School Assistant Professor Kari Hong weighs in on 'bathroom laws' in an op-ed for WBUR 'Cognoscenti.' Uber in Saudi Arabia Uber expanding in the Middle East is a mixed bag for women in Saudi Arabia, Natana DeLong-Bas of Islamic Civilization and Societies tells the Christian Science Monitor. North Shore quake Geophysicist John Ebel talks with theBoston Globe about a small quake that occurred off the coast of Rockport, Mass. Time for an interest rate hike? Dallas Federal Reserver President Robert Kaplan's remarks at the 11th annual Carroll School Finance Conferece were covered by media including Reuters, at the link above, and the Wall Street Journal. To buy, or not to buy, a car Associate Professor of Economics Bob Murphy looks at the landscape for auto deals and the buying process. Why so angry? Historian Heather Cox Richardson and sociologist Charles Derber discuss the tone of the 2016 campaign on WGBH-TV 'Greater Boston.' Getting copyright abusers to pay up A working paper on copyright enforcement co-written by Associate Professor of Economics Julie Holland Mortimer is highlighted by Forbes. Going in peace After nearly 12 years, parishioners in Mass. have ended their vigil to keep their church open. Clough Millennium Professor of History James O'Toole comments in the New York Times. Is the workplace ready for Gen Z? Experts including Carreer Center Associate Director Lou Gaglini weigh in for Metro U.S. Wealth and leadership How does income inequality—currently at historically high levels—affect the types of leaders in the workplace? Carroll School Assistant Professor of Management and Organization Sean R. Martin explores the topic in Harvard Business Review. Scanning for sugar The FDA has approved a new nutrition panel that highlights sugar content—useful, since added sugar brings nothing to the party, says Sheila Tucker, a registered dietician with BC's Office of Health Promotion, in the Wall Street Journal. Deflategate appeal effort Will Tom Brady get a rehearing? Law Professor Fred Yen comments in the Washington Post. Busyness and the brain A report shows keeping busy aids cognition. Professor of Psychology Elizabeth Kensinger comments in theBoston Globe. Casino war Regulators say Donald Trump's tactics went too far against competition from Native Americans. The Carroll School's Richard McGowan, S.J., weighs in for theFinancial Times. Live podcasts draw a crowd The trend is growing, but the idea is not that new, Carroll School IS prof John Gallaugher tells Boston Globe. Judge dismisses Comcast suit The decision did not leave much room for WHDH-TV to appeal, according to Law School prof Daniel Lyons. Student Writer of the Year Theology doctoral student Cristina Richie Th.M. '12, Ph.D. '16 has received the 2016 Evangelical Press Association first place award for her article "Diet and Cross-Religious Witness." A GOP moral dilemma As some Republicans on Capitol Hill grapple with whether they can support Donald Trump, Associate Professor of Theology Rev. James Weiss tells the Christian Science Monitor that personal and policy morality are always involved in the selection of leaders. Saudi Arabia near crisis? Is the country on the brink of becoming a failed state? Natana DeLong-Bas of Theology and Islamic Civilization and Societies weighed in on NECN 'The Take.' Active, passive funds as allies? When actively managed funds agitate for changes in governance, they may find an ally in passively managed funds, writes Carroll School Assistant Professor of Finance Ian Appel in Harvard Business Review. States' rights; civil rights Assistant Professor of Law Kari Hong discussed issues related to the North Carolina bathroom bill controversy on NECN 'The Take.' The cost of substandard housing Unhealthy living conditions take both a physical and psychological toll on low-income families, report researchers including Rebekah Levine Coley of the Lynch School. HPV vaccination rates Connell School of Nursing Assistant Professor Holly Fontenot discussed her study, presented at the Annual Conference on Vaccine Research, with the journal Infectious Diseases in Children. Data, marketing, engagement For Sloan Management Review, Carroll School prof Sam Ransbotham writes on the impact of Blockchain data storage on a business model (at the link above) and interviews marketers for Intercontinental Hotels Groupabout use of analytics; Carroll School prof Gerald Kane talks customer engagement with an EVP of Adobe. 'Hear no evil' What will happen to intellectual discourse in an era of ideological clashes? Professor of Political Science Marc Landy was a guest on 'The Takeaway.' From BC Bookmarks Assistant Professor of German Studies Daniel Bowles has won the 2016 Helen & Kurt Wolff Translator's Prize for his translation of Christian Kracht's Imperium: A Fiction of the South Seas. | Violence, Politics and Catholicism in Ireland is a collection of essays by Director of Irish Programs Oliver P. Rafferty, S.J. | Global and Local Internationalization, co-edited by Center for International Higher Education Director Hans de Wit, shows that internationalization is deeply embedded in local structures, systems and cultures. Being happy with less Professor of Sociology Juliet Schor is a contributor to the new film 'Minimalism: A Documentary About Important Things.' When terrorism works An article by political scientist Peter Krause, completed with 14 students on his 'Project on National Movements' undergraduate research team, for the Barcelona Centre for International Affairs. The Whole Harmonium A biography of poet Wallace Stevens by University Professor of English Paul Mariani has been rated a number one best seller on Amazon.com in American Literary Criticism and Hot New Sellers, and drawn praise from numerous media outlets. Puerto Rico's debt challenge What does the territory need from Congress? Woods College economist Aleksandar Tomic weighs in for ABC News. Election 2016 Libby Professor of Law and Theology Cathleen Kaveny writes on political parties, culture wars, and Catholics inCommonweal (at the link above). | Assistant Professor of Political Science David Hopkins looks at Donald Trump's likely effect on the GOP in a piece for theWashingtonPost.com. | Assistant Professor of African History Priya Lal comments on Trump's pronunciation of Tanzania during a foreign policy speech: U.K.'s Guardian. Deflategate ruling Tom Brady's suspension is reinstated; BC Law Professor Fred Yen weighs in on WGBH 'Greater Boston.' Love it; hate it Bostonians have a complicated relationship with the MBTA, Carroll School prof Arch Woodside tells Boston.com. The Easter Rising explained Irish national broadcaster RTÉ features a primer on the events of April 24-29, 1916 by BC Ireland Academic Director Mike Cronin. The popular voice Pope Francis' theology begins with the faith of the people, visiting theologians Rafael Luciani and Félix Palazzi write in America. The gig economy Carroll School prof Spencer Harrison comments in Boston Globe Magazineon the trend toward more workers in freelance or non-traditional jobs. Aging and burnout jobs A Center for Retirement Research report on jobs that are more affected by cognitive decline is cited by Dow Jones Marketwatch, at the link above, and NBCNews.com. Fulfilling standards or filling seats? Lynch School Research Professor Phil Altbach weighs in on colleges' use of international recruiting agents in theNew York Times. Banks' 'living wills' Bankruptcy preparedness plans for banks remain a work in progress, Liberty Mutual Insurance Professor of Law Patricia McCoy tells Marketplace Radio. Faith healing and the law Professor of History Alan Rogers discusses with The Guardian laws that protect parents who deny their children necessary medical attention. Career coaching Guidance that can help students develop a career plan earlier is valuable, Lynch School of Education professor David Blustein tells theNew York Times. 'American Idol' bows out How did it become such a huge success? Assistant Professor of Communication Matt Sienkiewicz talks with the Christian Science Monitor. Turkish geopolitics Democracy in Turkey is battered but not yet sunk, writes Associate Professor of Political Science Jonathan Laurence. Political parties and major media A study by Assistant Professor of Political Science David Hopkins explores which news networks are—and are not—trusted by Republicans and Democrats. College grads as nursing aides Should Tufts Medical Center recruit graduates to bolster its staff of clinical care technicians? Connell School of Nursing Associate Professor Judith Shindul-Rothschild comments in the Boston Globe. GITMO transfers Former DoD legal advisor Kevin Powers, now director of the Woods College of Advancing Studies master's program in cybersecurity policy and governance, weighed in on plans to release more Guantanamo Bay detainees in an effort to shut down the prison. The retirement process As more Americans choose, or are forced into, "bridge employment," retirement is no longer a one-time event, according to research by Professor of Economics Joseph Quinn highlighted by the Associated Press. Social Work and HIV/AIDS Vincent Lynch, chair of the National HIV/AIDS Social Work Conference founded at the BC School of Social Work and now in its 28th year, discussed the past and future of the event in an interview with AIDs.gov. Impact of man-made quakes A U.S. Geological Survey report on earthquakes associated with oil and gas drilling will have an affect on business development, BC geophysicist John Ebel tells CNBC. Ireland's journey to independence Professor of History Oliver Rafferty, S.J., executive director of the Center for Irish Programs, discussed the role of the 1916 Easter Rising on WNYC's "The Takeaway." The Belgium bombings Natana DeLong-Bas of the Islamic Civilization and Societies program discussed the attack in Brussels with NECN, at the link above, and on WRKO-AM. Apple vs. the FBI The court showdown may have been canceled, but stakes remain high for this and future privacy cases. Kevin Powers, director of the master's program in cybersecurity policy and governance at the Woods College of Advancing Studies, weighs in on NECN "The Take" (begins at 2:00). Shining light on a controversial crest Research by BC Law School Monan Professor and former dean Daniel Coquillette, widely credited with bringing forth the backstory of a controversial crest on the Harvard Law School seal, is featured by theBoston Globe. Immigration drives Hub vitality It's one of the major influences in the development of Boston over the past several decades, Professor of History Marilynn Johnson told a gathering of the Massachusetts Historical Society. The GOP cycle Periods of divisiveness in the party are not new, Professor of History Heather Cox Richardson tells theChristian Science Monitor. Confusion driving candiate support? The campaign season reveals confusion about America's direction as a country, contends School of Social Work Associate Professor Tiziana Dearing, in an op-ed for CNN.com. The 'rage to master' It's a trait shared by prodigies—not so much anger as persistence, Psychology chair Ellen Winner says in an ABC News piece on the Nationals' Bryce Harper. Third casino for the Bay State? The choice between two more proposed casinos in a crowded gambling landscape is a difficult one for the state Gaming Commission, says Carroll School of Management prof Richard McGowan, S.J. Ch. 7 vs. Comcast WHDH-TV has gone to court in a bid to block Comcast from terminating the station’s network contract. Does the station have a case? BC Law School's Daniel Lyons weighs in. Importance of Carson's candidacy He and other African-American candidates who demonstrate by their example that skin color does not determine political affiliation, benefit the nation, writes Law School Associate Professor Richard Albert. China's glass ceiling The nation's impressive higher education accomplishments have masked some significant barriers, writes Lynch School Research Professor Phil Altbach. Too old to be president? Psychology neuroscientist Joshua Hartshorne, co-author of a study assesssing cognitive performance across the lifespan, comments on age and candidacy in Politico. A seat for everyone The voices heard in American politics are creating a vicious circle in which economic inequality begets political inequality which, in turn, furthers economic inequality, writes Moakley Professor of Political Science Kay Lehman Schlozman. Purim 'Shpil' in Soviet Moscow In Mosaic Magazine, Professor of Russian and English Maxim D. Shrayer reflects on an unsanctioned Soviet theater and a 1987 thespian celebration of the holiday of Purim. BC at U.S.W.N.T. Worlds Four members of the top-ranked BC Women's Hockey Eagles made the U.S. Women's National Team for the 2016 World Championships: seniors Alex Carpenter, Haley Skarupa and Dana Trivigno, and sophomore Megan Keller. Alumnae Emily Pfalzer '15 and Kelli Stack '11 also were named to the squad. Global higher ed landscape Research presented at the Association of International Education Administrators annual conference by BC's Center for International Higher Education is highlighted by Inside Higher Ed. Engaging ELLs A book by Lynch School of Education Professor Maria Estela Brisk draws from her work helping English language teachers and students in the Boston Public Schools. Liberation through reconciliation O. Ernesto Valiente of the School of Theology and Ministry taps into experiences in his native El Salvador for his book on Jon Sobrino's Christological spirituality. Hacking the Constitution Law School prof Katharine Young was among experts 'reimagining' the U.S. Constitution on WBUR-FM. Balancing the burden The key question for presidential candidates is 'Do you actually understand the forces of inequality in the U.S.?', says School of Social Work prof Tiziana Dearing, commenting for CBS Boston. Buying less, buying better More people are rejecting mass-production, both for aesthetic reasons and because of exploitation in 'fast fashion,' says Professor of Sociology Juliet Schor in The Atlantic. Scalia's influence Antonin Scalia likely will go down as one of the most influential justices of the Supreme Court, says Law Professor Bob Bloom; his legacy is far-reaching, Law Professor Kent Greenfield tells WCVB-TV News. Zika controversy continues The Zika virus is going to reignite the unresolved debate that’s existed since 1968 about the moral status of artificial contraception when applied to extraordinary cases, according to School of Theology and Ministry Professor James Bretzke in the New York Times. High sodium in town water Sodium levels exceed state guidelines in Norwell, Mass. BC scientist Rudolph Hon discusses the upward trajectory and its causes. Clinton, Sanders on financial reform How do the candidates proposals stack up? A Q&A with Carroll School Professor of Finance Ed Kane discusses current and proposed reforms. 'Uno y one equals dos' Students at a Catholic academy outside of Dallas are becoming bilingual learners of English and Spanish, regardless of the primary language they speak at home, through the Two-Way Immersion Network launched by BC's Roche Center for Catholic Education. The pope in Mexico While his actions may sometimes be unpredictable, Pope Francis remains consistent in his commitment to the poor and marginalized, School of Theology and Ministry Professor James Bretzke, S.J., tells the Arizona Republic. Granite State 'flintiness' Pundits love to call New Hampshire voters 'flinty.' Does the shoe fit? Communication's Matt Sienkiewicz comments in Politico. The cure for a toxic workplace? Researchers from BC's Center for Work and Family weigh in. Zika advice spurs controversy Birth defects related to the Zika virus have prompted health officials in some countries to advise women not to become pregnant. BC theologians discuss Church teaching with CNN. The road to Utopia Professor of Sociology Juliet Schor responds to a modern culture of work and consumption in a conversation with JSTOR Daily. Creative child, creative adult? Only a fraction of gifted chilren become revolutionary adult creators, according to Professor of Psychology Ellen Winner, commenting in the New York Times. Two-way immersion network Roche Center for Catholic Education Executive Director Particia Weitzel-O'Neill and School of Theology and Ministry prof Hoffsman Ospino discuss the impact of dual-language immersion in Catholic schools with National Catholic Reporter. Mass. AG proves hep-c drug pricing A suit challenging high drug prices under a state's consumer-protection law would be unusual, BC Law School Associate Professor Dean Hashimoto tells the Wall Street Journal. Pollution and environmental justice Professor of Sociology and Environmental Studies Andrew Jorgenson comments in the Washington Post on new data that show poor and minority communities are more likely to be exposed to some of the most intense pollution. G.E.'s move to Boston What’s in it for the company, the city and the state? Carroll School of Management Associate Professor of Accounting Billy Soo weighs in on WGBH-FM News. 'The Dogs of Littlefield' Suzanne Berne of the English Department faculty mixes menace with sharp comedy in her 'absorbing' latest novel, according to a New York Times review. Witnessing 'garbage cities' A semester break trip for sophomores in the Gabelli Presidential Scholars Program gave renewed meaning to Pope Francis' critique of today's disposable culture and its discarded people, writes PSP director Canisius Professor James Keenan, S.J. The candidates on Social Security The Center for Retirement Research summarizes the presidential contenders' main proposals in a chart highlighting their basic differences. What's ahead for Syrian refugees? An interview with Westy Egmont of the School of Social Work in Eurasia Diary. 'Magic slivers of the torrent' The Boston Globe reviews an exhibit of street photography by Fine Arts' Karl Baden, on view at Boston's Miller Yezerski Gallery. Poor kids, limited horizons Lynch School of Education researchers discuss the gap between career aspirations and reality for low-income students in the Chronicle of Higher Education. What's next for daily fantasy sports? Tackling gaming laws state-by-state, says a BC Carroll School's Richard McGowan, S.J., in the New York Times, and new tax regulations, BC Law School profs tell Bloomberg News. When students are refugees Higher education programs for refugees must consider the challenges of the students' environment, a BC School of Social Work researcher Thomas Crea reports in Times Higher Education. 'Lost' Boston poems BC Professor of English Paul Lewis and his students recover poems penned by everyday Bostonians in the years after the American Revolution. Influencers in education Lynch School of Education Brennan Professor Andy Hargreaves and Professor Marilyn Cochran-Smith are among the most influential in U.S. education policy and practice, according to an Education Week ranking. Political 'belief echoes' How do attitudes that persist even when misinformation has been corrected affect candidates? BC political scientist Emily Thorson explains her research in an op-ed for the Washington Post. v A BC student's faith journey "My faith is what wakes me up in the mornings," writes Zoe Silsby '19, in an essay for 'America' magazine. Retirement age and the poor Bloomberg News reports on a Center for Retirement Research study that shows raising the retirement age may adversely affect the poor. '30 under 30' Forbes' list for 2016 includes Carroll School of Management alumnus Phil Dumontet '09, founder of Dashed rapid delivery serivces, and Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences alumni Staff Sheehan '11, founder of Catalytic Innovations, and Akash Chougule '12, deputy director of policy at Americans for Prosperity. Back To Top Back To Top Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College