Skip to main content Close search Search for people, topics, events, etc. Search Go to homepage Toggle menu Toggle search Close menu Events & Exhibitions Visit Upcoming Events Past Events Fellowship Fellows Become a Fellow Schlesinger Library About the Library Research Services Collections Visit the Library News & Ideas Opportunities For Students For Researchers For Educators Toggle search About Give Media Harvard and Slavery Opportunities For Students For Researchers For Educators About Give Media Harvard and Slavery News & Ideas News & Ideas Let's Talk About Sex! Toggle information Close detail panel Photographs from the papers of Tala Brandeis Share This page S h a r e T h i s Share this page on Facebook F a c e b o o k Share this page on Twitter T w i t t e r Share this page on LinkedIn L i n k e d I n Birds do it, bees do it, and Americans have been fighting about it for centuries. Author By Jane Kamensky Published 06.19.2019 Share Share this page on Facebook Share this page on Twitter Share this page on LinkedIn Copy Link Related Young Voices Energize Session on Transgender Archives Unpacking Angela Davis A Deeper Sense of Her Own Story From Florida to the Great Lakes, European colonists enforced their dominion by policing chastity, monogamy, and fecundity. Laws regulating sexual behavior, and categorizing the offspring that often resulted from it, long predated the United States. Many such statues lasted for centuries; some endure still. Since the 1960s, as historian Robert Self RI ’08 has demonstrated, issues rooted in marriage, sexuality, and family have remade American politics and public policy. Battles over sexual rights (and wrongs) continue to ripple through our national discourse. Self, like others who have worked on this topic, did a lot of his research at the Schlesinger Library. Our collections richly document generations of pitched and earnest battle over issues ranging from contraception, to abortion, to pornography, to sexual identity. Individuals and organizations whose records we hold staked out well-reasoned, passionately argued, and adamantly opposed positions on issues of intimate politics. The papers of reproductive rights pioneer Bill Baird can be read alongside the collection of anti-abortion physician and organizer Mildred Jefferson. The antipornography thought and activism of Andrea Dworkin and Catharine MacKinnon can be considered alongside the contrary efforts of a growing number of sex-positive individuals and organizations, from the records of the sex-worker rights group COYOTE (Call Off Your Old Tired Ethics) to the papers of adult industry pioneers Candida Royalle, Gloria Leonard, and Veronica Hart. Schlesinger’s ability to support fresh scholarship in these hot-button areas of study recently increased by an order of magnitude, thanks to our acquisition of collections assembled by the Center for Sex and Culture in San Francisco. Faced with the kinds of cost increases that sometimes threaten the long-term survival of community archives, the CSC—a vibrant organization dedicated to documenting the work, lives, and thought of sexual minorities and sexuality activists in the Bay Area—chose Harvard as the permanent repository of the materials it had collected over decades. Radcliffe’s Schlesinger Library partnered with Houghton and Widener Libraries to bring this enormous trove of material (manuscripts, rare books, printed ephemera, film, audio recordings, and three-dimensional objects) to Cambridge. After the CSC collections are processed, Schlesinger researchers will be able to study the papers of the trans activists Patrick Califia and Tala Brandeis; the records of Good Vibrations, one of the first woman-owned stores selling sex products primarily to a female market; and the papers of pornographic actress and sex educator Nina Hartley, and sexual freedom advocate and bisexual activist Margo Rila. As we continue to skirmish over wedding cakes and bathrooms, pronouns and politics, birds and bees, collections like these have the power to catalyze new ways of understanding the past and the present and, just maybe, to help us to envision a more harmonious and inclusive future. Share: Share this page on Facebook Share this page on Twitter Share this page on LinkedIn News & Ideas Harvard Radcliffe Institute Awards 2022 Fay Prize for Outstanding Theses Harvard Radcliffe Institute Announces 2022–2023 Fellows Harvard’s Walking Tour App Highlights Overlooked History Some of Boston’s Legacy of Slavery is Hidden in Plain Sight The Prison as Petri Dish Zooming the Archives Constance Baker Motley, Then and Now In Process: Adrienne Kennedy Papers and Dorothy I. Height Papers Back to top B a c k t o t o p Get the latest Radcliffe news delivered to your inbox Enter your e-mail address Continue Radcliffe Institute for Advanced Study Harvard University 10 Garden Street Cambridge, MA 02138 Directions Give Now Contact Visit Careers Housing Meeting Spaces Site Map Digital Accessibility Accessibility Harvard University Policies Follow us on Facebook Follow us on Twitter Follow us onInstagram Subscribe to our RSS feed Visit our LinkedIn page Visit our YouTube channel © 2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College