Skip to site alert. Skip to content College of Dental Medicine Students Alumni Faculty Giving Contact Us Search About Us About Us Our Mission History Leadership and Administration Board of Advisors Global Dean's Council News Diversity Community Outreach Global Initiatives Support the College of Dental Medicine Events Calendar Contact Us Columbia Visiting Professorship Program CDM Publications Education Education DDS Program Advanced Standing Program for Foreign Trained Dentists Postdoctoral and Residency Programs Tuition, Fees and Financial Aid Global Programs Visits & Externships Continuing Education Academic Sections/Divisions Academic Calendars Research Research Research Areas Research Labs Research Centers Research Faculty Clinical Trials Research Resources Student Research First International Symposium of Fusobacteria Patient Care Patient Care ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Teaching Clinics Patient Resources COVID-19 Safety ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Our Doctors Our Services Our Locations Make an Appointment Make an Appointment Choose between ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry and our affordable Dental Clinics. Para Español, haga clic aquí. Explore Your Options Events News News Search All News Keywords Top Stories Dr. Dennis Mitchell Receives ADEA’s Distinguished Service Award at 2022 ADEA Annual Meeting Dr. Dennis Mitchell received ADEA’s Distinguished Service Award at the 2022 ADEA Annual Meeting. Dr. Mitchell is a Professor of Dental Medicine at the Columbia University College of Dental Medicine. Topic Campus News Need Help Quitting Smoking? At Columbia, You Can Ask Your Dentist The College of Dental Medicine is working on multiple fronts to train the next generation of dentists to help patients quit smoking. Topic Dentistry Columbia Unveils New Mobile Clinic for Community Dental Care A Nov. 12 ribbon cutting ceremony for Columbia University’s Mobile Dental Center underscored renewed efforts to address oral health disparities in Northern Manhattan and the South Bronx. Topic Campus News Columbia College of Dental Medicine Collaborates with New York State Dental Association to Expand Community Outreach A new collaboration between the College of Dental Medicine and NYSDA will enhance access to dental services for underserved communities in Northern Manhattan. Topic Public Health Latest News Take a Look Inside Columbia's New Mobile Clinic for Community Dental Care By Kelly Moffitt November 16, 2021 On November 12, community and Columbia leaders met on the Manhattanville campus in West Harlem to celebrate the debut of the Mobile Dental Center. Topic Dentistry Universidad de Columbia estrena una clínica dental móvil Source: Spectrum Noticias NY1 November 16, 2021 Un bus que provee servicios de salud en el Alto Manhattan le da una razón a los neoyorquinos para sonreír. Topic Dentistry Columbia Scientists Awarded $3.97M to Study Link Between Alzheimer’s and Periodontitis October 25, 2021 Building on a long-term study of cognitive aging, researchers will collect and analyze oral health data to clarify how periodontitis is associated with Alzheimer’s disease and related dementias. Topic Research Columbia Giving Day: Wednesday, October 20, 2021 October 18, 2021 Join Columbia CDM alumni, students, friends, faculty, and staff on #ColumbiaGivingDay as we come together to support our school. Topic Philanthropy Faculty Spotlight: Jacob Palma, Emergency Dental Clinic Director October 6, 2021 Nicaraguan native and U.S. Air Force veteran Jacob Palma, DDS, emphasizes holistic care as he guides dental students through cases in the emergency clinic. Topic Campus News “Dentistry should be recognized as an essential health service” Source: Dental Tribune October 1, 2021 James Fine, Senior Associate Dean for Postdoctoral Academic and Student Affairs, discusses the effect of the pandemic on academic dentistry and the importance of emphasizing oral health to the public. Topic Dentistry View All News Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian ColumbiaDoctors About Us Education Research Student Life Alumni Faculty Contact Us Intranet Columbia University College of Dental Medicine 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Back to top