Search | Directories | Reference Tools UW Home > Discover UW > Student Guide UW Bothell Course Descriptions UW Tacoma Course Descriptions Glossary SCHOOL OF MEDICINE DEPARTMENT OF MEDICINE GENETIC COUNSELING Detailed course offerings (Time Schedule) are available for Spring Quarter 2022 Summer Quarter 2022 Autumn Quarter 2022 GCNSL 511 Genetic Counseling Theory and Practice I (3) Introduces students to genetic counseling principles and techniques. Topics include eliciting and interpreting family history, contracting, risk communication, health literacy, and facilitated decision-making. Students will also begin to explore other cultural and psychosocial issues that impact the genetic counseling process. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: GCNSL 511 GCNSL 512 Legal, Ethical, and Social Issues in Public Health Genetics (3) Equips the student to anticipate and assess potential legal, ethical, and social barriers complicating the incursion of new genetic advances, information, and technologies into public and private healthcare delivery efforts. Prerequisite: GENOME 361, GENOME 371, or equivalent. Offered: jointly with B H 514/LAW H 504/PHG 512; A. View course details in MyPlan: GCNSL 512 GCNSL 513 Clinical Skills I (2) Familiarizes students with typical structure of a clinical genetics visit. Students practice chart review, basic pedigree construction, and genetics literature search. Also covers basic tenets of patient privacy, professional ethics, and self-care. Students attend observations in a medical genetics clinic and a clinical genetics laboratory. Observations take place outside of class time. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: GCNSL 513 GCNSL 515 Principles of Human and Medical Genetics (5) Reintroduces and reinforces basic concepts in genetics, such as the cell cycle, DNA synthesis, and Mendelian inheritance. Provides instruction in the foundational principles of clinical human genetics including genetic mechanisms of disease, genetic testing technologies, genetic variation and population genetics. Teaches students to recognize cardinal features of common genetic disorders. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: GCNSL 515 GCNSL 521 Genetic Counseling Theory and Practice II (3) Introduces students to counseling theories, models, and techniques. Topics include communication throughout the lifespan, disability and chronic illness, and grief and loss. Prerequisite: GCNSL 511. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: GCNSL 521 GCNSL 522 Reproductive Genetics (3) Prepares students for clinical practice in reproductive genetic counseling. Topics include normal course of pregnancy, pregnancy management, evaluation for infertility, recurrent pregnancy loss, stillbirth, assisted reproductive technologies, pre-implantation genetic screening/testing, teratology, fetal treatment and intervention, perinatal loss and bereavement, ethical and legal considerations in reproductive genetics. Co-requisite: GCNSL 526. Prerequisite: GCNSL 515. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: GCNSL 522 GCNSL 523 Clinical Skills II (2) Continues development of clinical skills. Students work on case presentation from chart review, more advanced pedigree construction, creation of a diagnostic differential, and documentation of a clinic visit. Students also spend part of a day observing in the Washington State Newborn Screening Laboratory. Prerequisite: GCNSL 513. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: GCNSL 523 GCNSL 524 Biostatistics in Genetic Counseling (2) Introduction to statistical methods used to evaluate probability of a condition or carrier status with genetic data, integrating pedigrees, genetics principles, and probability. Students evaluate literature relevant to genetic counseling and genotype-phenotype relationships. Includes overview of probability, odds ratios and recurrence risk, penetrance and expressivity, Bayes' Theorem, kinship estimation, linkage analysis and association testing. Prerequisite: GCNSL 515. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: GCNSL 524 GCNSL 525 Pediatric and Biochemical Genetics (3) Covers referral indications, history intake (medical, developmental, and family), diagnostic testing approaches, and resource identification in the context of pediatric and biochemical genetics clinics. Introduces students to dysmorphology and common genetic disorders, including inherited errors of metabolism and the biochemical systems involved. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: GCNSL 525 GCNSL 526 Clinical Embryology (2) Raj P Kapur Basic foundation in human embryological development for students pursuing studies in biomedical science and in particular, genetic counseling. Using a combination of pre-class lecture videos, in-class lecture, animations, class discussion, and case-based learning, focuses on embryogenesis, organogenesis, underlying molecular mechanisms, abnormalities in development, and current applications to medicine. Recommended: knowledge of human anatomy. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: GCNSL 526 GCNSL 531 Genetic Counseling Theory and Practice III (3) Brad Rolf, Robin L Bennett Culmination of Genetic Counseling Theory and Practice series. Students discuss and practice application of counseling theories, models, and techniques. Cases and topics drawn from instructors' and students' clinical experiences. Guest speakers address factors that impact counseling relationship, such as mental health issues, cultural differences, and language barriers. Prerequisite: GCNSL 521. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: GCNSL 531 GCNSL 532 Cancer Genetics and Genomics (2) Focuses on approach to risk assessment for cancer, genetic evaluation and testing, and genetic counseling for familial and hereditary cancer syndromes. Reviews hereditary cancer syndromes. Emphasizes considerations for somatic and germline testing. Combines didactic lectures with class participation in case analysis. Prerequisite: GCNSL 511; GCNSL 515; GCNSL 521; and GCNSL 522. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: GCNSL 532 GCNSL 533 Clinical Practicum I (1) Fieldwork rotations. Complements student's didactic training by providing hands-on experience in various genetic counseling roles spanning multiple clinical and non-clinical settings. Through these rotations, students build skills outlined in the American Board of Genetic Counseling's (ABGC's) Practice-Based Competencies and obtain logbook cases to fulfill ABGC certification requirements. Prerequisite: GCNSL 513 and GCNSL 523. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: GCNSL 533 GCNSL 534 Research Methods and Design in Genetic Counseling (2) Explores how genetic counselors can be active leaders and interpreters of scientific research. Topics include research design ethics and Institutional Review Board research approval processes, conducting literature reviews, grantsmanship, building research teams, recruiting participants, collecting quantitative/qualitative data, communicating research results to patients, families, colleagues. Prerequisite: GCNSL 524. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: GCNSL 534 GCNSL 535 Adult Genetics and Common Diseases (3) Utilizes a case-based approach to adult clinical genetics. Students work in small groups to research and present three cases. Content experts invited to speak about their areas of expertise related to some of the cases. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: GCNSL 535 GCNSL 536 Applied Clinical and Laboratory Genetics (2) Introduces wet-lab methods; measures of analytic and clinical validity; results interpretation in cytogenetics, molecular genetics and biochemical genetic testing. Covers test selection/strategy, communicating test results, components of lab reports for cytogenetics and molecular genetics results; regulatory oversight of genetics labs, differences between research and clinical testing; role of genetic counselor within the laboratory setting. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: GCNSL 536 GCNSL 543 Clinical Practicum II (5) Fieldwork rotations. Complements student's didactic training by providing hands-on experience in various genetic counseling roles spanning multiple clinical and non-clinical settings. Through these rotations, students build skills outlined in the American Board of Genetic Counseling's (ABGC's) Practice-Based Competencies and obtain logbook cases to fulfill ABGC certification requirements. Prerequisite: GCNSL 533. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: S. View course details in MyPlan: GCNSL 543 GCNSL 553 Clinical Practicum III (4) Fieldwork rotations. Complements student's didactic training by providing hands-on experience in various genetic counseling roles spanning multiple clinical and non-clinical settings. Through these rotations, students build skills outlined in the American Board of Genetic Counseling's (ABGC's) Practice-Based Competencies and obtain logbook cases to fulfill ABGC certification requirements. Prerequisite: GCNSL 543. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: GCNSL 553 Office of the University Registrar registrar@uw.edu Modified: May 30, 2022