Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Learning Commons Learning Commons right arrow down arrow Schedule a Service Programs and Policies right arrow down arrow Academic Coaching right arrow down arrow Meet the Academic Coaches Academic Writing Center right arrow down arrow Meet the Tutors Graduate Tutoring Learning Assistants Learning Communities right arrow down arrow Peer Leader Program Current Peer Leaders Current Peer Leader Coordinators Math & Science Support Center Peer Facilitation right arrow down arrow Current Peer Facilitators Current Peer Facilitator Coordinators Peer Tutoring Success Skills Workshops right arrow down arrow Step by Step Guide to Register Success Skills Workshop Policies Success Skills Workshop Topics Supplemental Instruction right arrow down arrow SI Schedule Supplemental Review Sessions (MATH 1096) Learning Resources right arrow down arrow Note-Taking and Test Strategies right arrow down arrow The Cornell Method for Note-Taking Reading for Main Ideas vs. Details SQ4R: Getting the Most from Your Textbooks PLAN: An Active Reading Strategy How to Ace Your Finals Learning Styles and Study Habits right arrow down arrow Strategies for Aural Learners Strategies for Kinesthetic Learners Strategies for Visual Learners Writing Resources Business Writing Materials right arrow down arrow Resume Writing Tips Cover Letter Tips Memo Writing Tips First-Year Students right arrow down arrow First Semester Checklist Achieve Your Goal GPA Technology Skills Anxiety, Attitude, and Stress right arrow down arrow Managing Stress New Concentration Ideas Look at Your Classes to Find Your Passion Defining Your Career Goals Math Minute right arrow down arrow Math Minute - Algebra Math Minute - Calculus Online Learning Strategies Student Employment right arrow down arrow Academic Coaching Positions Academic Writing Center Positions Front Desk Assistant Positions Learning Assistant Positions Learning Community Peer Leader Positions Peer Facilitator Positions Peer Tutoring Positions Success Skills Workshop Positions Supplemental Instruction Leader Positions SRS Leader & MASS Tutor Positions Professional Staff Home » Campus Life » Learning Commons » Student Employment Set Navigation title in component Academic Coaching Positions Academic Writing Center Positions Front Desk Assistant Positions Learning Assistant Positions Learning Community Peer Leader Positions Peer Facilitator Positions Peer Tutoring Positions Success Skills Workshop Positions Supplemental Instruction Leader Positions SRS Leader & MASS Tutor Positions Student Employment Working at the Learning Commons is a great opportunity for UC students. Being a Learning Commons employee offers competitive pay, flexible hours, resume building, a part-time on-campus co-op opportunity (you can still take a full load of courses!), and a great opportunity to help your fellow UC students when they need academic support. The Fall 2022 Application is now open! Part-time on-campus co-op positions are available on both Clifton's and Clermont's campuses. Review the list of available positions, read about each position, and then apply below! Learning Commons Part-Time On-Campus Co-Op Opportunity Working in the Learning Commons is a recognized on-campus co-op. This part-time co-op opportunity allows you to take a full semester of classes and set your work hours around your class schedule. A component of your first term of employment includes mandatory registration in a one-credit hour professional development course (COOP 1000) with the Division of Experience-Based Learning and Career Education. In cases where registration would incur a cost, there is a 0-credit option. In addition, there are a limited number of recognized exemptions to this requirement. By enrolling in COOP 1000, Learning Commons employees will have the opportunity to: Receive additional professional development coaching Earn experiential learning credit Get valuable feedback from faculty in Experience-Based Learning and Career Education Develop leadership skills and translate your work experience on campus for future employment For Honor’s students, this course is the only way to earn an Honors experience through the Learning Commons during your first semester of employment. Questions about your Honors experience requirements can be directed to your Honors Advisor. UC Clermont Student Employment Attention UC Clermont Students! We are excited to announce we are hiring various Learning Commons positions to work on UC Clermont’s campus! You have the opportunity to apply for the following positions: Academic Coaches, Academic Writing Center Tutor, Peer Tutor, Peer Leader, and SI Leader. Please use the red buttons below to explore each position more. Position Descriptions Academic Coaching Positions Academic Writing Center Positions Front Desk Assistant Positions Learning Assistant Positions Learning Community Peer Leader Positions Peer Facilitator Positions Peer Tutoring Positions Success Skills Workshop Peer Educator Positions Supplemental Instruction Leader Positions Supplemental Review Session Leader and MASS Tutor Positions Are you ready to apply? Explore and research the different positions you're interested in by clicking on any of the position buttons above. Then: Apply to work for the Learning Commons. On the General Application, you can select more than one position to which you want to apply, but you should not select all positions. Complete the Fall 2022 student employment application online. It is suggested to complete the application in 1 sitting, as the software will not save your information. If you are looking to apply to the Learning Commons Marketing Intern position, please complete the specific application online. Contact your recommender(s) based on the position requirements. Your references do NOT need to write letters of recommendation. After you submit your application, recommender forms will automatically be emailed to your references. Use the position links above to learn more about the recommender requirements as they differ by position and some positions do not have reference requirements. Please reach out to your recommenders prior to applying and let them know they need to check their "Other" inbox and "Junk Email" folder in Outlook for the recommendation form. The recommendation form is sent from noreply@qemailserver.com. If you need to add a recommender after submitting your application, email Rachel Otte. Are you a recommender with questions? Please visit our Bearcat's Landing page. Interviews will be conducted on a rolling basis. You will be contacted by the Learning Commons to set up your interview via your UC email account. To verify or ask questions about your interview, call the Learning Commons Front Desk at (513) 556-3244. Interviews may be scheduled in-person or via Microsoft Teams. Offer letters will be extended to new hires via email to your UC email account. NOTE: Because of the high volume of applicants, we are unable to provide application status updates throughout the hiring process. You will hear back one way or another about your application. Learning Commons 2510B French Hall West 513-556-3244 Fax: 513-556-0823 learningcommons@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Learning Commons 2510B French Hall West 513-556-3244 Fax: 513-556-0823 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top