Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Climate School Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Home The School Education Research News Events People Giving Shop Leadership Careers COVID-19 Resources Privacy Policy Explore All Programs MA Climate + Society Non-Degree Programs Educator Training Pre-College Programs Professional Learning Undergraduate Research Experiences Office of Research Pre-Award Unit Research Partners Research Projects Columbia Climate School You are here: Home About The School About The School The Columbia Climate School connects, amplifies, and advances new areas of climate inquiry, research, and impact across Columbia University. WHY A CLIMATE SCHOOL The climate crisis is one of the greatest threats facing humanity. In response, Columbia University has created the nation’s first climate School to develop innovative education programs, support groundbreaking research, and foster essential solutions, from the community to the planetary scale. The Climate School will ensure that students are equipped with the knowledge and tools to be climate leaders in the 21st century. By working with communities, businesses, and policymakers, the School will create and inspire new technologies, policies, and approaches to solving the climate crisis. The Climate School marshals the University’s strengths in basic and applied disciplines and expands its resources to understand climate and its impact on society. This unprecedented commitment to tackle humanity’s greatest challenge builds on the unique history of climate change research at Columbia, dating back to the founding of Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory in 1949 and spanning the many decades since. Columbia’s faculty include some of the world’s leading climate experts across multiple disciplines of science, law, business, policy, engineering and more. The University is harnessing its talent, infrastructure, and reach to address this unprecedented global challenge. LEADERSHIP The Columbia Climate School is co-led by four of Columbia’s most eminent climate experts: Alex Halliday, Jason Bordoff, Ruth DeFries, and Maureen Raymo. Meet our Leadership ACADEMIC FOOTPRINT Climate is an immensely broad topic, affecting nearly every aspect of our lives. That's why the Climate School includes broader subjects of sustainability, the environment, social justice, and the geosciences. GUIDING PRINCIPLES book icon Education and Research The School engages in societally relevant and transdisciplinary research impact programs, linking them to education offerings aimed at preparing students to address the climate crisis. users icon Culture and Inclusion The School fosters a culture that values, respects, welcomes and promotes a sense of belonging for all members of our community, interweaving a focus of diversity, equity, inclusion and anti-racism in all aspects of academic life. It also aims to support a sustainable campus that is open to all. globe icon Impact and Solutions Solution-oriented projects, policy initiatives, events, networking, partnerships, communications platforms, and training programs are a few of the ways in which the School connects Columbia’s knowledge to the world. adjust icon Socially Just Transitions The School is building academic programming with a focus on socially just and equitable transitions. It has a dedicated focus on co-production of knowledge, working closely with, and recognizing the needs and knowledge of, local partners and stakeholders. VISION Image Carousel with 3 slides A carousel is a rotating set of images. Use the previous and next buttons to change the displayed slide Slide 1 Slide 2 Slide 3 Previous Next Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close