Skip to main content Jump to main navigation Search content University of Pennsylvania | Penn University Life Search query Search Toggle Site Navigation Toggle Site Search VPUL Home Activities Fraternity and Sorority Life Naval ROTC Office of Student Affairs Platt Student Performing Arts House VPUL Events Calendar Cultural Centers Greenfield Intercultural Center La Casa Latina LGBTC Center Makuu The Black Cultural Center Pan-Asian American Community House Penn Women Center Student Supports Career Services First Generation Low Income Program Penn Violence Prevention Student Affairs Leadership Team Student Intervention Services Weingarten Learning Resource Center Student Disabilities Services Office of Learning Resources Tutoring Center About Leadership Team Give to University Life Strategic Priorities VPUL Facilities at Perelman Quadrangle VPUL Technology Services Resources Services Meeting Space Student Groups Alumni Connections Experiential Courses PACE (Programs for Cross Cultural Awareness) iBelieve Teaching Performing Arts for Cross-Cultural Experiential Learning Design (ELD) Programs The First-Generation, Low-Income (FGLI) Program Native American Initiatives Alliance for Understanding Intercultural Leadership Program Give to GIC About Our Mission Contact Us Our Team FAQs Our History GIC Home Over 35 Years of Building Intercultural Communities at Penn The Albert M. Greenfield Intercultural Center is Penn’s resource for enhancing student’s intercultural knowledge, competency, and leadership through our programs, advising, and advocacy. We do this by offering experiential courses for credit, signature intercultural programs, and other services related to diversity and intercultural education. Greenfield Intercultural Center Events Calendar We sponsor several events throughout the year that highlight issues of culture and race. These include conferences, training and workshops, with topics ranging from Native American issues, the struggle of the undocumented and more. Explore Events Make a Gift Contact Us Student Groups We are a home away from home. Bring your whole self here. Known fondly as the “GIC,” the Greenfield Intercultural Center is more of a home than an institution. We provide a safe space for intercultural dialogue and interaction with students, faculty, staff and visitors from around the globe. Come hungry, because like any family, we like to eat together. Sharing meals is a vital part of GIC’s mission. We are passionate about serving the Penn community as an advocate of intercultural awareness, understanding, and appreciation and by building up student leaders. Beyond breaking bread and hosting our annual Wellness Day, GIC staff mentor student groups and sponsor their events. We run training workshops, facilitate courses, support program development , and collaborate with a diverse collection of campus partners on special events. Thank you for visiting our webpage! If you would like to know more about us and what we do, you can navigate via the side-column menu, and then come to the center and check us out! We hope to see you at the center soon! GIC News Translating the immigrant experience into intercultural expertise Associate Director Kia Lor of the Greenfield Intercultural Center supports students at Penn while navigating multiple cultures Read More » Greenfield Intercultural Center Receives $1 Million Gift The Albert M. Greenfield Intercultural Center (GIC) at the University of Pennsylvania is pleased to announce a $1 million gift to the Center from the Read More » Meeting Spaces To support various educational, cultural, and social programs, the GIC can accommodate meetings and programs. Reserve a space at the GIC GIC Newsletter You are invited to sign-up for the Greenfield Intercultural Center’s newsletter in order to get the most up-to-date information about intercultural happenings on and off the Penn campus. Should you wish to unsubscribe later, you can do so easily by clicking the unsubscribe link at the bottom of the newsletter. Subscribe to our Newsletter Publicity Request Facebook Instagram Envelope Mobile-alt Primary Footer Athletics Diversity Health & Wellness Libraries Online Learning Penn Global Resources University Life Calendar Student Jobs Help Contact Us Maps Parking University of Pennsylvania Address Philadelphia, PA 19104 Telephone: (215) 898-6081 Legal Copyright Disclaimer Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Skip to content Open toolbar Accessibility Tools Increase Text Decrease Text Grayscale High Contrast Negative Contrast Light Background Links Underline Readable Font Reset