Office of International Programs Off screen: Skip to content Off screen: Skip to search Main Menu Menu Who We Are Facts and Figures Staff Our Programs Fellowship Advising Search Fellowships Meet Your Advisers Pre-advising Form Preparing Your Application General Advice Application FAQs Resources Connect Past Fellowship Recipients Fellowships Mentoring Program In the News International Internships About IIP IIP by the Numbers Search Internships Create Your Own Meet the IIP Team How to Apply IIP Application Timeline IIP Terms and Conditions Application FAQs Financial Matters Student Stories IIP 2021 Poster Winners Returning Home Novogratz Bridge Year About Bridge Year Mission, Values, Vision Why Bridge Year? FAQs In the News Support for Bridge Year Explore Locations Bolivia China India Indonesia Senegal Meet Our Volunteers Returned Volunteers Reflections and Connections Voices Past Events How to Apply Information for Families Contact Us Admission Ambassadors Study Abroad Getting Started Why Go Abroad? Types of Programs Advice by Department and Certificate Study Abroad Requirements Academic Year Policies Summer Policies Policies FAQs Meet Your Advisers Explore Programs Explore Programs FAQs Financial Matters Academic Year Summer Dean's Fund How to Apply Academic Year Petition Summer Application FAQs Returning Home Re-entry Practical Matters What's Next? Become a Global Ambassador Connect Contact Us Events Our Students International Eye Photo Contest Previous Winners This Year's Winners Resources Contact Us Fellowship Advising International Internships Novogratz Bridge Year Study Abroad Events News My GPS Search Search Home Our Programs Study Abroad Program Photo: Crystal Wang ’18 Study Abroad Bridge Year Fellowships International Internships Study Abroad Program Section Menu Getting Started Meet Your Advisers Explore Programs Financial Matters How to Apply Returning Home Connect Information For Families Faculty Exchange Students Study Abroad Program The Study Abroad Program provides guidance for Princeton undergraduates who wish to study for academic credit at a foreign institution during the semester, academic year, or summer. Our team of study abroad advisers is here to help you find a program that best fits your academic interests and goals, while providing support from the time you leave campus until you return. Study abroad is open to all majors, and destinations include more than 100 programs in over 40 countries. Getting Started Explore Programs How to Apply Study Abroad Events No content available to show. Study abroad, though initially quite daunting, was perhaps one of the best experiences I could have had during my Princeton years. From meeting new people, to rowing on an Oxford University rowing team, to debating one-on-one with elite scholars, I will always remember just how eye-opening this experience was, not only for my future in academia, but also for me personally. Aoife Bennett '20, SPIA, Semester abroad at University of Oxford Photo: Aoife Bennett ’20 Subscribe to Our Newsletter Stay up-to-date with study abroad news, upcoming events, and student stories! Subscribe Footer Office of International Programs Louis A. Simpson International Building Phone: 609-258-5524 Fax: 609-258-1019 oip@princeton.edu Make an Appointment A unit of the Office of the Dean of the College Visit Us Office Hours Monday-Friday: Academic Year: 9 a.m. - 5 p.m. Summer: 8:30 a.m.- 4:30 p.m. Follow Us PrincetonOIP PrincetonBridgeYear PrincetonOIP novogratzbridgeyear Accessibility © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University