Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Undergraduate Admissions and Orientation Start Here The UofM Experience Visit Connect Apply Admitted Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact The UofM Experience Academics Campus Life UofM Campuses City of Memphis Take Action Request Information Apply to UofM Campus Visits and Events Contact Us Follow Us Online FacebooktwitterYoutube Home Undergraduate Admissions and Orientation UofM Experience City of Memphis Our Location is a Huge Plus Memphis is an endlessly captivating city that has it all. World-class museums. Natural beauty and wonder. Major events and festivals. Nationally recognized music, arts and food scenes. It’s one of America’s great southern cities overflowing with warm hospitality and year-round beautiful weather — a perfect college town. Exploration and discovery are everywhere, so it’s easy to make all of Memphis your classroom, gallery, playground, stage, think tank and home. Adventure is waiting for you in the home of the {Tiger} Blues. More Than Music and BBQ (but okay, the music and BBQ are cool.) Memphis' character is steeped in a rich history of diversity, creativity and commerce. From food to music to business, few cities can match Memphis' influence on modern culture. That desire to innovate has led to a recent renaissance of sorts. A rapidly growing tech-startup scene, an explosion of local food options, breweries, indie arts and film, and a wave of urban revitalization have swept up Memphians young and old, creating a can-do, will-do spirit where you genuinely feel like anything's possible. It's always been a great city, but now more than ever, Memphis is a city on the verge of greatness. Love of Nature Get ready to bike, run or walk miles of greenlines, trails, parks and urban bike lanes because Memphis is one of the nation's greenest cities. Our downtown sits on a bluff overlooking the Mississippi River where sunsets are just breathtaking. Enjoy easy access to riverfront parks from one end of downtown to the other. Or come down to watch our bridges light up each night — the Mighty Lights is the biggest light show on the Mississippi River and it’s only in Memphis. And on the east side of town is Shelby Farms Park – second in size only to NYC’s Central Park. Seriously, this place is huge and a great escape from stress with non-stop fun, including kayaking, ziplines, horseback riding, scenic trails and so much more. Love of Sports Memphians live and breathe Tigers and NBA Grizzlies hoops, but Tiger football and baseball, along with AAA Redbirds baseball and the Memphis 901 Football Club round out a full year's worth of sports. Love of History and Culture People buzz about all our museums, so you should check them out. The National Civil Rights Museum (history), Stax and Sun Studio (music), the Brooks and the Dixon (fine art), and the Pink Palace (eclectic weirdness) are just a few local faves. Moved by Music This is a music-rich city, which means you can find live music any night of the week, especially on Beale Street, Handy Park or in cool neighborhood hangouts, like the Hi-Tone Café or Minglewood Hall. But we also attract major A-list music concerts to our city at FedExForum, the Orpheum, GPAC, the Levitt Shell and other venues large and small. For the Foodies There is no shortage of good eats, breweries or farmer’s markets in Memphis. Alton Brown even named us the Best Food Town in America. And when it comes to food festivals, the Memphis in May World BBQ Championship is only the start. Local food fests celebrate everything from wings to crawfish to burgers and more. For the Night Owls Hit up weekend hotspots on the Highland Strip (walkable from campus), Cooper-Young, Overton Square, Downtown, Broad Avenue, South Main Arts District and more. Surrounded by Festivals Our city is alive with year-round festivals that you’re going to love. Local staples include the Indie Memphis (film), Gonerfest (music), Mempho (music) Cooper-Young Festival (everything), Africa in April (cultural), Memphis in May/Beale Street Music Festival, River Arts Festival and numerous funky and fun arts, music and cultural events. Touristy (but fun) Tour your new hometown starting with Beale Street, Graceland, Memphis Rock 'n' Soul Museum, the Memphis Zoo and the world's only Bass Pro Shops store located inside a pyramid. Name Dropping All kinds of famous people have Memphis connections. The queen of soul, Aretha Franklin, pop legend Justin Timberlake and actress Lucy Hale were all born here. Musicians Todd Snider, B.B. King, Johnny Cash, Elvis Presley and Isaac Hayes; actor Steven Seagal and film director Craig Brewer (Footloose, Coming 2 America) have called Memphis home at different points in their lives. Film writer/director Tom Shadyac (Ace Ventura: Pet Detective, Patch Adams) now teaches at the UofM. And famous actors that grew up here and/or went to the UofM include Cybil Shepherd, Kathy Bates, Dixie Carter and Fred Thompson, just to name a few. The creative spirit of Memphis is undeniable and continues to have an impact on artists and innovators alike. To-Do List Looking for things to do in Memphis? Check out Choose 901 and the I Love Memphis! Blog for suggestions on the best places to eat, upcoming events, and the ultimate guides to Memphis! Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 3/28/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.