Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Public Relations Major You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Public Relations Major Apply Request More Info Public Relations Major Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Bachelor of Arts in Public Relations The Bachelor of Arts in Public Relations in the Lew Klein College of Media and Communication at Temple University educates students with the knowledge, theory and skills to manage relationships across consumer, corporate, economic, government and media organizations. In our Public Relations bachelor’s degree program, students learn to develop strategies to advise organizations in matters of social responsibility and influencing public opinion. From basic writing skills to drafting strategic campaigns, evaluating legal and ethical considerations to managing technology’s impact on the field, our degree program provides students with the knowledge and skills for public relations (PR) success now and in the future. Public relations is the strategic use of communication to establish, build and maintain mutually beneficial relationships between organizations and their publics. Unlike marketing and advertising, PR uses integrated communication—including publicity, advertising, social media and original storytelling—to uniquely communicate important issues, opportunities, problems and their solutions to targeted audiences. Students in our Public Relations bachelor’s degree program learn to assess situations and determine, create and communicate strategic messages to build beneficial relationships among a wide variety of organizations and their diverse constituents. In our program, you will learn theories that affect how today’s public relations is practiced and develop the knowledge base and the foundational PR skills of critical thinking, speaking and writing. Our classes will give you access to some of the latest industry-standard communication tools, enabling you to earn certifications and gain the technical skills today’s employers value and need, including data analytics, search engine optimization and social media marketing. Upon mastering those skills, you will design, develop and evaluate campaigns; learn how to manage client expectations as well as the ethical and legal implications of your work; produce campaign materials that rely on original research, promotional materials, and social and traditional media techniques; and strengthen your public speaking, team and leadership skills. As a Public Relations BA graduate, you will be prepared to apply your expertise in entry-level positions in agency, corporate, government and nonprofit spaces. Using data analytics, promotions, relationship building and creative strategic messaging, you will be able to communicate effectively to ethically influence attitudes, behaviors and bring about positive change among key target audiences. What sets apart our Bachelor of Arts in Public Relations? Our renowned, certified program: The Public Relations Society of America certified Temple’s Public Relations program for its academic education. It is one of only 36 programs nationwide and the only one in Pennsylvania. Our degree program was named to the “Education A-list” by PRNews, a leading industry publication. Our program also emphasizes leadership in diversity and inclusion in the industry and society. Students participate in the Bateman Competition—a nationwide collegiate PR contest—giving them an edge in the industry. A fast-growing industry: Public Relations is one of the fastest growing industries in the nation. With Temple University’s prime location in Philadelphia, and proximity to New York City and Washington, D.C.—where some of the largest and best-known PR firms are located—Temple students have the opportunity to learn from top professionals in the field. Our expert faculty: Our nationally renowned faculty conduct world-class research, not just in PR and communications, but in perceptions of social issues impacting society. They also have industry experience and maintain one foot in the academic world and one foot in the profession. Their industry relationships will help students gain access to companies, organizations and professionals that can get them started in a PR career or on the path to an advanced degree. Our award-winning student organizations: Students can join our national award-winning, nationally recognized student organizations. Through our student organizations, you can gain real-world experience in the public relations field and have the opportunity to make personal and professional connections. Some of the related student organizations include Temple’s chapter of the Public Relations Student Society of America; our student-run firm, PRowl Public Relations; and our chapter of the Black Public Relations Society. Classes & Curriculum Students in the program complete 120 credits, including a minimum of 49 credits in public relations courses. Some of the major courses include Audience Analytics for PR, Crisis Communication, Diversity in Public Relations, Law and Ethics in PR, Leading Groups and Team Building, PR Writing, and Public Relations Portfolio. See a full list of program courses. Minor in Public Relations The public relations minor builds knowledge and skills for students to develop a basic understanding of PR, including meaningful dialogue built on mutual trust and respect. Through this program, you will learn to effectively articulate a message to influence and empower others. Students who graduate with this minor will be able to use the knowledge they gain to bridge the divide between the theoretical and the practical applications in any businesses or communities they serve in the future. Learn more about the public relations minor. Contact Gregg Feistman, associate chair for public relations, is the program contact for this minor. Email: greggf@temple.edu Minor in Leadership Prepare for life after graduation by acquiring the knowledge and skills necessary to communicate effectively and lead at the individual, organizational and team levels. Gain an understanding of leadership as a communication and relational process, not a position. This program is aimed at developing leaders who operate with the intent to create positive change through ethical decision-making and team management. Learn more about the leadership minor. Concentrations You can focus on Public Relations or you can take one of the following concentrations. International Communication Students in the International Communication Concentration (ICC) acquire a theoretical and practical education in international and intercultural communication and media. A unique opportunity for Klein students, this program allows you to obtain skills and knowledge in cultural sensitivity and intercultural communication by reflecting on your own cultural lens. Students participating in the ICC program are enlightened about various perspectives through an internationally and interculturally oriented curriculum. The program is offered on Temple’s domestic campuses, but students can supplement some coursework while studying abroad. View Concentration Details Related Graduate Degrees Communication for Development and Social Change MS Communication Management Online MS Conflict and Communication MS Related Graduate Certificates Conflict Management and Dispute Resolution Public Relations Strategic Communication and Cross-Cultural Leadership Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, the Bachelor of Arts offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. Learn more about our tuition and fees. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $18,168.00 per year Out-of-state: $31,440.00 per year Our Academic Advisors Our academic advisors will help you stay on track to graduate and ensure you remain on a clear professional path. Walk-in advising is available in the first two weeks of the semester for students who need assistance with any registration issues. Express advising is available for students throughout the rest of the semester. Advisors answer routine questions in 15-minute sessions. For more in-depth, personalized assistance, students may make appointments. To schedule an appointment or ask a question, contact our advising office. Email: advise@temple.edu Phone: 215-204-5273 You can also contact the advising office through TUportal under the Klein College tab. The Klein Advising Office, which serves all Klein majors, is located at the following address. Student Affairs/Advising Annenberg Hall, Room 9 2020 N. 13th St. Philadelphia, PA 19122 Important Dates Our academic calendar includes an overview of all relevant upcoming dates. Learn more about academic advising in the Public Relations Major. Program Contact For more information about the program, please contact Gregg Feistman, assistant chair for public relations. Email: greggf@temple.edu Phone: 215-204-0532 Student Clubs & Organizations Joining a student organization can affect your career and college experience in meaningful ways. Not only will you learn how to work with a team, you’ll also gain access to exciting projects, peer support and valuable networking opportunities. Below are examples of student clubs and organizations that can help you excel as a PR student. PRowl Public Relations allows students to develop strategic thinking and gain tactical practice working at a student-run PR firm. Members apply their classroom knowledge to professional settings, work with real clients, become part of an interactive communications process, create and execute public relations campaigns, form valuable relationships with professionals in the Philadelphia area, and prepare for life after graduation. PRowl Public Relations is one of only 33 nationally affiliated student-run firms in the country. Temple’s national award-winning chapter of The Public Relations Student Society of America (PRSSA) is the largest and oldest in the region and one of the oldest and top 10 chapters in the country. The chapter hosts exclusive speakers and workshops weekly. Members can join various committees for in-depth experience. Each year, the chapter holds a regional conference bringing together students and industry speakers from around the country. The chapter was the first student organization in the country to join the Diversity Action Alliance, bringing together leaders of the world’s top PR organizations to pursue continuous improvement for underrepresented groups. PRSSA is the leading pre-professional organization for students interested in public relations and communications. The Temple University Black Public Relations Society, the first Black Public Relations Society student chapter in the country, is a professional student organization that aims to create, cultivate and encourage a supportive community for aspiring multicultural public relations professionals at Temple. The chapter’s events take a student-friendly approach to different aspects of the PR field. The chapter host various engaging discussion panels, informative programs, workshops and networking events throughout the year. Learn more about student clubs and organizations within the Public Relations Major. All majors are welcome to join. Study Away Take on new challenges, experiences and viewpoints in an array of academic settings in the U.S. or around the world, through the Public Relations Major’s Global Opportunities programs. Our Global Opportunities programs create leaders in media and communication by providing opportunities to study and work while experiencing life in influential urban centers throughout the world. You have the option of studying or interning in more than 20 destinations in the U.S. and around the world, including Dublin, London, Los Angeles, South Africa and more. These study away programs are designed to not only enhance your marketability in the global workplace, but also to increase your cultural capital and support your personal growth. Learn more about study away programs for the Public Relations Major. Questions Representatives from our Global Opportunities office are available to answer any questions you may have. Email: kleingo@temple.edu Phone: 215-204-2354 Accreditation Temple University’s departments and programs are accredited by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education. CO-PR-BA Additional Program Information Available as a minor. School/College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Public Relations Major Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info