Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences Information For Search BC.edu Links Art, Art History, and Film Menu Main Nav Art, Art History, and Film Department Art, Art History, and Film Contact Back Back Close About Overview Contact Position Openings Awards and Honors Spring 2022 Spring 2021 Spring 2020 Giving to the Art Department People Academics Overview Art History Major and Minor Arts Core Courses Study Abroad Opportunities for Students Careers and Graduate School Resources and Facilities Film Studies Major and Minor Arts Core Courses Study Abroad Resources and Facilities Studio Art Major and Minor Arts Core Courses Study Abroad Resources and Facilities News & Events Close Contact Directory A to Z Listing Search Morrissey College Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Detail of “Storage,” by Prof. Hartmut Austen (2018, oil on canvas) About the Art, Art History, and Film Department Art, Art History, and Film is an interdisciplinary department offering major and minor degrees in Art History, Film Studies, and Studio Art, as well as concentrations in Architectural Studies and Museum Studies. Focusing on undergraduate learning, our dedicated and passionate faculty offer students an individualized education to guide them in their respective areas of inquiry. We are committed to helping students acquire the visual literacy skills necessary to understand the production of art in the past and to respond more critically to our media-saturated present. Our students’ education extends beyond the classroom to take advantage of the rich offerings at the McMullen Museum of Art and numerous cultural institutions within the Boston area. Alumni are well positioned for any career in which strong analytical skills, creative thinking, and written and oral communication are necessary. The Art, Art History, and Film department stands against racism. We recognize that art has a mixed legacy when it comes to historical injustice, at times perpetuating racism and in other cases offering a powerful tool for combating it. We are working to address issues of race and racial injustice in our curriculum and to celebrate Black artists, Indigenous artists, artists of color, art historians of color, and those underrepresented in our disciplines and institutions. As a department, we are actively taking steps towards creating a more inclusive, diverse, equitable, and accessible community. This work includes reviewing our curriculum, holding workshops, inviting speakers, and participating in discussions that confront problems of social and racial inequities in the arts. Our commitment is ongoing, and we welcome your thoughts and feedback along the way. Our Programs Art History Art history encompasses the study of images, objects, and built spaces from a broad range of historical periods and geographical regions, providing a doorway into the many rich and diverse cultures throughout the world. Film Studies The Film Studies program has arisen out of a need and desire to assist students in developing critical and technical skills in the area of film. Video, photography, and television also play a supportive role in the development of these skills. Studio Art In our increasingly image-laden society, visual intelligence and visual literacy are paramount skills. The Studio Art program provides students with exciting, opportunities for creative exploration in painting, drawing, photography, video, ceramics and digital media. Angelos with actor Jerome Kaluta during the making of his short film, “Colorblind,” in Athens Greece (Photo by Mihailos Kalogerakis) Student Profile Angelos Bougas ‘21 "If you think you are too small to make a difference, try sleeping with a mosquito." (Dalai Lama) Angelos Bougas, a Senior majoring in Film Studies, recently wrote, directed, and produced the short film, “Colorblind.” Read More about Angelos Bougas News All Alumni Announcements Awards Exhibitions & Screenings Faculty In the media Presentations Publications Research Students More News Events Art, Art History, and Film Department Back To Top Back To Top Art, Art History, and Film Department Devlin Hall 434 617-552-4295 Facebook Twitter Instagram Give to Art, Art History, and Film Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences Gasson Hall 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 About Undergraduate Graduate Faculty & Research Departments Contact Departments Art, Art History, and Film Biology Chemistry Classical Studies Communication Computer Science Earth and Environmental Sciences Economics Engineering English German Studies History Mathematics Music Philosophy Physics Political Science Psychology Romance Languages and Literatures Slavic & Eastern Languages and Literatures Sociology Theatre Theology Apply Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College