Menu Close Menu Skip to content Information For: Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Friends & Supporters A to Z index Search for: Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health Email People Departments Calendar Careers my.harvard Giving About Faculty & Research Admissions & Aid Academics Executive/Continuing Ed News News > News > Press Releases > 2019 Release > New findings from Human Microbiome Project reveal how microbiome is disrupted during inflammatory bowel disease News Menu Search for: News Home Press Releases 2020 Releases 2019 Releases 2018 Releases 2017 Releases 2016 Releases 2015 Releases 2014 Releases 2013 Releases 2012 Releases 2011 Releases Search the press releases archive Features In the News Multimedia 2021 Multimedia 2020 Multimedia 2019 Multimedia 2018 Multimedia 2017 Multimedia 2016 Multimedia 2015 Multimedia 2014 Multimedia 2013 Multimedia 2012 Multimedia HPH Magazine Faculty Stories Faculty News, Notes, and Accolades Student Stories Student News, Notes, and Accolades Alumni Stories Explore Research by Topic Office of Communications Make a Gift New findings from Human Microbiome Project reveal how microbiome is disrupted during inflammatory bowel disease A depiction of interactions between human and gut microbial features during inflammatory bowel disease. For immediate release: May 29, 2019 Boston, MA – A new study led by researchers from Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health and the Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard is the first to have observed the complex set of chemical and molecular events that disrupt the microbiome and trigger immune responses during flare-ups of inflammatory bowel diseases (IBD), including Crohn’s disease and ulcerative colitis. While previous studies have cataloged microbial changes during IBD, the researchers in this study developed a unique biotechnology toolbox to understand why microbiomes change during IBD and how this provokes an unhealthy inflammatory reaction. These tools allowed them to measure microbial chemical changes and human gene regulatory shifts, potentially allowing for new therapies in the future. The study, which included dozens of collaborators, was part of the second phase of the Human Microbiome Project (HMP). The project, the first phase of which was launched in 2007 by the National Institutes of Health (NIH) Common Fund, aimed to characterize the microbiome in healthy adults and in people with specific microbiome-associated diseases. The most recent phase of work began in 2013 with support from across the NIH, and with the mandate to tease apart the molecular mechanisms underlying the microbiome’s roles in disease. “The Human Microbiome Project overall has been a flagship effort in understanding the microbiome’s contributions to health, and in creating a community of researchers who can study the microbiome to discover new diagnostics and therapies for disease,” said Curtis Huttenhower, professor of computational biology and bioinformatics at Harvard Chan School and associate member at the Broad Institute and senior author of the study. “Our results from this study pave the way for early detection of upcoming flares in disease activity—which can then be aggressively treated—or potentially for new biochemical therapeutic opportunities to encourage complete remission of IBD.” The findings were published May 29, 2019 in Nature. The gut microbiome is a community of trillions of microbes, including bacteria, viruses, and fungi. Each person has a distinct microbiome, and research indicates that the microbiome plays an important role in numerous diseases, including IBD, which affects more than 3.5 million people worldwide and is growing in prevalence. IBD is a chronic disease that is marked by periods of remission followed by flare-ups in which the disease becomes active. For this study, the most comprehensive analysis to date of human microbiome interactions during IBD, researchers followed 132 participants for one year and compared Crohn’s disease and ulcerative colitis patients to a control group of participants that did not have IBD. Participants provided stool samples every two weeks, blood samples approximately once a quarter, and a set of colon biopsies at the start of the study for analysis. In total, 2,965 stool, biopsy, and blood samples were analyzed with an unprecedented suite of molecular, cellular, and clinical tools to understand the detailed biochemistry of the disease. First, these detailed measurements made it easy to observe and confirm findings from previous studies, such as a reduction in overall gut ecological diversity and the gain and loss of specific “pro-” and “anti-inflammatory” microbes during disease. More importantly, the suite of tools deployed for this study allowed researchers to determine the reasons for the changes. The results showed that during periods of disease activity, people with IBD had fewer microbially-derived chemicals, which they speculated could be due to a combination of factors, including less beneficial microbial metabolism, poorer nutrient absorption, greater water or blood levels in the bowels, and more urgent bowel movements. These factors decreased the overall stability of the gut microbial ecosystem, leading to more episodes of improper immune responses and overreaction to the normal gut microbiome among IBD patients. Specifically, during periods of disease activity people with IBD had higher levels of polyunsaturated fatty acids, including adrenate and arachidonate. The researchers also discovered that nicotinuric acid was found almost exclusively in the stool of patients with IBD and that levels of vitamins B5 and B3 were particularly depleted in the gut of people with IBD. The team also found that bile acids—a set of compounds made by humans but chemically modified by gut microbes—were disrupted during IBD as well, in tandem with molecular regulation in groups of microbes. These included a group of bacteria related to the genus Subdoligranulum that are carried by almost everyone, but are depleted during inflammation, and which have not been previously isolated or characterized. Overall, the findings provide the most detailed snapshot to date of the microbiome in people with IBD, during active and non-active disease states. The findings showed that different forms of IBD—Crohn’s disease compared with ulcerative colitis, for instance—had different effects on the activity and composition of the microbiome. The researchers said the findings provide promising new targets for potential IBD treatments, including polyunsaturated fatty acids, bile acid derivatives, and human immune response pathways, as well as new data, tools, and protocols that will enable future research on IBD and the microbiome. “Given how tightly connected the microbiome is with our health and wellbeing, these results shed some light on how we might avoid the problems that arise when this relationship goes awry, and how we might be better stewards of these life-long companions,” said Jason Lloyd-Price, who worked on the study while a research scientist at Harvard Chan School and the Broad Institute and was lead author of the paper. Ramnik Xavier, a core institute member of the Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard and co-director of the Broad’s Infectious Disease and Microbiome Program, was also a senior author of the study Funding for this study came from National Institutes of Health grants P01DK046763, U01DK062413, U54DK102557, UL1TR001881, P30DK043351, R24DK110499, R01HG005969, U54DE023798, including funds from the Common Fund, the National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases, the National Center for Complementary and Integrative Health, and the Office of Dietary Supplements, National Science Foundation grant DBI-1053486, and Army Research Office grant W911NF-11-1-0473. “Multi-omics of the gut microbial ecosystem in inflammatory bowel diseases,” Jason Lloyd-Price, Cesar Arze, Ashwin N. Ananthakrishnan, Melanie Schirmer, Julian Avila-Pacheco, Tiffany W. Poon, Elizabeth Andrews, Nadim J. Ajami, Kevin S. Bonham, Colin J. Brislawn, David Casero, Holly Courtney, Antonio Gonzalez, Thomas G. Graeber, A. Brantley Hall, Kathleen Lake, Carol J. Landers, Himel Mallick, Damian Plichta, Mahadev Prasad, Gholamali Rahnavard, Jenny Sauk, Dmitry Shungin, Yoshiki Vázquez-Baeza, Richard A. White, IBDMDB investigators, Jonathan Braun, Lee A. Denson, Janet K. Jansson, Rob Knight, Subra Kugathasan, Dermot P. B. McGovern, Joseph F. Petrosino, Thaddeus S. Stappenbeck, Harland S. Winter, Clary B. Clish, Eric A. Franzosa, Hera Vlamakis, Ramnik J. Xavier, Curtis Huttenhower, Nature, May 29, 2019, doi: 10.1038/s41586-019-1237-9 image: courtesy of Curtis Huttenhower Visit the Harvard Chan School website for the latest news, press releases, and multimedia offerings. For more information: Chris Sweeney 617.432.8416 csweeney@hsph.harvard.edu ### Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health brings together dedicated experts from many disciplines to educate new generations of global health leaders and produce powerful ideas that improve the lives and health of people everywhere. As a community of leading scientists, educators, and students, we work together to take innovative ideas from the laboratory to people’s lives—not only making scientific breakthroughs, but also working to change individual behaviors, public policies, and health care practices. Each year, more than 400 faculty members at Harvard Chan School teach 1,000-plus full-time students from around the world and train thousands more through online and executive education courses. Founded in 1913 as the Harvard-MIT School of Health Officers, the School is recognized as America’s oldest professional training program in public health. Share this:FacebookTwitterLinkedInReddit Subscribe The COVID-19 Update Our researchers are on the front lines of the global response to the COVID-19 pandemic. Sign up here to receive our weekly newsletter highlighting their efforts. Join mailing list Additional newsletters and mailing lists Related Articles microbiome Off the Cuff: Curtis Huttenhower Renewal of NIEHS grant paves way for new research on how complex environmental exposures affect health Researchers explore the link between the microbiome and public health More on this topic Explore HSPH research by topic Harvard Chan School News on Twitter In the wake of a May 24 mass shooting at a Uvalde, Texas, elementary school that left 19 students and two teachers… https://t.co/x8GHo0fMZS RT @dengdiit: This week,I had the honor and responsibility of receiving a master’s degree in public health with concentration in health pol… RT @Harvard: “Don’t let your generation be defined by the pandemic. Let it be defined by public service,” said Attorney General Merrick Gar… RT @HarvardCCHANGE: Looking for ways to take action on #climate? The Climate Health Organizing Fellowship trains health professionals to u… RT @HarvardCCHANGE: Creativity is turning coal mines, landfills, and toxic waters into opportunities for #CleanEnergy. Your lights yearn to… RT @HarvardCenterHH: What is the relationship between #technology and #happiness? This @Forbes article offers potential considerations, wit… Information For: Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Friends & Supporters About Key Facts Renaming the School Office of the Dean Location and Facilities Administrative Offices Contact Us Faculty and Research Faculty and Researcher Directory Academic Departments, Divisions and Centers International Research Postdoctoral Research Fellows Office of Faculty Affairs Faculty Searches Office of Diversity and Inclusion Admissions & Aid Why Harvard Chan Degree Programs Non-Degree Programs Financial Aid Student Experience Career Advancement Apply Academics Academic Departments Divisions Research Centers Flagship Initiatives International Research Research Administration and Support Degree Programs Fellowships and Residencies Summer Programs Continuing Professional Education Interdisciplinary Concentrations Academic Calendar Harvard Chan Viewbook Executive/Continuing Ed Program Offerings Custom Programs Request Information News and Resources About ECPE Contact News Featured News Press Releases Student Stories In the News Newsletters HPH Magazine Why Public Health? Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health 677 Huntington Avenue Boston, MA 02115 +1 (617) 495‑1000 Twitter Facebook YouTube LinkedIn Instagram iTunes Harvard Chan Home Contact Us Harvard University Home Make a Gift Privacy Policy Report Copyright Violation Accessibility Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College