Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. University Honors Program UHP right arrow down arrow About UHP right arrow down arrow Inclusive Excellence Competencies right arrow down arrow Community Engagement Creativity Global Studies Leadership Research News Directions Contact Us right arrow down arrow Raj Mehta Debbie Brawn Marcell Crawford Bria Howard Bene Khoury Neil Choudhury Ashley Webber Kyle Key Jason Autry Tricia Yee Claire Minton Yale Miller Shawna Obregon Danny Hagedorn Vikki Kowalczyk Current UHP Students right arrow down arrow UHP Student Database UHP Framework & Benefits Requirements Honors Experiences right arrow down arrow Honors Seminars right arrow down arrow Fall 2022 Honors Seminars Spring 2023 Honors Seminars Summer 2022 Honors Seminars Pre-Approved Experiences Self-Designed Experiences Study Abroad and Study Tours International Travel Biomedical Research and Mentoring Program right arrow down arrow RaMP Publications RaMP Project Descriptions How to Apply Matching and Participation Frequently Asked Questions Tips and Testimonials UHP Discover right arrow down arrow Students: Learn More Faculty: Get Involved 2022 UHP Discover Projects Past Honors Seminars right arrow down arrow Summer 2021 Seminars Fall 2021 Honors Seminars Spring 2022 Honors Seminars Summer 2022 Honors Seminars Welcome Experience Leaders UHP Ambassador Leadership Team Grants for Honors Experiences Learning Portfolios right arrow down arrow Reflection Structure and Content Showcase Guide Protected Information Featured Portfolios Year-in-Review Get Involved right arrow down arrow UHP Ambassadors right arrow down arrow Meet the Team Ambassador Application Honor Societies First Year in UHP right arrow down arrow Welcome Experience right arrow down arrow Welcome Experience Registration HNRS 1010: Gateway to the UHP Advising right arrow down arrow Scheduling Advising Meetings via My Bearcat Network Presidential Leadership Medal of Excellence Prospective Students right arrow down arrow High School Students Current UC Students right arrow down arrow Join our Outreach List and Teams University Honors Application Transfer Students University Honors Housing Faculty and Campus Partners right arrow down arrow Honors Seminar Call for Proposals right arrow down arrow Guidelines, Pedagogy and Structure Study Tour Guidelines Submission Process Required Documents Proposal Form Review and Notification Funding Resources Seminar Development Workshops Creating and Ordering Honors Seminars Home » Campus Life » University Honors Program » About UHP » Contact Us » Kyle Key Set Navigation title in component Inclusive Excellence Competencies Community Engagement Creativity Global Studies Leadership Research News Directions Contact Us Kyle Key Raj Mehta Debbie Brawn Marcell Crawford Bria Howard Bene Khoury Neil Choudhury Ashley Webber Jason Autry Tricia Yee Claire Minton Yale Miller Shawna Obregon Danny Hagedorn Vikki Kowalczyk Kyle Key Assistant Director, University Honors Program Honors Advisor Contact information 513.556.6213 kyle.key@uc.edu Education M.S. Social Work, University of Cincinnati B.S. Secondary Education, University of Cincinnati A little about me... Let’s see...I’ve done a lot in my life. I’ve worked in a factory, gone to college, hosted trivia five nights a week, supervised braille production at a non-profit, advised Education majors at UC, and provided mental health therapy for a caseload of clients. But we’ll be interacting under an educational lens, so I want to give you more of my background in that context. I am originally from Marion, Ohio. I came to Cincinnati in 2006 to pursue my Bachelor’s degree at UC. It is difficult to describe the value of those years in a few sentences, but to say that they were life-changing is a severe understatement. My undergraduate experiences shaped my worldview and fostered the growth of my compassion and empathy. They allowed me to realize what a better version of myself might look like, and then to pursue that vision. Some of the most meaningful of these experiences came in the form of Honors Seminars—and the experiential and reflective components therein. I left with the sincere belief that education can be the catalyst for immense positive change in an individual’s life. I hope that your time at UC can be just as valuable. Know that I am your advocate to assist you in realizing your own vision and maximizing what you can achieve during your undergraduate years—and beyond. You are the author of your own story, so begin to craft it in ways that are meaningful to you. Along the way, I will be a consistent source of support, so never hesitate to reach out. Ask me about... Mental Health Authenticity Lifting Heavy Things Growing a Beard Food! Self-care Marvel My International Travels Legacy? What is a legacy? It’s planting seeds in a garden you never get to see. Alexander Hamilton Hamilton, the musical University Honors Program 700 Swift Hall PO Box 210007 Cincinnati, OH 45221-0007 honors@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University Honors Program 700 Swift Hall PO Box 210007 Cincinnati, OH 45221-0007 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top