Skip to main content MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links About COVID-19 Stories UW Medicine stories Media coverage Experts for journalists FAQ Stories All stories News releases UW News blog UW Notebook Official notices UW in the media Multimedia Video stories Soundbites/b-roll Interactives Experts Directory Expert quotes COVID-19 experts Speakers Bureau Media contacts For Journalists For researchers Media Training Data and Reports UW News Menu About COVID-19 Stories UW Medicine stories Media coverage Experts for journalists FAQ Stories All stories News releases UW News blog UW Notebook Official notices UW in the media Multimedia Video stories Soundbites/b-roll Interactives Experts Directory Expert quotes COVID-19 experts Speakers Bureau Media contacts For Journalists For researchers Media Training Data and Reports Home UW News UW in the media UW in the media Close Menu Home UW in the media Opinion and analysis UW researchers respond to novel coronavirus (COVID-19) Recent mentions of the University of Washington in the news Some of the stories below may require a third-party subscription. Please contact UW News if you have any questions or concerns. Browse recent news stories that mention the University of Washington by outlet location or by major UW unit. You can view each section’s archive by clicking on the corresponding “Full archive” link after expanding that section. Our archive is hosted on Pinboard, which is searchable by keyword, unit name, people, etc. Stories are displayed in the order in which they were added to the archive (most recent at the top). Once in the archive, you can see a particular unit’s stories by clicking on a tag, and even generate an RSS feed for that tag. If you have any questions, email us at uwnews@uw.edu. Stories by outlet location All stories Full archive Fishery monitoring software wins $25K at Univ. of Washington student startup competition | GeekWire3 days ago A student team from Simon Fraser University developing a way to use artificial intelligence to monitor fisheries took home the $25,000 top prize at the 2022 Dempsey Startup Competition hosted by the UW Foster School Buerk Center for Entrepreneurship. After the Uvalde school shooting, false flags emerge | Grid3 days ago The shooting in Uvalde, Texas, began just before noon. The earliest, awful details that emerged were all too familiar from previous episodes of horror at American schools: some unknown number of dead children. From certain corners of the internet, a familiar pattern of lies spread in tandem. Kate Starbird, associate professor of human centered design and engineering at the UW, is quoted. Visualizing brains, plants and salamanders in 3D: University of Washington microscope does it all | GeekWire3 days ago A new study showcases a microscope years in the making, licensed to spinout Alpenglow Biosciences. The microscope enables researchers to peer into biological samples of all sizes and shapes in 3D and zoom into details quickly. The microscope was invented by Alpenglow co-founders Adam Glaser, affiliate assistant professor of mechanical engineering at the UW and Jonathan Liu, professor of mechanical engineering at the UW. CEO and co-founder Dr. Nicholas Reder, clinical instructor of laboratory medicine and pathology in the UW School of Medicine, and co-founder Lawrence True are also study co-authors. Inflation 101: Why is everything so expensive? | KING 53 days ago Inflation has hit a 40-year high in the U.S. and it’s making life more costly. Thomas Gilbert, associate professor of finance at the UW, is quoted. A surge in NYC COVID cases sparked a red alert and a debate over masking — but are the numbers even accurate? | New York Daily News3 days ago New data showing a surge in New York COVID cases triggered a jump in the city’s alert status and debate over how best to respond — but the actual number of infected people is likely significantly higher than official numbers show. Ali Mokdad, professor of health metrics sciences at the UW Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation, is quoted. Why go to graduate school? The best and worst reasons | US News3 days ago Wishing you could go back to college is not a good justification for pursuing a graduate education, experts warn. Joy Williamson-Lott, professor of education and dean of the UW’s Graduate School, is quoted. CDC confirms monkeypox infection in King County man | The Seattle Times3 days ago The monkeypox virus has officially landed in Washington, state and local public health leaders confirmed Friday morning after announcing their investigation into a possible case earlier this week. Deborah Fuller, professor of microbiology in the UW School of Medicine, is quoted. CHOP planted the seeds. 2 years later, the food equity movement in Seattle is reaping the benefits | The Seattle Times3 days ago In the last few years, the extremity of racialized food inequity has garnered more widespread attention and more concerted responses that strive toward food sovereignty — the rights of people to healthful and culturally appropriate food — one community garden at a time. Some of those efforts began or were inspired by community food ideas spawned at CHOP, while others already in existence gained traction as the need for food equity was amplified by the 2020 movement. UW research is referenced. Seeing red | The Loh Down On Science3 days ago "The Loh Down on Science" podcast looks at a UW study showing what colors mosquitos are attracted to. Newest J Pod calf is a female, offering hope for endangered Southern resident population | FOX 133 days ago The Center for Whale Research confirmed on May 26 that the new calf born to the J Pod is a female, offering a glimmer of hope for the endangered Southern resident orca population. The UW is referenced. Here are the Washington state gun laws meant to prevent violence | KING 53 days ago Washington has relatively more stringent gun laws in the state, compared to others. Dr. Fred Rivara, professor of pediatrics in the UW School of Medicine, said Texas laws could have done more. See ya! Washington police say drivers aren’t stopping for them; cite pursuit restrictions | Northwest News Network3 days ago Since January of this year, more than 900 drivers have failed to stop for a Washington State Patrol trooper trying to pull them over. The change in driver behavior comes after state lawmakers passed strict new rules on when police can engage in pursuits. Martina Morris, professor emeritus of sociology and of statistics at the UW, is quoted. Editorial: Sexual-abuse report underscores need to overhaul immigrant detention | The Seattle Times3 days ago "A recent UW Center for Human Rights found that claims of sexual abuse at the Northwest Detention Center often go ignored or are not properly investigated. The report is the latest example of a broken system that fails to protect those in custody. Congress must enact legislation — championed by U.S. Reps. Adam Smith and Pramila Jayapal, both D-Wash. — that limits the number of immigrant detentions and ensures increased transparency and oversight of detention facilities," writes The Seattle Times Editorial Board. New, stronger rules for truck pollution still would not meet air quality goals | Scientific American3 days ago EPA’s proposal to limit toxic pollution from heavy-duty trucks is stronger than anything that has come before it. But state and local air quality agencies say it’s not aggressive enough to meet the federal regulator’s own clean air standards. Julian Marshall, professor of civil and environmental engineering at the UW, is quoted. When will we know if COVID is seasonal? | ABC News3 days ago COVID-19 may indeed become a seasonal illness with predictable patterns of infection — but it’s not there yet, epidemiologists and infectious disease experts say. Ali Mokdad, professor of health metrics sciences at the UW Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation, is quoted. Factbox: How Canada, Australia, UK changed laws after mass shootings | Reuters3 days ago A shooting at a Texas elementary school that killed 19 children and two teachers has revived a push for new gun safety laws in the United States, which has more firearms than people and more permissive gun laws than many other high-income countries. The UW Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation is referenced. Honoring a student lost to suicide | KOMO 44 days ago UW students Ethan Schiller and Ryan Murphy talk about why they organized a concert that benefits suicide prevention to honor their friend who passed away last October. UW researchers find that people enter a state of dissociation when browsing on social media | KGMI4 days ago UW researchers have conducted a study showing how people enter a state of dissociation when browsing on social media. Gov. Jay Inslee tests positive for COVID-19 | KIRO Radio4 days ago Dr. Peter Rabinowitz, professor of environmental and occupational health science at the UW, says Gov. Inslee’s positive test result for COVID-19 is a reminder that we are not out of the woods when it comes to COVID-19, and people need to continue to be careful. Parents could face difficulty finding formula despite shipments from Europe, increased production | KIRO 74 days ago A FedEx plane arrived at Dulles International Airport on Wednesday afternoon, hauling 120,000 pounds of hypoallergenic baby formula from Germany — enough for roughly 1 million 8-ounce bottles. However, it is unclear how much will be sent to each state, or which stores will get it. Eliza Lagerquist, a UW Medicine dietitian, is interviewed. More National/International stories Full archive of national and international stories After the Uvalde school shooting, false flags emerge | Grid3 days ago The shooting in Uvalde, Texas, began just before noon. The earliest, awful details that emerged were all too familiar from previous episodes of horror at American schools: some unknown number of dead children. From certain corners of the internet, a familiar pattern of lies spread in tandem. Kate Starbird, associate professor of human centered design and engineering at the UW, is quoted. A surge in NYC COVID cases sparked a red alert and a debate over masking — but are the numbers even accurate? | New York Daily News3 days ago New data showing a surge in New York COVID cases triggered a jump in the city’s alert status and debate over how best to respond — but the actual number of infected people is likely significantly higher than official numbers show. Ali Mokdad, professor of health metrics sciences at the UW Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation, is quoted. Why go to graduate school? The best and worst reasons | US News3 days ago Wishing you could go back to college is not a good justification for pursuing a graduate education, experts warn. Joy Williamson-Lott, professor of education and dean of the UW’s Graduate School, is quoted. Seeing red | The Loh Down On Science3 days ago "The Loh Down on Science" podcast looks at a UW study showing what colors mosquitos are attracted to. New, stronger rules for truck pollution still would not meet air quality goals | Scientific American3 days ago EPA’s proposal to limit toxic pollution from heavy-duty trucks is stronger than anything that has come before it. But state and local air quality agencies say it’s not aggressive enough to meet the federal regulator’s own clean air standards. Julian Marshall, professor of civil and environmental engineering at the UW, is quoted. When will we know if COVID is seasonal? | ABC News3 days ago COVID-19 may indeed become a seasonal illness with predictable patterns of infection — but it’s not there yet, epidemiologists and infectious disease experts say. Ali Mokdad, professor of health metrics sciences at the UW Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation, is quoted. Factbox: How Canada, Australia, UK changed laws after mass shootings | Reuters3 days ago A shooting at a Texas elementary school that killed 19 children and two teachers has revived a push for new gun safety laws in the United States, which has more firearms than people and more permissive gun laws than many other high-income countries. The UW Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation is referenced. ‘Unsustainable’: how satellite swarms pose a rising threat to astronomy | Nature4 days ago Accumulating evidence reveals just how much satellite ‘megaconstellations’ will interfere with astronomical observatories and other skywatchers around the globe. And satellite companies have not yet found a solution. Meredith Rawls, a research scientist in the astronomy, is quoted. Disclosure closure | Slate4 days ago Dr. Anna Wald, professor of medicine, of epidemiology, and of laboratory medicine and pathology at the UW, shares her expertise on sexually transmitted disease in the advice column "How To Do It." Schools reinstate mask mandates as COVID-19 cases rise | Time5 days ago Several school districts are requiring masks again in response to rising COVID-19 cases, part of a nationwide spike attributed to the highly contagious Omicron subvariants. Brandon Guthrie, assistant professor of global health and of epidemiology at the UW, is quoted. Asian and Pacific Islander adults less likely to get mental health services despite growing need | HealthDay5 days ago Anti-Asian hate has fueled a rise in anxiety and depression in a population that is already one of the least likely to access much-needed mental health services, according to the nonprofit Mental Health America. David Takeuchi, associate dean for faculty excellence at UW School of Social Work, is quoted. 1 of 5 with COVID-19 may develop long COVID, CDC finds — though vaccination may offer some protection, study suggests | Forbes5 days ago One in five Covid-19 survivors may develop symptoms of long Covid, or long-term symptoms, according to a new study from the Centers for Disease Control, though vaccinations may cut the risk of symptoms by 15%, another study of more than 13 million veterans conducted by researchers at Washington University School of Medicine in St. Louis found. The UW School of Medicine is referenced. Pfizer warns of “constant waves” of COVID as complacency grows | Ars Technica5 days ago Growing complacency about COVID-19 and politicization of the pandemic response will cost lives as the world is hit by new waves of the virus in the coming months, Pfizer’s chief executive has warned. Nancy Jecker, professor of bioethics and humanities in the UW School of Medicine, is quoted. Social media makes users dissociate from the world around them, but there are a few tools that can help | ZME Science5 days ago New research at the UW reports that people often dissociate when surfing social media. The paper adds that tools designed to help us surf these networks mindfully can help people maintain more control over their online experiences. Amanda Baughan, a doctoral student in computer science and engineering at the UW, is quoted. Brown to adopt land acknowledgment, invest in native causes | Inside Higher Ed5 days ago Brown University has adopted a formal land acknowledgment policy and will work to expand educational access for Native Americans, the university announced Tuesday. The UW is mentioned. Climate change is making the ocean lose its memory | Popular Science5 days ago People and other living things aren’t the only things with memory. Oceans, in a way, remember too. Ocean memory, a relatively new term, has hit the headlines recently as new research out this month in Science has demonstrated how the ocean is “losing its memory.” Robert Jnglin Wills, a research scientist in atmospheric sciences at the UW, is quoted. Best anti-cancer foods | US News5 days ago Eating a healthy diet can also help shield you from cancer. Julia Marnadi, a clinical dietitian at UW Medical Center, is quoted. TIME 100 2022: Tulio de Oliveira and Sikhulile Moyo | Time6 days ago Scientists in Africa have been monitoring and sequencing pathogens since long before the pandemic. The world benefited from this network when scientists including Sikhulile Moyo, laboratory director for the Botswana-Harvard HIV Reference Laboratory, and Tulio de Oliveira, affiliate professor of global health at the UW and director of South Africa’s Centre for Epidemic Response and Innovation, identified three-fourths and reported the emergence of the Omicron variant last November. TIME 100 2022: Genome researchers | Time6 days ago Ever since the draft of the human genome became available in 2001, there has been a nagging question about the genome’s “dark matter” — the parts of the map that were missed the first time through, and what they contained. Now, thanks to Adam Phillippy; Karen Miga; Evan Eichler, professor of genome sciences in the UW School of Medicine; Michael Schatz; and the entire Telomere-to-Telomere Consortium of scientists that they led, we can see the full map of the human genomic landscape — and there’s much to explore. The US has spent more than $2 billion on a plan to save salmon — the fish are vanishing anyway | ProPublica7 days ago The U.S. government promised Native tribes in the Pacific Northwest that they could keep fishing as they’d always done. But instead of preserving wild salmon, it propped up a failing system of hatcheries. Now, that system is falling apart. Ray Hilborn, professor of aquatic and fishery sciences at the UW, is quoted, and the Columbia Basin Research Center at the UW, is referenced. More Regional stories Full archive of regional stories Fishery monitoring software wins $25K at Univ. of Washington student startup competition | GeekWire3 days ago A student team from Simon Fraser University developing a way to use artificial intelligence to monitor fisheries took home the $25,000 top prize at the 2022 Dempsey Startup Competition hosted by the UW Foster School Buerk Center for Entrepreneurship. Visualizing brains, plants and salamanders in 3D: University of Washington microscope does it all | GeekWire3 days ago A new study showcases a microscope years in the making, licensed to spinout Alpenglow Biosciences. The microscope enables researchers to peer into biological samples of all sizes and shapes in 3D and zoom into details quickly. The microscope was invented by Alpenglow co-founders Adam Glaser, affiliate assistant professor of mechanical engineering at the UW and Jonathan Liu, professor of mechanical engineering at the UW. CEO and co-founder Dr. Nicholas Reder, clinical instructor of laboratory medicine and pathology in the UW School of Medicine, and co-founder Lawrence True are also study co-authors. Inflation 101: Why is everything so expensive? | KING 53 days ago Inflation has hit a 40-year high in the U.S. and it’s making life more costly. Thomas Gilbert, associate professor of finance at the UW, is quoted. CDC confirms monkeypox infection in King County man | The Seattle Times3 days ago The monkeypox virus has officially landed in Washington, state and local public health leaders confirmed Friday morning after announcing their investigation into a possible case earlier this week. Deborah Fuller, professor of microbiology in the UW School of Medicine, is quoted. CHOP planted the seeds. 2 years later, the food equity movement in Seattle is reaping the benefits | The Seattle Times3 days ago In the last few years, the extremity of racialized food inequity has garnered more widespread attention and more concerted responses that strive toward food sovereignty — the rights of people to healthful and culturally appropriate food — one community garden at a time. Some of those efforts began or were inspired by community food ideas spawned at CHOP, while others already in existence gained traction as the need for food equity was amplified by the 2020 movement. UW research is referenced. Newest J Pod calf is a female, offering hope for endangered Southern resident population | FOX 133 days ago The Center for Whale Research confirmed on May 26 that the new calf born to the J Pod is a female, offering a glimmer of hope for the endangered Southern resident orca population. The UW is referenced. Here are the Washington state gun laws meant to prevent violence | KING 53 days ago Washington has relatively more stringent gun laws in the state, compared to others. Dr. Fred Rivara, professor of pediatrics in the UW School of Medicine, said Texas laws could have done more. See ya! Washington police say drivers aren’t stopping for them; cite pursuit restrictions | Northwest News Network3 days ago Since January of this year, more than 900 drivers have failed to stop for a Washington State Patrol trooper trying to pull them over. The change in driver behavior comes after state lawmakers passed strict new rules on when police can engage in pursuits. Martina Morris, professor emeritus of sociology and of statistics at the UW, is quoted. Editorial: Sexual-abuse report underscores need to overhaul immigrant detention | The Seattle Times3 days ago "A recent UW Center for Human Rights found that claims of sexual abuse at the Northwest Detention Center often go ignored or are not properly investigated. The report is the latest example of a broken system that fails to protect those in custody. Congress must enact legislation — championed by U.S. Reps. Adam Smith and Pramila Jayapal, both D-Wash. — that limits the number of immigrant detentions and ensures increased transparency and oversight of detention facilities," writes The Seattle Times Editorial Board. Honoring a student lost to suicide | KOMO 44 days ago UW students Ethan Schiller and Ryan Murphy talk about why they organized a concert that benefits suicide prevention to honor their friend who passed away last October. UW researchers find that people enter a state of dissociation when browsing on social media | KGMI4 days ago UW researchers have conducted a study showing how people enter a state of dissociation when browsing on social media. Gov. Jay Inslee tests positive for COVID-19 | KIRO Radio4 days ago Dr. Peter Rabinowitz, professor of environmental and occupational health science at the UW, says Gov. Inslee’s positive test result for COVID-19 is a reminder that we are not out of the woods when it comes to COVID-19, and people need to continue to be careful. Parents could face difficulty finding formula despite shipments from Europe, increased production | KIRO 74 days ago A FedEx plane arrived at Dulles International Airport on Wednesday afternoon, hauling 120,000 pounds of hypoallergenic baby formula from Germany — enough for roughly 1 million 8-ounce bottles. However, it is unclear how much will be sent to each state, or which stores will get it. Eliza Lagerquist, a UW Medicine dietitian, is interviewed. How to take action against gun violence | Seattle's Child4 days ago Seattle’s Child share eight ways parents and families can get involved in the anti-gun violence movement. Research by the UW School of Public Health is referenced. 'Shakes us to our core': State researchers using data to curb all forms of gun violence | KXLY4 days ago On the heels of another horrific school shooting, communities aren’t only worried about mass shootings. Gun violence as a whole has state leaders taking a new look at how we focus efforts to curb the violence. Dr. Fred Rivara, professor of pediatrics in the UW School of Medicine, is interviewed. How to help your kids process what happened in Uvalde | KUOW4 days ago An 18-year-old man entered an elementary school in Uvalde, Texas and killed 21 people — two teachers and 19 students. That’s a difficult thing to process. Especially for the students and parents who are watching. Dr. Douglas Zatzick, professor of psychiatry and behavioral sciences in the UW School of Medicine, is interviewed. New King County study shows imported aluminum cookpots may pose serious risk for lead poisoning | South Seattle Emerald4 days ago A King County study, done in collaboration with the Department of Environmental and Occupational Health Sciences at the University of Washington, revealed that several aluminum cookpots released enough lead under simulated cooking and storage conditions to present a significant risk for lead poisoning. [This is part of a news roundup] Longtime UW science leader Nora Disis on gender inequity, translational research, and more | GeekWire4 days ago Mary “Nora” L. Disis, professor of medicine in the UW School of Medicine, has seen a lot of change in her 30 years at the UW. And she’s also helped create it, as the director of the Institute of Translational Health Sciences, which fosters the flow of science into the clinic. Texas elementary shooting prompts tough conversations with children about school-violence | MyNorthwest5 days ago Kids across the country are asking questions about what happened in that Texas elementary school — and whether or not they can feel safe. Dr. Fred Rivara, professor of pediatrics in the UW School of Medicine, is quoted. Best phone apps for hiking and camping in Washington | Seattle Met5 days ago Your smartphone may be your best tool in the outdoors — and not just for the camera. The UW Burke Museum is referenced. More Stories by campuses and major units UW Bothell Full archive for UW Bothell The town where salmon might be the most famous residents | KUOW6 days ago Salmon are an important part of culture and nature in Washington state. But they face obstacles to survival. Humans have polluted and destroyed salmon’s watery habitats. Jeffrey Jensen, teaching professor of biology at UW Bothell, is interviewed. Several COVID test sites closing | KIRO 72 weeks ago Dan Bustillos, assistant professor of nursing and health studies at UW Bothell, says he thinks phasing out COVID test sites gradually is the right thing to do to. Opinion: UW’s use of ‘permatemp’ faculty is unfair to students and part-time faculty | The Seattle Times2 weeks ago "The employment of ‘permatemp’ faculty at the UW weakens undergraduate education and threatens the principle of equal opportunity in hiring. More fundamentally, it creates unfair and often intolerable working conditions for the individuals involved," writes Dan Jacoby, professor emeritus of interdisciplinary arts and sciences at UW Bothell. Adapting a zero suicide approach to native communities | WebMD4 weeks ago While Native Americans have high suicide rates and unique cultural challenges, programs aimed at prevention have seldom been designed for their specific needs. Zero Suicide is a generalized suicide program that first launched in 2012, promoting the adoption of “zero suicide” as a goal across U.S. health care systems. William Hartmann, professor of interdisciplinary arts and sciences at UW Bothell, is quoted. 'Fresh Banana Leaves' spotlights Indigenous science for a warming planet | Here & Now1 month ago Climate change is challenging all of our global systems, everything from food systems to infrastructure, with the number of climate refugees growing. But as we seek solutions, the insights of Indigenous people are often overlooked. That’s the argument in a new book called "Fresh Banana Leaves: Healing Indigenous Landscapes Through Indigenous Science," by Jessica Hernandez, a postdoctoral researcher at UW Bothell. How the CDC plans to reverse America's STI epidemic | Popular Science1 month ago Sexually transmitted infections have been on the rise for years, but at-home testing might help. Dr. Matthew Golden, professor of medicine in the UW School of Medicine, is quoted. An Indigenous scientist on purging colonialist practices from science | Science Friday1 month ago Science Friday publishes an excerpt from "Fresh Banana Leaves: Healing Indigenous Landscapes Through Indigenous Science," by Jessica Hernandez, a postdoctoral researcher at UW Bothell. To save a forest, look to the women | Yes! Magazine1 month ago Women often suffer the most from environmental degradation. A nonprofit in Colombia is trying to make their needs central to conservation. Phoebe Barnard, affiliate professor of interdisciplinary arts and sciences at UW Bothell, is quoted. Opinion: Economic and policy experts argue against repealing the capital gains tax | Washington State Wire1 month ago "A tax cut for the extremely wealthy, at the expense of Washington’s children and families, is the last thing our state needs," write Katie Baird, professor of economics at UW Tacoma; Dan Jacob, professor emeritus at UW Bothell; Anna Lovász, assistant professor of economics at UW Tacoma; Tim Sharks, lecturer in politics, philosophy and economics at UW Tacoma; Douglas Conrad, professor of health services at the UW; Melissa Martinson, associate professor of social work at the UW; Robert Plotnick, professor emeritus of public policy and governance at the UW; Andy Nicholas of the Washington State Budget & Policy Center; and Carolyn Brotherton of the Economic Opportunity Institute. Telling the same old story at Third and Pine | Real Change2 months ago The corner of Third Avenue and Pine Street is a bit of a ghost town now, with not much besides a constant police presence to remind passersby of the block’s previous crowds. Amoshaun Toft, associate professor in UW Bothell’s School of Interdisciplinary Arts & Sciences, is featured. Univ. of Washington plans new biotech workforce center in Bothell with $750K in federal funding | GeekWire2 months ago The UW Bothell has landed $750,000 in federal funding to support a new center to focus on educating the life science workforce. The Center for Biotech Innovation and Training will collaborate with regional biotech companies to identify areas of need and build new curriculum, said Leslie Cornick, dean of UW Bothell’s School of Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics. UW Bothell’s Hyung Kim, assistant professor of chemistry, and Lori Robins, associate professor of chemistry, are mentioned. UW Bothell receives funding for behavioral health initiative | KIRO 72 months ago UW Bothell is receiving $750,000 in federal funding for its behavioral health initiative, which aims to teach educators about the mental health challenges K-12 students face. The GoFundMe healthcare plan doesn’t work | Science Friday2 months ago Big celebrity crowdfunding campaigns often raise huge sums of money. But these types of crowdfunding campaigns are outliers. Around a third of campaigns on the most popular crowdfunding site, GoFundMe, are to cover medical costs. And most campaign goals are aiming to raise a few thousand dollars. Yet 30% of campaigns to cover medical costs in 2020 raised zero dollars. Nora Kenworthy, associate professor of nursing and health studies at UW Bothell, and Mark Igra, a graduate student in sociology at the UW, are interviewed. Students wins $250,000 for gravitational wave research | GeekWire2 months ago Christine Ye, a senior at Eastlake High School in Sammamish, Wash., has won the top award in the nation’s oldest and most prestigious competitions for science students, thanks to her research into the mysteries of black holes and neutron stars. UW Bothell research is referenced. Groundbreaking for new residential village | KOMO 43 months ago UW Bothell broke ground on a new residential village that will triple its housing capacity. Student Amelia Aman says it represents more opportunities for students to engage with each other. UW Bothell breaks ground on major residence hall | KIRO 73 months ago The Bothell broke ground on a major residence hall project Wednesday, which will triple the number of students who will be able to live on campus. UW Bothell chancellor Kristin Esterberg and student Amelia Alma are interviewed. New vice president advancement at UW Bothell | Chronicle of Higher Education3 months ago Rebecca Ehrlichman Blume, assistant dean for mission advancement and engagement in the UW Evans School of Public Policy and Governance, has been named vice president for advancement at UW Bothell. [This is part of a news roundup] Cybersecurity concerns | KIRO 73 months ago Barbara Endicott-Popovsky, executive director of the Center for Information Assurance and Cybersecurity at UW Bothell, says that the Russian government will be watching what Russian hackers do, even if the government isn’t directly involved. WA companies prepare as threat of Russian cyberattacks increases | The Seattle Times3 months ago As major American businesses prepare for possible Russian-led cyberattacks, some Northwest information security experts are raising an alarm while others argue many companies are already prepared. Barbara Endicott-Popovsky, executive director of the Center for Information Assurance and Cybersecurity at UW Bothell, is quoted. Unvaccinated face greater risk of financial ruin | NW Asian Weekly3 months ago With the pandemic as one of the top health concerns worldwide, the unvaccinated are more likely to face higher medical bills. Their likelihood of being hospitalized, while varying from state to state, remained significantly higher than those vaccinated. Nora Kenworthy, associate professor of nursing and health studies at UW Bothell, is quoted. More UW Tacoma Full archive for UW Tacoma Puget Sound is full of old tires… on purpose? | KUOW1 week ago Decades ago, states began putting bundles of tires on the seafloor as "artificial reefs." Their aim was to build new habitats for local marine life. Today, there’s little proof these tires are serving their intended purpose. UW research is referenced. One model of tribal and university relations | Diverse Issues In Higher Education2 weeks ago Through a unique partnership between the Miami Tribe of Oklahoma and Miami University, the Myaamia Heritage Award Program covers four years of tuition and fees for students who are part of the Miami Tribe. Robin Starr Zape-tah-hol-ah Minthorn, associate professor of education at UW Tacoma, is quoted. Seattle fish research could shake up global tire industry | KUOW3 weeks ago Electric vehicles have clear environmental benefits over gas-powered cars, yet all cars and trucks are polluters when it comes to their tires. Research in Seattle-area creeks has discovered tire bits shedding lethal amounts of a little-known, salmon-killing chemical called 6PPD-quinone. Edward Kolodziej, associate professor of civil and environmental engineering at the UW and of science and mathematics at UW Tacoma, is interviewed. Opinion: How to write thoughtful recommendations for remote students | Inside Higher Ed4 weeks ago "Just as faculty members have updated their practices to become effective remote teachers, they can rethink how to approach letters of recommendation and references for remote students," write UW Tacoma’s Libi Sundermann, associate teaching professor of historical studies; Jeremy Davis, associate dean of programs and operations; Chris Lott, digital learning designer. Microplastics: It's what's for dinner | KUOW1 month ago Microplastics seem to be in everything, everywhere, all at once. The tiny pieces of plastic are two-tenths of an inch or smaller and have been found in the ocean and our bodies. That’s right, microplastics have been found in poop and even our blood. But how do we fix that? Julie Masura, associate teaching professor of science and mathematics at UW Tacoma, is interviewed. The changing public opinion around climate change — and where King County ranks | The Seattle Times1 month ago According to projections from the Yale Climate Opinion Maps, an estimated 84% of King County residents believe global warming is happening, 70% believe it’s caused mostly by human activity and 78% believe it’s affecting the weather. The UW’s Ann Bostrom, professor of public policy and governance, and Michelle Montgomery, associate professor of social and historical studies at UW Tacoma, are quoted. To revive a river, restore its liver | Scientific American1 month ago Salmon are so elemental to Indigenous peoples who live along North America’s northwestern coast that for generations several nations have called themselves the “Salmon People.” But when settlers came, their forms of agricultural and urban development devastated the mighty fish. Edward Kolodziej, associate professor of civil and environmental engineering at the UW and of science and mathematics at UW Tacoma, is mentioned. Opinion: Economic and policy experts argue against repealing the capital gains tax | Washington State Wire1 month ago "A tax cut for the extremely wealthy, at the expense of Washington’s children and families, is the last thing our state needs," write Katie Baird, professor of economics at UW Tacoma; Dan Jacob, professor emeritus at UW Bothell; Anna Lovász, assistant professor of economics at UW Tacoma; Tim Sharks, lecturer in politics, philosophy and economics at UW Tacoma; Douglas Conrad, professor of health services at the UW; Melissa Martinson, associate professor of social work at the UW; Robert Plotnick, professor emeritus of public policy and governance at the UW; Andy Nicholas of the Washington State Budget & Policy Center; and Carolyn Brotherton of the Economic Opportunity Institute. College students from Ukraine believe Ukraine will defeat Russia | Northwest News Radio2 months ago Illia Meresenko, a student at UW Tacoma, says he thinks that Ukraine will win the Russia-Ukraine war. He and Anastasiya Lemesh, a student at Pierce College, think that Ukraine will prevail but worry about the cost of the war. Opinion: How to understand Tacoma’s increase in crime — and fix it | Tacoma News Tribune2 months ago "The crime is a symptom. The broken windows are a symptom. When you talk to the experts, that’s what you learn. Tacoma is sick right now, and it’s not alone," writes columnist Matt Driscoll. Janelle Hawes and Kenneth Cruz, assistant professors of social work and criminal justice at UW Tacoma, are quoted. University of Washington Tacoma eyes expansion | Puget Sound Business Journal2 months ago Officials at the Tacoma are looking to expand the school’s downtown footprint and they are seeking a private partner to make that happen. Ben Mauk, associate director of campus planning and retail for UW Tacoma, is quoted. Vann Smiley, vice chancellor for finance and administration for UW Tacoma, is mentioned. Opinion: UWT students propose redesigns for downtown transit center | Tacoma News Tribune2 months ago "For several years, David Boe has served as a part-time instructor at UW Tacoma’s School of Urban Studies. This quarter, as he has in the past, Boe asked students to submit plans for a potential redesign of the Broadway and Commerce Street corridor," writes columnist Matt Driscoll. UW Tacoma students Amran Mohamed and Kristin Bauer are quoted. Challenges persist for formerly incarcerated students | Inside Higher Ed3 months ago The stigma of incarceration often complicates admissions, membership in academic organizations and professional licensure, restricting individuals for years after their release from prison. Christopher Beasley, assistant professor of social, behavioral and human sciences at UW Tacoma, is quoted. Yes, glitter really is bad for the environment | Discover Magazine3 months ago The sparkly stuff is an environmental nightmare. It’s also just one example of a larger category of pollutants that scientists are still struggling to understand. Joel Baker, professor of environmental science at UW Tacoma, is quoted. Wood-burning stoves raise new health concerns | Undark3 months ago Officials increasingly treat woodsmoke pollution as a public health and environmental justice issue, despite opposition. Robin Evans-Agnew, an associate professor of nursing at UW Tacoma, is quoted. Opinion: Pierce County Sheriff’s Dept has a use of force problem | Tacoma News Tribune3 months ago "As the second anniversary of the Manuel Ellis murder nears, many of us are still searching for answers … Yes, we’ve seen a ban on chokeholds and the implementation of body cameras, but these reforms miss the mark if the goal is safe and just communities for all," writes Andre Jimenez, a student at UW Tacoma. UW Tacoma professors look at how wartime incarceration impacted Tacoma's Japantown | KNKX3 months ago Mary Hanneman, associate professor of politics, philosophy and public affairs at UW Tacoma, talks about how she and her co-author went to California, Chicago and across the country to inteview people for their book "Becoming Nisei." Seattle’s Academy for Rising Educators aims to fill a critical classroom need | The Seattle Times3 months ago The Academy for Rising Educators trains and guarantees teaching placement in Seattle Public Schools, with an emphasis on attracting and supporting educators of color. UW Tacoma Chancellor Sheila Edwards Lange and the UW College of Education are mentioned. Urban stormwater presents pollution challenge | Chemical & Engineering News4 months ago Chemists look to adapt green infrastructure to manage emerging contaminants. The UW’s Jessica Ray, assistant professor of civil and environmental engineering, and Edward Kolodziej, associate professor of civil and environmental engineering, are quoted. Beauty standards, oppression and empowerment | TVO4 months ago Jennifer Holness’ documentary "Subjects of Desire" explores Black female beauty in history and popular culture and examines the cultural shift in North American beauty standards to embrace Black features and aesthetics. Carolyn M. West, professor of social, behavioral and human sciences at UW Tacoma, is quoted. More College of Arts & Sciences Full archive for College of Arts & Sciences Seeing red | The Loh Down On Science3 days ago "The Loh Down on Science" podcast looks at a UW study showing what colors mosquitos are attracted to. Newest J Pod calf is a female, offering hope for endangered Southern resident population | FOX 133 days ago The Center for Whale Research confirmed on May 26 that the new calf born to the J Pod is a female, offering a glimmer of hope for the endangered Southern resident orca population. The UW is referenced. See ya! Washington police say drivers aren’t stopping for them; cite pursuit restrictions | Northwest News Network3 days ago Since January of this year, more than 900 drivers have failed to stop for a Washington State Patrol trooper trying to pull them over. The change in driver behavior comes after state lawmakers passed strict new rules on when police can engage in pursuits. Martina Morris, professor emeritus of sociology and of statistics at the UW, is quoted. ‘Unsustainable’: how satellite swarms pose a rising threat to astronomy | Nature4 days ago Accumulating evidence reveals just how much satellite ‘megaconstellations’ will interfere with astronomical observatories and other skywatchers around the globe. And satellite companies have not yet found a solution. Meredith Rawls, a research scientist in the astronomy, is quoted. Presumptive case of monkeybox in California | FOX 135 days ago Carl Bergstrom, professor of biology at the UW, says the strain of monkeypox in Washington is from Nigeria and doesn’t spread easily from humans to other humans. Are children ‘re-transitioning’ later in life after a social transition? | South Seattle Emerald1 week ago A longitudinal study by researchers at Princeton University and the looking at children’s gender identity five years after making a social transition. He found a Milky Way black hole 50 years ago, and finally got to see it | Mashable1 week ago Bruce Balick, professor emeritus of astronomy at the UW, and Robert L. Brown received the credit for Sagittarius A*, the supermassive black hole found at the center of the Milky Way in 1974. On May 12, 2022, the international Event Horizon Telescope group released the first-ever photo of Sagittarius A* to the world. WA will soon put a price on carbon emissions for its biggest polluters — here’s how it will work | The Seattle Times1 week ago A new program launching in January will put a cap on fossil fuel emissions and require nearly a hundred of the state’s biggest polluters to partake in a carbon trading scheme. The UW’s Nives Dolšak, professor of marine and environmental affairs, and Aseem Prakash, professor of political science, are quoted. In Singapore, a forensics lab wields CSI-like tech against wildlife traffickers | Mongabay1 week ago A wildlife forensics laboratory launched in Singapore last year is making breakthroughs in tracking down criminal syndicates trafficking in wildlife. Sam Wasser, professor of biology at the UW, is quoted. So, have you heard about monkeypox? | The Atlantic1 week ago An outbreak of a virus called monkeypox is testing whether the world has learned anything from COVID. Carl Bergstrom, professor of biology at the UW, is quoted. This black hole has been a 'monster lurking' for decades — new photos expose it | KUOW2 weeks ago While we were all going about our puny mortal existences on this tiny rock, an array of telescopes stretching from Hawaii to Western Europe to the South Pole captured the first-ever image of the supermassive black hole at the center of the Milky Way galaxy. Bruce Balick, professor emeritus of astronomy at the UW, is interviewed on "Soundside." Graphic novel ‘The Eightfold Path’ explores intersections of Buddhism and Afrofuturism | South Seattle Emerald2 weeks ago Charles Johnson, professor emeritus of English at the UW, has recently released his latest book "The Eightfold Path," a graphic novel with coauthor Steven Barnes and illustrator Bryan Christopher Moss. Octopuses torture and eat themselves after mating — science finally knows why | Live Science2 weeks ago Researchers have discovered the chemicals that seem to control female octopuses’ fatal frenzy. After an octopus lays eggs, she undergoes changes in the production and use of cholesterol in her body, which in turn increases her production of steroid hormones — a biochemical shift that will doom her. Z Yan Wang, assistant professor of psychology and of biology at the UW, is quoted. Why a University of Washington astronomer thinks environmental protections need to extend to space | Oregon Public Broadcasting2 weeks ago Satellites whizzing above Earth have revolutionized how we communicate, navigate and even monitor the greenhouse gas emissions that are driving climate change. But the number of satellites being launched into orbit is expected to increase by tens of thousands in just a few years, and are already making it harder for astronomers and amateur sky gazers to peer deep into the night sky. Meredith Rawls, a research scientist in the UW Department of Astronomy, is interviewed on "Think Out Loud." How mammals conquered the world after the asteroid apocalypse | Scientific American2 weeks ago Mammals scurried in the shadows of dinosaurs for millions of years until a killer space rock created a new world of evolutionary opportunity. Gregory Wilson Mantilla, professor of biology at the UW, is mentioned. Scientists discover why female octopi self-mutilate to death after laying eggs | The Independent2 weeks ago A drastic change in steroid hormone levels in female octopuses after they lay eggs causes them to mutilate themselves to death, a new study has revealed. Z Yan Wang, assistant professor of psychology and of biology at the UW, is quoted. Scientists figure out why female octopuses self-destruct after laying eggs | Smithsonian Magazine2 weeks ago In a new study published in Current Biology, researchers describe changes to a series of biochemical pathways that happen after mating and may be responsible for a female’s octupus’ self-destruction after laying eggs. Z Yan Wang, assistant professor of psychology and of biology at the UW, is quoted. Analysis: Fewer donors say they're willing to give to a charity when it supports immigrants – especially if they're undocumented | The Conversation2 weeks ago Overall, immigrants are slightly more likely to be low-income than other Americans, and many face discrimination. Also, many immigrants, especially those who are low-income, undocumented or have trouble speaking English, need help getting settled in the U.S. As a result, there are charities that support these newcomers … We wanted to know whether the immigration status of the people a charity aids can influence the public’s willingness to donate to it," write Aseem Prakash, professor of political science at the UW, and the University of Maryland’s Joannie Tremblay-Boire and Apolonia Calderon. Nikole Hannah-Jones on 1619’s success, backlash and future | Crosscut2 weeks ago Nikole Hannah-Jones discusses how the 1619 Project has become a source text for America’s racial reckoning — and the subject of major backlash — in a conversation with Christopher Parker, professor of political science at the UW, broadcast on the "Crosscut Talks" podcast. Experts: Elon Musk has wrong approach to count fakes, spam on Twitter | CNBC2 weeks ago Elon Musk on Friday suggested he was putting his acquisition of Twitter on hold to try and figure out if Twitter is underreporting the number of fake accounts it has. Carl Bergstrom, professor of biology at the UW, is quoted. More College of Built Environments Full archive for College of Built Environments CHOP planted the seeds. 2 years later, the food equity movement in Seattle is reaping the benefits | The Seattle Times3 days ago In the last few years, the extremity of racialized food inequity has garnered more widespread attention and more concerted responses that strive toward food sovereignty — the rights of people to healthful and culturally appropriate food — one community garden at a time. Some of those efforts began or were inspired by community food ideas spawned at CHOP, while others already in existence gained traction as the need for food equity was amplified by the 2020 movement. UW research is referenced. The best Seattle neighborhoods and suburbs | Seattle Met5 days ago Bidding wars, waived contingencies, all cash. Those once-in-a-blue-moon tactics are basically the bare minimum now if you’re looking to snag any sort of square footage in Seattle and its surrounds. UW research is referenced. Camas is blooming outside of UW Burke Museum | KNKX2 weeks ago Rhys Coffee, a graduate student in landscape architecture at the UW, says the goal of the project to grow camas, a food traditionally important in Indigenous diets, is to take actions that give land back to Indigenous communities and cultures. Thurston County home sales fall 12%, new data show | The Olympian3 weeks ago The number of Thurston County homes that sold in April was down 12% from the same month a year ago, a sign that the market is reacting to some new economic pressures, including higher mortgage interest rates, according to Northwest Multiple Listing Service data. James Young, director of the Washington Center for Real Estate Research at the UW, is quoted. How one architect’s radical ideas about nature changed American cities forever | Inverse1 month ago Frederick Law Olmsted would have been 200 years old today — his legacy endures. Thaisa Way, professor of landscape architecture at the UW, is quoted. ‘The ugliest building in downtown Seattle’ or ‘a piece of public art’? Either way, King County is closing it down | The Seattle Times1 month ago King County is shuttering its downtown Administration Building, leaving vacant an architectural imbroglio of an office building that has been controversial since it first opened a half century ago. A UW Department of Urban Planning studio is quoted. Washington maker of shed-sized homeless shelters has thrived since the pandemic | Oregon Public Broadcasting2 months ago Sales figures for Everett, Washington, company Pallet jumped from $250,000 in 2019 to $10 million in 2020, company officials said. Today, the shelters are in more than 70 communities, up from just three in 2019. Gregg Colburn, assistant professor of real estate at the UW, is quoted. When it comes to homelessness, we speak with compassion but act without empathy | The Seattle Times2 months ago At times our city’s most astounding feat is being well-versed in the language of compassion, without any fluency in the exercise of empathy. Data analyzed by Gregg Colburn, assistant professor of real estate at the UW, and Clayton Page Aldern is referenced. Hurricane expert pitches end to category 'wind' scale during Orlando conference | Orlando Sentinel2 months ago During the this week’s National Hurricane Conference in Orlando, a Colorado State University professor proposed a better a way to predict the damages of a devastating hurricane — do away with the Saffir-Simpson Hurricane Scale. Michael Lindell, faculty at the UW Institute for Hazards Mitigation Research and Planning, is quoted. What the humble clover means for the future of life in cities | Crosscut2 months ago A global study into urbanization’s impact on white clover shows that the plant is evolving to survive alongside us in Puget Sound. Karen Dyson of the UW Urban Ecology Research Lab is quoted. Ballot initiative filed to introduce social housing to Seattle | Real Change2 months ago Housing advocates are pushing to put an initiative on the November ballot that would put local government directly in charge of affordable housing production. Gregg Colburn, assistant professor of real estate at the UW, is quoted. Bothell banned cars from Main Street in response to COVID — they may never return | The Seattle Times2 months ago Nearly two years ago, Bothell banned vehicles from a downtown street to promote outdoor dining and strolling during the COVID-19 pandemic. Now, it looks like the cars may never return. Branden Born, associate professor of urban planning at the UW, and Jeff Hou, professor of landscape architecture at the UW, are quoted. Washington stopped planning for a nuclear war in 1984 — should we start now? | The Seattle Times2 months ago The sudden escalation of nuclear tensions with Russia is making some experts rethink the lack of emergency planning for a nuclear attack. Clear information could save lives, even in a nuclear strike, they say. Failing to plan for how these weapons impact the public only enables a lack of scrutiny over nuclear spending and policy. Michael Lindell, faculty at the UW Institute for Hazards Mitigation Research and Planning, is quoted. 'We're trying': Local families live in hotels because of tight housing market, scared they'll end up on the streets | KXLY2 months ago Housing unaffordability continues to cripple people in the Inland Northwest. Many are doing whatever they can, so they don’t end up living on the streets. New research from the sheds light on just how connected affordable housing is to homelessness. Gregg Colburn, assistant professor of real estate at the UW, is interviewed. King County launches mobile shower unit for homeless | MyNorthwest2 months ago King County launched a new mobile shower program last week, designed to provide hygiene resources for the region’s homeless population. A UW study is referenced. Is homelessness a housing problem? Two Seattle experts make their case in new book | The Seattle Times2 months ago Gregg Colburn, assistant professor of real estate at the UW, and Clayton Page Aldern, are interviewed about their new book, "Homelessness Is a Housing Problem." Eight years after deadly landslide near Darrington, new industry could change timber town | The Seattle Times2 months ago For decades, Darrington, Washington, has struggled with the decline of its old-school logging industry. The town was traumatized eight years ago Tuesday by the deadliest landslide in U.S. history. Now Mayor Dan Rankin is the driving force behind a $120 million plan to develop a manufacturing hub for cross-laminated timber panels and modular housing. A UW study is referenced. Community honors founder of Plant Amnesty with the Cass Turnbull Garden | The Seattle Times2 months ago Gardens are built by hand and heft, over time. Remarkable gardens are invested with great heart. The Cass Turnbull Garden, a collaborative endeavor involving a community of designers, gardeners and horticultural craftspeople, is a testament to the love and respect for a singular plantswoman. Daniel Winterbottom, professor of landscape architecture at the UW, is mentioned. Opinion: Storied beams — architectural annotations on resilience and survival in the Chinatown-International District | International Examiner2 months ago "Buildings ask little of us compared to what we ask of them. This thought crossed my mind as I slipped out of an unrelenting downpour last October and into King Noodle, where I was picking up my congee order with a plan to eat it under the pagoda in Hing Hay Park … However, that day the pagoda was already sheltering a few of my unhoused neighbors, so I carried my order home to eat … That pagoda, the four walls and ceiling of a noodle house and my tiny studio apartment all performed a simple function that day, mercifully protecting both myself and other feeble humans from the ambient wrath of the world," writes Alexa Starbuck. Jeff Hou, professor of landscape architecture at the UW, is quoted. Amazon allocates $42.5M to build 318 affordable apartments near Seattle area light rail stations | GeekWire3 months ago Amazon on Tuesday announced that it has allocated $42.5 million to help pay for the construction of 318 affordable apartments near two light rail stations in the greater Seattle area. The projects are being done in partnership with Sound Transit, a local public transit agency. Gregg Colburn, assistant professor of real estate at the UW, is quoted. More College of Education Full archive for College of Education Why go to graduate school? The best and worst reasons | US News3 days ago Wishing you could go back to college is not a good justification for pursuing a graduate education, experts warn. Joy Williamson-Lott, professor of education and dean of the UW’s Graduate School, is quoted. How a tumultuous school year for Seattle students sparked a movement to demand change | The Seattle Times2 weeks ago Over the course of the pandemic, Seattle students have endured online classes, missed out on senior-year milestones, scrambled to adjust for last-minute school cancellations, and lived through dramatic spikes in COVID-19 cases at schools. All the uncertainty and fear brought them together. They formed a new group, the Seattle Student Union, to fight for change and equity, organized shortly after winter break ended — when COVID cases were at an all-time high. Ann Ishimaru, associate professor of education at the UW, is quoted. Robin DiAngelo, who coined and authored 'White Fragility,' joins the #VelshiBannedBookClub | MSNBC3 weeks ago Robin DiAngelo, affiliate associate professor of education at the UW, is interviewed about her book "White Fragility" and calls for it to be banned. How laws on race, sexuality could clash with culturally responsive teaching | Education Week1 month ago Culturally responsive teaching and critical race theory are not the same thing. But laws banning the teaching of critical race theory in K-12 schools, and other related efforts, could spell out logistical challenges and questions for educators engaging in culturally responsive work. Teddi Beam-Conroy, associate teaching professor of education at the UW, is quoted. What is culturally responsive teaching? | Education Week1 month ago Scholars have developed teaching methods and practices — broadly known as asset-based pedagogies — that incorporate students’ cultural identities and lived experiences into the classroom as tools for effective instruction. Teddi Beam-Conroy, associate teaching professor of education at the UW, is quoted. A new movement on Standing Rock | NPR1 month ago A group of educators and parents decided to start their own school on the Standing Rock Reservation. It’s called Mní Wičhóni Nakíčižiŋ Wóuŋspe or the Defenders of the Water School and it started during the movement against the Dakota Access Pipeline. Alayna Eagle Shield, a doctoral student in education at the UW, is featured on the "Code Switch" podcast. How the pandemic impacted kids' mental health | KING 52 months ago New CDC study sheds light on how the pandemic has impacted the mental health of high school students. James Mazza, professor of education at the UW, is quoted. Washington education administrator advances to Senate confirmation to become Biden’s special education chief | The Spokesman-Review3 months ago A divided Senate education committee on Feb. 10 advanced the nomination of Washington education administrator Glenna Gallo to lead the U.S. Education Department’s special education program. Ilene Schwartz, professor of special education and director of the Haring Center for Inclusive Education at the UW, is quoted. College presidents created a money monster — now will they tame it? | Chronicle of HIgher Education3 months ago The way American colleges manage their most lucrative sports is crumbling under the weight of its own commercial success. Jennifer Hoffman, associate professor of education at the UW, is quoted. Extended Interview: UW professor explains why some Black students prefer virtual learning | KING 53 months ago Ann Ishimaru, associate professor of education at the UW, explains why some Black students preferred virtual learning compared to in-person classes. Seattle’s Academy for Rising Educators aims to fill a critical classroom need | The Seattle Times3 months ago The Academy for Rising Educators trains and guarantees teaching placement in Seattle Public Schools, with an emphasis on attracting and supporting educators of color. UW Tacoma Chancellor Sheila Edwards Lange and the UW College of Education are mentioned. Thousands of Washington students choose virtual learning despite return to in-person classes | KING 53 months ago Students in Washington state are finally learning and going to in-person classes more regularly compared to the start of the COVID-19 pandemic. While discussions to get rid of school masking are underway, one aspect of schooling synonymous with the pandemic is sticking around: virtual learning. Ann Ishimaru, associate professor of education at the UW, and Jason Naranjo, associate teaching professor of educational studies at UW Bothell, are interviewed. HBCUs have long been a target for racial backlash | NBC News4 months ago Experts say the recent bomb threats build on years of racist attempts to stop Black people from getting educations at historically Black colleges and universities. Joy Williamson-Lott, professor of education and dean of the UW’s Graduate School, is quoted. Washington students’ test scores drop significantly in first exams since pandemic began | The Seattle Times4 months ago Last fall, hundreds of thousands of Washington state students took their first state exams since the pandemic began. Their scores took a hit. Between 2019 and 2021, the overall percentage of students who met state standards on the math portion of the exam fell by 20 percentage points. Just 30% of kids — public school students enrolled in grades 4 through 11 — met standards in math. In English, the portion of kids who met the standard fell by 9 percentage points. David Knight, assistant professor of education at the UW, is quoted. Ways to fix the child care system in Washington state | Crosscut4 months ago Federal and state programs continue to push for more funds to support families and child care. Ilene Schwartz, a UW professor of education and director of the UW’s Haring Center for Inclusive Education, is quoted. 3 key changes for progressive K-12 funding | The Seattle Times4 months ago "Washington voters strongly favor progressive policies, but the state’s school finance system is not progressive. Students from lower-income backgrounds bear the brunt of this inequitable system. More Washington citizens need to understand the flaws of the state’s K-12 finance model and start advocating for change," write David Knight, assistant professor of education at the UW, and Marcena Day, a student in the UW School of Law. Keeping the pressure on: What’s ahead and who’s left behind in changing the child care system | InvestigateWest5 months ago Jessica Heavner was feeling anxious. She had a new accounting job with the Federal Way school district and three kids she loved, but she didn’t love the math it took to combine those things. The problem was child care and how to pay for it. Ilene Schwartz, professor of education at the UW and director of the Haring Center for Inclusive Education, is quoted. Drumming brought her ‘closer to purpose’ after years of struggling with mental health — but an approach tailored to Indigenous culture remains out of reach for others like her | The Toronto Star6 months ago An analysis of key mental health indicators for First Nations youth —— including antidepressant prescriptions, suicide attempts, self-reported disorders and access to support — reveals a strained system of care failing to meet the needs of desperate young people. Emma Elliott-Groves, assistant professor of education at the UW, is quoted. 'Miseducation': Journalist Katie Worth on climate education and corporate influences | WBUR7 months ago What are kids learning about climate change in schools? Journalist Katie Worth pored over curriculum and visited classrooms across the country and found that students’ climate education was often being hindered by corporate and political influences. Deb Morrison, a research scientist in the UW College of Education, is interviewed. Schools face calls to boost environmental teaching | Financial Times7 months ago Ideological influences on curricula and lack of depth in coverage of climate change are fiercely debated. Deb Morrison, a research scientist in the UW College of Education, is quoted. More College of Engineering Full archive for College of Engineering After the Uvalde school shooting, false flags emerge | Grid3 days ago The shooting in Uvalde, Texas, began just before noon. The earliest, awful details that emerged were all too familiar from previous episodes of horror at American schools: some unknown number of dead children. From certain corners of the internet, a familiar pattern of lies spread in tandem. Kate Starbird, associate professor of human centered design and engineering at the UW, is quoted. Visualizing brains, plants and salamanders in 3D: University of Washington microscope does it all | GeekWire3 days ago A new study showcases a microscope years in the making, licensed to spinout Alpenglow Biosciences. The microscope enables researchers to peer into biological samples of all sizes and shapes in 3D and zoom into details quickly. The microscope was invented by Alpenglow co-founders Adam Glaser, affiliate assistant professor of mechanical engineering at the UW and Jonathan Liu, professor of mechanical engineering at the UW. CEO and co-founder Dr. Nicholas Reder, clinical instructor of laboratory medicine and pathology in the UW School of Medicine, and co-founder Lawrence True are also study co-authors. New, stronger rules for truck pollution still would not meet air quality goals | Scientific American3 days ago EPA’s proposal to limit toxic pollution from heavy-duty trucks is stronger than anything that has come before it. But state and local air quality agencies say it’s not aggressive enough to meet the federal regulator’s own clean air standards. Julian Marshall, professor of civil and environmental engineering at the UW, is quoted. UW researchers find that people enter a state of dissociation when browsing on social media | KGMI4 days ago UW researchers have conducted a study showing how people enter a state of dissociation when browsing on social media. AI2 researchers win 'Test-of-Time' award that honors long-lasting influence for AI-related papers | GeekWire5 days ago Researchers from Allen Institute for Artificial Intelligence, CEO Oren Etzioni, professor emeritus of computer science and engineering at the UW, and research scientist Jesse Dodge received the Association of Computational Linguistics’ 10-year Test-of-Time Paper Award for two separate papers published in 2012. Social media makes users dissociate from the world around them, but there are a few tools that can help | ZME Science5 days ago New research at the UW reports that people often dissociate when surfing social media. The paper adds that tools designed to help us surf these networks mindfully can help people maintain more control over their online experiences. Amanda Baughan, a doctoral student in computer science and engineering at the UW, is quoted. Brown to adopt land acknowledgment, invest in native causes | Inside Higher Ed5 days ago Brown University has adopted a formal land acknowledgment policy and will work to expand educational access for Native Americans, the university announced Tuesday. The UW is mentioned. Disassociation and social media | FOX 136 days ago UW researchers find that users enter a dissociative state when using social media, which explains why people end up scrolling on social media for longer than they mean to. UW study shows people enter ‘dissociative state’ while using social media | KIRO 71 week ago UW researchers found that people may not be addicted to social media but instead enter a “dissociative state,” while scrolling through posts. UW Study: Some people dissociate when using social media | Patch1 week ago If you’ve ever logged into Twitter or Facebook and felt the real world melt away, you’re not alone. In fact, a new study from the UW has found that users may enter a dissociative state — similar to the feeling of being transported into a good book or movie — while surfing social media. The UW’s Amanda Baughan, a doctoral student in computer science and engineering, and Alexis Hiniker, assistant professor in the Information School, are quoted. Puget Sound is full of old tires… on purpose? | KUOW1 week ago Decades ago, states began putting bundles of tires on the seafloor as "artificial reefs." Their aim was to build new habitats for local marine life. Today, there’s little proof these tires are serving their intended purpose. UW research is referenced. Flow batteries could be a big part of our energy storage future — so what’s a flow battery? | Inside Climate News1 week ago A battery project uses a technology that could be vital for meeting the need for long-duration energy storage. Jun Liu, professor of chemical engineering at the UW, is quoted Tiny solar-powered sensors float on the wind to gather environmental data | CNET1 week ago As we face ever-increasing ecological challenges, gathering environmental data will be important in the development of technology that can help heal the natural world. Researchers at the UW have a new tool they hope can aid in this effort: tiny battery-free sensors that can be dispersed in the wind via drones and gather environmental data over large areas. Vikram Iyer, assistant professor of computer science and engineering at the UW, is interviewed. Univ. of Washington and Meta partner on program linking PhD students to AI mentors at tech giant | GeekWire2 weeks ago Meta has accepted a new friend request from the UW. The tech giant is bolstering its relationship with the UW’s Paul G. Allen School of Computer Science & Engineering to form the Meta AI Mentorship Program, allowing PhD students from that school to collaborate with company researchers. Luke Zettlemoyer, professor of computer science and engineering at the UW, is quoted. Rivian had a rough week on the stock market; is Amazon’s electric vehicle future in danger? | The Seattle Times2 weeks ago Despite production delays and market upheaval, Amazon is still counting on electric vehicle startup Rivian to help it hit ambitious climate goals and put tens of thousands of electric delivery vans on the road. Tight margins have been spooking investors, a panic that came to a head Tuesday when Ford announced it was selling 8 million Rivian shares. Don MacKenzie, associate professor of civil and environmental engineering at the UW, is quoted. See where the Miami-area building collapse began | Miami Herald2 weeks ago A murky video looking into the basement-level garage of the Champlain Towers South condo, recorded from the street by a tourist just minutes before the 12-story building caved in, is more than just a macabre curiosity. Experts say it’s a critical piece of evidence that shows the beginning of the deadly collapse sequence. Dawn Lehman, professor of civil and environmental engineering at the UW, is quoted. US cities are backing off banning facial recognition as crime rises | Reuters3 weeks ago Facial recognition is making a comeback in the United States as bans to thwart the technology and curb racial bias in policing come under threat amid a surge in crime and increased lobbying from developers. Os Keyes, a doctoral student in human centered design and engineering, is quoted. 'Incredible impact': This researcher is bolstering STEM students and inspiring university DEI efforts | GeekWire3 weeks ago Tam’ra-Kay Francis, a post doctoral research associate in the UW’s Department of Chemistry, has spearheaded multiple programs to support minority students in science and facilitated game-changing discussions about diversity, equity and inclusion, or DEI, with UW staff. Colleagues and students praise her efforts, nominating her for the university’s prestigious Outstanding Public Service Award. Computer scientists prove certain problems are truly hard | Quanta Magazine3 weeks ago Finding out whether a question is too difficult to ever solve efficiently depends on figuring out just how hard it is. Researchers have now shown how to do that for a major class of problems. Paul Beame, professor of computer science and engineering at the UW, is quoted. Seattle fish research could shake up global tire industry | KUOW3 weeks ago Electric vehicles have clear environmental benefits over gas-powered cars, yet all cars and trucks are polluters when it comes to their tires. Research in Seattle-area creeks has discovered tire bits shedding lethal amounts of a little-known, salmon-killing chemical called 6PPD-quinone. Edward Kolodziej, associate professor of civil and environmental engineering at the UW and of science and mathematics at UW Tacoma, is interviewed. More College of the Environment Full archive for College of the Environment Climate change is making the ocean lose its memory | Popular Science5 days ago People and other living things aren’t the only things with memory. Oceans, in a way, remember too. Ocean memory, a relatively new term, has hit the headlines recently as new research out this month in Science has demonstrated how the ocean is “losing its memory.” Robert Jnglin Wills, a research scientist in atmospheric sciences at the UW, is quoted. More wildfires predicted in central, eastern Washington | KING 56 days ago With many counties in eastern Washington experiencing moderate to severe drought conditions, the National Interagency Fire Center is anticipating an above-average wildfire season in the summer. Brian Harvey, assistant professor of environmental and forest sciences at the UW, is interviewed. The US has spent more than $2 billion on a plan to save salmon — the fish are vanishing anyway | ProPublica7 days ago The U.S. government promised Native tribes in the Pacific Northwest that they could keep fishing as they’d always done. But instead of preserving wild salmon, it propped up a failing system of hatcheries. Now, that system is falling apart. Ray Hilborn, professor of aquatic and fishery sciences at the UW, is quoted, and the Columbia Basin Research Center at the UW, is referenced. WA will soon put a price on carbon emissions for its biggest polluters — here’s how it will work | The Seattle Times1 week ago A new program launching in January will put a cap on fossil fuel emissions and require nearly a hundred of the state’s biggest polluters to partake in a carbon trading scheme. The UW’s Nives Dolšak, professor of marine and environmental affairs, and Aseem Prakash, professor of political science, are quoted. Scenic Tacoma road permanently closed to cars — blame climate change | KUOW2 weeks ago Crumbling cliffs have led Metro Parks Tacoma to permanently close two miles of Five Mile Drive, a popular park road built atop the bluffs of Tacoma’s Point Defiance 109 years ago. City officials are blaming climate change for the worsening erosion of a 150-foot-tall sea bluff that frames the Point Defiance peninsula as it juts into Puget Sound. Guillaume Mauger, a research scientist at the UW Climate Impacts Group, is quoted. Rare late-season windstorm, mountain snowstorm to hit Pacific Northwest | FOX 132 weeks ago We’re just about a month shy of the start of summer, but it’s a throwback to winter weather in the Pacific Northwest as a potent late-season storm brings gusty winds to the lowlands and another dollop of snow to the mountains. Mark Albright, a research meteorologist at the UW, is interviewed. See laser scans of Yosemite forests after wildfires | Popular Science2 weeks ago A set of remarkable LIDAR scans of Yosemite National Park in California, published by forest ecologists at the UW and the remote imaging company NV5 Geospatial in EOS this month, offers a glimpse into the subtle distinctions in forests—and the huge consequences for wildfire–across an area of 100 square miles. Climate scientists rejoice at western Washington's snowy spring | KING 52 weeks ago now flurries are expected above 6,000 feet in the mountains this weekend as Washington continues to trudge through one of the coldest springs on record. Karin Bumbaco, Washington’s assistant state climatologist based at the UW, is interviewed. Opinion: Climate policy and partisan wars: Elon Musk and Twitter | Forbes2 weeks ago "Is Elon Musk a climate hero that the climate movement and its allies should embrace, or does his libertarian (or conservative) politics turn him into an object of scorn? Musk poses a deeper question that the movement must confront: should climate politics get subsumed under the broader liberal-versus-conservative conflict, or should it be guided by bipartisanship?" write the UW’s Nives Dolšak, professor of marine and environmental affairs, and Aseem Prakash, professor of political science. Dinosaur apocalypse: The last day | PBS2 weeks ago PBS NOVA explores a new theory for what caused the dinosaur extinction, based on evidence from Montana. UW Provost Mark Richards, professor of Earth and space sciences, is featured (beginning at 16:50), and Jordan Claytor, graduate student in biology, is interviewed (at 45:00). Americans don't trust one of the best ways to curb wildfires | Time3 weeks ago Prescribed fires are ignited intentionally to cull forest growth that could act as dangerous fuel for unplanned wildfires. When they go as planned — as the vast majority do — they don’t make news. But when they get out of control, they make headlines, which can erode public trust in the practice, even as wildfires have become increasingly destructive due to global climate change. Susan Prichard, a fire ecologist in the UW School of Environmental and Forest Sciences, is quoted. Whatcom County will see a third La Niña winter with snow possible | Bellingham Herald3 weeks ago There could be mixed climate news for Northwest Washington amid the West’s widespread drought and forecasts that the La Niña weather pattern could persist through summer for a third straight winter. Nick Bond, Washington’s state climatologist and senior research scientist with the UW Cooperative Institute for Climate, Ocean and Ecosystem Studies, is quoted. Editorial: Rainy, chilly Seattle is the envy of a drought-ravaged world | The Seattle Times3 weeks ago "This year has been particularly wet and cold. We’ve seemingly skipped spring altogether. It’s easy to kvetch about wearing long underwear to watch Little League games or donning a down jacket to work in the garden. But given the alternative, a little gratitude may be in order," writes The Seattle Times Editorial Board. The UW Climate Impacts Group is referenced. Pandemic delays to afflict polar science until late this decade | Science3 weeks ago A backlog of work funded by the National Science Foundation work means few new U.S. large projects. Eric Steig, professor of Earth and space sciences at the UW, is quoted. Opinion: An unprecedented view inside a hurricane | Eos3 weeks ago "If we are to continue improving hurricane intensity forecasts, we will need further advancements in our knowledge and understanding of the processes that affect hurricane intensification. We will also need expanded measurements of the ocean and the atmosphere ahead of and within hurricanes, as well as improvements to hurricane forecast models," write Dongxiao Zhang, a research scientist with the UW Cooperative Institute for Climate, Ocean and Ecosystem Studies and NOAA’s Gregory Foltz, Chidong Zhang and Jun Zhang. Huge groundwater system discovered under Antarctica | Gizmodo3 weeks ago Geophysicists used remote sensing to see reservoirs beneath the surface. That water could speed up the loss of ice as the climate warms. Brad Lipovsky, assistant professor of Earth and space sciences at the UW, is quoted. New hope that alien life could thrive in oceans on Jupiter and Saturn's moons | Yahoo! News4 weeks ago Could alien life forms lurk in the icy oceans of Jupiter and Saturn’s moons such as Titan, Ganymede or Europa in our own solar system? NASA and others aim to find out, with planned robotic missions aiming to explore the frigid seas of the moons, and a new study has helped to pave the way for these missions. Baptiste Journaux, acting instructor in Earth and space sciences at the UW, is quoted. Cataclysmic extinction of marine world by 2100 if global warming continues, study says | International Business Times4 weeks ago The marine world on earth will face extinction by 2100, if human-caused emissions continue unabated, according to a new study report published in Journal Science. The authors of the report — Curtis Deutsch, who began the research as a professor of oceanography at the UW and is now at Princeton University, and Justin Penn, who began the study as a graduate student at the UW and is now a postdoctoral researcher at Princeton — noted that limiting global warming to two degrees Celsius above pre-industrial levels will prevent such a catastrophe. Glaciers on Olympic Peninsula projected to largely disappear by 2070 | The Seattle Times4 weeks ago Hotter summers and wetter winters spell a precarious future for glaciers in the Pacific Northwest. This is especially true for those in low elevations, so much that, according to new research published last month, glaciers on the Olympic Peninsula could largely disappear by 2070. Nick Bond, Washington’s state climatologist and senior research scientist with the UW Cooperative Institute for Climate, Ocean and Ecosystem Studies, is quoted. New research could lead to forecasting of future marine heat waves in the Pacific Northwest | KING 54 weeks ago Scientists with NOAA Fisheries say new research published in a scientific journal shows that in many cases, marine heat waves can be predicted. Nick Bond, Washington’s state climatologist and senior research scientist with the UW Cooperative Institute for Climate, Ocean and Ecosystem Studies, is interviewed. More Daniel J. Evans School of Public Policy & Governance Full archive for Daniel J. Evans School of Public Policy & Governance Analysis: 1 in 6 US kids are in families below the poverty line | The Conversation1 week ago "In the United States, children are more likely to experience poverty than people over 18. In 2020, about 1 in 6 kids, 16% of all children, were living in families with incomes below the official poverty line – an income threshold the government set that year at about US$26,500 for a family of four. Only 10% of Americans ages 18 to 64 and 9% of those 65 and up were experiencing poverty, according to the most recent data available," write the UW’s Callie Freitag, a doctoral student in public policy and governance, and Heather Hill, professor of public policy and governance. Lifted by Boeing hiring blitz, WA outpaces nation in job growth | The Seattle Times2 weeks ago Washington’s job market is rebounding faster than it is across much of America, and is barely a thousand jobs short of its all-time high, according the latest state jobs report. One surprising case in point: Boeing, which spent much of the pandemic on life support, now seems to be on a hiring tear. Jacob Vigdor, professor of public policy and governance at the UW, is quoted. Opinion: An area unlike any in the world: Make Mount St. Helens a national park | The Seattle Times2 weeks ago "As my career in recreation planning has taken me throughout the United States and to Central and South America, I’ve come back to Mount St. Helens every few years to make a photographic record of the landscape’s recovery. Nature has proved to be amazingly resilient … But I’ve also watched the human management of the area around the volcano steadily deteriorate," writes recreation planner Francisco Valenzuela. A report from the UW Evans School of Public Policy and Governance is referenced. Analysis: Some funders are embracing ‘trust-based philanthropy’ by giving money without lots of obligations | The Conversation4 weeks ago "With most foundations, the board of directors and top executives set all funding priorities. Nonprofits seeking money from those funders, in turn, must demonstrate an intention to do work that conforms to those priorities," writes Emily Finchum-Mason, doctoral candidate in public policy and governance at the UW. "I’m studying the growing number of foundations bucking this traditional model. Instead of calling all the shots, these funders are embracing what’s known as trust-based philanthropy." A whistleblower reflects after 30 years on the Hanford watch | Crosscut4 weeks ago Tom Carpenter, who has kept tabs on one of the Earth’s most contaminated spots, is retiring. But he’s not leaving his watchdog work behind. Jonathan Brock, associate professor emeritus of public policy and governance at the UW, is quoted. The changing public opinion around climate change — and where King County ranks | The Seattle Times1 month ago According to projections from the Yale Climate Opinion Maps, an estimated 84% of King County residents believe global warming is happening, 70% believe it’s caused mostly by human activity and 78% believe it’s affecting the weather. The UW’s Ann Bostrom, professor of public policy and governance, and Michelle Montgomery, associate professor of social and historical studies at UW Tacoma, are quoted. Opinion: Economic and policy experts argue against repealing the capital gains tax | Washington State Wire1 month ago "A tax cut for the extremely wealthy, at the expense of Washington’s children and families, is the last thing our state needs," write Katie Baird, professor of economics at UW Tacoma; Dan Jacob, professor emeritus at UW Bothell; Anna Lovász, assistant professor of economics at UW Tacoma; Tim Sharks, lecturer in politics, philosophy and economics at UW Tacoma; Douglas Conrad, professor of health services at the UW; Melissa Martinson, associate professor of social work at the UW; Robert Plotnick, professor emeritus of public policy and governance at the UW; Andy Nicholas of the Washington State Budget & Policy Center; and Carolyn Brotherton of the Economic Opportunity Institute. Tenants and landlords battle in court | NPR2 months ago While New York’s eviction moratorium expired on Jan. 15, tenant protections there remain among the most restrictive in the country. Anyone who both faces eviction for nonpayment and has a pending application for the state’s rental assistance program is protected from a court-ordered eviction by law. Protections such as these have continued to frustrate some landlords. UW research is referenced. Opinion: No, senator, Social Security will not soon be ‘bankrupt’ | The Seattle Times2 months ago "U.S. Sen. Rick Scott (R-Florida) recently took to ‘FOX News Sunday’ to outline his ‘plan to Rescue America.’ At one point in the interview, Sen. Scott stated that “Social Security goes bankrupt in 12 years.” This is a narrative that is at worst false and at best misleading," writes Vance Larsen, a doctoral candidate in public policy and governance at the UW. Is Zelenskyy making democracy cool again? | VOA News2 months ago The invasion of Ukraine thrust its president, Volodymyr Zelenskyy, into the spotlight. Although many perceived the former actor and comedian as a probable lightweight, he rose to the occasion, capturing the world’s attention. Michael Blake, professor of philosophy and of public policy and governance at the UW, is quoted. Opinion: Caging the caged — solitary confinement in Washington state | South Seattle Emerald2 months ago "Evidence of the devastating immediate and long-lasting effects of solitary confinement is abundant and widely recognized … People in solitary confinement make up 6–8% of the total prison population but account for half of prison suicides. It is difficult to overstate the cruelty of what we inflict through this practice," writes Heidi Sadri, a masters student in the public policy and governance at the UW. Analysis: Uganda study shows text messages can boost tax compliance — here's what worked | The Conversation2 months ago "We recently conducted a study in Uganda to test the impact of tax payment reminders sent to respondents who were potentially liable to pay Uganda’s individual taxes. The reminders were sent to individuals in the form of text messages. Some messages focused on the rewards for payment, others on punishment for evading taxes," writes Isabelle Cohen, assistant professor of public policy and governance. King County launches mobile shower unit for homeless | MyNorthwest2 months ago King County launched a new mobile shower program last week, designed to provide hygiene resources for the region’s homeless population. A UW study is referenced. Seattle’s Rep. Frank Chopp moves $2M from Regional Homelessness Authority to nonprofit he co-founded | The Seattle Times2 months ago Washington state’s former Speaker of the House, Rep. Frank Chopp, D-Seattle, moved to redirect about $2 million that Seattle governments were going to award to two nonprofits and earmarked it for a nonprofit he co-founded, according to emails obtained by The Seattle Times. Adrienne Quinn, associate teaching professor of public policy and governance at the UW, is quoted. Initiative aimed at Southcenter could raise minimum wage in Tukwila to match SeaTac, Seattle | The Seattle Times2 months ago There is a new campaign to raise the minimum wage for many jobs in Tukwila, including at Southcenter mall, through an initiative on the November ballot. The potential effect is harder to gauge, because COVID has altered labor market dynamics, and the campaign could be a test case for worker-focused politics in a new economic environment. Jacob Vigdor, professor of public policy and governance at the UW, is quoted. The higher cost of driving lands heavily for those scraping by in the Seattle area | The Seattle Times2 months ago For the Puget Sound area’s working class, who teeter on the edge of poverty, the cost of fuel and owning a car is another pixel in the larger portrait of how difficult living in the Seattle region has become. Jacob Vigdor, professor of public policy and governance at the UW, is quoted. UW students propose 'Alternative Emergency Services' teams for U District | KING 52 months ago A group of students at the UW are organizing around a proposal to implement alternative emergency response services through a pilot program in Seattle’s University District. The "Alternative Emergency Services University District Pilot Program" is still in its early phases; organizers say they’re speaking with UW’s Office of Regional and Community Relations and Evans School of Public Policy and Governance about what potential partnerships they may be able to form. UW student Matthew Mitnick is interviewed. Strong student support advances police alternatives in U District | The Urbanist3 months ago Last week, the UW Graduate and Professional Student Senate voted in favor of creating an unarmed community response system for non-violent calls in the U District, the fast-growing and diverse neighborhood near the university campus. Jodi Sandfort, dean of the UW Evans School of Public Policy and Governance, and Matthew Mitnick and Davon Thomas, graduate students in the Evans School, are quoted. Opinion: Texas isn’t the only state denying essential medical care to trans youths — here’s what’s going on | The Washington Post3 months ago "Denying trans kids access to lifesaving health care runs counter to medical science. Targeting families with trans kids for criminal interventions and separation is likely to devastate vulnerable children. And it violates the American Medical Association’s standard that political figures should never infringe on private care decisions designed to ‘nurture the child’s short and long-term development, and balance the need to preserve the child’s opportunity to make important life choices autonomously in the future,’" write Isaac Sederbaum, a doctoral student in public policy and governance at the UW, and Elizabeth Sharrow of the University of Massachusetts. Return to in-person class at UW raises mental health issues for some | Crosscut3 months ago Students, staff and faculty juggle fears of returning to campus with work-life balance. The UW’s Natacha Foo Kune, director of the UW Counseling Center; James Pfeiffer, professor of global health and of anthropology; Benjamin Brunjes, assistant professor of public policy and governance; Jane Simoni, professor of psychology; and UW students Madison Sasaki, Matthew Mitnick, Celeste Padilla, Toby Gallant and Julie Emory are featured. More Henry M. Jackson School of International Studies Full archive for Henry M. Jackson School of International Studies Gas prices in Kitsap top record $5, fueled by Ukraine war, pandemic | Kitsap Sun1 week ago Gas prices in Kitsap County have continued to hit record highs, with many stations now advertising prices of more than $5 a gallon. Scott Montgomery, lecturer of international studies at the UW, is quoted. Explainer: What's behind difficult Taiwan-China relations? | Associated Press2 weeks ago U.S. authorities say the gunman behind an attack on a church in southern California in which one person was killed and five injured was motivated by a hatred for Taiwan. James Lin, assistant professor of international studies at the UW, is quoted. Taiwan stunned after deadly shooting at Taiwanese-American church | Al Jazeera2 weeks ago A fatal shooting at a Taiwanese-American church in southern California, which authorities said was motivated by the gunman’s hatred for Taiwan, has left residents of the self-governed island stunned. James Lin, assistant professor of international studies at the UW, is quoted. Op-ed published in Asian Weekly led to controversial plaque removal | NW Asian Weekly3 weeks ago If you’ve been to Volunteer Park, you may have unwittingly been exposed to American propaganda about some of its worst deeds. A panel of academics from the UW on May 7 met to justify a decision by the city to take down a commemorative plaque last year. Analysis: Billions spent on overseas counterterrorism would be better spent by involving ex-terrorists | The Conversation4 weeks ago "For decades, the U.S. government has sent aid to countries plagued by terrorism, believing that the money could help other nations tackle extremism. Money matters, but it alone isn’t enough to prevent terrorism," writes Bernard Loesi, a doctoral student in international relations at the UW. Film from UW professors explores a tree poacher, a wildfire and a complicated story | KNKX4 weeks ago A few years ago, a tree poacher named Justin Wilke was charged with starting a forest fire while trying to steal a tree. The new documentary "The Maple Cutter" takes a deeper look. The UW’s Lynn Thomas, professor of history, and Daniel Hoffman, professor of anthropology and of international studies, are interviewed. New documentary features person who started Maple Fire | KNKX4 weeks ago Daniel Hoffman, professor of anthropology and of international studies, says his documentary on the 2018 Maple Fire raises questions about who has the right to a forest and who should profit from its resources. Ukraine war fuels surge of fake content impersonating BBC, CNN coverage | PolitiFact1 month ago In some cases, pro-Russia accounts on Telegram and other platforms have spread fake posts impersonating BBC News or CNN reports about the war in Ukraine. Scott Radnitz, associate professor of international studies at the UW, is quoted. Peng Ming-min, Fighter for democracy in Taiwan, dies at 98 | The New York Times1 month ago Peng Ming-min, a victim of World War II who endured Japanese imperial rule, brutal Chinese martial law and decades of exile to become a leading fighter for democracy and self-determination for his native Taiwan, died here, the nation’s capital, on April 8. James Lin, assistant professor of international studies at the UW, is quoted. Opinion: If Putin’s Russia can’t fulfill his autocratic goal, who will he turn to for help? | The Boston Globe2 months ago "Adolf Hitler, Benito Mussolini, Joseph Stalin, Mao Zedong, Pol Pot, Kim Il Sung, and a host of other tyrants — the 20th century had an abundance of political monsters who started wars, murdered many of the people they claimed to lead and represent, and collectively were responsible for well over 100 million needless deaths … The 21st century is not starting well. With his invasion of Ukraine, President Vladimir Putin of Russia is on his way to joining the infamous company of his sinister predecessors," writes Daniel Chirot, professor emeritus of international studies at the UW. Lost in translation: Is research into species being missed because of a language barrier? | The Guardian2 months ago More focus on non-English language reports would be good for conservation and help close the gap between global north and south, argue researchers. Scott Montgomery, lecturer of international studies at the UW, is quoted. Biden bets a million barrels a day will drive down soaring gas prices | The Conversation2 months ago "The Biden administration on March 31, 2022, said it plans to release an unprecedented 180 million barrels of oil from the U.S. Strategic Petroleum Reserve to combat the recent spike in gas and diesel prices. … As an energy researcher, I believe considering the reserve’s history can help answer" important questions, writes Scott L. Montgomery, lecturer in the UW Jackson School of International Studies. Opinion: Like Stalin, Putin warned about ‘fifth columns’ — that’s dangerous | The Washington Post2 months ago Scott Radnitz, associate professor of international studies at the UW, and Harris Mylonas of George Washington University writea about Putin’s rhetoric around "fifth columns," or individuals or groups who work with external rivals: "[It] can have serious consequences for governance and trust. Sustained campaigns to find and persecute suspected fifth columns are historically associated with human rights abuses, political repression and violence against civilians." John Koenig on Ukraine war solutions | KING 52 months ago John Koenig, a lecturer in international studies at the UW, speaks on the "Mindful Headlines" podcast about whether a diplomatic solution is still possible to end the war in Ukraine. How Russia's false biolab story was echoed by the US far right | NPR2 months ago It was a lurid and difficult to believe claim: that Ukraine was developing biological weapons with the assistance of the U.S. government. But unlike most Russian efforts to spread false narratives justifying its invasion of Ukraine, this one found a receptive audience in the United States among far-right social media channels, Fox News and followers of the QAnon conspiracy theory. Scott Radnitz, associate professor of international studies at the UW, is quoted. China’s power wobbles as Russia falters, says expert | NW Asian Weekly2 months ago The war in Ukraine is shaking the Chinese leadership’s faith in its own military buildup, threatening its geopolitical ambitions, and even rocking its political power base, according to a leading scholar in International Studies. David Bachman, professor of international studies at the UW, is quoted. One America News runs conspiratorial segment claiming strike on Mariupol hospital was US false flag | PolitiFact2 months ago Claims casting doubt on a Russian attack on a hospital in Mariupol, Ukraine, found a home on the far-right U.S. channel One America News Network. In a March 11 segment, OAN host Pearson Sharp baselessly suggested that the airstrike was a U.S.-led "false flag." Scott Radnitz, associate professor of international studies at the UW, is quoted. Opinion: We’re living in the geopolitical shadow of the 1900s | The Seattle Times2 months ago "As the War in Ukraine continues with no end in sight, and as we start to contemplate horrific scenarios that were all but unimaginable barely three weeks ago, we might find it useful to turn to history not only to seek guidance from previous generations but also to avoid their mistakes. In this regard, a particularly relevant period is the early years of the 20th century," writes Reşat Kasaba, professor of international studies at the UW. Space junk could get in the way of satellites being used in the Russia-Ukraine war | NPR2 months ago Up in space, there’s a growing trash problem. Bits of junk from broken satellites and used rockets known as orbital debris are hurtling at enormous speeds and threatening working satellites in their path. That’s a threat to all kinds of services we rely on down on Earth, like weather forecasting and GPS. But it also has implications for national security and conflicts like the one we’re seeing play out in Ukraine. Saadia Pekkanen, professor of international studies at the UW, is interviewed. A war of information: Both sides fight in the Ukraine-Russia conflict | PolitiFact2 months ago Wartime propaganda has run rampant in the Ukraine-Russia conflict. While Russia’s misinformation has received much attention, Ukraine’s government has also shared misleading content. Scott Radnitz, associate professor of international studies at the UW, is quoted. More Information School Full archive for Information School Disassociation and social media | FOX 136 days ago UW researchers find that users enter a dissociative state when using social media, which explains why people end up scrolling on social media for longer than they mean to. UW study shows people enter ‘dissociative state’ while using social media | KIRO 71 week ago UW researchers found that people may not be addicted to social media but instead enter a “dissociative state,” while scrolling through posts. UW Study: Some people dissociate when using social media | Patch1 week ago If you’ve ever logged into Twitter or Facebook and felt the real world melt away, you’re not alone. In fact, a new study from the UW has found that users may enter a dissociative state — similar to the feeling of being transported into a good book or movie — while surfing social media. The UW’s Amanda Baughan, a doctoral student in computer science and engineering, and Alexis Hiniker, assistant professor in the Information School, are quoted. Gaming is a great hobby — but when does it become unhealthy? | KUOW1 month ago Gaming can be a quick release from the pressures of the real world. But games are made to be engaged with, either through a deluge of collectibles or quick hits of achievement. But the same mechanisms that make games enjoyable can also make them addicting. So where do you draw the line between the two? Jin Ha Lee, associate professor in the UW Information School, is interviewed. Vietnamese diaspora in Seattle are tackling misinformation at home | KUOW1 month ago In 2020, the Center for an Informed Public at the UW took a look at misinformation being spread online about voting in person and by mail. They found a surprising number of social media posts in Vietnamese. Rachel Moran, a postdoctoral researcher at the UW Center for an Informed Public, and Sarah Nguyen, a doctoral student in the UW Information School, are interviewed. Microsoft President Brad Smith on the Russian invasion of Ukraine and ‘the world’s first hybrid war’ | GeekWire1 month ago The Russian invasion of Ukraine is happening not only by land, sea, and air, but through computers and the internet. “We’re seeing the world’s first hybrid war,” Microsoft President Brad Smith said at a UW event on Wednesday. Jevin West, associate professor in the Information School, is quoted. Why it's frustrating to search your email, social media and Google | Insider1 month ago Why is internet search so bad? Solving how to search for things was the key to the web’s integration into mainstream life. Now, it seems as if our ability to locate and retrieve information is getting worse instead of better, right at the moment when true facts are humanity’s most precious commodity. Chirag Shah, associate professor in the UW Information School, is quoted. The disinformation campaign behind a top pregnancy website | Mother Jones1 month ago Hospitals, government agencies, and progressive think tanks cite the American Pregnancy Association website. But it’s the brainchild of a Texas-based pro-life activist named Brad Imler, and it’s rife with medically inaccurate information. Taylor Agajanian, a graduate student at the UW Information School and graduate research assistant at the Center for an Informed Public, is quoted. Misinformation vs. disinformation: Here's how to tell the difference | Reader's Digest1 month ago If you’ve been having a hard time separating factual information from fake news, you’re not alone. Nearly eight in ten adults believe or are unsure about at least one false claim related to COVID-19, according to a report the Kaiser Family Foundation published late last year. Jevin West, associate professor in the UW Information School, is quoted. Meet the unsung force shining a light on misinformation | CNET2 months ago Graduate students from all over the country, working toward their master’s degree or Ph.D. in communications, media or related fields, are serving as monitors of misinformation, watching livestreams and combing through countless online posts. Sarah Nguyen, a doctoral student in the UW Information School, is quoted. Black women are getting evicted at highest rates across United States | USA Today2 months ago Black women are more likely than any other group to be evicted, according to a USA Today analysis of four years of local and national housing records and data from the UW and the University of California, Berkeley. Deepfakes and AI-generated faces are corroding trust in the web | The Times2 months ago The ease with which false digital identities, images and videos can be made is threatening commerce and society alike. Jevin West, associate professor in the Information School, is quoted. When it’s not just politics: A Brooklyn race offers a warning over misinformation this election season | Gothamist2 months ago The midterm election season is heating up across New York City with candidates going door-to-door to collect petitions for the primary contests set for June. But the specter of misinformation pervades electoral politics even at the most granular level. With competitive midterm races picking up steam across the region, a closer look at the 43rd Council District race can offer a preview of what voters across the city can expect this election season and what to do when they spot questionable claims before they head into the voting booth. Michael Caulfield, research scientist at the UW Center for an Informed Public, is quoted. TikTok’s algorithm spews out viral villains | The Atlantic2 months ago TikTok, the platform generally known for dance trends and audio memes is also the site of serial “investigations,” in which users inflate the slightest signal into a source of outrage and obsession. This problem is so rampant that it’s difficult to name. In just the past half year, TikTok mobs have dived headlong into engagement-baiting investigations of recent murders, online “pedophile rings,” and the legitimacy of popular creators’ neurological or psychiatric conditions. Emma Spiro, associate professor at the UW Information School, is quoted. Chatbots could one day replace search engines — here's why that’s a terrible idea | MIT Technology Review2 months ago Language models are mindless mimics that do not understand what they are saying—so why do we pretend they’re experts? Chirag Shah, associate professor in the UW Information School, and Emily M. Bender, professor of linguistics at the UW, are quoted. Studying — and fighting — misinformation should be a top scientific priority, biologist argues | Science2 months ago Carl Bergstrom, professor of biology at the UW, has studied the evolution of cooperation and communication in animals, influenza pandemics and the best ways to rank scientific journals. But over the past five years, he has become more and more interested in how “bullshit” spreads through our information ecosystem. Jevin West, associate professor in the Information School, and Joe Bak-Coleman, a postdoctoral researcher at the Center for an Informed Public, are quoted. Lindgren literary award goes to a Swedish illustrator | The World2 months ago The Astrid Lindgren Memorial Award was announced on Tuesday. With a prize of half a million dollars, it’s one of the biggest literary prizes in the world. This year, it went to Swedish illustrator Eva Lindström. Michelle Martin, professor at the UW Information School, is interviewed. Why do people fall for misinformation? | KUOW3 months ago Maddy Jalbert, a postdoctoral scholar at the UW Information School, says people fall for misinformation, because they don’t question whether information is true. She also talks about why misinformation can be so "sticky." ‘You can fake anything on the internet’: Professors host day to teach WA students to combat misinformation | The Seattle Times3 months ago On Tuesday, students will participate in MisinfoDay, an annual event for middle- and high-schoolers that grew out of a wildly popular UW course called “Calling Bullshit in the Age of Big Data.” The UW’s Jevin West, associate professor in the Information School; Carl Bergstrom, professor of biology; Liz Crouse, program coordination at the Center for an Informed Public; Kate Starbird, associate professor of human centered design and engineering; and Maddy Jalbert, postdoctoral scholar at the Information School, are quoted. This developers academy welcomes non-tech bros to the industry | KUOW3 months ago In 2020, only about a quarter of professional computing jobs in the United States were held by women. Ada Developer Academy is trying to change that, and ensure women, people of color and gender-diverse people are able to show up as themselves in this industry. Amy Ko, professor of informatics at the UW, is interviewed. [While this story is dated Oct. 14, 2021, it was broadcast on March 10] More Michael G. Foster School of Business Full archive for Michael G. Foster School of Business Fishery monitoring software wins $25K at Univ. of Washington student startup competition | GeekWire3 days ago A student team from Simon Fraser University developing a way to use artificial intelligence to monitor fisheries took home the $25,000 top prize at the 2022 Dempsey Startup Competition hosted by the UW Foster School Buerk Center for Entrepreneurship. Inflation 101: Why is everything so expensive? | KING 53 days ago Inflation has hit a 40-year high in the U.S. and it’s making life more costly. Thomas Gilbert, associate professor of finance at the UW, is quoted. Opinion: An unintended consequence of mindfulness | The Washington Post7 days ago "Mindful meditation reduces anxiety, depression and stress; more pragmatically, it can also improve sleep, decision-making, focus and self-control. This helps to explain why so many companies have jumped on the mindfulness bandwagon … But what if, in the course of your stressful day, you acted like a jerk toward a colleague at a meeting? Could all of that inward focus cause you to downplay the harm you caused that person, letting it float away like a leaf on a stream?" writes Andrew Hafenbrack, assistant professor of management and organization at the UW. Want to work at Amazon or Microsoft? This MBA program is an unsuspecting feeder school for Seattle tech giants | Fortune2 weeks ago For decades, prestigious business schools like Harvard Business School, Wharton School of Business and Stanford Graduate School of Business have had the upper hand in paving the way for students to land top-paying jobs at some top U.S. companies. But a recent report reveals that a program at a public university, the UW Foster School of Business, has established itself among the upper echelon of business schools, beating out its competitors, in the number of graduates employed at Big Tech firms. Naomi Sanchez, assistant dean of MBA career management at the UW Foster School of Business, is quoted. Why SPACs are no longer attractive for Goldman Sachs and Bank of America | Bloomberg2 weeks ago As an army of blank-check companies gathered $250 billion on their march to public stock markets over the past two years, banks handling the fundraisings earned windfalls and lavished star dealmakers with some of their firm’s largest bonuses. Elizabeth Blankespoor, associate professor of accounting at the UW, is quoted. Cash gushes for Big Oil — but climate investments plateau | E&E News3 weeks ago The oil giants are practically printing money. With crude prices soaring, companies reported earning dizzying profits during the first three months of the year. Not even costly write-downs for those with business ventures in Russia were enough to dent their balance sheets. Charlie Donovan, professor of sustainable finance at the UW, is quoted. Many VC firms ban side investing — Yuri Milner’s DST encourages it | Bloomberg4 weeks ago Many venture capital firms frown upon or even bar their partners from using their own money to make side investments in startups. At DST Global, the investment group run by the Russian-Israeli billionaire Yuri Milner, personal investing is institutionalized. Emily Cox Pahnke, associate professor of management and organization at the UW, is quoted. Four-day work week could help increase productivity | FOX 131 month ago Andrew Hafenbrack, assistant professor of management and organization at the UW, says that people are burnt out. If they had the ability to decide more when they work, they may be less likely to quit their jobs. Elon Musk's strategy for winning Twitter: 'Ready, fire, aim' | Los Angeles Times1 month ago Elon Musk has a long history of making showy product announcements that are light on details — a humanoid robot, a brain-computer interface, a supersonic transportation system — years before the innovations he’s touting are ready for market, if they ever materialize at all. That was the approach he brought to his campaign to buy Twitter, initially publicizing his $44-billion bid with no financing or plan for operating the San Francisco company. Elizabeth Umphress, professor of management at the UW, is quoted. [This story appeared in multiple outlets] Will Twitter's 'poison pill' be too tough for Elon Musk to swallow? | AFP1 month ago The so-called "poison pill" Twitter has proposed to use against Elon Musk’s potential hostile takeover is a mechanism with a proven track record that could force the outspoken entrepreneur into negotiations. Jonathan Karpoff, professor of finance and business economics at the UW, is quoted. [This is an AFP story on Yahoo! News] Is mindfulness always such a good thing? | Seattle Met1 month ago Mindfulness — or a heightened, nonjudgmental awareness of the present moment — may not always be such a good thing, according to research recently published in the Journal of Personality and Social Psychology. Andrew Hafenbrack, assistant professor of management and organization at the UW, is quoted. Insect food for pets: Univ. of Washington students developing sustainable dog treats | GeekWire1 month ago Just Right Bite, a startup led by six women from the UW, won the $10,000 Herbert B. Jones Foundation Second Place Prize at the 2022 Alaska Airlines Environmental Innovation Challenge earlier this month for its insect-based pet food product. The company received $595 in prototype funding from the UW Buerk Center for Entrepreneurship. Mallory Morse and Chelsea Fletcher, graduate students in entrepreneurship at the UW, are quoted. Hannah Walls-Scott, a graduate student in entrepreneurship at the UW, is mentioned. How to recover from burnout and stop it from happening again, according to psychologists | Inverse1 month ago Millions of Americans are rethinking their relationship to work. The phrase “burnout” is fixed within that conversation. There is a collective, societal hunger for more information on what to do about it. Yu Tse Heng, a doctoral student in management at the UW, is quoted. Your Voices: Turning debt into savings | KIRO 72 months ago The UW’s Certificate in Women’s Entrepreneurial Leadership program is featured in this story about a graduate’s public relations and marketing company dedicated to providing employment and internship opportunities for people of color. Christy Johnson, affiliate instructor of business at the UW, talks about the goals of Women in Entrepreneurial Leadership, a certificate program at the UW. Startups are back on campus: UW job fair brings out big crowd for internship and job opportunities | GeekWire2 months ago The Buerk Center for Entrepreneurship and CoMotion hosted the Startup Career & Internship Fair this week for interested students seeking opportunities with up-and-coming startups. WA employers will soon have to be upfront about salaries in job postings | The Seattle Times2 months ago Starting in January, job postings in Washington will have to include some dollar signs. Gov. Jay Inslee has signed into law legislation requiring employers in the state to include salary and benefits information in job postings, rather than waiting to disclose that figure after making an offer. David Tan, associate professor of management at the UW, is quoted. These MBA programs don't require a GMAT and see most grads start at $110K | Fortune2 months ago The UW Foster School of Business is included in a list of programs that don’t require a GMAT and prepares graduates for six-figure starting salaries. Daniel Turner, teaching professor of marketing and associate dean of the master’s programs at the UW Foster School of Business, is quoted. Wendy Guild, assistant dean of MBA programs at the UW Foster School of Business, is referenced. Opinion: True work flexibility is about when, not just where, you work | The New York Times2 months ago "In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, PepsiCo, Meta and General Motors, among others, have incorporated remote work into their corporate cultures. But in a truly flexible workplace, people would control not just where they work but also when," writes Emily Laber-Warren of the City University of New York. Christopher Barnes, professor of management at the UW, is referenced. Ukraine invasion severs decades of WA business ties with Russia | Crosscut3 months ago Business was once seen as a way to stabilize U.S. and Russian relations. Not anymore. Debra Glassman, teaching professor of finance and business economics at the UW, is quoted. Burnout is changing your brain — here's what to do | CNN3 months ago Are you burned out? If these three symptoms apply to you — a total lack of energy, a decline in your sense of belonging and a plummeting self-esteem — you could be a victim of burnout, experts say. Kira Schabram, associate professor of management at the UW, is quoted. More Paul G. Allen School of Computer Science & Engineering Full archive for Paul G. Allen School of Computer Science & Engineering UW researchers find that people enter a state of dissociation when browsing on social media | KGMI4 days ago UW researchers have conducted a study showing how people enter a state of dissociation when browsing on social media. AI2 researchers win 'Test-of-Time' award that honors long-lasting influence for AI-related papers | GeekWire5 days ago Researchers from Allen Institute for Artificial Intelligence, CEO Oren Etzioni, professor emeritus of computer science and engineering at the UW, and research scientist Jesse Dodge received the Association of Computational Linguistics’ 10-year Test-of-Time Paper Award for two separate papers published in 2012. Social media makes users dissociate from the world around them, but there are a few tools that can help | ZME Science5 days ago New research at the UW reports that people often dissociate when surfing social media. The paper adds that tools designed to help us surf these networks mindfully can help people maintain more control over their online experiences. Amanda Baughan, a doctoral student in computer science and engineering at the UW, is quoted. UW Study: Some people dissociate when using social media | Patch1 week ago If you’ve ever logged into Twitter or Facebook and felt the real world melt away, you’re not alone. In fact, a new study from the UW has found that users may enter a dissociative state — similar to the feeling of being transported into a good book or movie — while surfing social media. The UW’s Amanda Baughan, a doctoral student in computer science and engineering, and Alexis Hiniker, assistant professor in the Information School, are quoted. Tiny solar-powered sensors float on the wind to gather environmental data | CNET1 week ago As we face ever-increasing ecological challenges, gathering environmental data will be important in the development of technology that can help heal the natural world. Researchers at the UW have a new tool they hope can aid in this effort: tiny battery-free sensors that can be dispersed in the wind via drones and gather environmental data over large areas. Vikram Iyer, assistant professor of computer science and engineering at the UW, is interviewed. Univ. of Washington and Meta partner on program linking PhD students to AI mentors at tech giant | GeekWire2 weeks ago Meta has accepted a new friend request from the UW. The tech giant is bolstering its relationship with the UW’s Paul G. Allen School of Computer Science & Engineering to form the Meta AI Mentorship Program, allowing PhD students from that school to collaborate with company researchers. Luke Zettlemoyer, professor of computer science and engineering at the UW, is quoted. Computer scientists prove certain problems are truly hard | Quanta Magazine3 weeks ago Finding out whether a question is too difficult to ever solve efficiently depends on figuring out just how hard it is. Researchers have now shown how to do that for a major class of problems. Paul Beame, professor of computer science and engineering at the UW, is quoted. The arms race to build the metaverse | Politico4 weeks ago Even a modest version of the metaverse would entail a huge spike in demand for chips, for networking power and for advances in device manufacturing. It means the race to build a virtual world could be a major question of national competitiveness in the physical one. Pedro Domingos, professor emeritus of computer science and engineering at the UW, is quoted. Study: Alexa used to promote certain ads | KPTV4 weeks ago A recent study by researchers from the UW and other universities says that Amazon is using Alexa’s voice information to promote ads to users. Report shows that Amazon uses data from Alexa smart speakers to serve targeted ads | The Verge1 month ago A report released last week contends that Amazon uses voice data from its Echo devices to serve targeted ads on its own platforms and the web. The report, produced by researchers affiliated with the UW, UC Davis, UC Irvine, and Northeastern University and led by Umar Iqubal, Umar Iqbal, a UW postdoctoral researcher in computer science and engineering, said the ways Amazon does this is inconsistent with its privacy policies. ‘We’ve literally run out of human beings’: Robots rise in wake of pandemic and labor shortages | GeekWire1 month ago The pandemic and the U.S. labor shortage are starting to change the conversation about robotics and automation from threat to opportunity — from putting jobs at risk to filling critical gaps in the workforce. Siddhartha Srinivasa, professor of computer science and engineering at the UW, is quoted. Elon Musk says he wants free speech on Twitter — but for whom? | Slate1 month ago On Monday, Elon Musk bought Twitter. He has repeatedly pointed to free speech as the reason for his investment in and purchase of the social network. A UW study is referenced. Study: How Amazon uses Echo interactions to target ads | The Register1 month ago Amazon and third-party services have been using smart speaker interaction data for ad targeting, in violation of privacy commitments, according to researchers at four U.S. universities, including the UW. Umar Iqbal, UW postdoctoral researcher in computer science and engineering, is quoted. Franziska Roesner, associate professor of computer science and engineering at the UW, is referenced. New AI model shows how machines can learn from vision, language and sound together | GeekWire1 month ago The multimodality of combining image, sound and other details greatly enhances our understanding of what’s happening, whether it’s on TV or in the real world. The same appears to be true for artificial intelligence. A new question-answering model called MERLOT RESERVE enables out-of-the-box prediction, revealing strong multimodal commonsense understanding. Rowan Zellers, a doctoral student in computer science and engineering at the UW, is quoted. Analysis: Why 'bad' ads appear on 'good' websites – a computer scientist explains | The Conversation2 months ago "Sketchy ads, like those for miracle weight loss pills and suspicious-looking software, sometimes appear on legitimate, well-regarded websites. It turns out that most websites don’t actually decide who gets to show ads to their viewers. Instead, most sites outsource this task to a complex network of advertising tech companies that do the work of figuring out which ads are shown to each particular person," writes Eric Zeng, a graduate research assistant in computer science and engineering at the UW. Should right-to-repair laws extend to bionic body parts? | IEEE Spectrum2 months ago For consumer electronics, there’s a lot of activity around right-to-repair laws. But this young movement has concerned itself only with consumer electronics, not the medical devices that are regulated by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration and similar agencies around the world. Rajesh Rao, professor of computer science and engineering and of electrical and computer engineering at the UW, is quoted. Inside the AI2 Incubator: Microsoft co-founder’s unfinished legacy fuels quest for new AI startups | GeekWire2 months ago As a branch of the Allen Institute for AI, the A12 Incubator leverages AI2’s technical expertise and industry connections to help entrepreneurs build “AI first” companies. Allen Institute for Artificial Intelligence CEO Oren Etzioni, who is also a professor emeritus of computer science and engineering at the UW, is quoted. Can computers learn common sense? | The New Yorker2 months ago A.I. researchers are making progress on a long-term goal: giving their programs the kind of knowledge we take for granted. Yejin Choi, professor of computer science and engineering at the UW, is quoted. Vote for Next Tech Titan: 5 Seattle companies on the verge of becoming a giant force | GeekWire2 months ago OctoML, a UW spinout whose CEO is Luis Ceze, professor of computer science and engineering at the UW, is a nominee for Next Tech Titan at the 2022 GeekWire Awards. UW develops sensors inspired by the dandelion | KUOW2 months ago UW researchers have crafted tiny plastic sensors that can be flown up high by drone and dropped to land to monitor climate change and provide insights for other applications. Vikram Iyer, assistant professor of computer science and engineering at the UW, is interviewed. More School of Dentistry Full archive for School of Dentistry Fact check: Image shows silicone model of a dolphin fetus in the womb | USA Today2 weeks ago An image circulating online that depicts a dolphin fetus has drawn the attention of Facebook users. Similar posts have been shared on Facebook since at least 2012. But the image of an unborn dolphin is a computer graphic. Rachel Roston, a postdoctoral researcher in dentistry at the UW, is quoted. New test maps acidity in the mouth to spot cavities before they form | ZME Science3 months ago Scientists at the UW have now developed an optical-based method that can identify the most at-risk teeth by mapping high acidity in the dental plaque that covers the teeth. Manuja Sharma, a doctoral student in dentistr at the UW, is quoted. New LED tool developed by scientists that spots dental cavities before they even start | The Independent3 months ago Scientists have developed a new tool that uses LED light to detect and measure specific chemical changes that lead to dental cavities, an advance that may lead to better ways of preventing the condition before it even starts. Manuja Sharma, a doctoral student in dentistr at the UW, is quoted. Acidity sensor creates a heat map of teeth at risk of decay | New Atlas3 months ago A cavity is a pretty clear sign of tooth trouble, but there are warnings to be seen before these tiny openings start to appear. A newly developed optical device is designed to reveal at-risk areas of our teeth by detecting hotspots of high acidity in dental plaque, where conditions are ripe for decay to take hold. The UW’s Manuja Sharma, a doctoral student in dentistry, and Eric Seibel, research professor of mechanical engineering, are quoted. David Giuliani, co-inventor of Sonicare toothbrush and a climate change activist, dies at 75 | The Seattle Times3 months ago David Giuliani, an entrepreneurial engineer who co-invented the Sonicare toothbrush and helped forge landmark Washington state law to combat climate change, has died. He was 75. In the late 1980s, Giuliani teamed up with Dr. David Engel, affiliate professor of periodontics at the UW, and Roy Martin, professor emeritus of bioengineering at the UW, to develop a better electric toothbrush, which became the first Sonicare model. Interesting ways to boost your vitamin C intake – as a study suggests doubling our dose | The Independent8 months ago Scientists have suggested we double our vitamin C intake, after arguing current recommendations – the NHS is in favour of 40mg per day – are partly informed by a Second World War study that’s now outdated. Dr. Philippe Hujoel, professor of oral health sciences at the UW, is quoted. Fears about going to the dentist | KUOW8 months ago KUOW interviews a clinical psychologist about dental phobias. The Dental Fears Research Clinic at the UW School of Dentistry is mentioned. Opinion: Adding dental benefits to Medicare | The Hill9 months ago "Comprehensive dental care is the most important benefit expansion to Medicare since prescription drugs were added in 2006. It is important we get it right. Medicare is our nation’s health insurance program for older adults. The current problem is that Medicare covers only ‘medically necessary’ care," writes Dr. Donald Chi, professor of oral health sciences at the UW. Vitamin C | BYU Radio9 months ago Most think of Vitamin C as an immunity booster during cold and flu season. But the most well-documented benefit of Vitamin C in the human body is actually for healing wounds, creating scar tissue, and keeping the walls of blood vessels intact. Dr. Philippe Hujoel, professor of oral health sciences at the UW, says the global standard for how much Vitamin C a person should consume needs an update. Washington State University to limit exemptions when FDA approves COVID vaccine; University of Washington reinstates mask mandate | The Seattle Times10 months ago Washington State University will no longer allow students to claim personal or philosophical exemptions from its COVID-19 vaccination requirement, the school announced Thursday, citing the “increasing threat of the delta variant for those who are unvaccinated.” The UW’s policies on vaccines and masks are mentioned. How to stop putting off a trip to the dentist | VICE1 year ago People feel anxious about the dentist for all kinds of reasons: because they’re worried they’ll get shamed for not coming in sooner, because they don’t have insurance right now and fear they can’t afford the care they need, or because dental procedures can be painful. Cameron Randall, acting assistant professor of oral health sciences at the UW, is quoted. Fear of needles may play small role in COVID-19 vaccine hesitancy | KOMO 41 year ago As health officials across the country urge people to get a COVID-19 vaccine, there are worries that people with a fear of needles may be avoiding the shot. Dr. Donald Chi, professor of oral health sciences at the UW, is interviewed. Whale, dolphin blowholes developed differently, research reveals | UPI1 year ago All whales have blowholes, but not all of them evolved them the same way — according to a new study, the two major forms of cetaceans turned their noses into blowholes in different ways. Rachel Roston, a postdoctoral researcher in dentistry at the UW, is quoted. Snoring in the sty | Loh Down on Science1 year ago The "Loh Down on Science" podcast talks about research by Dr. Zi-Jun Liu, research associate professor of orthodontics at the UW, on sleep apnea in Yucatan minipigs, whose airways are similar to those of humans. Mints could rebuild tooth tissue | KING 51 year ago A team at the UW has created a tablet genetically engineered to bind to damaged teeth, repair and build new soft mouth tissue. If your gums tend to bleed, you may be lacking this vitamin, study says | Yahoo! News1 year ago For many years, dentists have warned us to beware of blood when we brush our teeth or eat something firm like an apple. Commonly, this is thought to be an early sign of gum disease, and while that could very well be true, a new study is warning that it may also be a red flag that your body is lacking vitamin C. Dr. Philippe Hujoel, professor of oral health sciences at the UW, is quoted. Bleeding gums? You might be lacking vitamin C | HealthDay1 year ago If you have bleeding gums, you may need to increase the amount of vitamin C in your diet, a new study suggests. Dr. Philippe Hujoel, professor of oral health sciences at the UW, is quoted. How dentistry adapted to COVID-19: Less drilling, less germ spray | The New York Times1 year ago The pandemic has forced dentists and hygienists to change some of the methods for maintaining good oral hygiene, to protect patients as well as themselves. Dr. Donald Chi, professor of oral health sciences at the UW, is quoted. One ugly side effect of not getting enough vitamin C, according to a dentist | Yahoo! News1 year ago Bleeding gums are usually linked to gingivitis, an early stage of periodontal disease that’s characterized by inflammation and related to poor oral hygiene. But a new study in Nutrition Reviews suggests that tackling the problem with brushing and flossing alone may not be enough. Instead, you may want to boost your consumption of vitamin C-rich foods. Dr. Philippe Hujoel, professor of oral health sciences at the UW, is quoted. Opinion: Washington tribes show dental therapists safe, effective | Tacoma News Tribune1 year ago "While I am often overwhelmed by the need for more affordable dental care, I have hope. There is a solution that allows clinics to improve their efficiency, employ more care providers and provide more care both within the clinic and the community, all in a cost-effective manner," writes Dr. Miranda Davis, a dentist with the Puyallup Tribal Health Authority. Dr. Donald Chi, professor of oral health sciences at the UW, is referenced. More School of Law Full archive for School of Law The history of abortion rights in Washington | MyNorthwest3 weeks ago As the fallout from the Supreme Court leak continues to fuel debate, demonstrations, and political maneuvering regarding the future of abortion rights, it’s worth noting that Washington voters have twice approved pro-choice ballot measures in the past – including a few years before Roe v. Wade, and again in 1991. A review of the historical record shows that there are essentially five eras of government regulation of abortion in Washington. Stewart Jay, professor emeritus of law, is interviewed. Fact check: Americans can own private property — all children are not wards of state | Lead Stories3 weeks ago Do U.S. government laws say no American can own a house or car and that all children are wards of the state? No, that’s not true. Jeff Feldman, professor of law at the UW, is quoted. If Roe is overturned, more will have to travel to seek abortions — how many could come to WA? | The Seattle Times4 weeks ago If the Supreme Court reverses Roe v. Wade — as a leaked draft opinion suggests the court is poised to do — thousands of out-of-state residents seeking abortions may head to Washington. Terry Price, affiliate instructor of law at the UW, is quoted. How do companies leaving Russia completely rank on the best-managed list? | Wall Street Journal4 weeks ago Ever since Vladimir Putin invaded Ukraine in late February, companies doing business in Russia have faced a critical decision: Should we stay or should we go? Anita Ramasastry, professor of law at the UW, is quoted. From Bremerton to the Supreme Court: Former high school football coach center of First Amendment debate | The Seattle Times4 weeks ago Joe Kennedy was little known outside of the Bremerton High School athletes and their families who, for years, turned to him for advice, encouragement and support. Now, "Coach Joe" stands at the center of a national debate on First Amendment rights, religious freedom and prayer in public schools. Bob Gomulkiewicz, professor of law at the UW, is quoted. What does Kennedy v. Bremerton School District mean for how schools handle religious speech? | KUOW1 month ago What started out as one coach’s post-game ritual at Bremerton High School wound its way to the U.S. Supreme Court this week. Clark Lombardi, professor of law at the UW, is interviewed. Seattle law clinic helps target 'wage theft' | KING 51 month ago The Workers Rights Clinic, a collaboration between law schools at Seattle University and UW, helps workers understand their rights. Elizabeth Ford, affiliate instructor of law at the UW, is interviewed. WA prosecutors who withhold evidence rarely face discipline | Crosscut1 month ago Legally and ethically, prosecutors are required to turn over evidence — even when it could hurt their case. Those who don’t, however, face few consequences. Kimberly Ambrose, teaching professor of law, is quoted. We the People: You hear about it a lot, but what does 'rule of law' really mean? | The Spokesman-Review1 month ago As part of the "We the People" column, The Spokesman-Review examines one question each week from the Naturalization Test immigrants must pass to become United States citizens. Today’s question: What is the rule of law? Hugh Spitzer, professor of law at the UW, is quoted. UW professor, family thank firefighters after crash | KOMO 42 months ago University of Washington law professor Steve Calandrillo is thanking firefighters who saved him and his family after a serious head-on crash last August on Highway 2. Now he’s advocating for safety improvements along that road. Spokane police chief says Spokane Public Schools not reporting violence; police reports show more complicated picture | Spokane Public Radio2 months ago Spokane Public Schools is one of many districts across the country that reviewed and revised its policies in response to racial justice protests and complaints from parents of children with disabilities. Kim Ambrose, teaching professor of law at the UW, is quoted. Income or excise? Figuring out how state Supreme Court might rule on challenge to capital gains tax | MyNorthwest2 months ago Is Washington’s capital gains tax an excise or income tax? That’s the question that could soon be presented to the state Supreme Court, and which two experts — Hugh Spitzer and Scott Schumacher, professors of law at the UW — debated over on Thursday night. Analysis: 5 ways Americans' lives will change if Congress makes daylight saving time permanent | The Conversation2 months ago "Research shows that daylight saving time saves lives and prevents crime. Nearly 20 states have passed bills to make DST permanent, and the Senate unanimously passed the Sunshine Protection Act to allow those laws to take effect – since any one state can’t move to DST unilaterally on dates different from the rest of the country," writes Steve Calandrillo, professor of law at the UW. Editorial: Close the ethics gap at the US Supreme Court | The Seattle Times2 months ago "The revelation that political activist Ginni Thomas pushed to overturn the 2020 presidential elections must have consequences. It is ludicrous to believe that Thomas’ husband, U.S. Supreme Court Justice Clarence Thomas, can fulfill his legal obligation to impartially judge cases related to former President Donald Trump’s quest to throw out a democratic election when his wife was part of that very effort," writes The Seattle Times Editorial Board. Hugh Spitzer, professor of law at the UW, is quoted. On daylight saving, there are more options than you might think | The New York Times2 months ago The United States could soon be living with daylight saving time year-round if the Senate has its way. Are there drawbacks to that plan? Yes, sleep experts say. But there are drawbacks to the alternatives, too. Steve Calandrillo, professor of law at the UW, is referenced. Opinion: The 2 Seattle Freedom Scholars you need to know | South Seattle Emerald2 months ago Each year, the Freedom Scholars awards — done in partnership with Group Health Foundation — provide a one-time $250,000 award to scholars from universities across the U.S. Angélica Cházaro, assistant professor of law, and Megan Ming Francis, an associate professor of political science, at UW are the focus of this editorial. Excuses, excuses? Why some companies won’t stop trading in Russia | Politico2 months ago As the Ukraine war drags on, businesses weigh up the ethical risks of staying in Putin’s Russia. Anita Ramasastry, professor of law at the UW, is quoted. UW law students say trauma of racism can be barrier to accessing unbiased legal assistance | Northwest News Radio2 months ago UW law student Kenneth Nelson says racial trauma affects access to justice and the quality of justice. He says everybody who took part in a study felt that individuals of color are not treated equitably. Washington state capital gains tax update: Attorney general seeks appeal to reinstate controversial law | GeekWire2 months ago Seeking to overturn a lower court ruling blocking Washington state’s new capital gains tax, the attorney general’s office on Friday asked the state Supreme Court to take up the case on direct appeal. Hugh Spitzer, professor of law at the UW, is quoted. Confirmation of Kentaji Brown Jackson | Northwest News Radio2 months ago Elizabeth Porter, professor of law, says that Judge Kentanji Brown Jackson is a well known jurist and that the confirmations reflect that hers is an uncontroversial appointment. More School of Medicine and UW Medicine Full archive for UW Medicine Visualizing brains, plants and salamanders in 3D: University of Washington microscope does it all | GeekWire3 days ago A new study showcases a microscope years in the making, licensed to spinout Alpenglow Biosciences. The microscope enables researchers to peer into biological samples of all sizes and shapes in 3D and zoom into details quickly. The microscope was invented by Alpenglow co-founders Adam Glaser, affiliate assistant professor of mechanical engineering at the UW and Jonathan Liu, professor of mechanical engineering at the UW. CEO and co-founder Dr. Nicholas Reder, clinical instructor of laboratory medicine and pathology in the UW School of Medicine, and co-founder Lawrence True are also study co-authors. A surge in NYC COVID cases sparked a red alert and a debate over masking — but are the numbers even accurate? | New York Daily News3 days ago New data showing a surge in New York COVID cases triggered a jump in the city’s alert status and debate over how best to respond — but the actual number of infected people is likely significantly higher than official numbers show. Ali Mokdad, professor of health metrics sciences at the UW Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation, is quoted. CDC confirms monkeypox infection in King County man | The Seattle Times3 days ago The monkeypox virus has officially landed in Washington, state and local public health leaders confirmed Friday morning after announcing their investigation into a possible case earlier this week. Deborah Fuller, professor of microbiology in the UW School of Medicine, is quoted. Here are the Washington state gun laws meant to prevent violence | KING 53 days ago Washington has relatively more stringent gun laws in the state, compared to others. Dr. Fred Rivara, professor of pediatrics in the UW School of Medicine, said Texas laws could have done more. When will we know if COVID is seasonal? | ABC News3 days ago COVID-19 may indeed become a seasonal illness with predictable patterns of infection — but it’s not there yet, epidemiologists and infectious disease experts say. Ali Mokdad, professor of health metrics sciences at the UW Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation, is quoted. Parents could face difficulty finding formula despite shipments from Europe, increased production | KIRO 74 days ago A FedEx plane arrived at Dulles International Airport on Wednesday afternoon, hauling 120,000 pounds of hypoallergenic baby formula from Germany — enough for roughly 1 million 8-ounce bottles. However, it is unclear how much will be sent to each state, or which stores will get it. Eliza Lagerquist, a UW Medicine dietitian, is interviewed. 'Shakes us to our core': State researchers using data to curb all forms of gun violence | KXLY4 days ago On the heels of another horrific school shooting, communities aren’t only worried about mass shootings. Gun violence as a whole has state leaders taking a new look at how we focus efforts to curb the violence. Dr. Fred Rivara, professor of pediatrics in the UW School of Medicine, is interviewed. How to help your kids process what happened in Uvalde | KUOW4 days ago An 18-year-old man entered an elementary school in Uvalde, Texas and killed 21 people — two teachers and 19 students. That’s a difficult thing to process. Especially for the students and parents who are watching. Dr. Douglas Zatzick, professor of psychiatry and behavioral sciences in the UW School of Medicine, is interviewed. Disclosure closure | Slate4 days ago Dr. Anna Wald, professor of medicine, of epidemiology, and of laboratory medicine and pathology at the UW, shares her expertise on sexually transmitted disease in the advice column "How To Do It." Longtime UW science leader Nora Disis on gender inequity, translational research, and more | GeekWire4 days ago Mary “Nora” L. Disis, professor of medicine in the UW School of Medicine, has seen a lot of change in her 30 years at the UW. And she’s also helped create it, as the director of the Institute of Translational Health Sciences, which fosters the flow of science into the clinic. Texas elementary shooting prompts tough conversations with children about school-violence | MyNorthwest5 days ago Kids across the country are asking questions about what happened in that Texas elementary school — and whether or not they can feel safe. Dr. Fred Rivara, professor of pediatrics in the UW School of Medicine, is quoted. How to talk to kids about shooting | FOX 135 days ago Dr. Fred Rivara, professor of pediatrics in the UW School of Medicine, says that parents should reassure kids that they, together with schools, are doing everything they can to keep kids safe. 2 researchers at the UW School of Medicine named to Time Magazine list | KNKX5 days ago The UW’s Evan Eichler, professor of genome sciences, and Tulio de Oliveira, affiliate professor of global health, have been named to the list of Time’s "100 Most Influential People of 2022." 2 professors at the UW School of Medicine gaining worldwide recognition | KXL5 days ago The UW’s Evan Eichler, professor of genome sciences, and Tulio de Oliveira, affiliate professor of global health, have been named to Time’s "100 Most Influential People of 2022" list. Firearm researcher reacts to Texas school shooting | Northwest News Radio5 days ago Dr. Fred Rivara, professor of pediatrics in the UW School of Medicine, says we thought that after the Newtown shootings in 2012 that we wouldn’t see another shooting in an elementary school, but Congress has done nothing to curb gun violence. 1 of 5 with COVID-19 may develop long COVID, CDC finds — though vaccination may offer some protection, study suggests | Forbes5 days ago One in five Covid-19 survivors may develop symptoms of long Covid, or long-term symptoms, according to a new study from the Centers for Disease Control, though vaccinations may cut the risk of symptoms by 15%, another study of more than 13 million veterans conducted by researchers at Washington University School of Medicine in St. Louis found. The UW School of Medicine is referenced. Monkeypox in the COVID era: Here are the key differences between the viruses | The Seattle Times5 days ago Washington state’s first presumptive case of a virus, spreading around the globe, found in a man with a travel history. The year is … 2022? This time, it’s not a novel coronavirus, but a case of monkeypox. King County’s public health officer announced the finding on Monday. And for the state’s COVID-19-fatigued residents, it is certainly another point of worry. Deborah Fuller, professor of microbiology in the UW School of Medicine, is quoted. Pfizer warns of “constant waves” of COVID as complacency grows | Ars Technica5 days ago Growing complacency about COVID-19 and politicization of the pandemic response will cost lives as the world is hit by new waves of the virus in the coming months, Pfizer’s chief executive has warned. Nancy Jecker, professor of bioethics and humanities in the UW School of Medicine, is quoted. ‘You want your life back’: 20% of people who get sick have ‘long COVID’ and it can be debilitating | KIRO 75 days ago A new report from the CDC says 1 in 5 adults who contracted COVID-19 experienced “long COVID” or “post-COVID conditions.” It means symptoms like debilitating fatigue that last for months or even longer. UW Medicine’s Post-COVID Rehabilitation and Recovery Clinic is one of about 65 specialized COVID-19 clinics across the United States and was one of the first in the country to open up. Dr. Janna Friedly, professor of medicine and of rehabilitation medicine in the UW School of Medicine, is interviewed. State officials speak out on gun control amid aftermath of Texas school shooting | MyNorthwest5 days ago A gunman opened fire at an elementary school in Uvalde, Texas, on Tuesday, killing 19 people, including 18 children as of this reporting, in what was the deadliest shooting at an American elementary school since the attack at Sandy Hook Elementary in Connecticut in 2012. Dr. Fred Rivara, professor of pediatrics in the UW School of Medicine, is quoted. More School of Nursing Full archive for School of Nursing Professor calls Seattle homeless camp sweeps 'punitive' and short-sighted | KOMO 41 week ago Seattle cleared out another homeless camp near downtown Friday and while some neighbors welcomed the sweep, others said it only complicates the problem. Josephine Ensign, professor of nursing at the UW, is interviewed. Seattle residents, healthcare officials react to possible SCOTUS overturn of Roe v. Wade | FOX 134 weeks ago President Joe Biden said overturning Roe v. Wade could unravel a "whole range of rights." While some local healthcare members said they agreed with the President, Washington’s oldest pro-life organization said the overturn would restore abortion decisions to state government. Molly Altman, assistant professor of nursing at the UW, is interviewed. Tune in for a live discussion on Seattle’s history of homelessness | The Seattle Times2 months ago To learn more about Seattle’s current homelessness crisis and how we got here, local author and professor of nursing at the UW, Josephine Ensign looked to the past. Ensign is scheduled to participate in an online discussion at 6:30 p.m. Thursday, April 14. You can hear all about her findings in a live discussion hosted by The Seattle Times’ Project Homeless this week as we sit down with the author and explore her third book, “Skid Road: On the Frontier of Health and Homelessness in an American City.” Opinion: To be anti-racist, don’t confuse character for accountability | The Seattle Times2 months ago "To disrupt structural racism, we need anti-racist leaders who can shepherd and sustain our collective anti-racist transformation. And we need to facilitate anti-racist accountability of our leadership," writes Wendy Barrington, associate professor in the School of Nursing. Pandemic anxiety was hard on IBS patients — how to find relief | NPR2 months ago If you’re one of the more than 25 million people in the U.S. with irritable bowel syndrome, there’s a good chance your symptoms worsened at some point over the past two years. Or maybe you developed symptoms for the first time. Kendra Kamp, assistant professor of nursing at the UW, is quoted. Local author’s ‘Skid Road’ is a look at Seattle’s homeless past | The Seattle Times2 months ago In “Skid Road: On the Frontier of Health and Homelessness in an American City” by Josephine Ensign, professor of nursing at the UW, she reveals that since the first reported homeless man was found on the shores of Elliott Bay more than 160 years ago, Seattlites have grappled with the same questions around homelessness ever since: Whose responsibility is it to take care of our poorest? How do we pay for it? And where do they live? To prepare for the next pandemic, America needs more doctors and nurses | VOX2 months ago Staff shortages crippled America’s COVID-19 response. That can’t happen again. Bianca Frogner, professor of family medicine in the UW School of Medicine, and Betty Bekemeier, professor of nursing at the UW, are quoted. Washington schools face nurse, psychologist, counselor shortages | KING 54 months ago Washington state badly needs additional school nurses, psychologists and counselors to help students weather the pandemic, in addition to local funding and support. A UW study is referenced. Seattle has struggled to care for sick and homeless people since the 1800s; now programs are trying something different | The Seattle Times5 months ago The rise of chronic homelessness coupled with a social services system that never recovered from Reagan-era spending cuts is resulting in record numbers of people dying on sidewalks or in shelters poorly equipped to care for people dealing with lifetimes of trauma, premature aging and complex medical needs. Josephine Ensign, professor of nursing at the UW, is quoted. 1 in 5 nurses say they’ll quit their careers as pandemic takes steep toll on mental health, WA study shows | The Seattle Times6 months ago Repeated exposure to sickness and death, and a sense of fear and anxiety that’s rippled across the medical and first-responder communities during the pandemic, is crippling the mental well-being of many health care workers, according to a new study led by Dr. Rebecca Hendrickson, acting assistant professor of psychiatry and behavioral sciences in the UW School of Medicine. Elaine Walsh, associate professor of nursing at the UW, is quoted. How did we get here? A brief history of mental health care in Washington | The Seattle Times6 months ago Before Washington was even a state, it was already constructing its first hospital to house patients with mental illness. In the 132 years since, there’s been a lot of trial and error but no clear answers as the state — and the country at large — have grappled with their approach to mental health care. Josephine Ensign, professor of nursing at the UW, is mentioned. A developer forced them out of their building — three years later, nearly half are dead | KNKX6 months ago To some, the century-old Merkle Hotel was a symbol of urban decay near the heart of Tacoma, an obstacle to the city’s yearslong effort to rebrand itself as an up-and-coming, desirable place to live. But, to the tenants who lived there, it was just about the last place in the city where a disability check still covered rent. Josephine Ensign, professor of nursing at the UW, is quoted. New program supports staffing crisis in long-term care | FOX 136 months ago A new state-funded program gives students at the UW School of Nursing hands-on experience at long-term care facilities. Opinion: How to fix America's homelessness crisis, according to a researcher | Insider6 months ago "Even in progressive cities like Seattle and San Francisco, coverage of our historically high levels of homelessness has become so hyperpartisanized that it’s impossible for people to agree on the causes of the housing crisis, let alone work together to find solutions … Let’s be clear that simply building large amounts of housing will not solve our housing crisis, as some urbanists claim. But neither is homelessness a personal failing free from systemic economic pressures," writes Paul Constant of Civic Ventures. Josephine Ensign, professor of nursing at the UW, is featured. What the history of homelessness in our region can teach us about our current crisis | Seattle Weekly6 months ago Josephine Ensign, professor of nursing at the University of Washington, recently published a book through Johns Hopkins University Press called “Skid Road: On the Frontier of Health and Homelessness in an American City.” The book examines the history of homelessness in Seattle and details the policies, systems and shortcomings that are at the historical roots of the issue in the region. [This story appeared in multiple outlets] 'They see us as the enemy': School nurses face pandemic rage | The New York Times7 months ago School nurses, who were already stretched thin before the pandemic, say that they are overworked and overwhelmed. Mayumi Willgerodt, associate professor of nursing at the UW, is quoted. Opinion: How a friendship and a new book transformed my view of Seattle | Crosscut8 months ago Mason Bryan, Crosscut’s associate opinion editor, writes about his friendship with Ozzy, who lived on the streets of Seattle: "Through the prism of Ozzy’s personal and ongoing emergency, the harder-to-fathom public emergency gripping Seattle has come into sharper focus for me. Imagine: one man’s singular crisis multiplied in King County alone by more than 10,000 other crises, each of a similar but unique shape. It is humbling to contemplate. And yet our contemporary woes are nothing new." "Skid Road: On the Frontier of Health and Homelessness in an American City" by Josephine Ensign, professor of nursing at the UW, is referenced. A new book puts homelessness at the center of Seattle history | Crosscut8 months ago Crosscut’s Mason Bryan reviews "Skid Road: On the Frontier of Health and Homelessness in an American City" by Josephine Ensign, professor of nursing at the UW. Interoception: The hidden sense that shapes wellbeing | The Guardian10 months ago There’s growing evidence that signals sent from our internal organs to the brain play a major role in regulating emotions and fending off anxiety and depression. Cynthia Price, research professor of nursing at the UW, is quoted. A new book chronicles the history of homelessness in Seattle | KNKX10 months ago Josephine Ensign, professor of nursing at the UW, is the author of a new book called "Skid Road: On the Frontier of Health and Homelessness in an American City." The book digs through layers of Seattle history to reveal the stories of overlooked and long-silenced people who live on the margins of society. More School of Pharmacy Full archive for School of Pharmacy The high cost of living with sickle cell disease | HealthDay1 week ago Americans with sickle cell disease who have private insurance face average out-of-pocket costs of $1,300 a year and a lifetime total of $44,000, new research reveals. Kate Johnson, a postdoctoral researcher in pharmacy at the UW, is quoted. Burden of medical costs for sickle cell disease quantified | HealthDay2 weeks ago Sickle cell disease imposes a considerable burden in terms of overall and out-of-pocket medical costs, with the burden of costs peaking in young adulthood, according to a study published online May 16 in Blood Advances. Kate Johnson, a postdoctoral researcher in pharmacy at the UW, is quoted. How a game-changing transplant could treat dying organs | National Geographic3 months ago Early success with a procedure called a mitochondrial transplant offers a glimmer of hope for people fighting for survival after cardiac arrest, stroke, and more. The UW’s Dr. Michael Levitt, associate professor of neurological surgery and of radiology; Dr. Melanie Walker, clinical professor of neurological surgery; and Yasemin Sancak, assistant professor of pharmacology, are quoted. Nearly half a million Washingtonians live in pharmacy deserts | State of Reform4 months ago Stretching above its foothills, the glacial crown of Mt. Rainier stands guard over Packwood, one of Washington’s dwindling lumber towns. The end of the line for medical services lies 15 miles west of Packwood, at a clinic in Randle. Reaching a pharmacy and hospital from Packwood demands a 40 minute drive to Morton. The UW’s Rachel Wittenauer, a doctoral student in the School of Pharmacy, and Jennifer Bacci, associate professor of innovative pharmacy practice, are quoted. Americans avoiding health care in pandemic over cost concerns | ABC News6 months ago The COVID-19 pandemic has shifted Americans’ perceptions of health care, and not for the better, according to a new survey. Blythe Adamson, affiliate assistant professor of pharmacy at the UW, is quoted. Immigrants in US detention exposed to hazardous disinfectants every day | Scientific American9 months ago Every day crowded cells holding people at an immigration detention facility in Florida have been doused with caustic disinfectants that have caused breathing problems and bleeding, according to reports from the detainees. The disinfectants contain two chemical compounds that scientific research has implicated in long-term damage to human cells and—in animals—to reproductive health. Libin Xu, associate professor of medicinal chemistry at the UW, is quoted. Opinion: Big Pharma doesn't want Medicare negotiating drug prices | Los Angeles Times9 months ago "The pharmaceutical industry, bizarrely, told the American people this week that allowing Medicare to negotiate drug prices is tantamount to socialism … Nearly every other developed country worldwide allows its government insurance system to negotiate drug prices. And guess what? This reasonable use of market power allows people in other countries to pay roughly half what Americans pay for prescription meds," writes columnist David Lazarus. Anirban Basu, professor of health economics at the UW, is quoted. CDC considers third COVID-19 shot for immunocompromised people | KING 510 months ago A CDC advisory group mulled COVID-19 booster shots for immunocompromised Americans Thursday, as states across the country have dropped many or all pandemic restrictions, and cases fueled by variants rise. Rodney Ho, professor of pharmaceutics at the UW, is interviewed. Dr. Vin Gupta, affiliate assistant professor of health metrics sciences at the UW Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation, is referenced. Regulating new cannabis product delta 8 possible, but will require work, experts say | The Spokesman-Review12 months ago Creating new rules to safely sell an increasingly popular yet controversial cannabis product is possible in Washington, but will require a lot of work and study, chemical experts said this week. Nephi Stella, professor of pharmacology and of psychiatry and behavioral studies at the UW, is quoted. Medical mission | KIRO 712 months ago Dr. Jonathan Himmelfarb, professor of medicine in the UW School of Medicine, says the project sending kidney tissue to space is the result of many years of work and planning. Edward Kelly, associate professor of pharmaceutics at the UW, says that microgravity represents an environment where aging is accelerated. SpaceX sends ‘kidney on a chip’ and solar arrays into orbit | GeekWire12 months ago SpaceX launched a Dragon cargo capsule to the International Space Station today with more than 7,300 pounds of supplies and science, including an experiment from the University of Washington that takes advantage of zero gravity to study how our kidneys work. Researchers at UW Medicine, UW’s School of Pharmacy and the Kidney Research Institute are conducting parallel kidney-tissue experiments in earthly labs. UW is sending kidney cells to international space station | KXL12 months ago Edward Kelly, associate professor of pharmaceutics at the UW, says that microgravity represents an environment where aging is accelerated. Researchers want to model how that environment affects the body and applies to terrestrial diseases. UW kidney experiment headed to ISS | Q1312 months ago Edward Kelly, associate professor of pharmaceutics at the UW, says that sending kidney tissue to the international space station will help researchers identify biomarkers that will predict whether you will suffer from kidney stones. UW sending kidney tissue to international space station | KIRO Radio12 months ago Edward Kelly, associate professor of pharmaceutics at the UW, talks about the unique environment of the international space station will help researchers better understand kidney stones. UW Medicine scientists use outer space for research | YakTriNews12 months ago On Thursday, June 3rd, a SpaceX Cargo will head to the International Space Station with a piece of UW Medicine research on it. Edward Kelly, associate professor of pharmaceutics at the UW, is interviewed. SpaceX’s 22nd cargo resupply mission to carry water bears, baby squids to the space station | UPI1 year ago SpaceX’s 22nd cargo resupply mission, slated to launch no earlier than June 3, will see several unique science experiments — involving water bears, baby squids and kidney stones — ferried to the International Space Station. Edward Kelly, associate professor of pharmaceutics at the UW, is quoted. Combining COVID-19 vaccines | KOMO Radio1 year ago Rodney Ho, professor of pharmaceutics at the UW, says he doesn’t think there’s harm in taking a combination of COVID-19 vaccines. How to reach the ‘fence sitters’? Men lag behind women on COVID-19 vaccination in Washington state | The Seattle Times1 year ago Men in Washington state — who represent 53% of deaths from the coronavirus — are at the same time receiving far less than their share of life-protecting vaccines. Samantha Clark, a doctoral student in pharmacy at the UW, is quoted. Impel Neuropharma raises $80M in Washington state’s first IPO of 2021 | GeekWire1 year ago Seattle-based biotech company Impel NeuroPharma raised $80 million in its initial public offering and will begin trading on the NASDAQ Friday under the ticker IMPL. Impel is known for its Precision Olfactory Delivery platform, developed by co-founder John Hoekman while studying pharmaceutics at the UW. Seattle biotech firm Impel NeuroPharma files for $75M IPO | GeekWire1 year ago Seattle-based biotech company Impel NeuroPharma is set to go public. Founded in 2008, Impel is known for its Precision Olfactory Delivery platform, developed by co-founder John Hoekman while studying pharmaceutics at the UW. More School of Public Health Full archive for School of Public Health CHOP planted the seeds. 2 years later, the food equity movement in Seattle is reaping the benefits | The Seattle Times3 days ago In the last few years, the extremity of racialized food inequity has garnered more widespread attention and more concerted responses that strive toward food sovereignty — the rights of people to healthful and culturally appropriate food — one community garden at a time. Some of those efforts began or were inspired by community food ideas spawned at CHOP, while others already in existence gained traction as the need for food equity was amplified by the 2020 movement. UW research is referenced. Gov. Jay Inslee tests positive for COVID-19 | KIRO Radio4 days ago Dr. Peter Rabinowitz, professor of environmental and occupational health science at the UW, says Gov. Inslee’s positive test result for COVID-19 is a reminder that we are not out of the woods when it comes to COVID-19, and people need to continue to be careful. How to take action against gun violence | Seattle's Child4 days ago Seattle’s Child share eight ways parents and families can get involved in the anti-gun violence movement. Research by the UW School of Public Health is referenced. New King County study shows imported aluminum cookpots may pose serious risk for lead poisoning | South Seattle Emerald4 days ago A King County study, done in collaboration with the Department of Environmental and Occupational Health Sciences at the University of Washington, revealed that several aluminum cookpots released enough lead under simulated cooking and storage conditions to present a significant risk for lead poisoning. [This is part of a news roundup] Disclosure closure | Slate4 days ago Dr. Anna Wald, professor of medicine, of epidemiology, and of laboratory medicine and pathology at the UW, shares her expertise on sexually transmitted disease in the advice column "How To Do It." 2 researchers at the UW School of Medicine named to Time Magazine list | KNKX5 days ago The UW’s Evan Eichler, professor of genome sciences, and Tulio de Oliveira, affiliate professor of global health, have been named to the list of Time’s "100 Most Influential People of 2022." 2 professors at the UW School of Medicine gaining worldwide recognition | KXL5 days ago The UW’s Evan Eichler, professor of genome sciences, and Tulio de Oliveira, affiliate professor of global health, have been named to Time’s "100 Most Influential People of 2022" list. Schools reinstate mask mandates as COVID-19 cases rise | Time5 days ago Several school districts are requiring masks again in response to rising COVID-19 cases, part of a nationwide spike attributed to the highly contagious Omicron subvariants. Brandon Guthrie, assistant professor of global health and of epidemiology at the UW, is quoted. Time Magazine's list of most influential people includes 2 UW professors | Northwest News Radio6 days ago The UW’s Evan Eichler, professor of genome sciences, and Tulio de Oliveira, affiliate professor of global health, have been included on Time’s list of most influential people. TIME 100 2022: Tulio de Oliveira and Sikhulile Moyo | Time6 days ago Scientists in Africa have been monitoring and sequencing pathogens since long before the pandemic. The world benefited from this network when scientists including Sikhulile Moyo, laboratory director for the Botswana-Harvard HIV Reference Laboratory, and Tulio de Oliveira, affiliate professor of global health at the UW and director of South Africa’s Centre for Epidemic Response and Innovation, identified three-fourths and reported the emergence of the Omicron variant last November. 2 UW Medicine professors named to Time's '100 Most Influential People of 2022' list | FOX 137 days ago The UW’s Evan Eichler, professor of genome sciences, and Tulio de Oliveira, affiliate professor of global health, have been named to the Time’s list of the 100 most influential people for 2022, gaining recognition with the likes of famous artists, innovators, activists and world leaders. CDC advisors recommend booster shot for children ages 5 to 11 | The Washington Post1 week ago The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recommended Thursday that children ages 5 to 11 get a third dose of the Pfizer-BioNTech coronavirus vaccine to boost their immunity as cases and hospitalizations tick upward in many pockets of the United States. Dr. Beth Bell, clinical professor of global health at the UW, is quoted. WA food banks test innovations as food insecurity grows | Crosscut1 week ago Some food banks anticipate increased demand, as people with low incomes face increased financial pressures. A report from the UW Center for Public Health Nutrition is referenced. Discrimination is breaking people's hearts | Scientific American2 weeks ago Heart attacks, strokes and other consequences of cardiovascular disease are particularly dangerous for people who face inequity. Joel Kaufman, professor of environmental and occupational health sciences, of epidemiology and of medicine, is quoted. Incubator for social venture startups opens at Third and Pike | Puget Sound Business Journal2 weeks ago The corner of Third Avenue and Pike Street in downtown Seattle needs help, and the backers of a new nonprofit plan to deliver it from a suite in Melbourne Tower. It’s where 360 Social Ventures is opening an accelerator for startups addressing homelessness. Among the nonprofits that want to operate at Melbourne Tower is Community Circle, created by UW grad students Mariah Farris and Amanda Shi, graduate students in public health at the UW. Opinion: Attacks on abortion and gender-affirming care dismiss bodily autonomy | The Seattle Times2 weeks ago "Privacy is inextricable from the right to bodily autonomy, which the United Nations defines as the right to make decisions about our own lives and futures. Bodily autonomy emphasizes that control over our own bodies is a foundational personal freedom," write Arjee Restar, assistant professor of epidemiology at the UW, and Kellan Baker of the Whitman-Walker Institute. What the science on gender-affirming care for transgender kids really shows | Scientific American3 weeks ago Laws that ban gender-affirming treatment ignore the wealth of research demonstrating its benefits for trans people’s health. Diana Tordoff, a doctoral student in epidemiology at the UW, is quoted. Overworked and underpaid | Patch3 weeks ago After decades of decline in overtime pay, the Biden administration is considering action to sharply expand access in a time of high inflation. This is the first article of a four-part series examining the 40-year effort by big business and elected officials to deny Americans extra pay for extra work. Marilyn Watkins, clinical assistant professor of health systems and population health at the UW, is quoted. Study finds cleaner air leads to more Atlantic hurricanes | Associated Press3 weeks ago Cleaner air in United States and Europe is brewing more Atlantic hurricanes, a new U.S. government study found. Kristie Ebi, professor of global health and of environmental and occupational health sciences at the UW, is quoted. How overtime pay went from a labor right to a rarity | Fast Company3 weeks ago Overtime pay was, until fairy recently, a widespread and well-established labor right, but it’s been declining for decades. The Biden administration promises to change that. Marilyn Watkins, clinical assistant professor of health systems and population health at the UW, is quoted. More School of Social Work Full archive for School of Social Work Asian and Pacific Islander adults less likely to get mental health services despite growing need | HealthDay5 days ago Anti-Asian hate has fueled a rise in anxiety and depression in a population that is already one of the least likely to access much-needed mental health services, according to the nonprofit Mental Health America. David Takeuchi, associate dean for faculty excellence at UW School of Social Work, is quoted. Smokers who shift to vaping may improve other health measures | HealthDay2 weeks ago Replacing combustible cigarettes with vaping in one’s 30s may be associated with key markers of healthy and successful aging, according to a study published in the May issue of Drug and Alcohol Dependence. Rick Kosterman, a research scientist in the UW School of Social Work, is quoted. Can I consume cannabis around my kids? | The Cut2 months ago In the 18 states (plus the District of Columbia) where cannabis has been fully okayed for recreational use, consuming it is legally no different than drinking a glass of wine. Culturally, though, we’re still working out what casual, legal marijuana use looks like, especially when it comes to how we use it around our children. Nicole Eisenberg and Marina Epstein, research scientists at the UW Social Development Research Group, are quoted. COVID-19 took their parents — now kids' caregivers face many hurdles | USA Today5 months ago The COVID-19 pandemic has left tens of thousands of children without a parent or primary caregiver. Stepping into that void are grandparents, aunts, cousins – kinship caregivers – now facing their first new year as a new family unit. Angelique Day, associate professor of social work at the UW, is quoted. A deep divide in beliefs keeps the US child care system fractured | InvestigateWest6 months ago Clashes about motherhood go beyond questions of motherhood and women’s equality with men. A society that cares about keeping mothers with their young children would seem likely to support paid parental leave. But opinions about child care, and about which mothers can and should stay home with children, are affected by the racism that has plagued this country for its whole existence. Jennifer Romich, professor of social work at the UW, is quoted. More younger people seeking medical help for emotional distress | KXL6 months ago Jennifer Stuber, associate professor of social work at the UW, says parents need to get comfortable having conversations about emotional distress and make people feel better connected so that they can get the help they need. How new monitoring systems keep a close watch on older people | The Washington Post6 months ago New monitoring technology is helping family caregivers manage the relentless task of looking out for older adults with cognitive decline. Clara Berridge, assistant professor of social work at the UW, is quoted. US Army vet was rejected from multiple elder care homes — she says it's because she's transgender | USA Today7 months ago Last year, when she became unable to care for herself alone, Lisa Oakley, a U.S. Army veteran, hoped to live in her town’s local long-term care facility and remain in the community where she’d felt comfortable for 25 years. Instead, she was denied placement and not just there, but at dozens of long-term care facilities statewide. To Oakley and her advocates, the reason for many of those rejections was simple — and illegal: Because she’s transgender. Karen Fredriksen Goldsen, professor of social work at the UW, is quoted. Lawsuit settled Keyport Bible Church and former member Rick Gerjets | The Kitsap Sun7 months ago A lawsuit filed in 2018 alleging leaders at Keyport Bible Church knew or should have known a congregant and volunteer had a “proclivity” to rape and molest boys, including those he got to know through the church, settled in September before going to trial. John Conte, professor emeritus of social work, is quoted. How to fix Washington’s mental and behavioral health care system? 4 experts weigh in | The Seattle Times7 months ago In a virtual event Thursday co-sponsored by The Seattle Times Mental Health Project and the League of Women Voters of Seattle-King County, policy makers, advocates and people who have experiences with mental illness and substance use disorders discussed the historic and systemic issues that prevent people from accessing appropriate and adequate care. Jim Vollendroff, a lecturer in social work at the UW, is quoted. Federal infrastructure package is an $8.6 billion ‘game changer’ for Washington state | The Seattle Times7 months ago As more details emerge about the new federal infrastructure package, the scale of its impact in and around Seattle and across Washington is coming more sharply into focus — and it’s big. The UW’s Jennie Romich, professor of social work, and Debra Glassman, teaching professor of finance and business economics, are quoted. How stigma prevents people from accessing mental health care and what can be done about it | The Seattle Times7 months ago Suicide is the most serious potential consequence of mental health stigma. But stigma’s effects are pervasive: For example, research suggests that stigma is a significant barrier to seeking out and benefiting from mental health treatment. The UW’s Jennifer Stuber, associate professor of social work at the UW; Pamela Collins, professor of psychiatry and behavioral sciences and of global health; and Meghan Romanelli, assistant professor of social work, are quoted. Suicide rates rise in a generation of Black youth | Scientific American8 months ago Suicide is a devastating problem among Black youth, and researchers and mental health professionals are desperate to understand why and how best to address it. Meghan Romanelli, assistant professor of social work at the UW, is quoted. UW faculty study how students adapt to being back on campus | Spokane Public Radio8 months ago Many of the college students in the Northwest have already returned for the new academic year. At the UW, faculty members such Paula Nurius in the Department of Social Work are interested to see how in-person instruction during a pandemic is going to work. Nurius reported on her research Thursday evening during a webinar open to the public and was joined by Megan Kennedy, director of the UW’s Resilience Lab. UW study finds Black teens less likely to share plans, thoughts before attempting suicide | KING 58 months ago Black high school students are almost twice as likely as white students to attempt suicide without reporting any thoughts or plan to do so, a new UW study found. Study: 60% of aging LGBTQ+ in Oregon experience discrimination | KOIN9 months ago Sixty percent of aging LGBTQ+ people in Oregon have experienced discrimination this past year, according to a recent study led by Karen Fredriksen Goldsen, a professor of social work at the UW. New study exploring gender, racial and ethnic differences among adolescents who think about suicide | KUOW9 months ago Meghan Romanelli, assistant professor of social work at the UW, says that youth of color are exposed to factors like discrimination that might increase risk to suicide and disparities in access to mental health resources. Police in schools: Black and disabled children face harsher discipline | USA Today9 months ago A Center for Public Integrity analysis of U.S. Department of Education data found that school policing disproportionately affects students with disabilities, Black children, and in some states, Native American and Latino children. UW research is referenced. Language impacts substance abuse treatment | KOMO Radio9 months ago T. Ron Jackson, clinical professor of social work at the UW, says that some of the language around substance abuse can lead to shame, which can lead to difficulty overcoming substance abuse disorders. Opinion: Why education nonprofits must think beyond education policy | Forbes10 months ago "Disciplinary inequity in our public education systems, with Black and Latino youth shouldering the brunt of its disparate impact, is a clear and present driver of the gap in opportunities for thriving," writes Byron Sanders, president and CEO of the nonprofit Big Thought. A UW study is quoted. More Create customized alerts for your unit's stories 1. Find your unit's RSS feed URL In order to set up any customized alert for your unit’s stories, you first have to find the correct RSS feed URL. The video below walks you through how to do that using our Pinboard archive, which is searchable by keyword, unit name, people, etc. Stories are displayed in the order in which they were added to the archive (most recent at the top). https://uw-s3-cdn.s3.us-west-2.amazonaws.com/wp-content/uploads/sites/6/2022/05/18100125/How-to-get-a-unit-RSS-feed-from-Pinboard-1.mp4 Once you have your unit’s RSS feed URL, you can use it in your favorite feed tracker tool (there are many options in the Chrome Web Store) or Outlook (for PC only). 2. Set up a feed alert in Outlook (PC only) Once you have your RSS feed URL from the previous step, open the Outlook app on your computer. Note: This is currently not available for Outlook for Mac. On the left-hand pane of your Outlook screen there should be a folder in your email account called “RSS Subscriptions.” Right click on that folder and click “Add a New RSS Feed.” Paste your RSS feed URL from the Pinboard archive into the field that Outlook offers, and click Add (see screenshot below). If prompted, click “Yes” when it asks you if you want to add this RSS Feed to Outlook. Now you’ll start getting new stories that mention your unit in your inbox as they are added to the UW News Pinboard archive! Home UW in the media Opinion and analysis UW researchers respond to novel coronavirus (COVID-19) Search UW News Search for: UW Experts Ukraine Climate COVID-19 Full directory Categories Browse Administrative affairs Arts and entertainment Buildings and grounds Education Engineering Environment For UW employees Health and medicine Honors and awards Interactive Learning News releases News roundups Official notices Politics and government Population Health Profiles Research Science Social science Technology UW and the community UW Notebook UW Today blog Latest news releases Critical race theory at center of UW study of unequal access to treatment for opioid addiction 3 days ago Seattle democracy vouchers increase donations, number of candidates in city elections 4 days ago Social cohesion found to be key risk factor in early COVID infections 1 week ago More Connect Campus publications A&S Perspectives College of Education University of Washington Magazine The Daily UW Press More publications Evans School Foster School of Business UW Medicine Newsroom Information School IT Connect News Jackson School Law School News President's blog School of Dentistry School of Nursing School of Pharmacy School of Public Health School of Social Work The Trend in Engineering UW Libraries: News & Events UW Video Washington Engineer UW Today Newsletter Subscribe UW Today Daily UW Today Week in Review If you're trying to subscribe with a non-UW email address, please email uwnews@uw.edu for assistance. For UW employees Submission guidelines Submission form University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms Newsletter © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA