Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Public Safety Public Safety right arrow down arrow About right arrow down arrow Contact Us FAQ Executive Team Newsroom right arrow down arrow Blog Posts Safety and Reform News Media Department Policies Safety Services right arrow down arrow Access Control & Physical Security Automated External Defibrillators Background Checks / Finger Prints right arrow down arrow FAQ Bicycle Registration Bearcat Guardian Crime Prevention right arrow down arrow Preventing theft from auto and auto theft Preventing theft and burglary Online and phone scams Housing Rental Scams Keys & Badges Lost & Found Mind What Matters NightRide Special Events right arrow down arrow Event Security Cost Estimate Special Events FAQ Be A Good Neighbor Police right arrow down arrow 911 Communications Leadership Community Engagement Team Crime Statistics Job Shadowing Mission, Vision and Values Bias Free Policing and Contact Cards Records and Reports Recruitment Victim Services right arrow down arrow What Are My Options? Harassment, Stalking and Dating Violence Sex Crimes K-9 Unit Request for Investigation University Threat Assessment Group Reform right arrow down arrow Board of Trustees' Resolution Community Compliance Council right arrow down arrow Meetings, Minutes and Materials Guiding Principles Values Members Resources External Reports and Voluntary Monitorship Clery Act right arrow down arrow Clery Notices Daily Crime Log Campus Security Authorities Annual Security Report Fire Prevention and Protection Units right arrow down arrow Fire Extinguisher Training Fire Drills and Smoke Detectors Areas of Rescue Assistance Fire Log Fire Alarm Construction Standards Emergency Management right arrow down arrow Emergency Procedures Safety Notifications Emergency Plans Bearcat Notifications Home » About UC » Public Safety » Police » Victim Services » Sex Crimes Set Navigation title in component Victim Services What Are My Options? Harassment, Stalking and Dating Violence Sex Crimes 911 Communications Leadership Community Engagement Team Crime Statistics Job Shadowing Mission, Vision and Values Bias Free Policing and Contact Cards Records and Reports Recruitment K-9 Unit Request for Investigation University Threat Assessment Group Sex Crimes The University of Cincinnati Police Division understands that sex-based crimes are a great concern on college campuses. It is also understood that most sexual assaults go unreported. University of Cincinnati students, faculty and staff are encouraged to promptly contact UC Police if they or someone they know is a victim of a criminal act including sexual assault, sexual harassment, dating violence and/or stalking. Making a police report does not mean that you have to go forward with an investigation or with prosecution. It does enable the evidence to be collected so that you can make those decisions later if you choose to go forward at a later date. What is sexual assault? Sexual assault includes sexual conduct or contact, as well as other activity of a sexual nature, without the consent of the other person or when knowing the other person is unable to consent because of age, or impaired mental or physical condition (e.g. impairment due to drugs or alcohol). Sexual assault can range from voyeurism and public indecency to rape. All forms of sexual assault deserve to be taken seriously. In Ohio, major types of assault include: Sexual Imposition: Unwanted touching of a person's erogenous zones for the purpose of gratification. Gross Sexual Imposition: Unwanted touching when force or threat of force is used or when the victim is unable to give consent. Rape: Oral, anal or vaginal intercourse with an unwilling victim through force or threat of force or when the victim is unable to give consent. Rape includes attempted rape and rape with an object. What is sexual harassment? Unwelcome sexual advances, requests for sexual favors and other verbal or physical conduct of a sexual nature constitute sexual harassment when: Submission to such conduct determines one's employment or academic success Submission to or rejection of such conduct by an individual is used as the basis for employment or academic decisions affecting such individual Such conduct has the purpose or effect of interfering with an individual's work or academic performance or creating an intimidating, hostile or offensive working or studying environment. What should I do? Seek Medical Attention If you were recently sexually assaulted, it is important to seek medical attention as soon as possible. An exam can determine if there are any injuries and provide necessary medical care. It is also imperative to identify and preserve physical evidence for possible future prosecution. A trained Sexual Assault Nurse Examiner (SANE) will perform an exam that will document any evidence related to the sexual assault. Although you do not have to decide if you want to file a police report or prosecute at the time of the SANE exam, it is important to preserve the evidence so it is available when you do decide to report. If some time has passed and you did not get a SANE exam, you can still file a police report. There may not be physical evidence collected but an investigation can still be done. Reporting to Law Enforcement If the incident occurred on a UC campus, contact UC Police. If the incident occurred off campus, call Cincinnati Police. If you are unsure of where it happened, who to contact or would just like to speak to someone before making a decision to report, UC offers both confidential and non-confidential resources. Non-Confidential: The Crime Victim Services Coordinator through Public Safety is available to provide support while making a police report and to discuss your rights, options and resources throughout the process. The coordinator can be present during interviews with UC Police, will transport and accompany a survivor to any court dates related to the assault and keep the survivor notified throughout the criminal justice process. Confidential: The UC Advocates are campus-based advocates through Women Helping Women that provide confidential support and counseling to students. They are located at 559 Steger Student Life. Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS) provides counseling, both individual and group, for survivors of sexual assault. They are located at 225 Calhoun Street, Suite 200. UC Blue Ash Counseling Services can be found in Muntz Hall 140. UC Clermont's Compass Counseling Center is located in UC Clermont Student Services, Room 201. For more information about UC's resources for Student Victims and Student Survivors, please view the Safe page. Important Numbers Emergency 911 UC Police (Crimes on UC's campuses) 513-556-1111 Cincinnati Police 513-765-1212 UCPD Victim Services Coordinator 513-556-4905 University Health Services Uptown Campus: 513-556-2564 Medical Campus: 513-584-4457 Counseling & Psychological Services (CAPS) - 24 hour hotline 513-556-0648 UC Advocates 513-556-4418 513-381-5610 (24 hour hotline) Department of Public Safety 51 West Corry Boulevard Cincinnati, OH 45221-0215 Main Number: 513-556-4900 Background Checks, Keys and IDs: 513-556-4925 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Department of Public Safety 51 West Corry Boulevard Cincinnati, OH 45221-0215 Main Number: 513-556-4900 Background Checks, Keys and IDs: 513-556-4925 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top