Skip to content Georgia Institute of Technology School of Computer Science Menu Close About What is Computer Science? Building & Facilities Faculty Hiring Maps and Directions About Atlanta Contact Us Annual Report GT Computing People Faculty Staff PhD Students Academics MS Programs PhD Degree Distance Learning International Study Financial Aid Student Life Career Development Research Research Areas Architecture Databases Information Security Networks Programming Languages & Software Engineering Systems Theory Institutes & Centers Groups & Labs News & Events News Upcoming Events Calendar Lectures Contact Support Georgia Tech Home Campus Map Directory Offices Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Search Search form Enter your keywords You are here: GT Home Home Research Research Areas Networks Networks are fundamental to human and computer interaction. The School of Computer Science networks group seeks to understand the behavior and properties of networks and to use that understanding to solve real-world problems. We contribute tools, techniques, and insights that affect researchers, practitioners, and policy makers. For example, our work on the evolution and economics of Internet peering has contributed to the FCC debate on network neutrality; our tools for modeling Internet topology remain in use nearly 20 years after their development; and our techniques for high-speed network monitoring have been picked up by commercial router companies, such as Huawei. Our major source of funding is the National Science Foundation, supplemented by other federal agencies such as the Department of Energy, the Army Research Lab, DARPA and industry partners such as Cisco, Google, AT&T, Verizon, Motorola, and HP. We collaborate across Georgia Tech, including work with the schools of Electrical and Computer Engineering, Industrial and Systems Engineering, Biology, Earth and Atmospheric Sciences, and International Affairs. We welcome the involvement of curious and motivated students in our research projects and intellectual community. We have a long history of including undergraduates and M.S. students in research projects alongside Ph.D. student colleagues, as well as a track record of placing students in exciting industry and academic positions. Faculty Mostafa Ammar Russ Clark Constantine Dovrolis Jun (Jim) Xu Ellen Zegura Coordinator: Ellen Zegura Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum College of Computing Resources Office of the Dean Communications Finance Technology Services Organization (TSO) College of Computing Schools School of Computational Science and Engineering School of Computer Science School of Interactive Computing Social Media Facebook Instagram Twitter Youtube Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 Phone: 404-894-2000 Report a Problem Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Accessibility Accountability Accreditation Employment GT Login Standard Login © Georgia Institute of Technology