Skip to main site navigation Skip to main content Open the search panel Open the main menu Search Go Close the search panel Information for… Incoming J.D. Current Students Faculty Staff Media Employers News Events Alumni Giving About Library Login Open the Search panel Admissions Admissions Why Columbia J.D. Admissions Graduate Admissions Academics Academics J.D. Program and Curriculum LL.M. Program and Curriculum Executive LL.M. Program and Curriculum J.S.D. Program and Curriculum Dual and Joint Degrees International Programs Public Interest and Public Service Experiential Learning Courses Registration Services Academic Calendar Executive Education Areas of Study Areas of Study Constitutional Law, Regulation, and Public Policy Corporate, Business, and Transactional Law Criminal Justice Data Analytics Environment and Energy Family, Gender, and Sexuality Intellectual Property and Technology International and Comparative Law Law of the Workplace Leadership Legal History Litigation and Dispute Resolution National Security and Privacy Social Justice and Human Rights Faculty & Scholarship Faculty & Scholarship Faculty Directory Research Centers and Programs Scholarship Archive Workshops, Lectures, and Colloquia Careers Careers Private Sector Careers Public Interest and Public Service Careers Academic Careers Judicial Clerkships Employment Statistics Employment Policies Community Life Community Life Visit Campus Dean’s Welcome Your Campus, Your City Student Life Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Strategic Initiatives For Employers Columbia Law School graduates hold leadership positions in every sector of the legal field and beyond. Whether you are looking to grow your public service team or hire in-house counsel, you can work with us to find students with the talent, insight, and dedication that fits your organization. Office of Social Justice Initiatives Columbia Law School’s Office of Social Justice Initiatives (SJI) is one of the largest offices at any law school devoted to nurturing students who are interested in exploring public interest or government work—while on campus, or as part of a future career. SJI provides professional development, career services, and other support for students and graduates, and oversees key programs including the Public Interest/Public Service (PI/PS) Fellows Program, Columbia Summer Funding Program, Human Rights Internship Program, and Pro Bono Program. 435 West 116th Street, Box B-26 Office of Career Services The Office of Career Services and Professional Development helps students and alumni explore opportunities in the private sector. We advise students and alumni, provide career-related resources, and host career exploration, professional development, and recruitment programs. Office of Judicial Clerkships OJC offers advising, placement, and processing services; collaborates with faculty, students, and staff to promote a clerkships-oriented culture; and creates meaningful opportunities for candidates and clerks to network with—and learn from—the judiciary and each other through innovative programming and events. Related Links Symplicity for Employers For Private Sector Employers For Public Interest/Public Service Employers Employment Policies Related Stories Read All Stories More in The Press Alumni News How I Got Here: Oscar Lopez ’13 Alumni News How I Got Here: Jin Hee Lee ’00 Alumni News Diversity at Law Firms: A Renewed Focus Related Events View All Events View All Events Admissions Why Columbia Visit 435 West 116th Street New York, NY 10027 212-854-2640 Contact Us Social Media (Administrative Title) Twitter LinkedIn Facebook Instagram Admissions Academics Areas of Study Faculty & Scholarship Careers Community Life Information for… Incoming J.D. Current Students Faculty Staff Media Employers Login News Events Alumni Giving About Library Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Donate © Copyright 2022 The Trustees of Columbia University in the City of New York.