Career Resources - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to UCS - University Career Services Submit Close Student Affairs and Enrollment Services Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search University Career Services Home About Us Staff Degrees Conferred by Semester Graduation Survey Room Request Form Event Calendar Students Get Resume Support Meet with a Counselor Career Resources Attend an Event Student Employment Job Scam Reporting and Resources Student Success Stories Earn a Leadership Award First-Gen Resources Request a Presentation Graduate & Professional Student Resources Alumni Recent Graduates Experienced Alumni Alumni Resources Upcoming Alumni Events Subscribe to Alumni Career Services (ACS) UH Recruitment Series Employers Recruit at UH Become a Sponsor Create an Account Post a Job or Internship UH Career Fairs College Directory Employer Resources Recruiting Policies On-Campus Interviews Report Hiring Efforts Employer Summit Faculty/Staff Meet your Campus Liaison! Request a Presentation Hire a Student Employee View Faculty and Staff Resources Families UH Virutal Education Support Program Cougar Pathway Giving UH Home UCS - University Career Services Students Career Resources Students Get Resume Support Meet with a Counselor Career Resources Attend an Event Virtual Workshops Upcoming Meet and Greets Student Employment Career Clusters Job Scam Reporting and Resources Student Success Stories Earn a Leadership Award First-Gen Resources Graduate and Professional Resources Career Resources University Career Services provides many resources and services to students and alumni. Below is our Quick Career Resource Guide. Our team has compiled this information to provide easy and efficient access for students and alumni to view relevant career resources. The list is separated by focus area and within each section, viewers can find specific videos, links to helpful websites, or worksheets. Quick Career Resource Guide: Major and Career Exploration Job and Internship Preparation Career Fairs Graduate and Professional School Finances and Salary Negotiation Identity-Based Resources Major and Career Exploration Are you Career Ready? Career Readiness is the attainment and demonstration of requisite competencies that broadly prepare college students for a successful transition into the workplace. The 8 competencies are highlighted in our Career Readiness Infographic. Career Development Action Plans and Checklist University Career Services (UCS) has developed a Career Development Action Plan and Checklist that can help guide your career development and planning while at the University of Houston. We encourage you to read through each section and become familiar with the content. View our Career Development Checklist Explore (0-29 credits) Explore Worksheet Finding your Passions Worksheet Occupational Outlook Handbook Engage (30-59 credits) Engage Worksheet Setting SMART Goals Empower & Employ (60+ credits) Empower & Employ Worksheet Career Goal Diagram Career Assessments Career or Vocational Assessment tools are designed to help students (1) identify their career and interests (2) help students explore their personality and how their preferences affect their interactions in the workplace (3) clarify their values, specifically what matters to them, e.g. making lots of money or feeling that what they do makes a difference, working alone or in a team. We offer the following FREE assessment: Focus 2 - Focus 2 is an innovative approach to career exploration and planning. This online tool is customized to connect your assessment results to the University of Houston's majors. Student instructions for Focus 2. Explore Your Holland Codes to learn more about interests and careers that might be a good fit for you! We offer the following assessments for $15: To take an assessment, please schedule a “pre-assessment” appointment with a career counselor through Cougar Pathway for instructions on taking the assessment. Your assessment code and a payment link will be provided by a career counselor. The $15 fee can be paid by credit or debit card only. The Myers-Briggs Type Indicator (MBTI) The Strong Interest Inventory (Strong) StrengthsQuest Logging in to Cougar Pathway Recorded Workshops Get Started with Focus2 Choosing a Major The first step in choosing a career is to identify your skills, interests, personality, and values. Then, you can explore possible occupations based on your assessment. Below are resources to help you begin the exploration process: Explore Careers and Majors What can I do with this major? O*NET Online Discover UH Majors and Concentrations Recorded Workshops Choosing a Major Workshop Job and Internship Preparation Resume, CV, Cover Letter Resume A resume shows your relevant professional experiences, education, skills, volunteer activities, and honors in a written formal document and is used to apply for jobs or internships. Sample Resume Resume platforms VMock SMART Resume Platform is the top-rated professional resume writing and job search strategy business in Houston Cover Letter Cover letters serve as a written introduction of yourself expressing interest in a position within an organization. Cover letters are tailored for each position and highlight specific skills and abilities that relate to the job. Sample Cover Letter Curriculum Vitae (CV) A curriculum vitae or CV is traditionally used in academic settings and tends to be multiple pages and could be used when applying for graduate or professional school, research positions, academic positions, or grant proposals Sample CV Recorded Workshops Resume Workshop Interview Preparation Mock Interviews Practice makes perfect! If you have an upcoming interview, we are able to help you prepare. Career counselors can conduct mock interviews with you to better prepare you for your upcoming interview. Your career counselor will try to resemble a real interview as closely as possible, so please bring a copy of a job description and your resume to the appointment. Schedule an appointment in Cougar Pathway. Logging in to Cougar Pathway Recorded Workshops Interviewing Workshop Virtual Interviewing Workshop How to Interview for Health Professional Schools Interview Resources Preparing for an Interview General Interview Questions Page 1 General Interview Questions Page 2 Common Academic Interview Questions STAR Method Employer Research Worksheet Transferable Skills Worksheet Interview Formats Group Interviews Virtual Interviews (Skype or recorded) Phone Interviews In-Person Interviews Interview Questions Interview questions are designed by companies to make sure they are gathering enough information to determine if they want to hire you. Each company will have different questions depending on the position and responsibilities. Below are types of interview questions: Behavioral Interviews Technical Interviews Case Studies Informational Interviews Conduct an Informational Interview Informational Interviews are great ways for YOU to connect with professionals and learn more about their roles and responsibilities. Prepare strong, open-ended questions you hope to learn from the professional. How to Conduct an Informational Interview Sample Questions Recorded Workshops How to Connect Virtually with an Industry Professional Workshop Regarding Gender Identity and Attire Your research on a particular employer or field, in addition to your comfort level, will assist in your choice to wear clothes associated with your gender identity or to wear gender-neutral clothing. Dress Code Policy University of Houston University Career Services (UCS) has developed a dress code policy based on employer feedback for all Career Fairs occurring during the Fall and Spring academic years. This includes virtual career fairs. UCS requires students to dress professionally in order to represent the University of Houston in a positive and professional business manner to those individuals visiting our campus. UCS advises to dress in business professional for virtual career events, and UCS asks students to refrain from wearing the following to in-person UCS Career Fair: T-shirts Short-sleeved shirts (tank tops or cut-off shirts) Exposed backs, arms, and midriffs Sneakers Flip Flops Casual Sandals Shorts (Cargo, jeans, or khakis) Jeans Athletic Gear (Sweatpants, workout shorts, yoga pants, and hooded sweatshirts) Hats Professional Dress Resources Currently enrolled UH-Main and UH-Sugarland campus students have access to the Professional Dress Assistance resources below. Please check the links to their websites and social media accounts for updates. Career Gear: Career Gear's Philosophy is that successful employment serves as a catalyst for men to emerge as better fathers and leaders. Since 2004, Career Gear has helped over 7,000 men-in-need builds better lives. Career Gear offers services to low-income, job-ready men of all ages and ethnic backgrounds. COVID-19 Update: Career Gear will continue to serve career readiness needs and those who have obtained gainful employment in the last 30 days. However, these appointments will only be available on Wednesdays from 12:00 pm to 4:00 pm. Dress for Success: Dress for Success Houston promotes the economic independence of disadvantaged women by providing professional attire, a network of support, and career development tools to help women thrive in work and in life. Since 1998, Dress for Success Houston has provided business attire to more than 50,000 women in the Houston community. COVID-19 Update: Referral can be made from our office by selecting a professional attire appointment in Cougar Pathway, and complete the Dress for Success Survey after the appointment. UCS Career Closet: The UCS Career Closet is a service offered by UH University Career Services, where students care to rent business professional clothing. Business professional suits come in either pantsuits or skirt suits and are available in multiple sizes and cuts. COVID-19 Update: Due to COVID-19 concerns, we are no longer accepting professional attire donations at this time. We will institute the following precautious with the growing concerns over the spread of COVID-19. STEP 1: Eligible students will schedule a "Career Closet" Appointment through Cougar Pathway via AccessUH. A student will arrive; check Cougar Pathway to confirm they have an approved career closet appointment. To verify availability, appointments must be scheduled one day prior. STEP 2: Students will complete a career closet survey to determine the appropriate size. The student will arrive for their scheduled no contact "Career Closet" Appointment at the UCS office (Student Service Center 1, Room 106) and work with a UCS staff member to pick up the preselected suit jacket and pants or skirt. The career closet survey will be completed prior to arriving at your career closet appointment. In an effort to have a safe and contactless experience, there will be not an opportunity to try on the suit. It is important to take precise measurements and follow the size charts included in the survey. If suit size was shared in the survey and is available, it will be hung on the clothes rack behind the front desk with the student's name and PSID. If the student does not know their size, UCS staff will escort the student back to the UCS Career Closet (CC) and allow them to try on suits until they find one that fits appropriately. The student may use the changing room in the closet or they can use the restroom. STEP 3: Once a suit has been chosen, the student will work with the UCS staff member to complete the suit sign out and pay $10 via credit or debit card only. Students must return the garments to the UCS office (Student Service Center 1, Room 106), or fines and UCS services penalties, will be incurred. Networking / LinkedIn It is estimated 70-80 percent of jobs are advertised through non-traditional job search channels. Networking refers to the process of discovering and utilizing connections between people to exchange information and ideas about careers, job search strategies, and job opportunities. It is the most effective career exploration and job search tool! Below are some networking resources: LinkedIn How to Build a Strong LinkedIn Profile 14 LinkedIn Profile Summaries That We Love and How To Boost Your Own Career Fairs Browse our calendar for a list of University of Houston career fairs Local Resources EventBrite Houston Meet Up Career Fairs Career Fair Preparation What is a career fair? A Career Fair is an event where recruiters and students can meet to discuss potential internship or career opportunities. During a Career Fair (traditionally) recruiters will stand at booths and students will walk around the event, stopping at booths to introduce themselves to the recruiter and give their resume. At the University of Houston, there are multiple Career Fairs per semester. Below is a link to all UH Career Fairs. NOTE: Some Career Fairs restrict attendance to specific majors. Career Fair FAQs - Know before you go! Check out our list of upcoming Career Fairs How to prepare for a career fair? RSVP for the Career Fair via Cougar Pathway (Only applicable to UCS Career Fairs) Review the employers attending on Cougar Pathway and research their mission, vision, and open positions. Use our Employer Research Worksheet to note your research. Decide which employers you would like to meet with and plan a strategy for speaking with them Prepare your resume with the help of a career counselor Review our Career Fair Preparation Worksheet Practice answering the “tell me about yourself” question or work on your Elevator Pitch Pick our your Business Professional attire (Dress Code Policy) Arrive early to park, prepare and relax! Career fair etiquette Dress Professionally Bring mints to maintain fresh breath (no gum) Do not wear strong cologne or perfume Do not bring a backpack or large purse Shake hands firmly, but not too firm Turn off or silence your cell phone Be enthusiastic and positive during the fair Be courteous of the recruiter’s time Thank the recruiter for their time Follow up with the recruiter, if possible Graduate and Professional School Preparing for Graduate or Professional School Are you thinking about applying to graduate or professional school? Below are resources to help guide you: Graduate School Exploration Worksheet (Answer questions regarding your career/professional goals) Graduate School Check List (Use this list to check off tasks as you begin the process of applying) Pre-Law Checklist (Check off tasks as you prepare for the law school application process) Personal Statement Worksheet (Explore content ideas and organize your thoughts) Recommendation Letter Requests (How to ask for a Letter of Recommendation Tips + Template) Health Professions Advisory Committee (HPAC) Recorded Workshops How to Interview for Health Professional Schools (ADD Youtube Playlist) Finances and Salary Negotiation Financial Literacy The first step to financial freedom is learning how to budget your financials. There are several budgeting apps and tools to choose from. Resources Mint- Free online budgeting tool Nerdwallet- Credit card Stash- Savings tool Acorn- Savings tool Debt Reduction Calculator- Plan how to reduce debt Recorded Workshops Financial Literacy Workshop Salary Negotiation Often the words “Salary Negotiation” can strike fear in the hearts of students, however, with practice and preparation you can obtain the salary you truly deserve. UCS can assist you with researching different salaries related to various positions you are applying to. We can also help you market yourself and teach you strategies for negotiating your salary through mock salary negotiations. Use our Budget Worksheet to determine your goal salary and then use our Salary Negotiation Guide to develop your strategy. Additional salary negotiation resources are below: Salary Conversion Chart Texas Reality Check Pay Check City Pay Scale Recorded Workshops Salary Negotiation Workshop Identity-Based Resources Resources for Community Members in Graduate School 1:1 Career Counseling Schedule a 30 minute, one on one career counseling appointment. During the appointment, you can discuss any career-related topic, from resume/cv to salary negotiation. Mock Interviewing for Industry and Academic Positions View our Interview prep resources and common interview questions for additional support. Recorded Workshops 20/20/20 for Graduate Students Workshop Resources for Community Members with Criminal Records Navigating the Job Search with a Criminal Record Resources for First-Generation College Students List of support services for UH students CareerSpring Resources for Veterans Community Members UH Veterans' Services Office Military Hire Military Transition Resources for African Americans Community Members Sista Circle for Black Women in Grad School Black Collegian Magazine Black Enterprise Blackworld Racially and Ethnically Diverse Law School Applicants Resources for LGBTQ Community Members UH LGBTQ Resource Center Change My Preferred Name in Cougar Pathway Out & Equal Workplace Advocates Best Places to Work in Texas for LGBTQ Workers Out for Undergrad (Business, Engineering, Marketing, and Tech) LGBTQ & Law School Resources for Hispanic/Latino Community Members Hispanic Alliance for Career Enhancement Hispanic-Today Racially and Ethnically Diverse Law School Applicants Latinas REACH Discussion for Latina Graduate Students Resources for Women Community Members UH Women and Gender Resource Center Women for Hire Women's Job List Latinas REACH Discussion for Latina Graduate Students Resources for International Community Members My World Abroad HIB Salary Database GoinGlobal My Visa Jobs International Student and Scholar Services (ISSSO) Steps for Curricular Practical Training (CPT) at UH International Student Career Development Town Hall Global Search for International Students Workshop Networking for International Students Workshop Occupational Outlook Handbook Resources for Community Members with Disabilities Justin Dart, Jr. Student Accessibility Center Ability Jobs Getting Hired The Lime Network Job Accommodation Network (JAN) Law School Applicants with Disabilities Accommodations for GRE Test Takers Texas Workforce Solutions - Vocational Rehabilitation Services Resources for Undocumented Students Higher Ed Immigration Portal - (a platform that integrates data, policy analysis, and resources to support DACA and undocumented, refugee, other immigrants, and international students). Undocumented Entrepreneurs - (Guide for aspiring Entrepreneurs). Freelance Opportunities: Upwork Fiverr Civil Rights employment reminders for DACA recipients University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies