College of Nursing - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to College of Nursing Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search College of Nursing About Us Dean's Message Mission Faculty Staff Instructional Design and Technology News and Events Organizational Chart Prospective Students Doctor of Nursing Practice program Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs How to apply Students with International Transcripts Information Sessions Tuition and Fees Current Students Scholarships Student Expectations Student Resources Policy Orientation Computer Requirements Commencement and Pinning Ceremony Diversity Center for Diversity and Inclusion Division of Student Affairs and Enrollment Services Simulation Center Preceptors Community Health Clinic Contact Tracer Program Alumni Giving Giving Opportunities Giving FAQ Thank You to Our Supporters Make a Gift Today! Development Office Contact Us We offer excellent, affordable and flexible undergraduate and graduate degree programs for those individuals interested in pursuing or advancing a career in nursing. Students who already have a university degree can become a nurse in our Second Degree program. Our BSN, MSN and DNP programs are approved through the Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board and the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools Commission on Colleges, and have BSN full approval from the Texas Board of Nursing. The University of Houston is an institutional member of the Texas Medical Center. CCNE Accreditation The baccalaureate degree program in nursing and the master’s degree program in nursing at the University of Houston College of Nursing are accredited by the Commission on Collegiate Nursing Education, 655 K Street NW, Suite 750 Washington, DC 20001, 202-887-6791. Our Mission Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Scholarship Opportunities Twitter Facebook Instagram YouTube Linkedin Search CON search Featured Events FEATURE EVENTS: No events at this time. More information to be provided soon. About CON 2019 Health Professions Higher Education Excellence in Diversity (HEED) Award Recipient Prospective Students How to Apply? Applicants interested in the University of Houston College of Nursing should apply through NursingCAS. NursingCAS is the online, centralized application service for nursing programs. Why Nursing? The College of Nursing is committed to serving educational needs, supporting lifelong learning, advancing excellence in regional and global healthcare. What Degrees do we offer? We offer RN to BSN, Second Degree BSN, and MSN degree programs at the Sugar Land instructional site and the UH main campus, with face-to-face and web-enhanced classes that are designed to work around your busy schedule. Need More Information? Contact an Advisor or attend one of our Information Sessions. They are a great opportunity to meet with program advisors to learn more about the University of Houston College of Nursing Program Tracks. CON By The Numbers #1Ranked Top Nursing Program in Texas (2017) Top 5%Of the Nation (2017) 100%NCLEX-RN Pass Rate (2015, 2016 & 2017) 100%FNP Pass Rate (2015, 2016, 2017 & 2018) Award Recipient: Insight into Diversity Health Professions HEED Award (2016, 2017, 2018 & 2019) 87%Employment rate for RN-BSN & Second Degree BSN graduates (2017) Latest News Newsroom Archived Stories BSN Cultivating more than Nurses Esther Nguyen has always known the importance of family and a strong support system. The University of Houston allowed her to remain close to hers while still experiencing the diversity of people and ideas on campus. However, Esther did not anticipate she would discover a second family when she entered UH’s Traditional Bachelor of Science in Nursing (BSN) Program. Pandemic Highlights Plight of Female Health Care Workers Torn Between Job and Home Duties With women comprising nearly 90% of nurses and nursing assistants in the U.S., female health care providers are left with a demanding, if not impossible schedule. But that predicament is no surprise to those who study the plight of women. Kingwood nurse chooses to fight coronavirus at its epicenter in Brooklyn, New York When Raul Silva saw the need for nurses in New York, he dropped everything to serve in the epicenter of U.S. coronavirus cases. Sight for Success: UH Students to Provide Vision Screenings at HISD School Sight for Success brings together students from the UH Colleges of Nursing, Optometry, Pharmacy and the Honors College to help school nurses reduce the barriers for children needing corrective eye wear. UH Nursing Recognized for Diversity, Inclusion The University of Houston College of Nursing has been recognized nationally for its commitment to diversity and inclusion. For the fourth year in a row, INSIGHT Into Diversity Magazine has bestowed the college with the Health Professions Higher Education Excellence in Diversity (HEED) Award. The University of Houston Expands to Katy and Sugar Land The University of Houston has opened two new buildings at instructional sites in Katy and Sugar Land with the start of the fall 2019 semester. New Faculty at UH Nursing Three new faculty members join the University of Houston College of Nursing. They will be teaching in both the UH at Sugar Land and UH at Katy instructional sites. Long-Time Nursing Faculty, Terry Kirk, to Retire After 50 years of nursing and teaching, Terry Kirk is trading his lab coat and grade book for traveling and birding. Kirk is retiring from the University of Houston College of Nursing. New Loan Grant Aims to Increase Number of Nurse Faculty The Nurse Faculty Loan Program (NFLP) will provide funds for tuition, fees and other expenses for five graduate nursing students in the college’s Master of Science in Nursing – Nursing Education track. UH Nursing Faculty Honored with Excellence in Nursing Award Five University of Houston College of Nursing faculty have been recognized with the 2019 Good Samaritan Foundation Excellence in Nursing Award. Nursing school dean: Long-running nursing shortage won’t end any time soon Dean Kathryn Tart spoke with Texas Inc. about Houston’s shortage of nurses and the importance of helping nurses obtain advanced degrees. After the Storms, Sunshine for UH Nursing Commencement The University of Houston College of Nursing conferred degrees on students completing undergraduate and graduate studies. The ceremony and pinning ceremony was rescheduled following the storm that brought severe rain and flooding to the Houston area the week before. 'Sight for Success' Partners with School District, UH Colleges for Good Eye Health Lenora McWilliams, assistant professor in the University of Houston College of Nursing, is leading a multi-college initiative to reduce the barriers of those elementary school students needing correcting eyewear. HCA Houston Healthcare Donates $3.5 Million to UH College of Nursing The University of Houston College of Nursing today received a transformative $3.5 million donation from HCA Houston Healthcare to benefit faculty, staff and students at the college’s future location in Katy and its current home in Sugar Land. UH Sugar Land offers fast-paced nursing program ABC 13 HTX+ highlights the College of Nursing's innovative learning strategies and cutting edge curriculum. University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies