Skip to main content Navigation Academics Admissions Research Locations Student Life Alumni & Giving Athletics Apply Now Bachelor of Science in Legal Studies, BS Understand the Universal Role of Law in Society Program at a Glance Program Bachelor College(s) College of Community Innovation and Education Department(s) Legal Studies Department 4 Years In State Tuition Out of State Tuition $212.28 per credit hour $748.89 per credit hour Learn more about program tuition and fees. Explore the Principles of Law and the Role and Function of the Legal System The BS in Legal Studies at UCF provides you with a broad understanding of basic principles of the law and the role and function of the legal system. Through your studies, you’ll learn how to write for the legal system and conduct legal research. You’ll form a strong foundation from which to build your understanding of other elements of the law, such as international law, negotiation and mediation. The legal studies program offers a number of various opportunities and high-impact experiences. For example, you can join a team where you’ll develop professional skills that will be beneficial throughout school and life, such as Mock Trial, Moot Court and the Mediation Team. We also have an Undergraduate Law Journal which is a scholarly and creative work product produced by undergraduate students. In addition to preparing you for a successful, law-related career, the program provides a solid foundation for law school. While no specific major is required for admission to law school, a degree in legal studies provides you with an unparalleled opportunity for law school preparation. At UCF, you can choose to earn your degree on campus or through our fully online legal studies program. The online offering gives you the flexibility and convenience needed to balance school, work and life; however, not all elective options or program prerequisites may be offered online. UCF is the only public institution within Florida that has an online undergraduate legal studies program. All legal studies faculty are graduates of American Bar Association-approved law schools and practice/have practiced law, ensuring that you’re prepared to succeed for life beyond the classroom. Highlights Bestcolleges.com ranked the legal studies program as the best online bachelor’s program in the nation in 2018-2019. In 2020, UCF’s legal studies program ranked No. 2 among best online paralegal programs by Bachelor’s Degree Center. The job outlook for legal studies is expected to grow 10% through 2029. The median earnings for legal sciences graduates is $52,000. Undergraduate Application Deadlines Freshmen Transfers International Fall May 1 Spring November 1 Summer March 1 Fall July 1 Spring November 1 Summer March 1 Fall March 1 Spring September 1 Summer January 1 Ready to get started? Apply Today Start Your Application Today Ready to get started? Take the next step to save your spot at UCF. 1 Check out your application requirements. See what freshmen and transfer students need to apply. 2 Short on time? You can start your application today and come back later to finish. Apply Today Course Overview Criminal Law Explore the basic concepts of substantive criminal law. The course includes examination of elements of major crimes, criminal responsibility, legal defenses and parties to crime. Sports Law Get an introduction to the legal issues and regulation of sports, focusing on torts, contracts, agency and constitutional law as applied to athletes. Entertainment Law Receive an introduction to the control and regulation of the entertainment industry and the associated legal issues. View All Legal Studies Courses You’ll Take The discipline of legal studies endures because it is interdisciplinary with deep historical roots that, although not carving a direct or perfect path, seeks to ensure social and equal justice. The law's creation through a constitutional challenge touches all aspects of our human life and exchanges. The study of law, rights and duties — in essence, civic education — remains as important today as ever.” — Dr. Alisa Smith, Legal Studies Department Chair, UCF Legal Studies Skills You'll Learn Gain a foundational understanding of the law that will enhance all other fields of study. Explore material that’s both interesting and applicable to other fields including engineering, events management, business, real estate and much more. Achieve a solid foundation that will help ease your transition into law school (if you choose that route), which will also give you an advantage over other students. Career Opportunities Lawyer (requires advanced education) Paralegal Law Enforcement Social Worker (requires advanced education) Entrepreneur/Business Owner Politics Legal Studies News Check out more stories Community UCF Docuseries on Border Immigration Wins Emmy The documentary version of the docuseries, which captures reality at the Texas-Mexico border, has also won local film festival honors. Student Life Forged in Fire After enduring childhood abuse, Anthony Daniels spent years in the court system and social services. That experience has inspired him to become a lawyer —… Research New Study Offers Clues to Origin of Laws The study found that despite living in separate countries and legal codes separated by thousands of years, people have a universal intuition about whether a… Alumni 9 UCF Alumni-Owned Businesses to Support on Small Business Saturday The event, which will be held Nov. 24 this year, reminds us to shop local, support those in the community and is a chance to… Degree Search College of Community Innovation and Education programs Bachelors Legal Studies (BS) University of Central Florida Colleges Burnett Honors Arts and Humanities Business Engineering and Computer Science Graduate Studies Health Professions and Sciences Medicine Nursing Optics and Photonics Sciences Undergraduate Studies Hospitality Management × The Legal Studies program provides students with a broad understanding of basic principles of the law and the role and function of the legal system. In addition to preparing students for law-related careers, the program provides a solid foundation for law school. While no specific major is required for admission to law school, a degree in Legal Studies presents students with an unparalleled opportunity for law school preparation. All Legal Studies faculty are graduates of ABA-approved law schools, and practice/have practiced law. Legal Studies students are encouraged to work closely with their program advisor in planning degree completion and career goals. Satisfactory completion of program requirements leads to the degree of Bachelor of Arts (B.A.) or Bachelor of Science (B.S.) in Legal Studies. The B.A. requires two semesters of college-level foreign language; the B.S. requires two years of high school foreign language. Legal Studies (B.A. or B.S.) may be completed fully online. Every semester, the Legal Studies Department offers a variety of online PLA Elective courses. The Legal Studies Core are offered online every semester. Newly admitted students choosing to complete this program through the UCF Online Track may enroll with reduced campus-based fees. Degree Requirements Students who change degree programs and select this major must adopt the most current catalog. Students should complete the General Education Program before transferring within the Florida College System or State University System. Students should regularly meet with their program advisor. The courses designated in section 1 below may be taken at a Florida College System institution, and should usually be completed in the first 60 hours. 33 hours of PLA coursework must be taken at UCF. 2.0 in all PLA coursework at UCF and overall. Online Legal Studies, BA/BS Degree Requirements Core Requirements: Advanced Level 12 Total Credits Complete all of the following All core requirements must be completed with a minimum grade of "C" (2.0) to satisfy the major. Complete the following: PLA3014 - Law and the Legal System (3) PLA3108 - Legal Research (3) PLA3155 - Legal Writing (3) PLA4705 - Professionalism & Civility in the Law (3) Restricted Electives 36 Total Credits Complete all of the following Earn at least 24 credits from the following types of courses: Students must select at least two (2) courses from at least four (4) of the following areas of concentration: Law and Policy PLA 3277 - The Law of Torts Credit Hours: 3 PLA 3306 - Criminal Law Credit Hours: 3 PLA 3309 - Criminal Procedure Credit Hours: 3 PLA 4020 - Law and Society Credit Hours: 3 PLA 4022 - Contemporary Issues in Law Credit Hours: 3 PLA 4485 - Administrative Law Credit Hours: 3 PLA 4554 - Environmental Law Credit Hours: 3 PLA 4510 - Law and Emotion Credit Hours: 3 PLA 4511 - Law and Human Behavior Credit Hours: 3 PLA 4886 - Sexuality, Gender, & the Law Credit Hours: 3 PLA 4887 - Law, Social Science, and the Criminal Courts Credit Hours: 3 Advocacy PLA 3205 - Civil Practice and Procedure Credit Hours: 3 PLA 3951H - Honors Moot Court Credit Hours: 3 PLA 4226 - Advanced Trial Advocacy Credit Hours: 3 PLA 4240 - Negotiation Alternatives in Law Credit Hours: 3 PLA 4263 - Evidence Credit Hours: 3 PLA 4703 - Professional Ethics and Liability Credit Hours: 3 PLA 4910 - Trial Advocacy Credit Hours: 3 PLA 4081 - Rhetoric & The Law Credit Hours: 3 PLA 4160 - Law on Trial: Empirical Legal Scholarship Credit Hours: 3 PLA 4956 - Undergraduate Law Journal Credit Hours: 3 PLA 4243 - Negotiation in Practice Credit Hours: 3 PLA 4244 - Community Mediation and Conflict Resolution Credit Hours: 3 PLA 4942 - Mediation Practicum Credit Hours: 3 PLA 4952 - Advanced Moot Court Credit Hours: 3 Law and Business PLA 3615 - Property and Real Estate Law Credit Hours: 3 PLA 4424 - The Law of Contracts Credit Hours: 3 PLA 4436 - Florida Partnerships and Corporations Credit Hours: 3 PLA 4464 - Bankruptcy Law Credit Hours: 3 PLA 4472 - Employment Discrimination Law Credit Hours: 3 PLA 4607 - Estates and Trusts Credit Hours: 3 PLA 4823 - Sports Law Credit Hours: 3 PLA 4825 - Entertainment Law Credit Hours: 3 PLA 4864 - Admiralty and Maritime Law Credit Hours: 3 PLA 4617 - Urban Development Law Credit Hours: 3 PLA 4525 - Disability Rights and Protections (A Legal Perspective) Credit Hours: 3 Law and Technology PLA 3871 - Law and Technology: Drones and Artificial Intelligence Credit Hours: 3 PLA 4410H - Hon: Intellectual Property Law and Practice Credit Hours: 3 PLA 4861 - Aviation Law Credit Hours: 3 PLA 4764 - Law Office Practices Credit Hours: 3 Family Matters PLA 4806 - Domestic Relations Law Credit Hours: 3 PLA 4813 - Juvenile Law and Procedure Credit Hours: 3 PLA 4530 - Legal Issues of the Elderly Credit Hours: 3 PLA 4807 - Adoption Law Credit Hours: 3 International PLA 4830 - World Legal Systems Credit Hours: 3 PLA 4834 - Study Abroad: US/UK Comparative Law Credit Hours: 3 PLA 4843 - Immigration Law and Policy Credit Hours: 3 PLA 4571 - Intercultural Legal Competence Credit Hours: 3 PLA 4545 - Military Law - the Law of War Credit Hours: 3 Earn at least 9 credits from the following types of courses: Select three additional Legal Studies courses from the following areas: Law and Policy; Advocacy; Law and Business; Law and Technology; Family Matters; or International. Earn at least 3 credits from the following types of courses: Students must complete 3 credit hours of Supporting coursework from an approved list provided by the department & can also be identified in the degree audit. Capstone Requirements 3 Total Credits Earn at least 3 credits from the following types of courses: Students must complete Capstone or Internship. Capstone or Internship must be completed with a minimum grade of "C" (2.0) to satisfy the major. Prerequisites for Capstone and Internship include PLA 4705 Professionalism & Civility in the Law, and Legal Studies major. Students will be elected to Internship or Capstone by their PLA4705 faculty. If students elect to complete an Internship they must complete a minimum 3 credit hours of Internship. *A fee may be required as part of the placement application process. Grand Total Credits: 51 University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida