Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Piano Performance/Piano Pedagogy MM You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Piano Performance/Piano Pedagogy MM Apply Request More Info Piano Performance/Piano Pedagogy MM Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Master's Audition Requirements Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Master of Music in Piano Performance/Piano Pedagogy Integrate high-level piano performance skills with pedagogical components and credentials with the Master of Music in Piano Performance/Piano Pedagogy in Temple’s Boyer College of Music and Dance. This 39-credit master’s program is intended for advanced pianists interested in chamber music, vocal accompaniment and coaching, as well as students seeking careers as accompanists, teachers, coaches and collaborators. Through the Piano Performance/Piano Pedagogy MM program, you will be exposed to a wide range of musical repertoire. Hands-on training complements an innovative curriculum and ample opportunities for interdisciplinary collaboration and networking. This program places an emphasis on work ethic, collaboration and interest in diverse musical styles. The ultimate goal of the program is to develop cumulative knowledge and skills in music and, more specifically, keyboard. You will also be prepared for careers as educators, where you will be able to help relay the skills and habits of piano performance to other students. Courses taken in research, theory, history, pedagogy and performance practice will inform graduates’ future career choices. Explore Boyer Faculty Faculty Discover keyboard studies faculty in the Boyer College of Music and Dance. Explore Boyer Faculty See faculty members in Boyer keyboard studies degree programs. Audition Requirements An audition is required for admittance into the Piano Performance/Piano Pedagogy MM program. The following is a list of competencies expected of any admitted student. An ability to accompany songs in different languages (e.g., French, Italian, German, etc.) An ability to accompany an operatic aria An ability to play a number of sonatas at varying tempos An ability to sight read a vocal piece Find out more about audition requirements for the Piano Performance/Piano Pedagogy MM program. Program Format & Curriculum The Master of Music in Piano Performance/Piano Pedagogy is a 39-credit master’s program. Courses are offered on Temple’s Main Campus and students are able to take up to six semesters to complete the program. Courses you are likely to take as part of the Piano Performance/Piano Pedagogy MM curriculum include the following. Baroque Keyboard Performance Listening/Learning Skills Piano Piano Accompanying Chamber Music Recital Accompanying Learn more about the innovative curriculum comprising the Piano Performance/Piano Pedagogy MM program. Culminating Events Comprehensive Final Project: All candidates for the Master of Music degree must submit a list of all repertoire studied with their studio teacher while enrolled in the program. Students choose two stylistically contrasting pieces from their final recital program. The goal is to demonstrate cumulative knowledge and skills gained during the course of study at the master’s level. Courses taken in research, theory, history, pedagogy and performance practice can inform the discussion of the particular works chosen by the student. Students choose to give either an oral presentation or submit a written document that addresses several of the following topics. Form and harmonic language of the piece Historical background of the work Aspects of the composer’s style Relationship to other keyboard works by the composer Performance practice considerations Specific technical problems and their solutions Other relevant information about the piece Public Recital: Performance majors present a public recital as the culminating event for the master’s degree. Graduation recitals are typically one hour in length, presented on campus in either Rock Hall or Klein Recital Hall, and adjudicated by three full-time music faculty members. Students must show evidence through Temple University transcript records of having taken private lessons up to the time of the graduation recital. Further details are available from the department chair. Pedagogy Final Project: A final project will be required for completion of the degree. The student will write a research-quality paper of 15–20 pages based on important pedagogical theories and/or practices. The chair of the department and appropriate faculty with expertise in piano pedagogy will guide the topic of the paper and will grade the final project. Related Graduate Degrees Piano Pedagogy MM Collaborative Piano and Chamber Music MM Collaborative Piano and Opera Coaching MM Related Graduate Certificates Professional Studies Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Master of Music offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $1,095.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,458.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Our Advisors Faculty advisors can help you navigate your program and discuss research opportunities, teaching assistantships and more. Learn more about Boyer College of Music and Dance faculty. Program Contact Charles Abramovic, professor in the Keyboard Department, is the faculty program contact for the Piano Performance/Piano Pedagogy MM. Phone: 215-204-7388 Email: charles.abramovic@temple.edu Student Clubs & Organizations Participating in student groups provides peer support and future professional contacts. There are more than 200 student organizations at Temple University. ConTemplum hosts numerous concerts, forums and seminars to foster a community of musicians who are dedicated to exploring contemporary musical ideas and performing new compositions. Music Teachers National Association offers a vast educational network of conferences, continuing education opportunities and small business resources to support the enrichment and professionalism of music teachers. OWLchestra Community Orchestra is a community string orchestra composed of students and community members who want to play music together in a low-stress environment. Learn more about clubs and organizations. Accreditation The Boyer College of Music and Dance is accredited by the American Music Therapy Association, National Association of Schools of Music, National Association of Schools of Dance and Pennsylvania Department of Education. BC-PPPP-MMUS Additional Program Information School/College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Piano Performance/Piano Pedagogy MM Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Master's Audition Requirements Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info