Skip to content Columbia University Irving Medical Center Find People Events Faculty and Staff Resources Give Now Search About Us About Us Facts and Figures Explore CUIMC Events Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion at CUIMC Community Development and Alumni Explore CUIMC Leadership and Administration A-Z Listing Affiliated Hospitals Campus Map and Directions Campus Resources Contact CUIMC Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion At CUIMC, we are committed to continuous improvement in providing culturally inclusive medical education and clinical care. Learn About Our Commitment Education Education Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Mailman School of Public Health School of Nursing College of Dental Medicine VP&S Columbia Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons is dedicated to developing the next generation of leaders in medicine Learn About Our Academic Programs Research Research The Louisa Gross Horwitz Prize Columbia Technology Ventures Research Administration Columbia Clinical Innovation Lab Patient Care Patient Care ColumbiaDoctors Children's Health Columbia Primary Care Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Digital Health Services at Columbia Find a Doctor Search for a provider by specialty, expertise, location and insurance. Schedule an appointment online. Find a Doctor News News For the Media Share Your News CUIMC Update CUIMC Celebrates Columbia Medicine Read the latest news stories about CUIMC faculty, research, and events Explore Our News COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Information for Patients COVID-19 Campus Safety for Employees and Students COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students COVID-19 Information and Resources for Clinical Staff COVID-19 Vaccine Information Learn about COVID-19 vaccine availability and requirements for employees and students at CUIMC Get the Latest Information Transient Ischemic Attacks May Be Brief But Need Serious Attention May 23, 2022 Share this page Share on Facebook Tweet Share on Linkedin Share by email Stroke happens when blood flow to the brain is blocked by a clot. A transient ischemic attack (TIA) is a stroke that usually lasts under five minutes, and symptoms and the cause (blood clot) resolve on their own. But just because the symptoms disappear, does not mean a TIA should be ignored. That's why there's a call out to rebrand TIAs as minor strokes, as reported in The New York Times. It’s important to get the label correct to increase awareness, says stroke specialist Joshua Willey, MD, associate professor of neurology at Columbia University Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons. “Transient symptoms are a neurological emergency.” If you have a TIA, there's a 5% to 10% chance you will have a stroke in the next 90 days, especially in the first two days. People with transient neurological symptoms that last more than five minutes frequently show permanent damage on brain imaging. TIAs are a warning sign that a major, life-threatening stroke may be on the way. What to Do When someone has a neurological symptom that is transient—passing quickly in and out of existence—and improves within 24 hours, it’s called a TIA. And it’s a neurological emergency. Go immediately to an emergency department to be checked, and, if necessary, treated to reduce the chance of a disabling stroke. A TIA is an emergency It is important for people experiencing a TIA to be assessed to reduce the risk of a more severe, disabling stroke. “The medical community accepts TIA as an emergency. Now it's time for patients to do so as well,” says Willey. Anyone experiencing stroke symptoms, regardless of how long they last, should operate under the assumption it is a stroke and go to an emergency department. However, says Willey, “Stroke is not a diagnosis to throw out cavalierly.” Other conditions can mimic the transient stroke symptoms, and a stroke diagnosis may incite anxiety or depression, or cause difficulty in getting life insurance. Physicians have to be careful to make the right diagnosis. About one third of people who have a TIA have a more severe stroke within one year. Recognize symptoms of stroke There's an easy way to remember and recognize stroke symptoms: BE FAST, a mnemonic that captures 90% to 95% of symptoms and signs of stroke. Sudden onset (fast!) is signal number one. B – Balance: Loss of balance or trouble walking E – Eyes: Loss of vision or double vision in one or both eyes without pain F – Face: Droopy or cannot move one side of face A – Arm: Weak; cannot lift S – Speech: Slurred, unintelligible speech T – Time to call 911: Take action. (T also stands for another symptom: terrible headache) Remember BE FAST for yourself and others: If you or someone else has any of these symptoms, even if the symptoms go away, call 911 and go to the hospital immediately. “No matter what you call a TIA, these symptoms are warning signs that should not be ignored,” says Willey. References Joshua Willey is an associate professor of neurology at the Columbia University Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons and attending neurologist on the Stroke Service at NewYork-Presbyterian.  How Columbia’s “Hip Hop Doc” Is Raising Stroke Awareness | Columbia University Irving Medical Center Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian About Us Careers News Education Patient Care Research Resources at CUIMC Columbia University Irving Medical Center 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Back to top