Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu School of Public Health About Programs Apply Students Research News & Events Faculty & Staff Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact SPH Students Prospective Students Why UofM SPH?Living in MemphisStudent StoriesInternational StudentsFAQ Current Students: Resources MastersDoctoral Student Organizations On-Campus Resources Take Action Apply Now Explore Programs News & Events Contact Us Follow SPH Online Facebooktwitter Home School of Public Health Students Epi Doctoral Student Wins First Place at Graduate Student Research Forum Namuun Batbaatar, a first-year doctoral student in Epidemiology, won First Place in the “Life and Health Sciences” Category of the 2022 Graduate Student Research Forum (Awards Page). Her research was “Contamination and Health Risks of Polycyclic Aromatic Hydrocarbons (PAHs) in the Soil in Memphis,” advised by Dr. Chunrong Jia. COVID Student Ambassadors SPH students are encouraging their colleagues to get the COVID vaccine. Please click here > to see the reasons they got vaccinated themselves! Prospective Students We invite you to learn more about the School of Public Health. In addition to exploring our program options, check out what life as a SPH student will be like. Not a native Memphian? Learn what the city of Memphis has to offer you. Learn more about SPH > Current Students Have questions about advising, scholarship opportunities, graduation checklists or anything else? We're here to help! Review these resources regularly to stay up-to-date to make your journey as a public health student successful! Current Student Resources > Student News SBS Doctoral Student offered Faculty Position Nikhil Ahuja, a doctoral candidate in Social and Behavioral Sciences, has been offered a tenure-track Assistant Professor position in the Department of Public Health at Slippery Rock University, Pennsylvania. He is scheduled to graduate in Summer 2021 and will begin his position in late August. Congratulations, Nikhil! HSMP doctoral candidate has article published in APHA's blog Dr. Kiran Kamble, a doctoral candidate in Health Systems and Policy, recently published an article on APHA’s International Health (IH) Connect blog. The article will also appear in APHA’s quarterly newsletter. View article. Alumni Career Chat SPH alumni share their thoughts on career paths in Public Health. Watch here> EPI Doctoral Student interviewed by Healio.com Morgan Bromley, MPH, a doctoral student in Epidemiology, was interviewed by Healio.com regarding his presentation at the American Public Health Association. View his interview here> SBS PhD Student Research Congratulations to some of our SBS PhD students on their recently published papers and conference abstract acceptances. View the list of work here. Undergraduate Virtual Open House Want to learn more about a major or minor in Public Health? Please join us on July 21, 2020 from 1:00-2:00pm via Zoom. See flyer for details. MPH Student Insights on COVID-19 MPH students provided insightful perspectives when asked how social determinants could affect people's health and health disparities over the ongoing COVID-19 outbreak. They permitted us to share their comments. View comments> Surgeon General Congratulates Public Health Graduates US Surgeon General Dr. Jerome Adams posted a message to public health graduates. In the video message, which is just under three minutes long, Dr. Adams offers some useful advice to the newest members of the public health workforce. Congratulations class of 2020! A round of applause... Jessica Bell-Johnson (MPH, 2018) recently published a manuscript in the MMWR, CDC's online journal. The paper is titled "Trends in Pneumoconiosis Deaths - United States, 1999-2018." Ms. Bell-Johnson is an ASPPH/CDC Public Health Fellow at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) in the Centers for Surveillance, Epidemiology, and Laboratory Services. View publication> Hala Refaey, an MPH student concentrating in Epidemiology, co-authored a publication in Human Reproduction Open. The article is titled " Age at onset of different pubertal signs in boys and girls and differential DNA methylation at age 10 and 18 years: an epigenome-wide follow-up study". View publication > Joacy Gerard Mathias, a doctoral candidate in Epidemiology, has published a paper in the International Breastfeeding Journal: The paper is titled "The association of infant feeding patterns with food allergy symptoms and food allergy in early childhood." Her coauthors are Drs. Hongmei Zhang, Nelis Soto-Ramirez and Wilfried Karmaus. View paper > The following doctoral students in Social and Behavioral Sciences presented their research at the 2019 annual meeting of the Society of Behavioral Medicine: San Diego, E.R., Ahuja, N.A., Johnson, B.M., Lewis, J.C., French, N., & Harmon B.E. (March 2019) Prevalence of Cardiovascular Disease Risk Factors by Key Demographic Variables Among Mid-South Clergy in 2012-2017. Poster presentation at the annual meeting of Society of Behavioral Medicine, Washington, D.C. Leak, C.L., Harmon, B.E., Jiang, Y., Nickelson J.E. (March 2019) Individual, Social, and Physical Environment Influences on Adolescent Fruit and Vegetable Intake. Poster presentation at the annual meeting of Society of Behavioral Medicine, Washington, DC. Ahuja, N.A., Schmidt, M., Kedia, S.K., & Dillon, P.J. (March 2019). Methamphetamine use and risky sexual behavior: A qualitative study of online narratives. Poster presentation at the annual meeting of Society of Behavioral Medicine, Washington, D.C. Lightening Talk by Jessica Escareno: Jessica Escareno, a doctoral student in Health Systems and Policy, was selected by the Graduate School to share her passion about public health in a Lightening Talk during Graduate School Week. View the video below: <!-- intentionally non-empty iframe; for xsl --> View student news archive > Annual SPH Interdisciplinary Case Competition The Annual School of Public Health Interdisciplinary Case Competition (SPHICC) invites graduate students from all academic programs across the university to work with a team to improve the health of a local neighborhood by proposing community-based programs and projects. SPHICC uses the BUILD Health Challenge framework to guide the student teams through the case competition to develop solutions that are Bold, Upstream, Innovative, Local and Data driven. After several months of preparation, students present their solutions to a panel of community judges. First, second, and third place teams receive small monetary prizes. The Fourth Annual SPHICC will involve students engaging with the local neighborhood both to assess problems before developing their solutions and to receive input on the development of their solutions from the members of the neighborhood. For more information about the SPHICC, Annual School of Public Health Interdisciplinary Case Competition! Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 5/11/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.