Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. African American Cultural & Resource Center AACRC right arrow down arrow About Us right arrow down arrow Our Staff Programs right arrow down arrow Tyehimba Akwaaba Black Student Welcome Kuamka right arrow down arrow Kuinuka Scholarships Spring Break Tour Transitions B.A.S.E. ALLC Talk About It Tuesday Student Groups right arrow down arrow Brother 2 Brother Habari Gani Ambassadors Sisters Impacting Sisters (S.I.S.) The Center right arrow down arrow Reserve the AACRC AACRC Reservation Policies Home » Campus Life » AACRC » Programs » Spring Break Tour Set Navigation title in component Tyehimba Akwaaba Black Student Welcome Kuamka Kuinuka Scholarships Spring Break Tour Transitions B.A.S.E. ALLC Talk About It Tuesday Spring Break Tour Each year over 30 students join the staff of the African American Cultural and Resource Center and travel to various areas of the southeast United States over the course of ten days. The AACRC Spring Break Tour is one of the longest running programs out of the office and actually precedes the establishment of the office itself! Among a number of benefits students are provided the unique opportunity to network with students at other universities to compare student experiences, organizations, and university resources while also connecting with University of Cincinnati alumni along the way. Many students leverage the tour for graduate school visits or to scout prospective cities for future employment opportunities. Other benefits of the Spring Break Tour are: Leadership Development Cultural Consciousness American Black History Education Networking with UC Alumni Promoting Social Justice Spiritual Exploration Community Service Opportunities African American Cultural & Resource Center 60 W. Charlton Cincinnati OH 45219 513-556-1177 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati African American Cultural & Resource Center 60 W. Charlton Cincinnati OH 45219 513-556-1177 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top