Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Sociology Major You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Sociology Major Apply Visit Request More Info Sociology Major Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Bachelor of Arts in Sociology Study the complexities of human relationships, society and social movements with the Bachelor of Arts in Sociology in the College of Liberal Arts at Temple University. Learn to view social constructions and institutions—such as the economy, education, gender, family, politics, race and sexuality—from numerous perspectives. Gain experience in high-level research methods like administering surveys, analyzing data and statistics, conducting fieldwork and interviews, and learn to write detailed reports. Students are rigorously trained in theories and methods of social analysis. The 123-credit Sociology Major comprises research-intensive coursework and internships, with classes surveying a broad range of topics that include gender and sexuality, globalization and international studies, health and medicine, media and popular culture, Philadelphia and urban sociology, race and ethnicity, and religion and society. You have the option of choosing the Health track, in which coursework focuses on the health sciences, such as global health and urban health. Courses also delve into topics including health and disease in American society, health and reproduction, medical sociology, population studies and more. Graduates of this major often advance to master’s and doctoral degree programs, though graduates are well prepared to enter the workforce in several professional areas, such as business, community planning, education, healthcare, law, politics and social work. Classes & Curriculum The Bachelor of Arts in Sociology is a 123-credit program that can be completed over four years of full-time study. Courses offered in this program include the following. Development of Sociological Thought Introduction to Sociology Race, Science, Health & Medicine Research Design and Methods Sociology of Food Statistical Methods in Sociology Fourth-year students are also required to complete a capstone and the writing-intensive Senior Seminar course, which prepare them to transition into professional careers. Learn more about required courses for the Sociology Major. Related Graduate Degrees Applied Sociology PSM Sociology MA Sociology PhD Urban Bioethics MA* / Sociology MA Urban Bioethics MA* / Sociology PhD *Lewis Katz School of Medicine Related Graduate Certificates Gender, Sexuality and Women’s Studies Geographic Information Systems +1 Accelerated Degree Programs Temple offers 10 accelerated +1 Accelerated Degree programs. Eligible undergraduate students can use up to 12 specified graduate credits approved by the College of Liberal Arts to fulfill requirements for their undergraduate degree. Students apply for graduate programs in their junior year. Students in the Sociology Major may be interested in pursuing the following 4+1 accelerated programs. BA in Sociology / MA in Sociology BA in Gender, Sexuality and Women's Studies / MA in Sociology BA in Sociology / MEd in Secondary Education BA in Sociology / MEd in Adult and Organizational Development BA in Sociology / MEd in Urban Education Learn more about accelerated programs in the College of Liberal Arts. Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, the Bachelor of Arts offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. Learn more about our tuition and fees. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $16,488.00 per year Out-of-state: $29,712.00 per year Our Academic Advisors Joyce K. Salzberg Center for Professional Development Dedicated advisors at the Joyce K. Salzberg Center for Professional Development in the College of Liberal Arts are available to guide students through their academic careers and with their career paths beyond Temple. They can help you choose a major, navigate your curriculum, identify internship opportunities, explore career opportunities and determine your post-graduation plans. Learn more about the center. Program Contact With questions regarding the Sociology Major, contact the following staff member. Jessica Brennan is an administrator in the Sociology Department. Phone: 215-204-7577 Email: jessica.brennan@temple.edu The following staff members lead the Sociology Department. Dustin Kidd is the chair of the Sociology Department. Email: dkidd@temple.edu Michelle Byng is the undergraduate chair. Phone: 215-204-7980 Email: mbyng@temple.edu Catherine Staples is a coordinator. Phone: 215-204-1494 Email: cstaples@temple.edu University Honors Program The College of Liberal Arts participates in Temple’s Honors Program. Learn more about the program and how to be admitted. Students who meet certain academic and extracurricular criteria may become members of the following honor societies. Alpha Lambda Delta is a national society that honors academic excellence during a student's first year at college. Golden Key is an international society that enables members to realize their potential through the advancement of academics, leadership and service. Phi Beta Kappa is open to juniors and seniors in the College of Liberal Arts. To qualify for Phi Beta Kappa, a student must maintain a high grade point average in a broad, rigorous program of study in the liberal arts, including mathematics and foreign languages. Learn more about Temple’s Honor Societies. Student Clubs & Organizations Supplement your College of Liberal Arts coursework and enhance your undergraduate experience at Temple with more than 300 student clubs and organizations. You’ll have opportunities to meet and network with other students, get involved with the community, grow your interests, and develop résumé-boosting skills and experiences. The Sociology Undergraduate Majors and Minors Association (SUMMA) is the official undergraduate association for sociology majors and minors. SUMMA’s purpose is to promote academic and professional interdisciplinary applications of sociology, to promote awareness of sociological issues and provide opportunities for student involvement. Learn more about Temple’s student clubs and organizations. Accreditation Temple University’s departments and programs are accredited by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education. LA-SOC-BA Additional Program Information Available as a minor. Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Sociology Major Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Visit Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Visit Request More Info