Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Division of Student Affairs Student Affairs Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links Counseling Services Menu Main Nav University Counseling Services Make an Appointment Back Back Close About Overview Director's Welcome Diversity & Inclusion Staff FAQs Post-Doctoral Training Contact & Hours Services Overview Group Therapy UWill Mental Health Platform Self-Care Overview WellTrack BIPOC Resources and Referrals Get Help Make an Appointment Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Division of Student Affairs Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close University Counseling Services offers students personal counseling and psychotherapy as well as programs and activities that reinforce Boston College’s dedication to education of the whole person. Each year, University students consult with Counseling Services for help in addressing and understanding a wide variety of problems and concerns. Please see below for the current service update. Services Update 2022 We recognize that the current experience of students is significantly affected by the ongoing pandemic as well as ongoing social justice struggles, and that these impact the mental health of our community. We also recognize the strong wish to have both a safe and connected experience in this year ahead. We will work together to provide ongoing support and care throughout these times. While we hope to remain on campus with in-person learning, we will adapt as needed to the public health requirements from the University, City, and State. We are hopeful that the significant measures being put in place will contribute to improved public health for all people at BC and well beyond our campus. In order to provide the greatest level of access, University Counseling Services will be providing care through a hybrid form of services. This decision is based upon our significant experience and learning from the last year of utilizing telehealth, student input indicating a wish for flexible hybrid services, and current public health recommendations. We will remain open to in person services and available to schedule during our regular business hours (M-F 8:45- 4:45 EST) as long as that is supported by public health guidelines. Please be advised that in following public health requirements, all people entering Counseling Services will be required to wear a mask, and in person therapy may only be conducted with both clinician and students wearing masks. Individual therapy may be offered either by telehealth or in-person based on a discussion between the student and a clinician. Group therapies will be offered entirely through telehealth so as to maintain access for all students in case of any potential illness and to decrease potential extended close exposures. Emergency services duringdaytime open hours will be offered either in person or by phone as needed. Consultations to the broader community may also be offered either in person, by phone, or over a zoom platform. We have adjusted our services in the following ways, and recognize that these plans could evolve: If you are seeking new services you may call 617-552-3310 and ask to either schedule a triage to determine the most appropriate ongoing treatment, or a same day consultation to work with you on problem solving the issue at hand. Boston College has partnered with Uwill, a leading mental health platform for colleges and universities, as an extension of UCS services available to Boston College students. This is a secure and convenient path to clinical services in this time of heightened needs. Access is quick and easy. You may access Uwill and register using your BC email. There is no cost to use Uwill. All actively enrolled BC Students are provided 90 teletherapy credits. If you use all of these credits then you may be eligible to receive 90 additional credits as part of a pool of shared UWill credits. These credits are distributed automatically based on availability/supply; you do not need to make any requests to access these credits. Video, phone, chat and message-based therapy options will all be available to you. Uwill is ready to be used now. You should not need much help, but just in case, Uwill offers support tools, including: FAQ and User Guide; Phone/email assistance at 1-833-998-9455 or support@uwill.com. We hope Uwill will be a useful resource to many of you. The telehealth platform and the counselors working within them are not controlled or supervised by BC, although you may be asked for your consent to share this information with UCS in order to coordinate care as needed. You may select your own counselor, and should review the consent carefully. Students who are studying remotely, are not in the state of Massachusetts, and are looking to connect with local clinicians for ongoing psychotherapy can access referrals through your insurance online search for local clinicians in your area, calling local hospital or nearby university counseling center for suggestions, or using these online resources (https://bc.thrivingcampus.com/; https://zencare.co/; https://www.psychologytoday.com/us). If you need additional help, please request a referral consultation appointment over the phone or in-person at UCS. Periodically we will be adding new resources to our website and encourage you to try those that may be appropriate for your needs. Please help us better communicate with you and be aware of the following: UCS clinicians will generally send emails via Virtru, a secure encrypted email tool. You do not need to have Virtru on your email to open and read the email from the clinician. Please check your Spam folder in case the encrypted email ends up there. Please note that a call from UCS might show up on your phone as unidentified phone number. If you missed the call, you can call back at 617-552-3310. It would be extremely helpful to set up voicemail boxes and make sure it is not full so that we can leave you a message if needed. Additional resources: UCS self-care webpage WellTrack Strategies for coping with COVID-19 related anxiety CDC Recommendations We are here for students of all identities, beliefs, and experiences We recognize that ongoing incidents of social injustice and racism in our country and around the world continue to have negative impacts on our students, and that trauma in the context of negotiating marginalized identities is a real and ongoing source of stress for many. UCS seeks to provide welcoming and supportive environment for all members of the BC community and is committed to fully recognizing and valuing all identities, beliefs, or experiences. We encourage anyone experiencing distress or wanting an opportunity to process your thoughts, feeling, and reactions to seek individual and/or group support from us, either by dropping by our offices (Gasson 001) or calling us at 617-552-3310. Remember, you are not alone. Forms for Download if Requested Authorization to Release Information Informed Consent Form Referral Request Form Thoughtful Transitions: Caring for your Social and Emotional Wellness Presentation Information and Announcements Make an Appointment Information about making an appointment with University Counseling Services. Preparing for a Telehealth Session Tips to help you prepare for your Virtual Telehealth Session. Download Welltrack WellTrack is a self-help app that students can use to address stress, anxiety, and depression. Reopening Information BC's detailed reopening plan for students, faculty, and staff. UWill Telehealth Platform BC has partnered with Uwill, a leading mental health platform for colleges and universities. Support Groups and Workshops Dialectical Behavior Therapy (DBT) Skills This online group is for students who struggle to control their emotions or behavior. All are welcome, especially those who are motivated to learn and practice coping skills. To sign up or for more information email pisellia@bc.edu. Alone Together A supportive group to connect with other BC students during this time of isolation and uncertainty, Wednesdays at 3 p.m. BC Connected: An interpersonal process group for BC Students A support group dedicated to navigating a wide array of relationships, Tuesday, Wednesday, and Thursday afternoons. Call UCS at 617-552-3310 or email emily.kates@bc.edu to sign up. Anxiety Toolbox Drop in workshops to help students develop skills and strategies on how to manage anxiety, Monday 3pm Heal A virtual weekly support group for sexual assault survivors. Far From Home Far From Home A drop in support group for international students on campus, Wednesdays at 12 p.m. RSVP to bcis@bc.edu. Coping Skills for Sexual Trauma A Virtual Workshop for Survivors of Sexual Violence. Counseling Services All Announcements Events News Ask For Help “[A mental health problem] doesn’t have to take over your life, it doesn’t have to define you as a person, it’s just important that you ask for help. It’s not a sign of weakness. ” Demi Lovato , singer, songwriter, and mental health advocate living with bipolar disorder Get Help Back To Top Back To Top University Counseling Services Gasson Hall 001 617–552–3310 About Departments & Programs How can we help you? Events Division of Student Affairs Division of Student Affairs BAIC BC Bands Business Service Center Career Center Counseling Services Graduate Student Life Health Promotion Health Services Residential Life Robsham Theater Student Conduct Student Involvement Student Outreach & Support Women’s Center Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College