Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Department of Art About Programs People Facilities Resources News/Events Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact News/Events Spring 2017 Fall 2016 Spring 2016 Fall 2015 Take Action Apply to the UofM Art Appreciation Support the College Contact Us Follow Us Online InstagramFacebook Home Department of Art News/Events News/Events Save the date Cassie Stephens will be a Zoom guest speaker. November 10th, 5:00-6:00 pm. More information to come closer to the November date. https://www.instagram.com/cassie_stephenz/?hl=en https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCdEo82iK2lzwMqCxBuQmmrQ https://cassiestephens.blogspot.com Unleash Your Inner Fashionista The Department of Art is excited to announce a new Fashion Design and Fashion Merchandising B.A. Art program that is accepting applications now for the Fall 2021 semester. The new fashion program is the only one of its kind in the region and is a 4-year 120 credit hour art degree. Create your own designs, build a portfolio and get hands-on experience. Students learn basic to advanced skills in pattern making, draping, illustration, and the business side of the industry from nationally recognized fashion design faculty. Show us your creative vision. Find out more November 6th, starting at 7:00 p.m. CST. The Fifteenth Annual William J. Murnane Memorial lecture "Tutankhamun's Life, Death, and Afterlife: New Evidence from Thebes," presented by Dr. W. Raymond Johnson. The event will be hosted online at: https://youtu.be/JuHCL88qpFw The lecture will remain on YouTube for only two weeks after its premiere so please remember to log on during this window that closes on November 21st! W. Raymond Johnson, PhD, is Director of the Epigraphic Survey of the Oriental Institute of the University of Chicago in Luxor, Egypt, and Research Associate Professor in the Department of Near Eastern Languages and Civilizations of the University of Chicago and the Oriental Institute. He is an internationally known and respected Egyptologist who has worked in Egypt for more than 40 years. The art of the Amarna period has been his life-long passion. In recent years, new archaeological material has emerged in Luxor (ancient Thebes) that enriches our knowledge of the life of one of Ancient Egypt's most enigmatic kings, Tutankhamun, revealing the luxurious court in which he lived, his extraordinary building activities, and the circumstances of his death. In his presentation, Dr. Johnson will share some of these new discoveries and analyze for us the light they shed on that golden moment in Egyptian history. For more information, visit the IEAA website or contact the IEAA at 901.678.2225. Third Annual IEAA Alumnae/Alumni Lecture "The God of Confusion? An Examination of Seth in New Kingdom Expressions of Royal Ideology" The Institute of Egyptian Art & Archaeology will host the third annual IEAA Alumnae/Alumni Lecture on Thursday, Sept. 26, in the Art & Communications Building, room 310. Dr. Annie Shanley, Assistant Registrar of the Michael C. Carlos Museum at Emory University, Atlanta, GA, will present at 7:00 p.m. A reception will precede the lecture, at 6:15 p.m. Both events are free and open to the public. Pay parking is available in the Innovation Garage (Lot 40), located next to the Fogelman Executive Center. Dr. Shanley will present on the fascinating topic of the ancient Egyptian god Seth, who is often described as a god of chaos and confusion. Egyptian deities are ubiquitous in ancient art and texts. Modern audiences, however, tend to discuss the gods using broad generalizations that fail to capture their complex natures. The god who has suffered most from this is Seth. In an effort to understand Seth's true nature as viewed by the ancient Egyptians themselves, Dr. Shanley has re-examined original source material from royal monuments of the New Kingdom. Her new analysis offers fresh insights to our understanding of the special relationship between the kings and the gods — a relationship based on reciprocity. Dr. Shanley received her M.A. in Art History, with a concentration in Egyptian Art and Archaeology, at the University of Memphis in 2007, and her Ph.D. in Egyptian Art from Emory University in 2015. Her dissertation focused on the use of the god Seth in the New Kingdom. Her other research interests include ancient Egyptian glass, faience, and metal production, as well as provenance studies, which concerns the tracking of the history of an object's ownership. Dr. Shanley has worked at several sites in Egypt, including the tomb of Parennefer at Luxor and the palace of Amenhotep III at Malqata as a member of the Metropolitan Museum of Art's Joint Expedition. For more information, email Dr. Joshua Roberson at jrbrson4@memphis.edu Check it Out! Our very own Casey Hilder has written an awesome article about the opening of the Central to the Arts Hub. This building is the newest addition to the Central Avenue Arts Corridor. A launch celebration is scheduled for October 5th. Please check out the article here. Check it Out! Tom Bailey of the Daily Memphian has written a wonderful article about the addition of the Scheidt Family Music Center and the newly renovated Central to the Arts Hub to the Central Avenue Arts Corridor. There will be an afternoon-long celebration on October 5th. Please check out the Daily Memphian article here. Check it Out! September 21, 2019 8AM - 2PM 2126 Stateline Rd, Southaven MS 38671 Toni Roberts, a former Masters of Fine Arts graduate, has recently opened a contemporary gallery in Northwest Mississippi! The inaugural group show will feature: Holt Brasher, Vanessa Gonzalez, Kelly Cook-Harmon,Katie Maish, Lacy Mitcham, Christen Parker, and Felicia Wheeler. Please come out and show support for this awesome, new popup gallery. Nutgrass Website Nutgrass Instagram Check it Out! The hard work of University of Memphis graphic design professor Brandon Bell and undergraduate student Marshall is being spotlighted in a recent article for the Daily Memphian, written by Jane Roberts. Check it out here! Hamlett Dobbins: Let it Last David Lusk Gallery Friday, September 6 This September Hamlett Dobbins returns to David Lusk Gallery Memphis. His solo exhibition titled, "Let it Last" continues his eighteen-year practice of using abstraction to detail his experiences with different people and places. Often described as a "painter's painter" Dobbins approach to painting is complex and labor intensive. Known for his use of expert color and texture Dobbins uses painting as a means to illustrate the unnamable. Titling his work with the initials of friends and family, each piece reflects complexities unique to the individuals involved. Dobbins states, "For years my paintings have been based on moments when I experience a great joy, this show is a continuation of that process. Specifically, the work for this show draws on recent experiences as well as some distant experiences that I am only now coming around to realizing through the process of paintings." Tennessee native Hamlett Dobbins received his BA in Painting from University of Memphis and his MA and MFA from the University of Iowa. He currently lives and works in Memphis, where he teaches full time at the University of Memphis. Check it Out! <!-- intentionally non-empty iframe; for xsl --> Dr. Bryna Bobick and her students took part in The Memory Project during the 2019 Spring Semester. This projects goal was for young artists to create portraits from pictures of children in Pakistan and to then send the finished portraits back. The video below truly captures their excitement when they received the portraits. Check it Out! Brandon K. Bell, Assistant Professor of Graphic Design, will be working with Graphic Design student Marshall and ABC News to produce the screen graphics for the next Democratic Debates in Houston. It will be aired live on Sept 12 & 13. It involves creating animations for 13 screens around the physical set, which includes surfaces along the ceiling, the sides of the room, the moderators' desk, each candidate's podium, the stage wings, and the candidate backdrop itself. We'll be using projection as well as LED. Please be sure to tune in and support Brandon, Marshall and the University of Memphis! Our CHOICES Closing Reception September 6th from 6-8PM Our CHOICES Facebook Page Amid a terrifying time for people having their rights threatened, Our CHOICES is here to create an environment where we can come together in solidarity and raise hope. Hope for a future unaccompanied by a constant threat to our reproductive rights. This exhibition will help express our voices, concerns, desires, and fears. Enough is enough and together we are stronger. By speaking out and raising awareness we will develop a future in which we are equal. This exhibition is here to raise awareness and funding for our rights. For more information, please contact Tawny Skye at femmepots@gmail.com Peace and Justice Festival Open Call Open through October 15th Applicants notified by November 1st Festival is November 16th at Wiseacre time is TBD Google Document Link The Mid-South Peace and Justice Center is an organization that has been devoted to our community since 1982. Prompted by an intersectional range of social and economic issues, MSJPC launched to educate and train community leaders to work towards a world with racial, economic, environmental, and social justice. MSJPC has devoted themselves to helping the needs of communities struck by poverty and address the root causes of injustice in Memphis. Due to an unexpected cut in grants and funding alongside the usual dip in Summer contributions, MSJPC is having a difficult time fighting injustice. Despite cutting costs, employees have had to drop to part-time so that they can continue serving our community. Their devotion to Memphis and everyone within it should not come with any added struggles. As artists I find we have a wonderful contribution to make to organizations like this and to the movement toward social justice. We can provide events that raise money for these causes while simultaneously bringing awareness to organizations that are working to repair these injustices. The Peace and Justice Festival has been created to help contribute in the sensational manner us artists are good at. By participating you are: -giving funding to the incredible organization MSPJC through your booth fee -spreading the word about the organization and bringing people into the cause through your art and social media -encouraging other's in the community to find a way to provide to important causes through their means ***The booth fees are $50.00 sent through venmo, paypal, or cash app. You will have one week after being accepted to get this to me. There is also an option to donate an art piece or basket to our raffle which can take up to $20.00 off of your booth fee depending on the cash value of your donation. ***The deadline to apple is October 15th and those accepted will be notified by November 1st ***The event will be held at Wiseacre Brewing Co. on November 16th. Times are TBD and I will post those as soon as possible. If you have any questions or concerns regarding the event, please contact Tawny Skye at femmepots@gmail.com Check it Out! David Horan and his study abroad students took some great pictures during their stay in Medway, England with University of Kent. Check them out here: University of Kent Twitter Meadway Students Blog Check it Out! Ella Kennin is a Memphis native who comes from a family of artists and has been making art from a young age. Ella is interested in realistic portraiture, juxtaposing realism with simplicity. She tries to broach social issues with her art such as climate change by showing humanities relationship and dependence on nature. Ella's biggest influences are her grandmother, sister, art teachers and the work of Chuck Close. Ella believes that art can help facilitate conversation. She fondly recalls a meeting with a curious stranger while she was working and how her art helped foster a long and thoughtful conversation. Ella would like for people to be able to see the hard work that goes into creating art. One solution she has for this is utilizing interactive art to give people a behind the scene look at the developmental process of creating art. Ella aspires to open a shop where she can combine functional furniture design with sculptural aesthetics. Her shop would also be a place where artists could gather, collaborate and share. Ella has an upcoming show "Kick Out the Lights" at L Ross Gallery on July 24th! Check it Out! Charis, Jeremi and Amani discuss their appreciation of the Alternative Photographic Processes class offered during Fall semesters. The class teaches students the printing processes of anthotype, Van Dyke Brown, cyanotype, and salt printing along with making their own pinhole camera. <!-- intentionally non-empty iframe; for xsl --> Check It Out! The Dixon Art Camp presents some of the talented work done by their 2019 campers! Ashunti Crawford next to their display for Garden Family Day. Breanna Mansel next to their display for Space Out Family Night. Imani Williams next to their display for Jazzy Family Day. Kamiya Mitchell next to their display for More than Words Family Day. Daria Davis (instructor) with her Dixon 2019 Campers. Check It Out! Check It Out! Moppet remains up at Elephant Gallery through March. "Amelia Briggs' work eludes comparison. The Nashville-based artist is best known for sculptural abstract paintings she calls "inflatables" — bulgy, candy-colored fusions of panel, pillow stuffing, fabric and paint that look like they might possess the unusual physical properties of Silly Putty..." -Melinda Baker in the Tennessean "To a certain generation, Amelia Briggs' work will bring immediate and powerful associations. I'm thinking those of us who grew up in the late '80s and early '90s, the elder millennials and the Gen X kid sisters, for whom She-Ra and Puffalumps and Popples bring waves of Malibu Musk-scented nostalgia..." -Laura Hutson Hunter in the Nashville Scene U of M's Egyptian Institute Will Host February 28 Lecture: "The Priest, the Prince, and the Pasha: The Life and Afterlife of an Ancient Egyptian Sculpture" The Institute of Egyptian Art & Archaeology will host the sixteenth annual Legacy of Egypt Lecture on Thursday, February 28, in the Rose Theatre South Lobby (room 115). Dr. Lawrence M. Berman, Senior Curator of Ancient Egyptian, Nubian, and Near Eastern Art at the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston, will present at 7:00 p.m. A reception will precede the lecture, at 6:15 p.m. Both events are free and open to the public. Pay parking is available in the Zach Curlin garage, adjacent to the Rose Theater. Dr. Berman will be speaking on one of the treasures of the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston—a small head of an old man, broken off from a statue and carved from a grey-green hard stone known as graywacke. Referred to as the "Green Head," this masterful portrait of a shaven-headed Egyptian priest has a remarkable modern history, reaching back to the beginnings of Egyptian archaeology. The successive stages of that history and the colorful individuals involved offer a fascinating glimpse into the reception of Egyptian art in the modern era. Dr. Berman received his Ph.D. in Egyptology from Yale University. Before joining the staff of the MFA in 1999, he served as Curator of Egyptian and Ancient Near Eastern Art at the Cleveland Museum of Art. Dr. Berman has taught at Yale, Case Western Reserve University, and Harvard University. From 2005–2009, he participated in the Pacific Lutheran University Valley of the Kings Project. He is a frequent lecturer and the author of numerous books and scholarly articles, including most recently Photographs from the Harvard University-Boston Museum of Fine Arts Expedition. For more information, contact Dr. Joshua Roberson at jrbrson4@memphis.edu or call the IEAA at 901.678.2555. Check This Out! Check This Out! Ancient Egypt Family Day with the IEAA Saturday, February 16, 2019 Español Ancient Egypt Family Day with the Institute of Egyptian Art & Archaeology, will be held on Saturday, February 16, 2019 from 10:00 a.m. to 2:00 p.m. This fun-filled day will be held at the Art Museum of the University of Memphis, in the lobby of the Communication and Fine Arts Building. Travel back in time for a day and explore the wonders of ancient Egypt right here in Memphis, Tennessee! Write your name in hieroglyphs, color a mask while learning about ancient Egyptian gods, make your own copy of an ancient Egyptian amulet, and much more. See real ancient Egyptian artifacts in the Egyptian Gallery and meet students and Egyptologists of the IEAA. Guided tours of the Egyptian collection will be offered. There will be lots of fun and interesting activities for all! Sign up for our School for Scribes, an intensive, hour-long session where you will learn more about ancient Egyptian hieroglyphs. Class size in the "School for Scribes" is limited, so please call 901.678.2649 to reserve your place. Scribes must be 10 years of age or older. Adults are welcome. IEAA Family Day is FREE and Open to the public. For information or to make group reservations, call 901.678.2649. Click here to download a printable color copy of the Family Day 2019 flyer for the event. This Family Day is dedicated to the memory of Doris Layne (standing center), friend, supporter and colleague. Graduate students Eric McCann (left) and Sarah Pitt Kaplan (right), along with the late Doris Layne, show kids and their parents how to "Write Your Name in Hieroglyphs". Hamlett Dobbins's "I Will Have to Tell You Everything" opens at Whitespace in Atlanta The University of Memphis alum (BFA 1993) and Foundations Instructor has a one person show up at Whitespace in Atlanta and is also showing some collaborations with Tad Lauritzen Wright (they call themselves Mellow Mountain Coalition) in Whitespec. The exhibitions run from January 11, 2019 through February 9, 2019. Hamlett Dobbins uses painting and abstraction to process experiences of pure consciousness. He has often been described as a "painter's painter" for his approach to shape and form, complex surface layering and adept color orchestration. His obsession with structure, texture and play began with his love of Legos as a child. Constructing images from basic shapes and colors allowed him to connect with his experiences in a physical way, discovering truths and narrating meaning behind once indescribable sensations. Since 2002, his paintings have been based on specific memories with family and friends. In the studio, Dobbins translates these experiences into compositions with palettes, parameters and complexities unique to the individual involved, denoted by the series of initials in their titles. Reflecting raw emotional energy, his paintings inspire the viewer to move from simply seeing to deeper perception and mindfulness. In the spring of 2008 Hamlett Dobbins and Tad Lauritzen Wright bought two nice, big Holbein sketchbooks to share. In the spirit of friendship they traded these books back and forth for many years. One of them would start a drawing, laying down a riff, and the other would respond following the other's lead. From time to time they would meet in Hamlett's studio to paint and visit. In 2010 Mellow Mountain Coalition was included in a group show of collaborative work, We Like Each Other, at Concordia University in Seward, Nebraska and in 2013 they were in Co-lab at Kevin Mitchell's Nu Gallery on Broad and in All My Rowdy Friends at Mark Nowell's Rozelle Warehouse. That same year Mellow Mountain Coalition were shown at the Leu Art Gallery at Belmont University in Nashville. The show at Georgia's Whitespec contains their most recent work. Check It Out! Art Education Video: Fall of 2018 <!-- intentionally non-empty iframe; for xsl --> CNN Highlights Photography of U of M Art Graduate "A graduate of the University of Memphis' Department of Art has published a book of her photography and been featured on CNN.com, and her band, PIMO, has released its first album. "Experimental Relationship Vol. 1" Pixy Liao earned a masters of fine arts in photography from the U of M and now lives and works in Brooklyn. Her book, "Experimental Relationship Vol.1," was published in 2017 and is the focus of a CNN story this month, "'I was much more dominant': Pixy Liao's surreal photography disrupts relationship stereotypes," by Christina Catherine Martinez. Last month, Time named Liao's book to its list of the 25 best photobooks of 2018. Liao admits to having "culture shock" when she first came to the U of M, she told Martinez. In her photography, "She tried landscapes and self-portraiture, using the camera to process her new environment, which differed greatly from her hometown of Shanghai. Her early work in Memphis betrays a shared sensibility with midcentury photographers like William Eggleston and Stephen Shore; and a keen interest in the everyday people and ancillary details that characterize the American South." Her book contains 77 photographs of her relationship with her boyfriend that CNN describes as "a series of bizarre and tender poses." Examples of Liao's extensive gallery of photography can be found at her website, pixyliao.com. — Phillip Tutor, CCFA media coordinator, potutor@memphis.edu" For more information, click here! NATALIE EDDINGS: PRESS On view: November 16 - December 7, 2018 Opening reception: November 16, 5-7 PM Fogleman Galleries of Art Above: Natalie Eddings, Ode to Ethiopianism, 2018. Giclée photographic print, 36 x 24 in. Courtesy of the artist. Press, the first solo exhibition of University of Memphis alumna Natalie Eddings (BFA, 2018), is a vicarious navigation of intergenerational racial trauma and minority stress—where it comes from, what it looks like, and how, perhaps, we deal with it. The exhibition observes collisions of the term "press"—of the past and the present, formalized in the bodies and souls of oppressed peoples featured in Eddings' layered photographic portraits. In the exhibition, Eddings creates a dichotomy of the word "press." On one hand, she interprets it as the press, or media coverage, journalism, and the distribution of news. This understanding of "press" is described, in part, by the First Amendment of the Constitution. On the other hand, she considers "press" as a root word derived from the Latin "pressare" which means to press down, hold fast or hold down, cover, crowd, compress--the basis of such words as impress, depress, oppress, suppress, repress, and others. She ascribes this understanding of the word to the essential nature of oppressed peoples. Faculty in the UofM Department of Art selected Eddings from the Fall 2017 and Spring 2018 graduating Bachelor of Fine Arts classes for this prestigious solo exhibition. An annual tradition, this exhibition provides an outstanding graduate with the opportunity to present a body of work as well as develop and execute an exhibition concept with Fogelman Galleries staff. KAITLYN DUNN: ABSORPTION On view: November 16 - December 7, 2018 Opening reception: November 16, 5-7 PM Fogleman Galleries of Art Above: Kaitlyn Dunn, Untitled from the "Absorption" series, 2018. Inkjet print on metallic paper mounted on sintra. Courtesy of the artist. Absorption, the MFA thesis exhibition of Kaitlyn Dunn, explores the psychology and physiology of architecture, light, and space. The installation is a multi-sensory environment of video projection, photography, audio, and light. Panoramic photographs present an unbroken view of the region outlying the city limits in the South. Consisting of heavy shadows with bright spotlights of color, the photographs of decaying and overgrown landscapes are bejeweled with light, creating psychological tension. While there is little human presence in the images, evidence of humanity is displayed through traces left behind such as man-made buildings and the light trails of cars and planes. The use of night photography, high contrast, and vivid colors accentuate the sense of isolation and apprehension enhanced by humanity's innate fear of the dark. Remy Miller presents an artists talk "Getting Old and Staying Young"Thursday, November 15, 2018 at 6:00PM in room 310 Art & Communication Building University of Memphis Clay Club will present work at the Memphis Potters' Guild Annual Holiday Show & Sale Look at This Exhibit! U of M's Egyptian Institute Will Host October 25th Lecture "Aper-El: Vizier, Father of the God, and Much More" The Institute of Egyptian Art & Archaeology, in cooperation with the Department of History of the University of Memphis, and the Tennessee Chapter of the American Research Center in Egypt, will co-host the thirteenth annual William J. Murnane Memorial Lecture on Thursday, Oct. 25, in the Art and Communications Building, room 310. Dr. Alain Zivie, Director of the French Archaeological Mission of the Bubasteion, will present at 7:00 p.m. A reception will precede the lecture, at 6:15 p.m. Both events are free and open to the public. Pay parking is available in the Innovation Garage (Lot 40), located next to the Fogelman Executive Center. Dr. Zivie is the founder and Director of the French Archaeological Mission of the Bubasteion in Saqqara, Egypt, Director of Research Emeritus of the National Center of Scientific Research in Paris, France, and a former Scientific Member of the Institut Français d'Archéologie Orientale in Cairo, Egypt. He has served previously as a Fellow at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, New York, as W. K. Simpson Visiting Professor at the American University in Cairo, and as a Visiting Scholar in the Department of Near Eastern Languages and Civilizations at Harvard University. He has published over 160 Egyptological articles and books, and also lectures extensively worldwide. Dr. Zivie will be speaking on his discovery at Saqqara of the tomb of a high official known as Aper-El, an Egyptian rendering of the Semitic name Abdiel, meaning "Servant of El." El, meaning "god," was the name of numerous deities from ancient Syro-Palestine and also appears frequently in the Hebrew Bible. Aper-El served as vizier during the reigns of the Eighteenth Dynasty king Amenhotep III and his son Akhenaten, Egypt's so-called "Heretic Pharaoh." Dr. Zivie's lecture will examine the artifacts and human remains uncovered in the burial chamber that Aper-El shared with his wife and son. From these discoveries, it is possible to reconstruct the careers of Aper-El's family during one of the most controversial and exciting periods of Egypt's ancient history. For more information, email Dr. Joshua Roberson at jrbrson4@memphis.edu or the IEAA at 901-678-2555. Visit the IEAA events page at http://www.memphis.edu/egypt/events Greely Myatt at Delta Arts in West Memphis Art Education students helped at Campus School's STEAM Family Night! Upcoming events at Bradbury Art Museum! ECLECTIC OPENING RECEPTION: THURSDAY, OCTOBER 4, 5PM Eclectic_Hans Schmitt-Matzen.jpg Hans Schmitt-Matzen FEATURING WORK BY TERESA COLE | JED JACKSON | TOM LEE MARIO M. MULLER | HANS SCHMITT-MATZEN | DAVID SULLIVAN ECLECTIC IS ON VIEW OCTOBER 4 - NOVEMBER 7, 2018 OCTOBER EVENTS: WEEKEND WORKSHOPS OCTOBER 7, 2PM STILL LIFE SILHOUETTES BEST FOR TEENS & UP OCTOBER 28, 2PM PAPER PATTERNING FANTASY FRIDAY OCTOBER 19, 5:30PM READING FROM FANTASY NOVELIST DANA CHAMBLEE CARPENTER THURSDAY AT THE MUSEUM OCTOBER 25, 5:30PM IMPROV TOUR LED BY A-STATE IMPROV All events, workshops and exhibitions are admission-free and open to the public Weekend Workshop seating is limited: register online here to secure a seat. Robert Fairchild, Mason Nolan and Jeff Carter at the show opening at the Bradbury Museum at ASU in Jonesboro. Look at this article! Joshua A. Roberson new article, co-authored with his French and Egyptian colleagues from the French Institute of Eastern Archaeology, has now appeared in print, as:"Le temple 'primitif' de Ptah à Karnak," Bulletin de l'Institut français d'archéologie Orientale 117 (2017): 125–159. "Ancient Egyptian Furniture: From the earliest examples to those 'wonderful things' of the New Kingdom" The Tennessee Chapter of the American Research Center in Egypt, in association with U of M's Egyptian Institute, Will Host October 10th Lecture The Tennessee Chapter of the American Research Center in Egypt, in association with the Institute of Egyptian Art & Archaeology, will host a public lecture on Wednesday, Oct. 10, in the University Center, room 350 (Fountain View Suite). Dr. Geoffrey Killen will present at 7:00 p.m. A reception will precede the lecture, at 6:15 p.m. Both events are free and open to the public. Pay parking is available in the Zach Curlin garage, near the University Center. Dr. Killen will be speaking on the history of ancient Egyptian furniture, from the earliest examples to the exquisite pieces discovered in the famous tomb of Tutankhamun. Through a comparison of pieces from both royal and non-royal contexts, Dr. Killen will provide insight into the forms and manufacturing techniques of some of ancient Egypt's most spectacular preserved artifacts. Dr. Geoffrey Killen is a leading Egyptologist, wood technologist, and furniture historian who studied Design and Technology at Shoreditch College, University of London and the University of Liverpool, where he specialized in Egyptian woodworking of the Ramesside era. He has written extensively on the subject of Egyptian woodworking and has also led in the field of experimental archaeology, where making and using replica tools and equipment has generated and tested archaeological hypotheses. He has lectured and given practical demonstrations of Ancient Egyptian woodworking processes and techniques in the U.S. and Britain. Dr. Killen has studied the collections of Egyptian furniture and woodwork at most of the major world museums, including the Egyptian Museum, Cairo. Dr. Killen's practical work is currently displayed, together with the original artifacts, in several British museums. For more information, email Dr. Joshua Roberson at jrbrson4@memphis.edu or the IEAA at 901-678-2555. U of M's Egyptian Institute will Host Sept. 27th Lecture Divine Donations: Animal Mummies in Ancient Egypt The Institute of Egyptian Art & Archaeology will host the second annual IEAA Alumni Lecture on Thursday, Sept. 27, in the Art & Communications Building, room 310. Dr. Sarah Schellinger, of the San Antonio Museum of Art and Trinity University, San Antonio, will present at 7:00 p.m. A reception will precede the lecture, at 6:15 p.m. Both events are free and open to the public. Pay parking is available in the Innovation Garage (Lot 40), located next to the Fogelman Executive Center. Dr. Schellinger will present on the fascinating topic of animal mummies in ancient Egypt. The ancient Egyptians identified animals with the divine realm and adapted earlier techniques of (human) mummification for animal use, in order to serve as offerings to their deities. This custom resulted in the mummification of millions of animals in the later centuries of ancient Egyptian history. Dr. Schellinger will discuss the ancient beliefs surrounding animal mummification as well as the scientific techniques, such as X-ray and CT scanning, that modern scholars employ to study them. Dr. Schellinger and her colleagues at the San Antonio Museum of Art have utilized these cutting edge technologies, along with traditional artifact conservation, to analyze animal mummies in the museum's collection, with interesting and, in some cases, unexpected results. Dr. Sarah Schellinger is an adjunct faculty member at Trinity University in San Antonio, Texas, and a specialist in the art and archaeology of ancient Egypt and Nubia. She held the inaugural Andrew W. Mellon Postdoctoral Curatorial Fellowship at the San Antonio Museum of Art and has served previously as a Terrace Research Associate in Egyptian Art at the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston, as well as holding internships at the Royal Ontario Museum and the Carnegie Museum of Natural History, in Pittsburgh, PA. While at the San Antonio Museum of Art, Dr. Schellinger curated the exhibition Egyptian Animal Mummies: Science Explores an Ancient Religion. Her publications include an essay on the Victory Stela of Piye, the Nubian king who founded Egypt's Twenty-Fifth Dynasty, as well as articles concerning the architecture of Nubian palaces and forts. Dr. Schellinger earned her Ph.D. and M.A. in Near and Middle Eastern Civilizations from the University of Toronto, and her M.A. in Art History from the University of Memphis. For more information, email Dr. Joshua Roberson at jrbrson4@memphis.edu Check It Out! Our MFA, Virginia Overton, is featured in the most recent New Yorker! Check Out These Exhibits! James Edgar Jackson will be exhibiting about 10 paintings at the Bradbury Museum at Arkansas State University opening October 4. Also, he will have two paintings in an Exhibit at the Center for Creative Art in St. Louis opening in September. TEN YEARS IN is exhibiting in a major Museum Exhibit in the Burchfield Penny Art Center, Buffalo New York. It will be open Friday, July 13–Sunday, October 28, 2018. Want Free Food? On September 25, our campus is hosting Sickle Cell Awareness Day. This event is planned and supported through a partnership with The Department of Communication, The School of Public Health, The Sickle Cell Foundation of Tennessee, individuals who battle sickle cell disease, and individual providers at St. Jude Children's Research Hospital. As part of the event, we are hosting a blood drive through Life Blood, the Midsouth Regional Blood Center. Because many sickle cell patients require multiple blood transfusion throughout their lives, a blood drive is an important element of this event. For Life Blood to commit to the event, I need twenty people to sign up to donate blood on Sept. 25, between 11:00 and 2:30. I need to have twenty people committed by this Friday, August 17. If anyone is interested in donating, they can email me by this Friday at ajyoung@memphis.edu, with a simple statement of committing to donate on that day, signed with their full name. Blood donation takes about 40 minutes, and Life Blood provides free pizza afterward. CHECK IT OUT! CHECK IT OUT! ELLEN DEMPSEY UNIVERSITY OF MEMPHIS DEPARTMENT OF ART ALUMNA (MFA 2018) RECEIVES INTERNATIONAL SCULPTURE CENTER'S 2018 OUTSTANDING STUDENT ACHIEVEMENT IN CONTEMPORARY SCULPTURE AWARD International Sculpture Center publisher of Sculpture magazine (Hamilton, NJ) Ellen Dempsey, of Florence, AL, has been awarded the prestigious International Sculpture Center's Outstanding Student Achievement in Contemporary Sculpture Award for 2018. Ellen Dempsey is a student at University of Memphis. The International Sculpture Center (ISC) established the annual "Outstanding Student Achievement in Contemporary Sculpture Award" program in 1994 to recognize young sculptors and to encourage their continued commitment to the field. It was also designed to draw attention to the sculpture programs of the participating universities, colleges and art schools. The award program's growing publicity resulted in an exceptional number of participating institutions; including over 138 universities, colleges and art school sculpture programs from eight countries for a nominated total of 354 students. A distinguished panel made up of Sam Ekwurtzel, Brooklyn based artist & 2006 Student Award Recipient, Brooklyn, NY; Gina Miccinilli, Educator & working sculptor, Mahwah, NJ; and Ysabel Pinyol, Curatorial Director, Mana Contemporary, Jersey City, NJ; selected 17 recipients, and 18 honorable mentions through a competitive viewing process of the works submitted. The selection of the recipients from a large pool of applicants, including international students, is a great accomplishment and testament to the artistic promise of the students' work. The 17 award recipients will participate in a Fall/Winter Exhibition (location and dates TBD). The artist's work will be featured in the October 2018 issue of the International Sculpture Center's award winning publication, Sculpture magazine as well as on the ISC's award-winning website at www.sculpture.org. The International Sculpture Center (ISC) is a member-supported, nonprofit organization founded in 1960 to champion the creation and understanding of sculpture and its unique, vital contribution to society. Members include sculptors, collectors, patrons, architects, developers, journalists, curators, historians, critics, educators, foundries, galleries, and museums-anyone with an interest in and commitment to the field of sculpture. Please visit www.sculpture.org for further details. Department Chair Richard A. Lou's work featured on the front page of the Arts and Entertainment section of the Los Angeles Times. 'Border Door' provided a poetic welcome to immigrants 30 years ago. An art show brings back its message Look at this! Here are photos from the Community Art Academy celebration at the Memphis Public Library. Check This Out! Join us in the Thursday May 3 in the Fogelman Galleries of Contemporary Art from 6-8 PM for a one-night only exhibition of works by graduating University of Memphis Graphic Design students: Ben Ardon, Claudia Duarte, Steve Duggan, Kaitlyn Hoover, Holly Hughes, Caitlin Lawless, Lana Lopez, Micheal Moore, Kyle Neblett, Jacob Nevill, Gwendolyn Nguyen, Sarai Payne, Parks Perdue, Ashley Thephasone, and Millie Walt. Check This Out! Graphic Design Faculty & Students Create Digital Sets for Opera Memphis' Midtown Opera Festival Assistant Professor K Brandon Bell & Associate Professor Gary Golightly, along with students Cassie Farrier, Parks Purdue and MFA candidate Chad Malone, are working to create video projection sets for the upcoming Midtown Opera Festival at Playhouse On The Square, April 6-14. This is the sixth annual festival presented by Opera Memphis: two weeks of opera, parties, panel discussions, family events, and more, in the heart of the city. This year's festival will feature Scarlatti's The Triumph of Honor, set in a mashup of the 1690's and the 1990's. It will also boast the world premiere of the Opera 901 Showcase, a series of five original operas commissioned by Opera Memphis, all set in Memphis. https://www.facebook.com/events/120327351954726/ Check Out This Exhibition! Check Out the 12th Annual Art Education Alumni Juried Exhibition! Check Out This Exhibit in St. Louis! <!-- intentionally non-empty iframe; for xsl --> MUNCH AND LEARN: 'ART AT THE TURN OF THE CENTURY: THE INTERSECTION OF PHOTOGRAPHY AND PAINTING' BY DAVID HORAN 01/31/2018, Noon to 1:00 PM Description: Wednesdays, 12:00pm | Winegardner Auditorium This brown-bag lecture series features local artists, experts and the Dixon Gallery and Gardens staff sharing their expertise on a variety of topics. Bring your own lunch or purchase a delicious box lunch from Park & Cherry on-site. Free for members and students with ID. January 31: Art at the Turn of the Century: The Intersection of Photography and Painting by David Horan, Photography Instructor, University of Memphis During the transitional years bridging the nineteenth and twentieth centuries, the relatively new medium of photography had matured from a purely documentary tool into a rich medium of artistic expression. Artists were exploring ways to utilize the new language of writing with light and were strongly influencing the traditional mediums of painting and sculpture with new concepts of composition and vision. From Pictorialism, to Futurism, to Surrealism, 'cross-pollination' was the word of the day. Bring The Kids To This Event! The University of Memphis 12th Annual Art Education Alumni Juried Exhibition! Dear UM Art Education Alumni, I would like to invite you and two of your students to participate in The University of Memphis 12th Annual Art Education Alumni Juried Exhibition. The theme for the exhibition is "Reflections." Each alumnus must submit one recent work of art, and two students' works (one male and one female). The artwork should convey the idea of reflections. Student work may or may not show a relationship to their Art Teacher's work. (Detailed criteria are listed on the following page). Please make sure the works of art submitted are ready to hang and are constructed to withstand being hung. Please complete the registration form on the following page and keep this schedule, so that you will not miss any deadlines. I look forward to seeing your submissions. Sincerely, Bryna Bobick, Ed.D. Associate Professor, Art Education bbobick@memphis.edu (901) 678-1472 SCHEDULE February 20 – Art Alumni/Student Submission Deadline and accepting work 3:30-5:30, Room 112 Art and Communication Building, 3715 Central Avenue. February 27 – Opening Reception - 3:30-5:00 pm Awards at 4:00, The Martha and Robert Fogelman Galleries of Contemporary Art. Pick up work: March 19 - 3:30-5:30, Room 112 Art and Communication Building, 3715 Central Ave. CRITERIA Title: University of Memphis 12th Annual Art Education Alumni Juried Exhibition Theme: "Reflections" Criteria: Each alumni must submit one recent work of art, and two students work (one male and one female). The artwork must communicate visually the theme of "Reflections". Student work may or may not show a relationship to their Art Teacher's work. Share your visual interpretation of reflections. This theme can be visually communicated through content or media. Media Focus: Painting, Collage, Assemblage, Ceramics, Mixed Media, Print, Pastel, Photography. The University of Memphis Annual Art Education Alumni Juried Exhibition features area K-12 art educators who are graduates of the University of Memphis Art Education Program, or who have completed coursework at the University during their teaching preparation or careers. This exhibition is held each year during Youth Art Month and is in accordance with the mission and vision of the University of Memphis, the Art Department and the Tennessee Art Education Association. If you have questions, contact Kelly Cook, kcook6@memphis.edu.*The University of Memphis assumes no responsibility for the loss or damage to entries. Please email this information to Bryna Bobick prior to the submission date, bbobick@memphis.edu and attach a copy to the back of each work of art. Educator's Name: Educator's Biographical Statement (Please limit to five sentences): Institution Represented: Title of Educator's Work: Media of Educator's Work: Year Completed: Short Description of Artwork: The artwork must reflect "Reflections" Student 1 Name: Student 1 Class/Grade Level: Title of Student 1 Work: Media of Student 1 Work: Short Description of Student 1 Artwork: The artwork must reflect "Reflections" Student 2 Name: Student 2 Class/Grade Level: Title of Student 2 Work: Media of Student 2 Work: Short Description of Student 2 Artwork: The artwork must reflect "Reflections" A Tennessee Board of Regents Institution An Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action University Congratulations to the following award winners: Catherine Knowles, BFA Graphic Design Wins Gold at local and Silver ADDY Catherine Knowles, BFA Graphic Design Student Wins Gold at local and Silver ADDY at the regional level which includes statewide competition including competitors from Alabama, Georgia, Louisiana, and Mississippi. Knowles design moves forward to compete at the national level! The American Advertising Awards is the advertising industry's largest and most representative competition, attracting more than 40,000 entries every year from local ad club competitions. The mission of the American Advertising Awards competition is to recognize and reward the creative spirit of excellence in the art of advertising. It is a three tiered creative competition where winners receive gold and/or silver ADDY awards. - From the AAF website. My magazine ad campaign History Speaks Here won a Gold ADDY in the AAF Memphis (local club) competition. Gold awards automatically move on to the next tier of judging which for Tennessee is District 7. District 7 of the American Advertising Federation represents 20 affiliate advertising clubs and federations of the American Advertising Federation (AAF) in Alabama, Georgia, Louisiana, Mississippi and Tennessee. and it went on to District 7 judging and won a Silver ADDY award in that competition. Silver awards can be manually forwarded onto the national level for judging, and History Speaks Here is currently en route for a national award. Recently, I was selected to present my art history research on an ancient Egyptian tomb (KV 57, The Royal Tomb of Horemhub) at NCUR on April 8. My research on the tomb had to do with the overwhelmingly incomplete state of the tomb that allowed the viewer to see the actual process of creating tomb decoration. Hence the title of my presentation, "The Art of Process." I found this concept to be especially attractive as an artist myself, and found it to be a method of connecting back with creative minds from ages ago. Crosstown Concourse co-founder named Communicator of the Year Article by Memphis Business Journal The voice behind the movement to rehabilitate the 1.5-million-square-foot Sears Crosstown building into a thriving vertical urban village is being recognized as the 2016 Communicator of the Year. Todd Richardson, an associate professor at the University of Memphis, co-founder of Crosstown Arts and managing director of Crosstown Concourse, was selected as the Memphis Chapter of the Public Relations Society of America's (PRSA) 2016 Communicator of the Year. Read full article. Art Education Video: Fall of 2018 <!-- intentionally non-empty iframe; for xsl --> CNN Highlights Photography of U of M Art Graduate "A graduate of the University of Memphis' Department of Art has published a book of her photography and been featured on CNN.com, and her band, PIMO, has released its first album. "Experimental Relationship Vol. 1" Pixy Liao earned a masters of fine arts in photography from the U of M and now lives and works in Brooklyn. Her book, "Experimental Relationship Vol.1," was published in 2017 and is the focus of a CNN story this month, "'I was much more dominant': Pixy Liao's surreal photography disrupts relationship stereotypes," by Christina Catherine Martinez. Last month, Time named Liao's book to its list of the 25 best photobooks of 2018. Liao admits to having "culture shock" when she first came to the U of M, she told Martinez. In her photography, "She tried landscapes and self-portraiture, using the camera to process her new environment, which differed greatly from her hometown of Shanghai. Her early work in Memphis betrays a shared sensibility with midcentury photographers like William Eggleston and Stephen Shore; and a keen interest in the everyday people and ancillary details that characterize the American South." Her book contains 77 photographs of her relationship with her boyfriend that CNN describes as "a series of bizarre and tender poses." Examples of Liao's extensive gallery of photography can be found at her website, pixyliao.com. — Phillip Tutor, CCFA media coordinator, potutor@memphis.edu" For more information, click here! Greely Myatt at Delta Arts in West Memphis NILES WALLACE: A RETROSPECTIVE On view: August 31 - September 28, 2018 Opening reception: August 31, 5-7 PM The Martha and Robert Fogelman Galleriesof Contemporary Art presents a retrospective exhibition featuring the work of Niles Wallace. The exhibition celebrates the artist's 41-year career as a professor at the University of Memphis and includes a variety of three-dimensional works, ranging from ceramics to large-scale sculpture and installation. Occupying both gallery spaces, the exhibition spans much of Wallace's five decades making art in a variety of mediums. Several works exhibited before in Memphis and beyond have been reconfigured for the present installation, imparting a sense of newness to once familiar works. The tactility of his materials—whether clay, plastic, or carpet—and its response to touch are central to the artist's work and process. Memphis-based artist Niles Wallace was born in Western Pennsylvania in 1948. He received a BA in Art Education from Edinboro State University in 1970 and an MFA in Ceramics from Alfred University in 1974. He taught briefly at The Philadelphia College of Art and at The State University of New York at Albany before beginning his tenure as Professor in Ceramics at the University of Memphis in 1976, where he retired in the spring of 2018. His work has been exhibited on a national level and can be found in numerous private and corporate collections. Above: Niles Wallace, Pillar (don't look back), 2003. Salt, wire mesh, and wood. 108 x 40 x 40 in. ELLEN DEMPSEY UNIVERSITY OF MEMPHIS DEPARTMENT OF ART ALUMNA (MFA 2018) RECEIVES INTERNATIONAL SCULPTURE CENTER'S 2018 OUTSTANDING STUDENT ACHIEVEMENT IN CONTEMPORARY SCULPTURE AWARD International Sculpture Center publisher of Sculpture magazine (Hamilton, NJ) Ellen Dempsey, of Florence, AL, has been awarded the prestigious International Sculpture Center's Outstanding Student Achievement in Contemporary Sculpture Award for 2018. Ellen Dempsey is a student at University of Memphis. The International Sculpture Center (ISC) established the annual "Outstanding Student Achievement in Contemporary Sculpture Award" program in 1994 to recognize young sculptors and to encourage their continued commitment to the field. It was also designed to draw attention to the sculpture programs of the participating universities, colleges and art schools. The award program's growing publicity resulted in an exceptional number of participating institutions; including over 138 universities, colleges and art school sculpture programs from eight countries for a nominated total of 354 students. A distinguished panel made up of Sam Ekwurtzel, Brooklyn based artist & 2006 Student Award Recipient, Brooklyn, NY; Gina Miccinilli, Educator & working sculptor, Mahwah, NJ; and Ysabel Pinyol, Curatorial Director, Mana Contemporary, Jersey City, NJ; selected 17 recipients, and 18 honorable mentions through a competitive viewing process of the works submitted. The selection of the recipients from a large pool of applicants, including international students, is a great accomplishment and testament to the artistic promise of the students' work. The 17 award recipients will participate in a Fall/Winter Exhibition (location and dates TBD). The artist's work will be featured in the October 2018 issue of the International Sculpture Center's award winning publication, Sculpture magazine as well as on the ISC's award-winning website at www.sculpture.org. The International Sculpture Center (ISC) is a member-supported, nonprofit organization founded in 1960 to champion the creation and understanding of sculpture and its unique, vital contribution to society. Members include sculptors, collectors, patrons, architects, developers, journalists, curators, historians, critics, educators, foundries, galleries, and museums-anyone with an interest in and commitment to the field of sculpture. Please visit www.sculpture.org for further details. Department Chair Richard A. Lou's work featured on the front page of the Arts and Entertainment section of the Los Angeles Times. 'Border Door' provided a poetic welcome to immigrants 30 years ago. An art show brings back its message Beverly & Sam Ross Gallery MAIN GALLERY: Niles Wallace: The Sunny Side January 12 - March 1, 2018 Artists' Reception: Friday, January 12, 5:30-7:30 p.m. DR. MARGO MACHIDA PRESENTS LECTURE ASIAN AMERICAN ART, ACTIVISM, AND THE TURN TO TRANSNATIONALISM AT THE UNIVERSITY OF MEMPHIS Date: November 10, 2017 Time: 5:30 PM (reception); 6 PM (lecture) Location: University of Memphis, Art and Communication Building, Room 310 The Department of Art presents a lecture by renowned art historian, curator, cultural critic, and artist Dr. Margo Machida (Professor Emerita, University of Connecticut) titled Asian American Art, Activism, and the Turn to Transnationalism. Primarily drawing examples from her experience in New York and San Francisco, Machida will examine how Asian American frameworks for thinking about identity, identity politics, and arts activism shifted between the 1960s and 1990s—and how the convergence of domestic activism, accelerating migration, and transnational circulation shaped emergent artistic, critical and curatorial practices. As this talk demonstrates, activism encompassed a wide range of critical and expressive interventions that proceeded in different realms of civic engagement and collective action simultaneously—in political protest movements, in community arts groups, in artist collectives, in the academy, and in the art world. Dr. Margo Machida is Professor Emerita of Art History and Asian American Studies at the University of Connecticut. Born and raised in Hawai'i, she is a scholar, independent curator, and cultural critic specializing in Asian American art and visual culture. Her most recent book, Unsettled Visions: Contemporary Asian American Artists and the Social Imaginary (Duke University Press, 2009) received the Cultural Studies Book Award from the Association for Asian American Studies. She is co-editor of the volume Fresh Talk/Daring Gazes: Conversations on Asian American Art (University of California Press, 2003). Dr. Machida is an Associate Editor for the Asian Diasporic Visual Cultures and the Americas journal (Brill). Recent publications include: "Trans-Pacific Sitings: The Roving Imagery of Lynne Yamamoto" (Third Text, Spring 2014); "Devouring Hawai'i: Food, Consumption, and Contemporary Art" in Eating Asian America: A Food Studies Reader (New York University Press, 2013); and "Convergent Conversations – The Nexus of Asian American Art" in A Companion to Asian Art and Architecture (Wiley-Blackwell, 2011). Dr. Machida has received numerous grants and fellowships including support from the Smithsonian Institution, Rockefeller Foundation, and National Endowment for the Humanities. She is co-organizer of the Diasporic Asian Art Network (DAAN) and the East Coast Asian American Art Project (ECAAAP), and a founding member of the International Network for Diasporic Asian Art Research (INDAAR). In 2009, she received the Lifetime Achievement Award from the national Women's Caucus for Art. GREELY MYATT, UNIVERSITY OF MEMPHIS SCULPTURE PROFESSOR, PRESENTS AN ARTIST TALK IN CONJUNCTION WITH HIS DAVID LUSK EXHIBITION " MAKING MARKS" Join David Lusk Gallery in Memphis, TN next Saturday, 16 September at 11:00 AM to hear Greely Myatt discuss his current show Making Marks. In an era of total connection, advancing technologies with constant chatter, conversation has an unavoidable presence. Myatt's exclamation points (in wood, tar, air filters, aluminum, neon, steel, etc.) become objects too prominent to miss. Myatt states, "I want the work to be accessible on numerous levels. I attempt that through the selection of materials, treatment of form, use of subject matter and the method of presentation." 97 Tillman - Memphis - 901.767.3800 - davidluskgallery.com Virginia solomon, University of Memphis Art history professor,publishes essay in e-flux Journal reader series "What’s Love (or Care, Intimacy, Warmth, Affection) Got to Do with It." It is often said that we no longer have an addressee for our political demands. But that’s not true. We have each other. What we can no longer get from the state, the party, the union, the boss, we ask for from one another. And we provide. Since 2009, need and care and desire and admiration – and indeed, love – have been cross-examined, called as witness, put on parole, and made the subject of caring inquiry by e-flux journal authors. Join us on Thursday, September 14 at 7pm to celebrate these inquiries with the New York launch of What’s Love (or Care, Intimacy, Warmth, Affection) Got to Do with It, the eleventh title in the e-flux journal reader series with Sternberg Press—featuring contributions by Paul Chan, Keti Chukhrov, Cluster, Antke Engel, Hu Fang, Brian Kuan Wood, Lee Mackinnon, Chus Martínez, Tavi Meraud, Fred Moten and Stefano Harney, Elizabeth A. Povinelli and Kim Turcot DiFruscia, Paul B. Preciado, Martha Rosler, Virginia Solomon, Jalal Toufic, Jan Verwoert, and Slavoj Žižek. UofM’s Egyptian Institute, in co-operation with the Tennessee Chapter of the American Research Center in Egypt, will Host Sept. 28th Lecture “Sealings, Sherds, and Figurines: Reconstructing Settlement in the Ancient Egyptian Precinct of Bat” The Institute of Egyptian Art & Archaeology, in co-operation with the Tennessee chapter of the American Research Center in Egypt, will host the first annual IEAA Alumni Lecture on Thursday, Sept. 28, in the University Center, room 340B. Dr. Jane A. Hill, of Rowan University, will present at 7:00 p.m. A reception will precede the lecture, at 6:15 p.m. Both events are free and open to the public. Pay parking is available in the Innovation Garage (Lot 40), located next to the Fogelman Executive Center. Jane A. Hill is a professor in anthropology at Rowan University, since 2012, and co-curator of the Museum of Anthropology at Rowan University (MARU). Dr. Hill received her B.A. in Journalism at the University of Mississippi. After working as a journalist, she returned to graduate school at the University of Memphis where she earned her M.A. in Anthropology in 1999, studying Pre-Columbian Mississippian cultures, followed by a second M.A. in Art History and Egyptology from the Institute of Egyptian Art and Archaeology at the University of Memphis in 2001. Dr. Hill completed her Ph.D. at the University of Pennsylvania in 2010. Her research interests include the development of writing in ancient Egypt's Pre-Dynastic and Early Dynastic periods and how it was used as an administrative and symbolic tool. She has worked at numerous sites in Egypt, including Giza, Abydos, and Saqqara, and el-Amra. Dr. Hill will present on the results of her archaeological work at the Pre-Dynastic cemetery site of el-Amra, in the Upper Egyptian precinct known in antiquity as Bat. Her research has revealed late Pre-Dynastic settlement and production areas in the low desert, near the main cemetery. Analysis of surface finds in these areas suggests that the settlement was a focal point for both interregional trade and cultic activity. Combined analysis of satellite imagery, magnetometry survey, and GIS data brings the functions of different areas of the settlement into focus and offers us the opportunity to reconstruct a late Pre-Dynastic cultic center. For more information, email Dr. Joshua Roberson at jrbrson4@memphis.edu MFA Graduate: Amelia Briggs at Red Arrow Gallery we are not together yet 12 August - 3 September OPENING Saturday 12 August, 6-9pm TALK Thursday 24 August, 6:30pm "In both drawings and paintings, Briggs notes the nature of the line work, their edges at once familiar and yet lurking at the edges of the indecipherable. They speak to ideas of identity formation and transformation, as notations locked in the moment of struggle to define themselves." -Megan Kelley in Nashville Arts Magazine Congratulations to the following award winners: Golden Mummies Exhibit 2nd Floor Hallway in ACB Opening Reception, May 6th, 10:30 am - 12:00 pm Amanda Tutor, art teacher in Bartlett and Oaks elementary, asked if someone could come out and speak to her 3rd graders about ancient Egypt. They are studying ancient Egypt and she had an art project for them on the same subject. February 9th, Dana McKelvy went out and gave an "absolutely wonderful" presentation on ancient Egypt that really fired the teacher's and students' imaginations. The students worked in groups over an extended period to create the six golden mummies (you'll know what I mean when you see them). Originally there were 7, but apparently a marauding group of kindergarteners damaged one of the pictures beyond repair. Who knew? The fruits of this project are on display in the 2nd floor hallway in ACB. A reception for the families will be held in ACB on Saturday, May 6, 10:30 am – 12:00 pm. Light refreshments will be served. The teacher (Amanda) did an informational panel that goes with the artwork – including QR codes which attach to brief animated videos – which might have some useful information for the posting. NEDtalks at Ned R. McWherter Library Join us at Ned R. McWherter Library for NEDtalks, a two-day short-form symposium. Speakers will share their recent research in short presentations designed to engage and entertain. Refreshments will be provided. NEDtalks is presented in conjunction with Faculty Scholarship Week Exhibition. Please visit the McWherter Library rotunda to view additional scholarship from UofM faculty. The exhibition will be on display beginning at noon on Monday, April 17. Learn more here. Catherine Knowles, BFA Graphic Design Wins Gold at local and Silver ADDY Catherine Knowles, BFA Graphic Design Student Wins Gold at local and Silver ADDY at the regional level which includes statewide competition including competitors from Alabama, Georgia, Louisiana, and Mississippi. Knowles design moves forward to compete at the national level! The American Advertising Awards is the advertising industry's largest and most representative competition, attracting more than 40,000 entries every year from local ad club competitions. The mission of the American Advertising Awards competition is to recognize and reward the creative spirit of excellence in the art of advertising. It is a three tiered creative competition where winners receive gold and/or silver ADDY awards. - From the AAF website. My magazine ad campaign History Speaks Here won a Gold ADDY in the AAF Memphis (local club) competition. Gold awards automatically move on to the next tier of judging which for Tennessee is District 7. District 7 of the American Advertising Federation represents 20 affiliate advertising clubs and federations of the American Advertising Federation (AAF) in Alabama, Georgia, Louisiana, Mississippi and Tennessee. and it went on to District 7 judging and won a Silver ADDY award in that competition. Silver awards can be manually forwarded onto the national level for judging, and History Speaks Here is currently en route for a national award. Recently, I was selected to present my art history research on an ancient Egyptian tomb (KV 57, The Royal Tomb of Horemhub) at NCUR on April 8. My research on the tomb had to do with the overwhelmingly incomplete state of the tomb that allowed the viewer to see the actual process of creating tomb decoration. Hence the title of my presentation, "The Art of Process." I found this concept to be especially attractive as an artist myself, and found it to be a method of connecting back with creative minds from ages ago. Art Education Graduate & Undergraduate Students Teach at the Community Art Academy The 2017 Community Art Academy celebration was held on April 5 in the gallery at the Memphis Public Library. Graduate and Undergraduate art education majors taught art lessons to participants during the spring semester. All completed projects are on display for the month of April in the library's gallery. For more information about art education please contact Dr. Bryna Bobick. Messengers: An exploration of bird signs and omens Darla Linerode-Henson & Lizi Beard-Ward Opening Reception: Friday April 21, 2017 5:30-9pm Gallery open Saturday, April 22 10:30am-4pm Crosstown Arts 430 North Cleveland St, Memphis, TN 38104 Beth Edwards: encounters April 9 - July 16, 2017 Memphis artist Beth Edwards approaches her varied subjects as a still life painter in the realist tradition. Her early works focused on vintage character toys, seen alone in retro environments, with nature assuming a minor role. Over time, the natural world became pronounced, as magnified floral subjects took center stage. For Edwards, these recent works celebrate nature but also serve as poetic meditations on the transience of life. Artist Gallery Walk 2 p.m., Sunday, April 9 Grisham Gallery Reception following in the Richard and Roper Room Hosted by the Huntsville Museum Foundation Board. Tennessee Historical Quarterly Richard Lou's Recovering Memphis: Conceptual iconoclasm of the Nathan Bedford Forrest Monument By Jody Stokes-Casey I am thrilled my essay "Richard Lou's ReCovering Memphis: Conceptual Iconoclasm of the Nathan Bedford Forrest Monument" is published in the Winter 2016 volume of Tennessee Historical Quarterly. This essay is an extension of a paper I wrote in my last semester of coursework at the University of Memphis while completing a Master of Art in art history. The original paper was drafted as a final project for the course ARTH 7140 Graduate Problems: Renaissance Iconoclasm taught by Dr. Todd Richardson in the fall of 2013; a time when heated debates surrounded the renaming of parks in Memphis whose identities were overshadowed by Confederate soldiers namesakes. I was also taking an independent study with our Art Department chair, Richard Lou, whose performance and photography artwork surrounding the contested Nathan Bedford Forrest monument proved a fascinating way to explore the topic of iconoclasm in contemporary, local art. Dr. Earnestine Jenkins recommended I submit the paper to be published with the Tennessee Historical Quarterly. After an extended editing, researching, and writing session, the essay is published! Read the essay here. Artist creates work of art from closed Planned Parenthood signage A provocative poster with the U.S. Capitol superimposed over a female's lower torso was among signs carried during the Women's March in Washington D.C., as well as marches in Milwaukee, Madison and elsewhere. Commissioned by activist Megan Holbrook, the "Tear Us Down, We Rise" poster was designed by local artist Niki Johnson and Christian Westphal. It was based on a work Johnson spent years creating — "Hills & Valleys" — as a response to the loss of reproductive rights and access to health care in Wisconsin. When Johnson learned in 2013 that Wisconsin Planned Parenthood health care centers were closing due to defunding by Gov. Scott Walker and GOP legislators, she arranged to collect their signage. She gathered metal signs from six defunct health centers. Read more here. MFA THESIS EXHIBITION DESMOND LEWIS: HEAVY-LADEN March 17–31, 2017 Opening Reception: March 17, 5-7 pm (artist Gallery Talk, 6 pm) Featuring the work of Desmond Lewis, the MFA thesis exhibition Heavy-Laden explores the relationship between the often-overlooked industrial contributions of African Americans in the construction of the United States over time and considers the metaphorical characteristics of the materials used. The contribution of African American labor to industrial America is often hidden beneath the layers of racist ideologies that have propelled the United States to its superpower status. The work in the exhibition carves away at this pristine façade to expose the roughness and intricacies that the hands of African American labor had and still have in constructing the nation's infrastructure. Lewis's work is driven by the interpersonal relationship he has with steel and concrete—a physicality and commitment echoed in his everyday experience living in the United States as an African American man. Comprised of carved concrete and forged and fabricated steel sculptures, the exhibition occupies the gallery but also includes a large-scale outdoor piece as well as public work in the Orange Mound community. This exhibition is supported through the generosity of West Memphis Steel, Orange Mound Gallery, Razorback Concrete, Williams Equipment and Supply, MCR Safety, and Tennessee Sling Center. "Who Do You Trust" art exhibit to be displayed at Luther College Article by The Decorah Newspapers "Who Do You Trust," an art exhibit featuring the work of Jed Jackson, will be on display from Feb. 3 to March 15 in Luther College's Preus Library. The exhibit is open to the public with no charge for admission. This year's Paideia Texts and Issues theme, "Who Do You Trust," was developed by the Paideia Endowment Governing Board, the Religion department and the Visual and Performing Arts department. Drawing from a wide variety of texts from the arts, sciences and humanities, the series attempts to facilitate discussions of personal and institutional trust. Who or what are people predisposed to trust? Is trust a fundamental element of character, community or culture? What are the results of mistrust or betrayal?... Read full article. Crosstown Concourse co-founder named Communicator of the Year Article by Memphis Business Journal The voice behind the movement to rehabilitate the 1.5-million-square-foot Sears Crosstown building into a thriving vertical urban village is being recognized as the 2016 Communicator of the Year. Todd Richardson, an associate professor at the University of Memphis, co-founder of Crosstown Arts and managing director of Crosstown Concourse, was selected as the Memphis Chapter of the Public Relations Society of America's (PRSA) 2016 Communicator of the Year. Read full article. Munch and Learn: Berthe Morisot, First Lady of Impressionism January 25, 2017 Wednesdays, 12 pm to 1 pm Dr. Pamela Gerrish Nunn, HohenbergChair of Excellence in Art History, University of Memphis. This brown-bag lecture series features local artists, experts and the Dixon Gallery and Gardens staff sharing their expertise on a variety of topics. Free for members and students with ID. For more information go to Dixon Gallery and Gardens. Art Education Alumni Juried Exhibition: "Tolerance through Art Education" Submission Deadline February 27, 2017 The theme for the exhibition is "Tolerance through Art Education." Each alumnus must submit one recent work of art, and two students' works (one male and one female). The artwork must convey the idea of tolerance. Student work may or may not show a relationship to their Art Teacher's work. Please make sure the works of art submitted are ready to hang and are constructed to withstand being hung. For more information/schedule and registration form download here. Art Review: "Say What?" Greely Myatt at Sandler Hudson Gallery Image caption (above): Michael Aurbach, Administrative Vision, 2013. Mixed media. Image courtesy of the artist. Art is a form of communication. The visual language of pictures and symbols spans cultures and breaches the boundaries of speech. Viewers personify it by asking: What does it mean? What is the art saying? The sculptures in Greely Myatt's show, "Maybe I Can Paint Over That," at Sandler Hudson Gallery depict these articulations and audience-art conversations. The symbols Myatt creates out of cut wood and bent steel are ubiquitous icons that have been used, in different iterations, for over 1,400 years. Thought and speech bubbles were in use as far back as 600 A.D. in Mesoamerican art, appearing in the form of scrolls streaming from the speaker's mouth. Over the years, these visual representations of speech have taken the form of scrolls, balloons, and bubbles in illuminated manuscripts in the Middle Ages, political cartoons during the Revolutionary War, the first-known newspaper comic cartoon Yellow Kid in the late 1800s and the golden age of comic books that followed in the decades after, then again when Pop artists adopted the visual language of comics. Myatt's free-floating speech and thought bubbles mimic a Pop art sensibility, but in a way that translates the symbol into the language of our current era, where it has been recast in technological correspondence and advertisements. Read full article. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 7/22/21 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.