Emergency Notification: COVID-19 Visit the Health Advisories website for the latest updates, FAQs, vaccination information, and to Report a Case. Skip to main content San José State University Menu Visit Campus Tours Maps Parking Silicon Valley Hammer Theatre SJSU Loves SJ Academics Colleges and Departments Majors and Programs Centers and Institutes Academic Calendar Classes King Library Admissions Tuition and Fees Housing Professional Education Parent and Family Programs Campus Life Health and Wellness Safety SJSU Cares Events Traditions Student Alumni Connection Research and Innovation Office of Research SJSU Research Foundation Student-Faculty Collaborations Become a Research Partner About Administration and Leadership Facts and Accomplishments Partnerships Transformation Defined SJSU on Facebook SJSU on Twitter SJSU on LinkedIn SJSU on Instagram SJSU on YouTube Athletics Alumni Association Giving to SJSU Canvas one.SJSU Search University Menu .Go toSJSU homepage. Visit Campus Tours Maps Parking Silicon Valley Hammer Theatre SJSU Loves SJ Academics Colleges and Departments Majors and Programs Centers and Institutes Academic Calendar Classes King Library Admissions Tuition and Fees Housing Professional Education Parents and Family Programs Campus Life Health and Wellness Safety SJSU Cares Events Traditions Student Alumni Connection Research and Innovation Office of Research SJSU Research Foundation Student-Faculty Collaborations Become a Research Partner Athletics About Administration and Leadership Facts and Accomplishments Partnerships Transformation Defined Home Visit Silicon Valley Visit Silicon Valley The Best of Northern California Silicon Valley is home to thousands of tech start-up companies and headquarters many of the largest high-tech companies in the world such as Google, Apple, Intel and many more. Within San Jose city limits, visitors and locals alike can enjoy arenas boasting A-list performers and national sports teams, theaters showcasing everything from opera to improv comedy, food from nearly every culture and museums of technology, science and art. Right outside the city, thrills can be found at theme parks and in nature, up in the mountains and down by the sea. Venture a bit farther to explore renowned destinations like Yosemite National Park and Lake Tahoe. The Bay Area has a lot to offer. San Jose Information City of San Jose San Jose's official site, offering community information, services and programs. San Jose Convention and Visitors Bureau Find business listings, community events, San Jose services, points of interest and more. News Publications MetroActive Silicon Valley nightlife, music, clubs, arts and culture. San Francisco Chronicle San Francisco and Bay Area news and culture. Sports coverage of the SF Giants, 49ers and Warriors. The Mercury News The leading source of breaking news, local news, sports, business, entertainment, lifestyle and opinion for San Jose and beyond. Silicon Valley News The latest Silicon Valley technology news. Attractions History San Jose History San Jose preserves and enriches the cultural heritage of San Jose and the Santa Clara Valley through research, collections, partnerships, educational programs and events. Santana Row Discover Silicon Valley's premier destination for shopping, dining, living and more. With over 70 shops, 20 restaurants, and nine spas and salons. Children's Discovery Museum of San Jose The Children's Discovery Museum serves the needs of children, families and schools as a center for learning and discovery. San Jose Museum of Art The San Jose Museum of Art celebrates new ideas, stimulates creativity and inspires connection with every visit. Rosicrucian Egyptian Museum The Rosicrucian Egyptian Museum is an educational institution that uses trans-disciplinary approaches to increasing knowledge about the past, present and future. The Tech Museum of Innovation The Tech Museum of Innovation is a family-friendly interactive science and technology center. It has become a landmark for visitors seeking a glimpse of the most inventive place on earth—Silicon Valley. Winchester Mystery House The Winchester Mystery House is a mansion that was once the personal residence of Sarah Winchester, the widow of firearm magnate William Wirt Winchester. SAP Center at San Jose The SAP Center is the premier sports and entertainment venue in Northern California. Home to the San Jose Sharks and the San Jose Barracuda. Avaya Stadium Avaya Stadium is the home of Major League Soccer's San Jose Earthquakes. California's Great America Bring the family and enjoy a great time at California's Great America amusement park. Santa Cruz Beach Boardwalk The Santa Cruz Beach Boardwalk is recognized as a vibrant, bustling amusement park, renowned for its great rides, remarkable history, spectacular beach setting and friendly attitude. Theaters San Jose Improv The San Jose Improv delivers a mix of A-list comedy, food and cocktails within a historical theater setting. Opera San Jose Founded by SJSU alumna Irene Dalis, Opera San Jose is a professional, regional opera company specializing in showcasing the finest young professional singers in the nation. Hammer Theatre Hammer Theatre serves the San Jose community through high-quality programming expressive of the unique characteristics and diverse cultures of Silicon Valley. San Jose Theaters Official site of the California Theatre, City National Civic, Montgomery Theater and San Jose's Center for the Performing Arts. San Jose Sports San Jose Earthquakes The San Jose Earthquakes are an American professional soccer team based in San Jose that competes as a member of the Western Conference of Major League Soccer. San Jose Giants The San Jose Giants are a minor league baseball team in San Jose. They are a Class A-Advanced team in the Northern Division of the California League. San Jose Sharks The San Jose Sharks are a professional ice hockey team based in San Jose. They are members of the Pacific Division of the Western Conference of the National Hockey League. Surrounding Area Visitor Information San Francisco Travel Whether you're a first time visitor or a long-time local, San Francisco's Golden Gates welcome all. Visit Oakland Learn about Oakland news, area activities and events, and enjoy this top foodie destination, rich in diversity and culture. Monterey County Convention and Visitors Bureau Monterey county offers iconic California experiences in Monterey, Carmel, Big Sur, Pacific Grove and Pebble Beach. Visit Santa Cruz County Find your flow and follow it to Santa Cruz. Enjoy beaches, redwood forests, cuisine, recreation, wine history and adventure lodging. Bay Area Sports Teams Golden State Warriors The Golden State Warriors are an American professional basketball team based in San Francisco. The Warriors compete in the NBA as a member of the league's Western Conference Pacific Division. Oakland A's The Oakland Athletics, often referred to as the A's, are an American professional baseball team based in Oakland. They compete in MLB as a member club of the American League West division. San Francisco 49ers The San Francisco 49ers are a professional American football team located in Santa Clara. They compete in the NFL as a member of the league's National Football Conference West division. San Francisco Giants The San Francisco Giants are an American professional baseball team based in San Francisco. Transportation ACE Train The Altamont Corridor Express is a commuter rail service in California, connecting Stockton and San Jose. Santa Clara Valley Transportation Authority (VTA) The VTA is an independent special district that provides sustainable, accessible, community-focused transportation options that are innovative, environmentally responsible and promote the vitality of the region. Amtrak The National Railroad Passenger Corporation, Amtrak, is a corporation striving to deliver a high quality, safe, on-time rail passenger service. Bay Area Rapid Transit (BART) BART connects Silicon Valley with the San Francisco Peninsula, Berkeley, Oakland, Fremont, Walnut Creek, Dublin/Pleasanton and other cities in the East Bay. Blue & Gold Fleet Blue & Gold Fleet is a provider of ferry and water excursion services on the San Francisco Bay. Caltrain Caltrain is a California commuter rail line on the San Francisco Peninsula and in Silicon Valley. Greyhound Greyhound is is the largest provider of intercity bus transportation, serving more than 3,800 destinations across North America with a modern, environmentally friendly fleet. SF Municipal Transportation Agency (SF Muni) The San Francisco Municipal Railway is the public transit system for the city and county of San Francisco. Oakland International Airport OAK is California’s fourth largest airport, with more than 11 million passengers every year. Today, 13 airlines offer nonstop service to a growing list of 55 international and domestic destinations. San Francisco International Airport SFO is an international airport 13 miles south of downtown San Francisco. It has flights to points throughout North America and is a major gateway to Europe and Asia. Mineta San Jose International Airport Conveniently serving the region's nearly four million people and thousands of Silicon Valley companies, SJC is Silicon Valley’s airport. Footer San José State University SJSU on Facebook SJSU on Twitter SJSU on LinkedIn SJSU on Instagram SJSU on YouTube One Washington Square San José, CA 95192 408-924-1000 Accessibility Title IX Diversity Land Acknowledgement Privacy Colleges Business Education Engineering Graduate Studies Health and Human Sciences Humanities and the Arts Professional and Global Education Science Social Science Resources A-Z Index Annual Security Report [pdf] Bookstore Calendars Careers and Jobs Catalog Current Students Emergency Food & Housing King Library Parking and Maps Contact Us Contact Form Directory Doing Business with SJSU Emergency Info Report a Web Problem Report a Title IX Complaint Last Updated Feb 1, 2022