Skip to main content Commencement Home Search Menu Boise Global Navigation Apply Visit Give Menu Ready to take the next step? Plan your virtual visit. Search Search All Boise State Commencement Only Spring 2022 Commencement Congratulations Graduates! Boise State University celebrated the spring 2022 commencement ceremony on Saturday, May 7 at Albertsons Stadium. Commencement Commencement FAQs Parking and Guest Info Spring 2022 Graduates Faculty and Volunteers Future Commencement Dates More section menu items Spring 2022 Commencement Sprinkling rain and wind did little to dampen the spirits of the more than 20,000 in attendance at Boise State University’s 110th commencement ceremony at Albertsons Stadium on May 7, honoring undergraduate, graduate and doctoral students who will join more than 100,000 living alumni. This spring, 3,109 Boise State students were eligible for graduation, qualifying for 3,733 degrees or certificates; 1,400 of those degrees and certificates were completed with honors. About 2,400 students covered the Blue turf, the largest graduating class in Boise State history. “You are no stranger to difficult times,” said Dr. Marlene Tromp, president of Boise State. “Remember, graduates, as you set your course to make your unique mark on the world: courage isn’t being unafraid, it is moving ahead, even when you are facing a wall of fear. “Today, I challenge you in periods of hardship to keep going, to keep growing, to take on the next challenge and the next one. I want to tell you that you can take your unique knowledge and talents, that combination of qualities that only you can bring, and make your extraordinary destiny. Take this opportunity, seize it with joy and gratitude for the way hardship has prepared you to do more. Broncos, this is your charge: go out there and make your mark! We’re counting on you, and we’ll be watching!” Spring 2022 Commencement Watch the Ceremony Play Spring 2022 Commencement Ceremony Recap View Gallery Spring 2022 Commencement Official Commencement Photos Purchase Photos Meet student speaker Kenny Huston “Mr. Huston truly embodies the notion of service within the mission of the School of Public Service. He never shies away from lending a helping hand – to fellow students, to staff members, to professors, and to administrators alike. He is a true leader who was born to serve and who asks for nothing in return.” –Dr. Andrew Giacomazzi Learn more about Huston Questions? Check out the FAQs page where your questions may already be answered. FAQs If you still have questions or concerns, please contact us by clicking the link below. Email us More Information FAQs FAQs FAQs Diplomas and Honors Diplomas and Honors Diplomas and Honors Graduation Process Graduation Process Graduation Process Graduation Celebrations Graduation Celebrations Graduation Celebrations Graduation Photos Graduation Photos Graduation Photos Regalia and Accessories Regalia and Accessories Regalia and Accessories Secondary Navigation myBoiseState Safety, Security and Support Career Opportunities Boise State Public Radio Albertsons Library Transportation and Parking Partner with Us Morrison Center Alumni Bronco Shop and Bookstore University Administration ExtraMile Arena Broncos Logo Athletics Follow us on Facebook Follow us on Instagram Follow us on Twitter Follow us on Youtube Accessibility Privacy Classroom Concerns Policies Contact Boise State © 2022 All Rights Reserved. Boise State University Back To Top