Skip to main content Cornell Law School Overview Menu Search The Right Size The Right Location The Right Outcome Apply Close CAREERS Judicial Clerkship About Us Public Service Employers Private Sector Students ACADEMICS Degrees Offered Centers and Programs Clinical Programs Curriculum Academic Calendar Lawyering Program Speaker Series International Programs Graduate Legal Studies ADMISSIONS Apply Degrees Tuition and Financial Aid Ithaca Diversity and Inclusion JD FAQs Recruiting Schedule JD Admitted Students Contact Us FACULTY Media Guide to Faculty Faculty in the News Visiting Assistant Professorships Faculty Blogs Permanent Faculty Visiting Faculty Adjunct and Associated Faculty Emeritus Faculty STUDENT LIFE Office of Dean of Students Student Activities Law School Resources Scoops Registrar's Office CLSA Student Portal ALUMNI & GIVING Services Give Connect Alumni Directory Reunion Contact CAREERS ACADEMICS ADMISSIONS FACULTY STUDENT LIFE ALUMNI & GIVING CAREERS Section Menu Close Menu Judicial Clerkship About Us Public Service Employers Private Sector Students ACADEMICS Section Menu Close Menu Degrees Offered Centers and Programs Clinical Programs Curriculum Academic Calendar Lawyering Program Speaker Series International Programs Graduate Legal Studies ADMISSIONS Section Menu Close Menu Apply Degrees Tuition and Financial Aid Ithaca Diversity and Inclusion JD FAQs Recruiting Schedule JD Admitted Students Contact Us FACULTY Section Menu Close Menu Media Guide to Faculty Faculty in the News Visiting Assistant Professorships Faculty Blogs Permanent Faculty Visiting Faculty Adjunct and Associated Faculty Emeritus Faculty STUDENT LIFE Section Menu Close Menu Office of Dean of Students Student Activities Law School Resources Scoops Registrar's Office CLSA Student Portal ALUMNI & GIVING Section Menu Close Menu Services Give Connect Alumni Directory Reunion Contact The Right SizeThe Right LocationThe Right OutcomeApply Cornell Law School Overview Scroll The Right Choice If you’re looking for a place where you can engage deeply with professors and peers, enjoy your time outside of class, and position yourself for a successful career post graduation, you’ll find it at Cornell Law. Schedule your guided tour of Cornell Law School WHY CORNELL LAW? Size With about 600 J.D. students, we are a close-knit, collegial community of learners. Employment Last year’s graduates secured solid positions around the country and the world. Location The backdrop to the Cornell Law School experience is Ithaca, a beautiful and cosmopolitan small city in the Finger Lakes region of New York state. “I loved my time at the law school. I felt like I really grew, not just academically and professionally, but personally too by meeting people who had different perspectives. Being part of a close-knit and supportive community helped me reset expectations I had for myself.” — Sharice Davids ’10, U.S. Representative for Kansas’s 3rd District A DAY IN THE LIFE VIDEOS Zoe Jones ’15 Robert Hendricks ’19 Dena Rubanowitz ’20 Professor Odette Lienau Professor John Blume The Right Size When you become a student at Cornell Law, you join a close-knit collegial community of learners. Small Classes, Large Offerings Our small student body means you can interact with your classmates in a supportive and friendly environment. And, in spite of our small size, we offer an impressively wide-ranging curriculum. Cornell Law Class Profile Degrees Dedicated Teachers, Engaged Scholars In addition to being prolific scholars, our professors are committed to the classroom. With a low student-faculty ratio, you'll have more opportunities to interact with and get to know your professors than at most top law schools. Meet the Faculty Robust Experience, Practical Learning When students participate in one of our many clinics or externships, they work together with real clients on real issues of law. They engage in actual cases and gain invaluable practical experience at all levels of the process. Clinical Programs Learning by Doing in the Real World “Day after day, the smaller class size at Cornell enables me to learn from my amazing classmates and to be challenged by leading scholars and practitioners in all fields of law.” — Federico J. Winter ’21 The Right Location Living The natural world of Ithaca is breathtaking. You can easily escape your desk by hiking trails along the gorges, taking dips in waterfalls and lakes, biking on woodland paths, skiing down slopes and across fields, or picnicking in the area's many state parks. And with a thriving music and arts community, Ithaca offers abundant cultural opportunities as well. Dining Ithaca is known as a culinary hotspot, with more restaurants per capita than New York City and over 100 vineyards in the surrounding Finger Lakes region. A thriving farm-to-table movement has local chefs and farmers working together in sustainable (and delicious) ways. It’s no wonder some call Ithaca “a foodie paradise.” Ithaca Restaurants Housing The university offers a number of housing options close to the Law School for graduate students. In and around the Ithaca area are also many other fine places to live including modern and historical apartments in private buildings, houses and cooperatives in charming neighborhoods. Graduate School Housing Off-Campus Living “There was no better option for me than Cornell Law and its location in Ithaca. The small class size and deep connection to New York City made it an easy choice.” — Zellnor Myrie ’16, New York State Senator THE BACKDROP TO YOUR EXPERIENCE JD PROGRAM IN NYC The Program in Information and Technology Law Through an innovative new program, students can now spend a semester in New York City studying information and technology law at the Cornell Tech campus on Roosevelt Island. In the midst of the fastest growing tech market in the country, students will explore a variety of legal issues such as privacy and cybersecurity or the constitutional law implications of new technology and big data. Up to twenty JD students can participate full time during any given semester in the Program in Information and Technology Law. The Right Outcome Step Into Success Upon graduation, Cornell Law students are fully prepared for the challenges of the legal landscape. Plus, they stand out in the employment marketplace. “Cornell Law has provided me with the flexibility to craft my legal education according to my career interests.” — Destiny Reyes ’21 Apply NOW APPLY NOW TUITION & EXPENSES FINANCIAL AID Contact Information Admissions/Financial Aid 607 255-5141 JDAdmissions@cornell.edu Facebook Twitter Instagram ABA Required Disclosures ©2020 Cornell University