Skip to main content iastate.edu Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons Iowa State University Veterans Center Menu Toggle Search Toggle Search DSO Community Calendar FAQ About Us Meet the staff Students Current Students FASFA/ University scholarships In-State Tuition Benefit Admission and Returning Leaving for Active Duty Returning from Active Duty Military Education Benefits Military Credits Getting Involved Student Veterans of America Iowa State University Chapter Other Support Counseling Services Disability Resources LGBTQIA+ Services Student Assistance Multi-Cultural Student Affairs Student Legal Services Writing & Media Services Faculty & Staff Faculty and Staff Training Military Credits Academic Support Events Veterans Graduation Celebration Military-affiliated Community Dinners Spring Resume Workshop Financial Literacy Workshop Salute National Honor Society Giving Back Donate: Veterans Community Gratitude Fund Writing to Veterans Operation Hat Trick Contact Us Quick Links In-State Tuition Benefit Veterans Center Staff Login Attendance Policy Attendance Policy What are the University Policies Regarding Missing Class for Military Service? Many student Veterans at Iowa State are still fulfilling service obligations on Active Duty or in the National Guard or Reserve. University policy provides accommodation for these students in the event they are mobilized or receive orders that incidentally conflict with their course schedules. Faculty and staff members who work with student Veterans are encouraged to familiarize themselves with the relevant policies and regulations. University Attendance Policy for Military Service 10.4.3.3 Military Service "Instructors shall excuse absences due to Veteran or military service obligations (including service-related medical appointments, military orders dictating appointments, and National Guard Service obligations). When a student’s military or veteran obligations are for more than two weeks, the student should meet with their advisor to discuss the situation and academic options and work with their instructors to discuss potential accommodations. University procedures are in place for such situations and should be followed. In all instances, students have a responsibility to communicate with their instructors to ensure they are continuing to meet course expectations and requirements. Faculty, staff and students are encouraged to utilize the ISU Veterans Center and review information at veterans.iastate.edu." Amended and approved by the Faculty Senate on 4/17/18; the Senior Vice President and Provost on 4/19/2018; and the ISU President on 4/22/2018. *For additional information regarding the University Attendance Policy, please see the Faculty Handbook Other Sources of Information: Leaving for Active DutyISU Course Catelog Close Announcements Welcome to the Veterans Center! During your time at Iowa State University, you will find a home at the Veterans Center. Our mission is to strengthen the lives of Veterans, military personnel, their families,and our community. You will find the Veterans Center to be a place where you can go for Veteran-related questions and to connect with others in forming a greater sense of camaraderie around a shared common experience. We are here to help with the unique challenges associated with transitioning into a university setting. The Center is located in Room 3540 in the Iowa State Memorial Union and offers an area for students to study, eat, and relax with each other. We are open 8:00 am - 5:00 pm, Monday through Friday. Veterans Center Dean of Students Office ISU Veterans Center 3540 Memorial Union 2229 Lincoln Way Ames, IA 50014-7163 veteranscenter@iastate.edu 515-294-9801 phone Give Facebook Twitter Instagram Email Updates Copyright © 1995-2022 Iowa State University of Science and Technology All rights reserved Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility Consumer information