Skip to main content Search Cornell Cornell Video Explore Home Browse Recent Trending Playlists Series Speakers Topics Contributors Submit MyPlaylist Play all in MyPlaylist Ask a Question tbd Name Email Address Question Send or cancel × Ask a Question Successful Thanks, ! Your question has been submitted. × Carl Ostendarp on painting: 'I like it to feel present' Posted on May 11, 2020 By College of Architecture, Art and Planning (AAP), Media Relations and News Video Platform Video Management Video Solutions Video Player facebook twitter share interactive transcript request transcript/captions live captions download HD video SD video audio | MyPlaylist start: now end: now reset copy link copy embed X CARL OSTENDARP: I have a kind of horror of composition. It tends to make things feel episodic, I think, like big orange thing in the lower left, small blue thing in the upper right. It feels like, oh, this is happening in a moment or this is about a moment that already occurred. And so I like it to feel present. Frieder Burda, who's the collector who built the museum passed away fairly recently. So in part, the show is an homage to him. And that he had a plan that he wanted to do an exhibition there that would be including the collections of his two brothers. They asked Udo Kittleman to be the curator of the show. And he invited me to come and sort of stage the exhibition with wall paintings that the collection will hang on top of. There's four galleries and then a number of walls in between on which we're going to hang the Warhol portrait of these three brothers. This is Frieder, whose museum it is, and then the two brothers next to him. All of the spaces are these sort of images of dripping paint to make you feel like you're inside of the space, each with two different colors, one kind of ground color and one of the sort of image of paint. But they also sort of read like horizon landscape or like EKGs or sound waves or something like that. Mostly, the senses I want people to feel like they're contained, that it's around them, sort of similar to the way you experience music. It's not that it comes at you from one direction, but that you're in it. My job is to work to make the kind of authorship of the paintings included more present, less like historical artifacts and less like opportunities for connoisseurship, that doesn't feel like this is a stop action shot of it, in between one moment and the next. Transcript Request Form Name Email Address Disability Accommodation? Disability Accommodation? Yes No Affiliation -Select- Faculty Staff Student Alumni Other Send Request Cancel X We've received your request You will be notified by email when the transcript and captions are available. The process may take up to 5 business days. Please contact cornellcast@cornell.edu if you have any questions about this request. In his Olive Tjaden Hall studio, professor of art Carl Ostendarp discusses his approach to painting as he prepares wall murals as an installation for a major exhibition opening May 12 at Museum Frieder Burda in Baden-Baden, Germany. Related Links Ostendarp creates colorful backdrops for German exhibit (Cornell Chronicle) More About art German expressionism painting What to watch next 1:39:29 MyPlaylist Xu Bing: The Character of Characters 57:37 MyPlaylist Matthew Weinstein gives 2018 Findlay Family Lecture 1:11:00 MyPlaylist Stoikov Lecture: Ways of Reading Ukiyo-e Paintings and Prints surprise me Subscribe Submit Content Contact us RSS Cornell on YouTube Give Feedback Name Email Comments Send or cancel × Feedback Thanks for writing. We will be in touch shortly to address any questions, concerns, or technical difficulties you may have. × Schedule of Future Events There are no live broadcasts scheduled. × Email Updates See what's new on CornellCast and find out what's coming up next — and how you can take part. Subscribe to receive weekly CornellCast updates via email. Email address Subscribe or cancel × Subscribe Our hamsters have processed your subscription request and advise that the weekly update messages will contain details on unsubscribing in case you need them. × List Sent Our hamsters have processed your request and advise that a summary has been sent to the email address entered. × RSVP to this Live Event tdb tbd Enter your email below to be notified when this event begins Name Email Address Set reminder for Set reminder for 5 minutes 15 minutes 30 minutes 1 hour 1 day before the event starts. RSVP or cancel × RSVP Successful You should receive an email confirmation shortly. We will send you an email reminder before the show begins. You may request additional reminders for other times if you wish. You can also add this event to a calendar of your choice iCal/Outlook/other Google calendar For iCal, an .ics file will be downloaded to your computer or device. You may need to take additional steps to add the event to your personal calendar. × Settings Let us know your preferences and our accommodating hamsters will snap to it! Autoplay: on off Update or cancel × Follow this tbd tbd Enter your email below to be notified when new related videos become available. Name Email Address Follow or cancel × Thanks for Your Interest You should receive an email confirmation shortly. We will send you an email message when new related videos are posted. ×