Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links Campus Safety Menu Main Nav Campus Safety Contact Back Back Close About Overview FAQ BC Police Department Overview About Meet Our Team In Memory FAQ News Accreditation Contact Community Relations & Crime Prevention Community Resource Officer (CRO) R.A.D. Programs Crime Prevention Education Compliments or Complaints Services Emergency Management Overview Potential Hazards Communication How to Prepare What to Do in an Emergency Students with Disabilities Environmental Health & Safety Overview Laboratory Safety Occupational Health & Safety Programs Indoor Environmental Quality Fire Safety Contact Documents Overview Crime Alerts Annual Campus Security & Fire Safety Report Business Continuity Emergency Plans and Publications Contact Close Directory A to Z Listing Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close News Home BC Police Department About News About Meet Our Team In Memory FAQ News Accreditation Contact BCPD seeks Re-Accreditation William B. Evans, Chief of the Boston College Police Department is pleased to announce that a team of assessors from the Massachusetts Police Accreditation Commission is scheduled to arrive on Tuesday, October 08, 2019 to begin examining various aspects of the Boston College Police Department’s policies and procedures, operations and facilities. Verification by the Assessment Team that the Department meets the Commission’s standards is part of a voluntary process to achieve re-Accreditation -- a self-initiated evaluation process by which police departments strive to meet and maintain standards that have been established for the profession, by the profession. The Massachusetts Police Accreditation Program consists of 257 mandatory standards as well as 125 optional standards. In order to achieve accreditation status, the Department must meet all applicable mandatory standards as well as 75 of the optional 125 standards. The Boston College Police Department started the self-assessment process in 2011, was awarded Certification in 2013, initial Accreditation in 2014, and re-Accreditation in 2016. The review period occurs every three years. Achieving Accreditation is a recognition of law enforcement professional excellence. Anyone interested in learning more about this program is invited to call Chief Evans or the Department’s Accreditation Manager Lt. Spiess- 617-552-4440. 18 Local Youth Graduate the Inaugural BC Police Youth Police Academy CHESTNUT HILL, MA – The Boston College Police Department hosted its first Youth Police Academy during the week of August 5th-9th, 2019 with 18 youth cadets from the greater Boston area graduating on Friday, August 9th. The purpose of the academy was to enable the dedicated youth to become self-assured, caring and disciplined adults in a challenging environment and to instill confidence and courage. Through classroom instruction, lectures, field trips and physical training, the academy fostered in each recruit the ability to approach police officers and nourish a friendship between the youth of the community and police officers. Our universities mission reminds us that we continue to build upon our traditions, and to fulfill its Jesuit Catholic mission of faith and service. The Youth Police Academy embodied the youth cadets to be men and women for others, develop their minds and talents to the fullest and use them in service to others. The academy also challenged the individual youth to focus on bettering themselves and their communities, through education and service to others. Youth cadets were identified by members of community youth organizations, and youth service officers. Cadets had to complete an application process which required a 250-500 word essay reflecting the reasoning for their interest, their academic and career goals, and what they hope to obtain from the experience. “It was a nice way to bring the children from inner city areas and the police together to build and foster positive relationships, while stressing and testing the importance of leadership, care for others and team work,” said Chief William B. Evans. Cadets had the opportunity to participate in training exercises similar to what actual police academy cadet’s experience. The academy included classroom sessions in criminal and constitutional law, ethics, crime & fire prevention, crime scene investigations, patrol procedures, alcohol education, and CPR/AED certification. Cadets also participated in physical fitness, ceremony & drill exercises, defensive tactics as well as a ropes challenge and obstacle course. In addition a chance to hear presentations and see demonstrations by BC Head Football Coach Steve Addazio, UGBC Vice President Tiffany Brooks, Boston PD Gang Unit, Harbor/Marine Unit and K-9. Cadets participated in a community service outreach program in the South Street area of Boston in conjunction with National Night Out (against crime) where they met Boston Mayor Marty Walsh, and Suffolk County District Attorney (DA) Rachael Rollins, along with a tour of Gillette Stadium and special meeting with New England Patriots Stephon Gilmore & Devin McCourty. “I wish the program was longer than a week, as it is making me re-think about becoming something in law enforcement,” said Youth Cadet Garcia. “Being here at the academy showed me a part of myself that I didn’t know of.” “I have been showed that I’m capable of many things and if I find anything difficult, I keep trying and don’t give up.” Cadet Garcia added. A huge thank you to Boston College, Boston College Athletics, Boston College Football, Boston College Campus Recreation, Boston College Bookstore, Undergraduate Government of Boston College (UGBC), Spectrum Health Systems, Inc. Target, Whole Foods Market, Wegmans, Sandwich Works, Flat Breads, Eagle Obstacles, Armstrong Ambulance Service , MIT Police, Boston Police Department, Robsham Theater, Gillette Stadium, New England Patriots, Skipjack's Patriot Place and Silver City Gifts for their support of the academy. For more information on the the Youth Police Academy, please contact Lt. Jeff Postell BPD Commissioner Evans named new Chief of Police at BC Read the Story BC Police Chief John M. King announces his retirement Read the Story BCPD Announces Re-Accreditation Process Jogging & Cycling Safety Tips With busy schedule and even limited hours of daylight, some runners and cyclists find their only time to run or ride is in the darkness of early morning and evenings. Running and riding is always a safer choice, but if you have to run or ride at night or in the early morning, make sure to following these tips. Choose well-lit and traveled routes Always run against traffic Always ride with traffic Be visibile Watch for vehicles Always carry identification with you Run/Ride with a buddy Carry a cellphone Ditch your music, or keep volume level down While running make eye contact Report supsicious person/circumstances Additionally, if you are running or riding in the early morning or night time hours, you should consider wearing wearing bright colors and reflective gear. Archive 2014 BC Police Implements QR Codes Unsung Hero: Friendly face in late-night security guard Eagle Safety Escort Updated BC Police Earns Certificate of Certification BCPD Provides Resources to Special Olympics BC Rebranded Police Program Launched Student Arrested for Gasson, Stokes Fires Postell Honored for Community Policing BCPD Police Chief John King Honored for Administrative Excellence BCPD Promotes Five BCPD Receives Accrediation Back To Top Back To Top Boston College Police Department Maloney Hall 617-552-4444 About BC Police Department Emergency Preparedness Environmental Health & Safety Documents To report a campus emergency: Call BC Police @ 617-552-4444 In case of fire call 911 Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College