Skip to main content Go to site search Go to primary navigation Go to resources navigation Penn COVID-19 Response » Penn Home Toggle Site Navigation Toggle Site Search Academics More Academics Undergraduate Graduate Schools Global Initiatives Interdisciplinary Online Learning Off-campus Learning Libraries Admissions & Aid Athletics Research & Innovation More Research & Innovation Research Enterprise Research News Life at Penn More Life at Penn Arts & Culture Community Involvement More Community Involvement Penn & Philadelphia Diversity Groups & Organizations Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Safety & Security More Safety & Security Emergency Contacts Emergency Preparedness Spirituality & Religion About More About Introduction to Penn History Facts News, Media, & Communication Services Sustainability FAQ Penn’s Interim President, Wendell Pritchett Trustees & Administration Policies Toggle Site Search Resources Current Students Faculty & Staff Parents Alumni Visitors A-Z Directory Webmail Services Give to Penn Search Search Close Breadcrumb Home / About / Frequently Asked Questions Frequently Asked Questions A useful reference outlining the rules and regulations that govern the University. Where is Penn located? Penn’s 299-acre urban campus is located in the West Philadelphia neighborhood known as University City, just across the Schuylkill River from Center City Philadelphia. Penn also maintains the 23-acre Pennovation Works campus in Grays Ferry, and sites in San Francisco, Washington, D.C., and Beijing. The Morris Arboretum is located in Chestnut Hill and Penn Vet’s New Bolton Center is in Kennett Square. Is Penn a state university? No. The University of Pennsylvania is a private Ivy League institution with no connection to Pennsylvania State University. How much does it cost to attend Penn? Tuition and fees for the 2021-22 academic year are $61,710, room and board fees total $17,304. Visit the Student Registration & Financial Services website for more information on paying for a Penn education. How do I apply to Penn? Penn’s Undergraduate Admissions website provides complete information on the admissions process and how to prepare to apply to Penn. Graduate and professional program admissions are handled individually by each of Penn’s 12 graduate and professional schools. Visit the site of the school you wish to attend for information. What are the average class rank and test scores for students admitted to Penn? Penn received 56,332 applications for admission to the Class of 2025. Of those applicants, 3,304 or 6 percent, were offered admission. Ninety-three percent of the students admitted for Fall 2021 came from the top 10 percent of their high school graduating class. The middle 50% of scores, as well as the median scores, on each of the two SAT components, are as follows: SAT Evidence-based Reading + Writing component: 720 to 770, with a median of 750 SAT Math component: 760 to 800, with a median of 780 2,418 students matriculated into this year's freshman class. What kind of financial aid do you offer? Penn’s grant-based undergraduate financial aid program meets 100% of demonstrated financial need with grants and work-study funding, making it possible for students to graduate with a world-class undergraduate degree debt-free. At the graduate level, each of the graduate and professional schools offers program-specific financial aid and counseling on federal and private loans. Whatever your circumstances, Penn has programs designed to make attending affordable. Where can I find facts and figures? Our Facts & Figures page has statistics on student enrollment, faculty size, faculty honors, athletics, employment, endowment and more. Where can I find a map of the campus? There's an interactive map available online. Where can I learn more Penn's history? Visit the University Archives website. What are your colors and mascot? Our colors are red and blue; our sports teams are nicknamed the Quakers, and a Quaker mascot performs at football games. What does your motto mean? Our motto, Leges sine moribus vanae, translates to “Laws without morals are useless.” Philadelphia, PA 19104 Telephone: (215) 898-5000 Contact Us Maps Parking Navigate Alumni Athletics Diversity Health Care Libraries Online Learning Penn Global Penn's Heritage As America’s first university, Penn has a history that dates back to 1740 and shares many ties with the colonial city of Philadelphia and the birth of our nation. Our History Disclaimer Emergency Services Nondiscrimination Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement Back To Top