Skip to main content Menu Discover Majors and Careers Admissions and Aid Campus Life Spirit and Traditions Athletics Raleigh, N.C. Apply Visit Give About NC State 101 Chancellor Rankings and Facts Think and Do Education Undergraduate Graduate Online Colleges and Departments Innovation Research Partnerships Centennial Campus Entrepreneurship Community Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Global Engagement Outreach and Extension Philanthropy and Giving Apply Visit Give Information For: Students Faculty and Staff Parents and Families Alumni NC State Resources Research NC State is a research powerhouse that overcomes global challenges and works with industry and government to improve our world. We Solve Problems No matter where it starts — in a lab on campus, in a field in rural North Carolina, on an island in the Pacific — all NC State research ultimately arrives at the same destination: the real world. Our faculty and students engage with real problems, and they find real solutions. We’re a leader in big data, biomedical engineering, materials science, food safety, translational medicine and more. And our research gets results. Results Magazine NC State is a wellspring of big ideas and bold steps forward. Want to follow along? Our digital magazine, Results, is your source for the latest research and innovation stories coming out of campus. Start reading From Our Labs to Your Life NC State’s world-class researchers get straight to work solving society’s most pressing problems — and their innovative outcomes are felt locally, nationally and globally. See Where We Shine Explore the five strategic research areas that define our university’s focus. We develop textile technology that helps the human body heal. We raise healthier animals and grow more nutritious crops. We train best-in-class educators and bring history to life through the digital humanities. We architect smarter, more sustainable communities. We engineer efficient energy and upgrade infrastructure. We even use artificial intelligence to predict and respond to natural disasters. Quantum computing. Data analysis. Precision agriculture. CRISPR. Tomorrow’s most advanced fields all have roots right here. Research in Action More News New Studies Shed Light on Election-Related Stress Anticipating stress related to elections can affect your emotional well-being before anything has even happened. A School of Fishes At a research center in the port town of Morehead City, 18 veterinary medicine students get hands-on experience operating on fish. Twisted Soft Robots Navigate Mazes Without Human Or Computer Guidance The soft robots demonstrate a concept called "physical intelligence." $546 Million in Annual Research Expenditures NC State is No. 6 in research spending among public universities without a medical school. Take a deeper dive A Hub for Scientific Inquiry At NC State, we believe that research is for everyone and big ideas can come from anywhere. So we’ve turned our campus into a beacon for curious, creative thinkers of all kinds. You’ll find students, faculty members and multinational corporations alike chasing their hunches here — and joining forces to solve problems together. We also know that the world’s grand challenges don’t mimic the neat organizational structure of a traditional university. NC State finds new ways to bridge the disciplines every day, whether it’s through our interdisciplinary faculty clusters or our state-of-the-art facilities designed to foster collaboration. 23 National Academy Members leading the way in engineering, medicine and the sciences #5 in Invention Disclosures among public universities without a medical school 190+ Startups and Spinoffs launched on the basis of NC State research Powerful Partnerships 70+ Industry, Government and Nonprofit Partners located on our Centennial Campus Be one of them Innovation is a team sport. That’s why we reach out to partners across the public and private sectors in our search for global solutions. NC State’s Centennial Campus, an award-winning national model for public-private research campuses, houses more than 70 government, industry and nonprofit partners alongside an equal number of NC State research and academic units. In every partnership — from driving innovation with the National Science Foundation to helping businesses bring ideas to market — we work for more than our own interests: We seek solutions that will serve all of society. Engage With Us Partnerships Put a leading research university to work for you. Our industry partners get access to unparalleled brainpower, top-of-the-line facilities and more. Learn how you’ll benefit Centennial Campus Discover one of the premier research campuses in North America, a vibrant community where faculty, students and partners work side by side. Take a trip to Centennial Commercialization We provide innovators with a range of programs and services to protect, market and license intellectual property developed at NC State. Join an economic engine Office of Research and Innovation NC State’s Office of Research and Innovation supports leading-edge research and scholarship in the Wolfpack community by fostering collaborations, securing funding, helping entrepreneurs commercialize research and more. See how we drive discovery Home Raleigh, NC 27695 919.515.2011 Campus Map Academic Calendar Accessibility Apply Contact Copyright COVID-19 Updates Directory Emergency Information Free Speech Jobs Libraries MyPack Portal Policies Privacy Statement Resources Strategic Plan Connect With Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.