Skip to main content Home About the School Apply to the School Exhibitions Publications News Public Events Close Yale School of Art 1156 Chapel Street, POB 208339 New Haven, Connecticut, 06520-8339 Pause animations Play animations Home About the School Apply to the School Exhibitions Publications News Public Events Pause animations Play animations This website exists as an ongoing collaborative experiment in digital publishing and information sharing. Because this website functions as a wiki, all members of the School of Art community—graduate students, faculty, staff, and alums—have the ability to add new content and pages, and to edit most of the site’s existing content. Content is the property of its various authors. When you contribute to this site, you agree to abide by Yale University academic and network use policy, and to act as a responsible member of our community. Visitor: Log in Edit this page Page history Page last changed by: Taryn Wolf Background changed by: Kris Mandelbaum Academic Calendar 2021–2022 academic calendar FALL 2021 Aug. 25-27 W.- F. — Orientation for new students. Aug. 30 M. — Registration for all students. Sept. 1 W. — Fall-term classes begin, 8:20 a.m. Sept. 6 M. — Labor Day; classes do not meet. Sept. 15 W. — Last day to add a course with permission of registrar. Oct. 29 F. — Midterm; Last day to withdraw from a fall full-term course without the course appearing on the transcript. Nov. 19 F. — November recess begins, 5:30 p.m. Nov. 29 M. — Classes resume, 8:20 a.m. Dec. 10 F. — Last day to withdraw from a course with permission of instructor and registrar.; Fall-term classes end, 5:30 p.m.; Reading period begins. Dec. 16 Th. — Critiques and examinations begin, 9 a.m. Dec. 22 W. — Critiques and examinations end, 5:30 p.m.; Winter recess begins. SPRING 2022 Jan. 9 Su. — Closing date for submission of online applications for admission in September 2022. Jan. 17 M. — Martin Luther King, Jr. Day. Offices closed. Jan. 20 Th. — Registration for all students. Jan. 25 T. — Spring-term classes begin, 8:20 a.m. with online instruction through February 4. Feb. 8 T. — Last day to add a course with permission of registrar. Mar. 11 F. — Midterm; Last day to withdraw from a fall full-term course without the course appearing on the transcript. Mar. 18 F. — Spring recess begins, 5:30 p.m. Mar. 28 M. — Classes resume, 8:20 a.m. Apr. 29 F. — Last day to withdraw from a course with permission of instructor and registrar; Spring-term classes end, 5:30 p.m.; Reading period begins May 6 F. — Critiques and examinations begin, 9 a.m. May 11 W. — Critiques and examinations end, 5:30 p.m.; Summer recess begins. May 23 M. — University Commencement, 10:30 a.m.; School of Art Diploma Ceremony, 4:00 p.m. Editor details Last edited by: Taryn Wolf Edit access: Everybody School of Art Events Calendar See a listing of all School of Art Events and affiliated events of interest at the University. Click here! Editor details Last edited by: Sarah Stevens-Morling Edit access: Everybody See also: Yale College Arts Calendar © 2022 Support the School Visiting Instagram Facebook YouTube Contact Sitemap Accessibility at Yale This website exists as an ongoing collaborative experiment in digital publishing and information sharing. Because this website functions as a wiki, all members of the School of Art community—graduate students, faculty, staff, and alums—have the ability to add new content and pages, and to edit most of the site’s existing content. Content is the property of its various authors. When you contribute to this site, you agree to abide by Yale University academic and network use policy, and to act as a responsible member of our community. Visitor: Log in Edit this page Page history Page last changed by: Taryn Wolf Background changed by: Kris Mandelbaum