Skip to Main Content Brown University News from Brown Site Navigation Featured Events For Journalists Search Menu Topics News and Events Date March 22, 2022 2022-03-22 Media Contact Maggie Spear [email protected] 401-863-7287 All News Share Facebook Twitter Linkedin Email Academic innovation leader Shankar K. Prasad to lead Brown’s School of Professional Studies as dean As the next dean of the School of Professional Studies, Prasad will oversee a portfolio of master’s degree programs for executives and a suite of flexible and innovative non-degree programs for individuals and organizations. PROVIDENCE, R.I. [Brown University] — Shankar K. Prasad, a Brown Ph.D. alumnus who has led strategic initiatives at the University in a variety of academic and administrative leadership roles for nearly seven years, has been appointed dean of Brown’s School of Professional Studies. Prasad serves currently as Brown’s deputy provost and vice president for academic innovation, a role in which he works closely with Provost Richard M. Locke to build community and advance academic excellence, operational effectiveness and financial sustainability. He has focused significantly on partnering with academic units to leverage digital education tools to reach new and diverse audiences of learners across the world. Effective July 1, 2022, Prasad will succeed Leah VanWey, who will become dean of the faculty at Brown after a successful three-year tenure as School of Professional Studies dean. In addition to his position as dean, Prasad will retain his role as vice president for academic innovation. Locke announced his appointment in a Tuesday, March 22, message to the University community. “Over the past seven years, Shankar Prasad has played an instrumental role in developing and managing a wide range of priorities at Brown, from new global engagement initiatives and online education efforts to the launch and expansion of academic units including the Nelson Center for Entrepreneurship, Brown Arts Institute and Policy Lab at Brown,” Locke said. “He’s a strategic and innovative leader who has built deep partnerships both on campus and beyond, and he’s an ideal colleague to guide Brown’s professional education programs.” The School of Professional Studies prepares accomplished professionals for careers as industry leaders through master’s programs in health care leadership, business administration and technology, and a suite of flexible and innovative non-degree programs for individuals and organizations. The school also supports the majority of Brown’s early-career master’s programs and the students in those programs through coordinated administrative and student support services including admissions, marketing, career advising and student activities. As dean, Prasad will provide executive oversight of the school’s academic programs, finance and administrative operations, and student life, and work with academic leaders across the University to develop new areas for growth and success. He will also develop and manage a growing portfolio of credit and non-credit programs that align with the University’s strategic priorities and reach new audiences of professional learners. Supporting the provost and my colleagues in the office to advance academic excellence, financial sustainability, and diversity, equity and inclusion over the past seven years has been the highlight of my professional career to date. Shankar K. Prasad Incoming Dean of the School of Professional Studies Prasad’s experiences at Brown uniquely position him for his new role, Locke said. Serving as Brown’s first vice president for academic innovation, Prasad developed initiatives to reach learners across the globe through digital education platforms. He helped to launch the successful Pandemic Problem Solving course and a Business Bootcamp run in partnership with Hult International Business School. This semester, he partnered with the School of Public Health to launch an online MPH program, the University’s first exclusively online degree program. Locke noted that Prasad’s commitment to advancing diversity, equity and inclusion will inform his leadership approach at SPS. He played a key role in developing Brown’s Diversity and Inclusion Action Plan (DIAP) in 2016. He also led the Office of the Provost’s DIAP committee, served on Brown’s Diversity and Inclusion Oversight Board and has served in governance and advisory roles for the Leadership Alliance, the Native American and Indigenous Studies Initiative at Brown, and the Policy Lab at Brown. Prior to his current role, as associate and then deputy provost for global engagement and strategic initiatives from 2016 to 2020, Prasad wrote the University’s first global strategy for advancing research, teaching and learning around the world, working simultaneously to create an inclusive community for international students, staff and faculty on campus. In recognition of those efforts, the launch of the Global Brown lounge and the expansion of the Office of International Student and Scholar Services, Brown was awarded a Senator Paul Simon Award for Campus Internalization in 2019. “Supporting the provost and my colleagues in the office to advance academic excellence, financial sustainability, and diversity, equity and inclusion over the past seven years has been the highlight of my professional career to date,” Prasad said. “I am thrilled to begin a new chapter at Brown focused on advancing professional education and creating pathways of access to diverse learners here in Providence and around the world.” Prasad holds a Ph.D. in political science from Brown and bachelor’s degrees in finance, political science and French from Rutgers University. He served as director of undergraduate studies and clinical professor of public policy at New York University’s Robert F. Wagner School of Public Service from 2009 to 2014. In 2014, he returned to Brown as associate director of the Watson Institute for International and Public Affairs, where he was instrumental in redesigning the undergraduate and graduate policy programs, and led the transformation of the master of public affairs program into a one-year, global program, developing exchange programs with Sweden, Brazil and India. As dean of the School of Professional Studies, Prasad will serve as a member of the president’s cabinet and a member of the provost’s leadership group of senior academic deans, which coordinates academic priorities across the University. Tags Faculty and Staff Finance and Administration School of Professional Studies Related news: News and Events Brown Corporation elects two new fellows, eight trustees June 1, 2022 Brown’s governing body elected each new member based on their commitment to the University and its mission of education and research. Read Article Open details for Brown Corporation elects two new fellows, eight trustees News and Events Brown Corporation approves base budget for Fiscal Year 2023 June 1, 2022 The $1.5 billion base budget includes deep investments in student financial aid and support for faculty and staff, balancing continued advancement in academic excellence with a focus on long-term financial sustainability. Read Article Open details for Brown Corporation approves base budget for Fiscal Year 2023 News and Events In three ceremonies, medical, doctoral and master’s graduates celebrate hard-earned degrees May 29, 2022 In addresses at Brown’s Commencement ceremonies on Sunday, May 29, student speakers entreated their peers to make a positive impact using lessons they had learned during the COVID-19 pandemic. Read Article Open details for In three ceremonies, medical, doctoral and master’s graduates celebrate hard-earned degrees Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Snapchat Twitter YouTube Social Media Directory © Brown University Brown University For You Current Students Faculty Staff Parents & Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Featured Events For Journalists Topics Arts and Humanities Environment Health and Medicine News and Events Science and Technology Social Sciences Student Life University Initiatives Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events For You Give to Brown All of Brown.edu People News Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Academic innovation leader Shankar K. Prasad to lead Brown’s School of Professional Studies as dean Open details for Academic innovation leader Shankar K. Prasad to lead Brown’s School of Professional Studies as dean Bookmark this Page