Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Office of the Bursar Bursar right arrow down arrow Tuition & Fees right arrow down arrow Tuition Guarantee Policy Graduate & Professional Students Non-Resident Surcharges Program Fees Special Course Fees Student Health Insurance How Fees Are Determined Prior Year Tuition & Fees right arrow down arrow Academic Year 2021-2022 right arrow down arrow Graduate & Professional Students Non-Resident Surcharges Program Fees Special Course Fees Student Health Insurance Academic Year 2020-2021 right arrow down arrow Graduate & Professional Students Non-Resident Surcharges Program Fees Special Course Fees Student Health Insurance Academic Year 2019-2020 right arrow down arrow Graduate & Professional Students Non-Resident Surcharges Program Fees Special Course Fees Student Health Insurance Paying your Bill right arrow down arrow Payment Options Tuition Payment Plan International Payments Scholarship Payments Billed Sponsored Aid Veterans Benefits Refunds right arrow down arrow Direct Deposit Enrollment Refund Frequently Asked Questions Tuition Refund Appeals right arrow down arrow Tuition Refund Appeals Process Frequently Asked Questions Tuition Insurance Past Due Accounts right arrow down arrow Collections Payment Plans Collections Timeline Loans right arrow down arrow Short Term Loan Loan Repayment Student Loan FAQ's Tax Forms & Disclosures right arrow down arrow Form 1098-T right arrow down arrow Detailed Explantion of the 1098-T Form 1098-T FAQs Form 1042-S Banking Contract Disclosure Contact Us right arrow down arrow The Team Bursar Contact Form Home » About UC » Office of the Bursar » Paying your Bill » International Payments Set Navigation title in component Payment Options Tuition Payment Plan International Payments Scholarship Payments Billed Sponsored Aid Veterans Benefits International Payments The University of Cincinnati has partnered with Flywire to offer an innovative and streamlined way to make a payment from your home country. Founded by a former international student, Flywire's mission is to save money for international students and their families that would otherwise be lost on bank fees and unfavorable foreign exchange rates. Saves money - using Flywire will save you hundreds of dollars on each tuition payment vs. traditional bank wires Simple - no more back-and-forth with the school and the bank trying to get all the information you need to make a wire payment Quick - no more waiting and wondering if your payment has posted to your account. Flywire will keep you and UC informed along the way. How it works: Flywire accepts payments from any country typically in your home currency. We work to secure your wholesale foreign exchange rates, which are significantly lower than rates offered by traditional banks. Login to your Catalyst portal, select the "Finances" tile, and then click "Make a Payment" located in the "Account Summary" section. You will be transferred to CASHNet securely hosted by our payment partner, Higher One. Once the payer is transferred to CASHNet payers will be offered 3 methods of payment; Flywire, eCheck/ACH or credit card. After selecting Flywire, you will select your preferred payment method from the options provided. Options may include bank transfer, debit/credit card in your home currency, electronic payment, or other local options. Follow the instructions provided to send funds to Flywire. For bank transfers, follow the instructions provided to send your funds. Depending on your bank, payment may be made online, in person, or over the phone. For debit/credit card payments, enter your card details online to complete your payment in your home currency. Note: Additional local payment options may be available depending on the country you are paying from. Track your payment by logging into your Flywire account at any time. Receive text and email status updates each step of the way, including a confirmation when your payment has been delivered to your institution. Payments from India Payments from China Payments from Brazil Payments from Nigeria Wire Process Questions? Need Help? Contact Flywire: Contact Method Contact Information Telephone: 1(617)207-7076 U.S. Toll-Free: 1(800)346-9252 E-Mail: support@flywire.com Web: www.Flywire.com/help The university can only accept international wire payments via Flywire. Flywire is our 3rd-party coordinator and have assisted many students with payments. Please have your bank representative contact Flywire with any inquires and they will be very glad to assist. If it is absolutely not possible to use Flywire, the only other option to make an international payment would be a demand draft. If you want to send a demand draft, it should be made payable to the "University of Cincinnati" and sent to the following address: University of Cincinnati, Bursar Operations P.O. Box 210140 Cincinnati, OH 45221-0140 Office of the Bursar University of Cincinnati 2618 McMicken Circle 500 University Pavilion Cincinnati, OH 45221 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Office of the Bursar University of Cincinnati 2618 McMicken Circle 500 University Pavilion Cincinnati, OH 45221 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top