Skip to main content UCF News | Stories of Impact + Innovation | Orlando, FL Sections × UCF News | Stories of Impact + Innovation | Orlando, FL Arts Business Colleges Community Health Opinions Science & Tech Sports Student Life Tuesday, May 31, 2022 88ºF Mostly cloudy Colleges & Campus Alumnus’ $1M Gift Aims to Make UCF a National Center for PTSD Treatment By UCF Foundation | November 10, 2016 A $1 million gift from Jim Rosengren, ’81, will fund PTSD treatment and research at the UCF RESTORES clinic. Even when deployment ends, sometimes the war comes home. For Josh Rosengren, a UCF alumnus, the horrors of war followed him back stateside. After two tours in Iraq, he returned home not only with physical wounds but also severe PTSD. His father, Jim Rosengren, ’81, a disabled veteran himself who began his 23-year Army career as a field medic, recognized the signs. “There were whole days he’d be outside in a sitting fetal position and he’d just rock back and forth,” says Rosengren. He wanted to help Josh, but also knew that his son was not alone. For millions of veterans, active duty personnel, and first-responders, their self-sacrifices and service to others can carry a heavy physical and emotional toll. After hearing that UCF had a PTSD clinic – UCF RESTORES – that was achieving success, Rosengren, now CEO of a healthcare company that serves more than 3 million veterans through government contracts, wanted to see the data. What he saw was a cutting edge trauma treatment program that uses customized virtual reality to allow veterans to re-experience the sights, sounds, and smells of war. The program produced results that were five times as great as that reported by VA hospitals. “We have an intensive, three-week treatment program that we’ve found to be highly effective,” said Deborah Beidel, a UCF Pegasus Professor of psychology who leads the UCF RESTORES clinic. “After three weeks of treatment, 67 percent of veterans no longer have PTSD — and more importantly, at follow-up six months later, we haven’t seen them relapse.” Rosengren made a $1 million commitment to support UCF RESTORES because he shares the vision of scientific research, cutting edge treatment, and education that trains the next generation of health care providers. He’s well aware, though, that even with his commitment, the clinic cannot provide treatment for the many veterans, active duty personnel and first responders who need it. Research grants from the Department of Defense enabled Beidel to develop the treatment, but the clinic needs ongoing funding to keep its doors open. “We just need to be able to treat thousands and thousands more,” Rosengren says. “We can give these people their lives back and their families back.” He’d like to see UCF’s success go nationwide. His hope is that by training growing numbers of clinicians in the same therapy, Beidel and her team at UCF RESTORES will see their success replicated across the country. With his $1 million commitment, Rosengren is ensuring that military personnel and first responders know that there will be No Soldier Left Behind – not just at the time of the trauma, but even when the memories follow them home. To learn more about UCF Restores and its impact in our veterans’ own words: Youtube: UCF RESTORES. Or visit https://www.ucffoundation.org/ucf-restores to find out how you can help. Share this content on Facebook Tweet this content Share this content on LinkedIn More Headlines Celebrating the National Pan-Hellenic Council’s Divine Nine at UCF May 31, 2022 UCF Football Venue to Become FBC Mortgage Stadium May 31, 2022 Turning Events into Careers May 31, 2022 UCF Students Oust Top Teams at 2022 North America Collegiate Programming Contest, Advance to World Finals May 31, 2022 More About Deborah Beidel 2 UCF Professors Inducted into Academy of Science, Engineering and Medicine of Florida November 5, 2021 Knights Do That: PTSD Treatment That Works for Veterans, First Responders November 1, 2021 WUCF Earns 4 Regional Emmy Nominations October 19, 2021 More About Colleges & Campus Knights Do That Podcast: Best Moments of Season 1 and 2 May 31, 2022 When Hurricanes Strike, Social Media Can Save Lives May 27, 2022 How to Prepare for Hurricane Season May 27, 2022 More Topics UCF Foundation Deborah Beidel UCF RESTORES PTSD Department of Psychology University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida