COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Women of Wichita State University Section Menu About WWSU History Membership Courtesy Social Events Interest Groups Newsletters WWSU Scholarship/Fellowship Fundraising Board Members Bylaws Scholarship/Fellowship Awards Women of Wichita State seek to foster opportunities for female-identifying and non-binary students to achieve their academic goals through scholarships. Applications for the 2022-2023 academic year are available. Contact WWSU Scholarship Chair, Anne Marie Brown, at annemarie.brown@wichita.edu. About WWSU Student Scholarships Guidelines Application About WWSU Student Scholarships Women of Wichita State University (WWSU) was formed in the Fall of 2018 by the combination of two groups; the Wichita State University Women's Association (WSU Dames), founded in 1928, and the Council of University Women (CUW)found in 1930. The purpose of the group is to serve the interests of the University, to provide student scholarships, and to promote social interaction and a sense of community among its members. The Women of Wichita State University (WWSU) administers the following scholarships: WSU Dames CUW WWSU Back to Top Guidelines Scholarship(s) will be awarded annually to a student(s) enrolled full or part time at Wichita State University. Recipients must be enrolled in at least 6 credit hours per semester. No recipient will be excluded from consideration based on race, religion, color, national origin, gender, age, sexual orientation, marital status, status as a veteran, or disability. Preference will be given to non-traditional students (graduate or undergraduate) with a minimum GPA of 3.0. (Applicants must provide a transcript to verify GPA.) Award(s) will be made with regard to financial need. The Wichita State University Office of Financial Aid will administer the scholarship(s) based on recommendations approved by the Women of Wichita State University. The scholarship(s) may be renewed if the committee deems it desirable. Back to Top Application Applications for the 2022-2023 Academic Year must be received by May 31, 2022. Candidates must apply for consideration to this scholarship. To submit a complete application, send the following to annemarie.brown@wichita.edu: *more information about these requirements are in the application completed scholarship application (linked below) personal statement current unofficial WSU transcript Candidates will receive written notification of their award status in late June. Recipients are encouraged to attend at least one WWSU event during the 2022-2023 school year as our guest. If you have questions please contact WWSU Scholarship Chair, Anne Marie Brown, at annemarie.brown@wichita.edu. 2022-2023 WWSU Scholarship Application Back to Top Contact Us 1845 Fairmount St. Box 053 Wichita, Kansas 67260 annemarie.brown@wichita.edu 316-978-3500 facebook 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©