Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Explore Brown University Search Global Navigation Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Hassenfeld Child Health Innovation Institute Home About Mission & History Partners People Executive Committee Core Research and Evaluation Unit Faculty Scholars Data Core Survey Research Team Administrative Staff In the Spotlight Initiative Teams Scientific Committees Advisory Council Financial Team List of Faculty Our Work Resources For Families Community of Learners Events Get Involved Site Navigation Home For Participants About the Hassenfeld Study Hassenfeld Study: Leadership Hassenfeld Study: Research Assistants About Mission & History Partners People Executive Committee Core Research and Evaluation Unit Faculty Scholars Data Core Survey Research Team Administrative Staff In the Spotlight Initiative Teams Scientific Committees Advisory Council Financial Team List of Faculty Our Work Asthma ABC Study Project CARE RI AIR Hotspot Analysis Home Asthma Response Program Neighborhood Risk Autism Genetics PHOEBE Study Prospective Infant Behavioral Study Play and Autism RI-CART Healthy Weight Summer Weight Gain Pregnancy and Early Childhood Expanding Scope of Treatment Measuring Overweight and Obesity The Hassenfeld Study Postpartum Cohort Prenatal Cohort Injury and Poisoning Neighborhood Disparities in Lead Poisoning Lead & Prematurity Fall-related Injuries Liquor Stores & Teen ED Use Frequent ED Use ED Use & Insurance Coverage Traumatic Brain Injury Burns Resources For Families English Español Community of Learners Summer Scholars 2021 Summer Scholars 2020 Summer Scholars 2019 Summer Scholars 2018 Summer Scholars 2017 Summer Scholars 2016 Summer Scholars Research Scholars Events Hassenfeld Institute Child Health Seminar Series Past events and webinars Get Involved Give to the Institute Hassenfeld Child Health Innovation Awards Three Innovation Awards Focus on Childhood Disparities in a Single Core City PROVIDENCE, R.I - Children in Rhode Island’s smallest core city gained new learning and enrichment options this summer through two 2021 Hassenfeld Child Health Innovation Awards, and a third opportunity will begin in October. The Hassenfeld Child Health Innovation Institute at Brown University is partnering with the Central Falls School Department, Progresso Latino, and new awardee Project GOAL on pilot projects testing ways to tackle health and learning disparities in Central Falls. “Health and education are closely connected,” says Institute Director Patrick M. Vivier. “Children need to be healthy to learn, and education is an important determinant of future health. It is exciting to see these partnerships working to foster health and education for children in Central Falls.” Central Falls has the highest rate of children living in poverty in the state. Child obesity is twice the state average, and the city’s lead poisoning level is the worst in the state. The lagging reading scores in the third grade—a pivotal point to shift from learning to read to reading to learn—can portend lower graduation rates and more likely incarceration. ‘Holistic Care’ “The Hassenfeld Institute is a catalyst with Brown thinking about holistic care,” says Stephanie Downey Toledo, superintendent of schools for the Central Falls School District. “The collaboration between Brown and CFSD has been an incredible way to bring innovative support to our students while also living out the commitment that both organizations have to equity.” The three pilot projects broaden the horizons of children living in poverty, who tend to have fewer after-school and summer enrichment activities. In addition to tutoring, opportunities range from field trips and meeting role models to cooking healthy recipes and playing sports. Through the Lifting Rising Third-Graders in Central Falls project, 12 children attended a five-week summer program and have access to tutoring in the current school year. The team is anchored by education professionals Mary Ann Snider and Lupe Vivier, who volunteered their time; and includes three Hassenfeld Summer Scholars, interns trained gratis by Joyce Ball, a seasoned reading specialist. The scholars are: Nikita Baregala Lopez, a public health concentrator on the pre-medical track Megan Feragne, a master student in global health at the Brown School of Public Health Callista “Callie” Zingas, a master student in public health at the School of Public Health The team uses evidence-based teaching strategies. Given the students’ broad range of skills, the four-to-one student-intern ratio was ideal, says Lupe Vivier, an elementary-level teacher, because “the team could be nimble and pivot.” ‘Empowered Learners’ Feragne, who learned how to teach reading and how to read the room to identify needs, says the intensive approach “had an incredible impact on 12 kids.” For those with a parent working the night shift, she adds, it meant engagement rather than staring at an iPad at home. Nikita Baregala Lopez encountered “heavy issues” like housing and food insecurity that she couldn’t solve—a good lesson, she says—but could answer questions. A girl, she recalls, said she loved that there’s always a teacher to ask for help. The children became “empowered learners,” observes Snider, a consultant and former deputy commissioner of the RI Department of Education. “A quiet, hesitant reader became such a reader,” she added, “and declared: ‘I guess I’m really smart!’ ” Their world was Central Falls—but widened as they walked nature trails, visited a dairy farm, and met Brown soccer players on campus. Career days featured an architect, a state trooper, a nurse, a librarian, and their own school superintendent. Each day they learned about healthy cooking, yoga, and mindfulness. “They are now part of a bigger community,” says Snider. New Snacks, New Sports Progresso Latino’s award enabled the organization to expand its pre-kindergarten child engagement to elementary-school kids and their parents. The one-year project provides safe spaces for physical activity and encourages fitness and healthy eating, with institute help in data collection and analysis. “This is a huge opportunity for us in a community where kids don’t have access to lessons and nutrition training,” says project leader Zelma Malave. The pilot started in June, ran five days a week for seven weeks, and continues in after-school hours in 2021-22. Kids enjoyed karate, tennis, swimming and cooking lessons. Other highlights: free ingredients for healthy snacks and the discovery that nutritious meals taste good. Parents wanted the recipes, Malave says, and one was surprised to see her child counting the grams of sugar in juice. Scholar-Athlete Modeling Middle-school students have an enhanced opportunity to become scholar-athletes with tutoring help from Brown students through the Project GOAL award. The after-school academic and soccer program for at-risk students starts this fall. The institute brings academic resources and access to college students to the partnership, while the community group has 17 years of experience providing the free program to fifth-to-eighth graders in Central Falls, where soccer is culturally important. Typically, at least 25% of the participants are non-English speakers. There are fewer role models for completing high school and going to college here, says Darius Shirzadi, executive director and co-founder of Project GOAL, which reports a 97% high school graduation rate. In the program, students earn 90 minutes of soccer play by completing 90 minutes of tutor-supported learning. “Be a good student and the athletic part will help you open doors,” Shirzadi tells participants. “The Brown students are great examples of that and will reinforce what we preach to the kids.” -- Beverly Larson Oct 20, 2021 Recent news: Wed Oct 20 Three Innovation Awards Focus on Childhood Disparities in a Single Core City Thu Jul 22 Hassenfeld Institute to Resume In-Person Recruitment for Postnatal Study Fri Jun 11 Hassenfeld Institute, Others Launch GO MOMs Study on Gestational Diabetes Thu Jun 10 Half-Decade of Progress at Hassenfeld Institute is High Five for Children's Health Mon May 24 Healthy Weight Initiative to Examine Self-Regulation and Infant Growth Tue May 18 Brown School of Public Health Joins Task Force to Support Schools and Districts with Implementing CDC Guidance Thu Mar 25 Hassenfeld Institute Awards $30K in Innovation Awards to Community, State Groups Thu Feb 18 Hassenfeld Study Provides Opportunity to Examine Impact of COVID-19 on R.I. Families Hassenfeld Child Health Innovation Institute Hassenfeld Child Health Innovation Institute Brown University Box G S 121-4 121 South Main Street, Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-3855 Email [email protected] Twitter Twitter Facebook Facebook Instagram Instagram Info for study participants Subscribe to our monthly newsletter Brown University Giving to Brown Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA 401-863-1000 Contact Us Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility All Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top