Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Search Type Faculty & Staff Event Featured Profile News Opportunity Resource Student Research Project Videos Search Menu Info for… [Select an Audience] [Select An Audience] Admitted Graduate Students Current Graduate Students Employers Departments» Applied Physics and Applied Mathematics Biomedical Engineering Chemical Engineering Civil Engineering and Engineering Mechanics Computer Science Earth and Environmental Engineering Electrical Engineering Industrial Engineering and Operations Research Mechanical Engineering Admissions» Application Requirements Apply Admissions Events Campus Tours Frequently Asked Questions Graduate Funding Opportunities Tuition and Financial Aid Visit Us Brochures Graduate Student Life» Professional Development & Leadership Housing New Student Checklist Student Organizations Campus Resources Graduate Career Placement Graduation Class Day 2022 events for Graduate Students Fellowships & Opportunities The Graduate Student Affairs Team Graduate Students Resources Events & Activities Diversity and Community Engagement» Events Student Life Bridge to PhD Program Graduate Enrollment Services» Registration Requests Change of Status Change of Status Forms Learning Online Resources List» Columbia Engineering COVID-19 Emergency Fund for Doctoral Students Virtual Event Opportunities» Welcome New Students!» New Student Checklist Admitted Student Webinars Applying for a Visa Campus Resources Connect Engineering Welcome Day & Orientation Housing Information International Student Panel Frequently Asked Questions Program Kick-Off Schedule Apply Now News Bulletin Graduate Engineering Home > Welcome New Students! Applying for your Visa New Student Checklist Admitted Student Webinars Applying for a Visa Campus Resources Connect Engineering Welcome Day & Orientation Housing Information International Student Panel Frequently Asked Questions Program Kick-Off Schedule Resources and documents that may be helpful for incoming international students. Columbia Engineering welcomes students from around the world. Our campus thrives as a multicultural community, and we can't wait to have you join us. As you prepare to arrive on-campus, we ask that you review the information below and begin to work with the International Students and Scholars Office (ISSO) to apply for your Form I-20, and receive or transfer your student visa. New, incoming international students should email [email protected] should you have any questions regarding your visa application process. Master of Science Program Information During your visa interview, you may be asked for additional information about your Columbia Engineering Master of Science program. These packets provide more detailed information about your curriculum and future Faculty. Please select your department or program below to find your program information. Applied Physics and Applied Mathematics Biomedical Engineering Chemical Engineering Civil Engineering and Engineering Mechanics Computer Engineering* Computer Science Data Science** Earth and Environmental Engineering Electrical Engineering Industrial Engineering and Operations Research Mechanical Engineering Doctoral students should print out information related to their Faculty Adviser and future research lab. If an Adviser and lab have not been assigned yet, provide information on the research occuring throughout the department. Please contact the department directly for additional materials. * The Computer Engineering M.S. program is jointly offered by the Department of Computer Science and Department of Electrical Engineering ** The Data Science M.S. program is jointly offered in collaboration with the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences’ Department of Statistics, and The Fu Foundation School of Engineering and Applied Science’s Department of Computer Science and Department of Industrial Engineering and Operations Research. How to Get a Visa ISSO’s video on how to get a visa. Apply for your Form I-20 International students at Columbia enter the United States on an F-1 or J-1 student visa. You will need an I-20 for F-1 status or DS-2019 for J-1 status issued by Columbia’s International Students & Scholars Office (ISSO) before making your visa appointment at a U.S. consulate to apply for your visa. Watch ISSO’s video on how to get a visa. You will need to: 1. Prepare your documents (bank statements, passport, and other supporting documents) 2. Log in to Compass to apply for your I-20 / DS-2019 3. Receive I-20 / DS-2019 4. Apply for Your Visa at a U.S. Consulate (the visa cannot be issued more than 120 days in advance of your program start date) Start Here Office of Graduate Student Affairs 500 W. 120th Street New York, NY 10027 Admissions (212) 854-4688 | [email protected] Academics and Student Affairs (212) 854-6438 | [email protected] Apply Now Plan a Visit Directory Columbia Engineering Columbia University