Skip to main content Close search Search for people, topics, events, etc. Search Go to homepage Toggle menu Toggle search Close menu Events & Exhibitions Visit Upcoming Events Past Events Fellowship Fellows Become a Fellow Schlesinger Library About the Library Research Services Collections Visit the Library News & Ideas Opportunities For Students For Researchers For Educators Toggle search About Give Media Harvard and Slavery Opportunities For Students For Researchers For Educators About Give Media Harvard and Slavery Schlesinger Library / Collections Schlesinger Library / Collections Helen Keller Helen Keller (1880–1968) was a suffragist, pacifist, and lifelong advocate for people with disabilities. Toggle information Close detail panel Helen Keller and her dog, 1904. Radcliffe College Archives. Hollis #: olvwork359518 Related Helen Keller Papers Research Guide: Helen Keller American Foundation for the Blind: Helen Keller Archives Radcliffe Quarterly, June 1980 Keller became deaf and blind as the result of illness at the age of 19 months. She represents one of the most remarkable cases to date of a person who overcame severe disabilities to make outstanding contributions to society. After graduating cum laude from Radcliffe College in 1904, she began working extensively in causes for the blind all over the world. She made many tours and held fundraising benefits for the American Foundation for the Blind. During and after World War II, she was untiring in her efforts to aid blinded veterans, orphans, and refugees. Various awards, honorary degrees, and citations were conferred upon Keller by foreign governments and civic, educational, and welfare organizations throughout the United States. View details View details View details View details View details 01 / 05 Slide left Slide right Helen Keller 01 / 05 Slide left Slide right Close modal window Details Close detail panel Helen Keller and her dog, 1904 Details Close detail panel Portrait of Helen Keller in Radcliffe College cap and gown, 1904 Details Close detail panel Helen Keller with others, including Eleanor Roosevelt, Kit Cornell, and Joseph Lash at "Chip-Chop," Cornell's home on Martha's Vineyard, 1949 Details Close detail panel Helen Keller at the dedication of the Annie Sullivan memorial fountain, June 11, 1960 Details Close detail panel Whitman Studio, Chelsea, Mass., United States. Portrait of Helen Keller, 1909–1919. Radcliffe College Archives. Hollis #: olvwork300350 Collections 01 / 11 Slide left Slide right 01 Betty Friedan 02 Florynce Kennedy 03 Records of the National Organization for Women 04 Pauli Murray 05 Susan B. Anthony 06 Alice Paul 07 Dorothy West 08 June Jordan 09 Black Women Oral History Project 10 Maud Wood Park Papers in the Woman's Rights Collection 11 Beecher-Stowe Family See All Collections Back to top B a c k t o t o p Get the latest Radcliffe news delivered to your inbox Enter your e-mail address Continue Radcliffe Institute for Advanced Study Harvard University 10 Garden Street Cambridge, MA 02138 Directions Give Now Contact Visit Careers Housing Meeting Spaces Site Map Digital Accessibility Accessibility Harvard University Policies Follow us on Facebook Follow us on Twitter Follow us onInstagram Subscribe to our RSS feed Visit our LinkedIn page Visit our YouTube channel © 2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College