Skip to site alert. Skip to content Student Health on Haven After-Hours Care Emergencies Student Health Portal Search About Us About Us Our Team Appointments and Services Advanced Access Scheduling Confidentiality Emergencies After-Hours Care News and Announcements Events Contact Us Advanced Directive Patient Rights and Responsibilities Our Team Counseling Services Insurance and Administration Medical Services Well-Being and Health Promotion Our Services Our Services Acupuncture Acute and Chronic Illness Treatment Laboratory Services Men's Health Nutrition Services Occupational Exposures PrEP - Pre-Exposure Prophylaxis for HIV Preventive Services Travel Medicine Transgender Health Vaccinations Women's Health Groups and Gathering Spaces Individual Counseling Psychiatric Evaluation Well-Being Strategy Sessions AIMS Appointment for Substance Use We provide a full range of primary care medical services, counseling services, and health promotion programming to support your well-being. Outreach and Programs Outreach and Programs Addiction Information and Management Strategies (AIMS) AIMS Mini-Grants Campus Connect Training Mental Health Rounds Motivational Interviewing Training Naloxone Training Queer and Ally Partnership Social Host (SoHo) Alcohol Training Well-Being Curriculum Infusion Well-Being and Health Promotion Programs Student Health provides programs and training opportunities to support and extend your health sciences education and training at CUIMC. Insurance and Administration Insurance and Administration Pre-Registration Requirements Health Insurance Waiving Coverage Enrollment and Fees Supplemental Insurance for Clinical Students Dental Benefits Vision Benefits Insurance FAQ Contact the Team Medical Records Request We are here to provide help with insurance information, reimbursements or billing concerns, and other administrative needs. Resources and Support Resources and Support COVID-19 Resources CUIMC My SSP - 24/7 Support via Chat & Phone Black Well-Being and Ally Resources Asian and AAPI Students Disability Services Helping a Friend or Student in Distress International Students LGBTQ+ Students Sexual and Reproductive Health Students with Children Support for Survivors of Sexual Violence Veterans COVID-19 Resources COVID-19 Vaccine Information for Students COVID-19 Testing for CUIMC Students How to Isolate or Quarantine Coping During a Pandemic COVID-19 Student Service Corps (CSSC) Student Health on Haven is committed to connecting you to resources to support all dimensions of graduate student well-being. You are here Home > Our Services > Travel Medicine Acupuncture Acute and Chronic Illness Treatment Laboratory Services Men's Health Nutrition Services Occupational Exposures PrEP - Pre-Exposure Prophylaxis for HIV Preventive Services Travel Medicine Transgender Health Vaccinations Women's Health Groups and Gathering Spaces Individual Counseling Psychiatric Evaluation Well-Being Strategy Sessions AIMS Appointment for Substance Use Travel Medicine We strongly recommend that you consult us at least six weeks prior to your departure, since some immunizations require several doses over time, and certain immunizations may not be given in close proximity to each other. For information on the vaccines that may be required, and other health advisories that may apply, visit the Centers for Disease Control (CDC) Travelers’ Health website. Scheduling a Travel Appointment Travel appointments can be scheduled by calling 212-305-3400 or via the Student Health portal. For a school-sponsored or school-required activity, please bring a completed Verification of Columbia Sponsored Travel Form, signed by your school official, to your appointment. Please bring all of your vaccine records, inlcuing any prior travel vaccine records, to your appointment. Please check with your clinician for details on coverage for travel medications and immunizations. During Your Appointment At your appointment, we will review your travel itinerary, and health history, and provide the appropriate services to support a healthy trip. This includes: An assessment of your immunization and health-care needs based on your itinerary and personal health history. Immunizations that are required and recommended for travel anywhere in the world. Education on prevention and treatment of commonly encountered health problems in the area of the world you plan to visit (food and water precautions, mosquito-borne illness, altitude sickness, sun protection, immunizations, and other relevant concerns). Advice on what to do in a medical emergency and what prescription medications to take for prevention or treatment of travel-related illnesses. Fees for travel services depend on your reason for travel (school-related versus personal) and your insurance coverage. Your clinician will discuss the fees at the appointment. Check your health insurance plan before you travel to better understand your coverage and to know what insurance information to take with you. Make sure your plan covers medical evacuation in case of illness or injury. Many travelers may need to purchase additional insurance from companies specifically designed to meet these needs. Information about medical evacuation services is provided on the U.S. Department of State website. Students enrolled in the Columbia University Student Health Insurance Plan have travel insurance benefits provided by On Call International. More information is available on the back of your insurance card, and will be provided to you at your appointment. Make an Appointment To make an appointment, view our Appointments and Services page for details about scheduling. Visit the Student Health Portal to complete any required forms online prior to your visit. 212-305-3400 Request an Appointment Online Columbia University Irving Medical Center About Us Insurance and Administration Our Services Outreach and Programs Resources and Support Student Health Portal Columbia University Irving Medical Center Student Health on Haven Tower 2, 100 Haven Avenue 2nd Floor, Suite 230 New York, NY 10032 United States 212-305-3400 Follow Us Instagram Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Back to top