Skip to main content FSU >> FSU LIBRARIES Top Right Search Box Search Our Website... * OneSearch | My Account Florida State University Libraries Search & Find Advanced Search Find a Database Journal Search Special Collections Search DigiNole Search Services & Research All Services Subject Librarians Distance Learning Digital Research & Scholarship Special Collections & Archives Government Information Government Information News About the Libraries Libraries Overview Member Libraries Departments Accessibility @ FSU Libraries Diversity & Inclusion Giving to the Libraries Facts & Figures Strategic Plan Advancement Board Materials & Borrowing Borrowing Materials Library Express Delivery Interlibrary Loan Materials Purchase Request Help & Support Get Help Library Hours Maps & Directions Visitor Information COVID Guidelines Home >> Services & Research >> Government Information: Home Page Florida State University Libraries has been a congressionally designated depository for United States Government publications since 1941. Public access to the Government information is guaranteed by Public Law (Title 44 of the United States Code). As a federally mandated depository library, FSU commits to providing free, public access to all tangible and online publications distributed by the Government Publishing Office, and to provide users with assistance using the material. There are more than 500,000 government publications housed in open stacks in the basement of the Strozier Libraries. Our collection includes books, journals, maps, CDs, DVDs and reproductions on microfiche and microfilm. Government publications cover a wide range of topics, including business and the economy, education, the environment, health and safety, history, politics, law, science and technology, people and cultures, census, demographics and urban planning, the military, and historical congressional publications. We are also a depository for the State of Florida publications. Section 257.05, Florida Statutes establishes the State Library of Florida as the official custodian for Florida State Publications Depository Program. The Program makes publications from the State of Florida Government available to the public. State of Florida publications at FSU are located in the basement of Strozier Library and can also be searched in the State Depository Catalog. All our depository collections and services are freely available to the FSU and Tallahassee community. Our collections are accessible all hours that Strozier is open, and a staff person will be there to help you. To know more about our depository collections, please visit our research guides: United States Government State of Florida United Nations For Covid-19 related government information sources, please visit the Government Information Covid-19 page. How Can You Use Government Information? Everyday Activities Information provided by the government can assist us in our everyday activities such as health and weather information. Scholarly Research Government information comes in many formats and covers almost every topic and discipline including census data to technical reports to Supreme Court decisions. Civic Interest Government information also includes information of Government activities and can encourage knowledge and discussion of public issues and interest. Government Collection at FSU Libraries Federal Collection Information provided by the U.S. Federal government. Florida Collection Information provided by the state of Florida government. United Nations Collection Information provided by the United Nations and intergovernmental entities. For specific resources, please check out > Government Information Home Timeline: Depository History COVID-19 Information What is Government Information? Everyday Activities Scholarly Research Civic Interest Services Collections Federal Collection Florida Collection United Nations Collection Resources Spotlight Exhibits Government Information News About Us Visitor Information Contact Us About The Florida State University Libraries The mission of the University Libraries is to support and enhance the learning, teaching, research, and service activities of the Florida State University... READ MORE > Library Hours Maps and Directions Our Libraries Staff Directory Subject Librarians All Forms Library News Library Departments Library Events Library Services Employment Visiting the Libraries Giving to the Libraries Policies About the Libraries FAQ Government Information Staff Intranet Content Editor Login Internal Knowledge Base © Florida State University Libraries 116 Honors Way Tallahassee, FL 32306 Website Suggestions Privacy Principles Copyright Policy Contact Us (850) 644-2706 Search Articles, Books and More... * Connect with us!