Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Theory Major You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Theory Major Apply Visit Request More Info Theory Major Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Ensembles & Performance Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Undergraduate Audition Requirements Bachelor of Music in Theory Sharpen your analytical abilities through the study of counterpoint, keyboard and orchestration with the Bachelor of Music (BM) in Theory degree program in Temple University’s Boyer College of Music and Dance. Prepare to be a well-rounded musician and apply your skills to composition, performance, research or teaching. The Department of Music Studies emphasizes the ability to analyze both tonal and contemporary music. Through coursework and practice you will acquire compositional facility in a variety of styles. Enhance your skills in theory by studying analysis, counterpoint, ear training, harmony, keyboard and orchestration. Students seeking this full-time, 123-credit degree in Music Theory will choose a concentration of Instrumental, Piano or Voice. Explore Boyer Faculty Faculty Discover music theory faculty in the Boyer College of Music and Dance. Explore Boyer Faculty See faculty members in Boyer music therapy degree programs. Classes & Curriculum The Bachelor of Music in Theory curriculum includes Basic Conducting, Counterpoint, Music in History and Theory Seminar. Ensemble practice courses such as Concert Choir and Instrumental Ensemble make up a significant portion of the curriculum. Students also complete Temple’s General Studies curriculum and take a minimum of two writing-intensive courses. Learn more about required and elective courses for the Bachelor of Music in Theory degree. Related Graduate Degrees Choral Conducting MM Composition MM Jazz Studies MM Music MA Music MS Music PhD Music History MM Music Technology MS Performance MM Theory MM Related Graduate Certificates Professional Studies Certificate Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, the Bachelor of Music offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. Learn more about our tuition and fees. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $19,032.00 per year Out-of-state: $33,408.00 per year Our Academic Advisors The Center for the Performing and Cinematic Arts has a centralized advising office with five staff members. This advising team serves all undergraduate students in the Boyer School of Music and Dance and the School of Theater, Film and Media Arts. Advisors help students navigate the undergraduate curriculum for each degree program. The academic advising team for Music, Dance, Theater, and Film and Media Arts majors is located in Mitten Hall, Suite 200 West. To schedule an advising appointment based on your individual needs or for more help, contact the advising team. Phone: 215-204-8301 Schedule an advising appointment. Program Contact Cynthia Folio, professor and Chair of Music Studies, is the program contact. Phone: 215-204-8316 Email: cynthia.folio@temple.edu Student Clubs & Organizations Participating in student groups provides peer support and future professional contacts. There are more than 200 student organizations at Temple University. ConTemplum hosts numerous concerts, forums and seminars to foster a community of musicians who are dedicated to exploring contemporary musical ideas and performing new compositions. Music Technology & Business Society of Temple University provides students with guidance and support for navigating the complex network of the modern music industry, in addition to providing space in which members can meet and discuss various creative and technical topics. Temple University Theory and Musicology Society (THEMUS) gives students an open forum to discuss and develop scholarly work within the disciplines of music theory and musicology. Each semester, THEMUS hosts guest, faculty and student lectures. THEMUS organizes a regional graduate student conference each year for theory and musicology. Learn more about clubs and organizations. Study Away Temple’s study away programs offers all full-time, degree-seeking students the opportunity to spend an academic year, semester or summer abroad. Host countries include Germany, Italy, Japan and Spain. Study abroad advisors will help you with your study abroad plans for either a Temple program or an external program. Learn more about your options for studying away. Accreditation The Boyer College of Music and Dance is accredited by the American Music Therapy Association, National Association of Schools of Music, National Association of Schools of Dance and Pennsylvania Department of Education. Concentrations You can focus on Theory or you can take one of the following concentrations. Bassoon Cello Clarinet Classical Guitar Double Bass Euphonium Flute French Horn Harp Harpsichord Oboe Percussion Piano Saxophone Trombone Trumpet Tuba Viola Violin Voice BC-THRY-BMUS Additional Program Information School/College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Theory Major Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Ensembles & Performance Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Undergraduate Audition Requirements Apply Visit Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Visit Request More Info