Kansas State University search Search K-State web, people, directories Browse A-Z Sign in Canvas OrgCentral Navigate MyLibrary KSIS HRIS Webmail Status of ITS resources Sign in to Connect K-State home »One Stop »Paying for College »Jobs Student Guide to Help and Resources: One Stop Shop Home Academics Majors and Programs Academic Support See all of Academics Paying for College Financial Resources Jobs See all of Paying for College Student Life Get Involved Living Options Sports and Recreation Arts and Culture Diversity and Multicultural Student Affairs K-State Student Union Events Graduation and Beyond See all of Student Life Health and Safety Health Safety See all of Health and Safety Technology Designated Access See all of Technology Paying for College home Financial Resources Jobs Vice President for Student Life Kansas State University 122 Anderson Hall Manhattan, KS 66506-0102 785-532-6237 vpsl@k-state.edu Jobs Earn while you learn. Part-time jobs in the community or on campus can help pay for tuition, books, housing and other expenses. Earn part of the $15 million annual payroll for campus jobs. Benefits of student jobs Earn money to help pay for college expenses. Find opportunities for a range of career interests. Build your employment history. Broaden your social and support network. Expand your list of professional references and contacts. Increase your likelihood of graduating. Types of student jobs Type Where Hours per week Who can apply Paycheck Work-study job Campus 30 max Those with financial need Paid by federal program and university Part-time campus job Campus 30 max Any student Paid by university Internship Off campus Check with employer Check with employer Paid by employer or unpaid for college credit and/or job experience Off campus Off campus Check with employer Check with employer Paid by employer On campus On-campus options include working as receptionist in an academic department, an usher at Bramlage Coliseum in Manhattan, a clerk in the university bookstore, a landscaper with the Division of Facilities and more. Part-time campus jobs Hospitality/food service Marketing/sales Clerical/office support Social services/health care General labor Science/research Recreation/camps Seasonal/independent contractor Information technology/mathematics Largest campus employers Housing and Dining Services Bramlage Coliseum K-State Student Union Division of Facilities K-State Libraries Division of Biology Department of animal sciences and industry Department of agronomy Off campus Opportunities include working in graphic design, customer service, after-school care, office assistance, marketing and more. Off-campus employers Restaurants Retail and grocery stores Manhattan Town Center mall Businesses in Aggieville (Manhattan) and downtown Child care organizations Medical offices Insurance companies Banks and credit unions Landscaping and construction firms Graduate Teaching and Research Assistantships Many academic departments offer competitive teaching and research assistantships for graduate students. Graduate students are encouraged to visit with their academic program director about available assistantship opportunities. How to find a job All K-State students can find jobs through the Career Center. Manhattan students can also find jobs through the K-State Student Union's job board and career fairs. Students on the Salina campus can find campus jobs through the Career Center as well. After graduation, the Career Center can take you from college to a career. Find help Contact us Emergency Statements and disclosures Accessibility Kansas State University Manhattan, KS 66506 785-532-6011 © Kansas State University Updated: 8/30/21