Skip to main content Navigation Academics Admissions Research Locations Student Life Alumni & Giving Athletics Apply Now Bachelor of Science in Electrical Engineering, BSEE Innovate, Design and Maintain Electrical Devices and Systems Program at a Glance Program Bachelor College(s) College of Engineering and Computer Science Department(s) Electrical & Computer Engr 4 Years In State Tuition Out of State Tuition $212.28 per credit hour $748.89 per credit hour Learn more about program tuition and fees. Help Power the Technology that Shapes Our Daily Lives As an electrical engineering major, you’ll revolutionize the way we live. Society depends on electrical engineers to create, design, produce, operate and maintain the world’s equipment and services as well as to solve future life challenges with advances in science and technology. Choose from four tracks available to align your educational path with your personal and professional goals. Throughout your coursework, explore the theory and methods related to the design, analysis and implementation of electrical engineering. You’ll also gain first-hand experience in applying principles and practices to real-world scenarios. Upon graduation, you’ll be ready to seek a wide variety of opportunities within the electrical engineering field in organizations of all sizes. Communications and Signal Processing Track Develop and apply theory and algorithms in the broad fields of communications, networked systems and signal processing. In this track, you’ll have a variety of technical electives to choose from including wireless communication, satellite communication, communication networks, smart grid networks and image processing. Comprehensive Track In this track, you’ll explore fundamental electrical engineering concepts. Cover key areas in the discipline such as communications and signal processing, controls, power and energy systems, electromagnetics, microelectronics, electronics, embedded systems and software, etc. Technical electives also provide more depth in one or more areas of electrical engineering. Power and Renewable Energy Track Gain an in-depth understanding of power system operation and control, renewable energy integration, machines, microgrid design and operation, power markets and data analytics. In this track, you’ll have an opportunity for hands-on training in smart grid technologies. Choose from a diverse range of technical electives that cover the areas of power and renewable energy. RF and Microwaves Track In this track, you’ll have the opportunity to take technical elective courses covering a wide range of topics in applied electromagnetics such as antennas, computational electromagnetics, high-speed circuits and systems, bioelectromagnetics, radar, remote sensing and wireless sensors. Highlights U.S. News & World Report ranks UCF as the No. 71 Best Engineering School in the nation. Our electrical engineering bachelor’s program has a long and respected history since its start in 1967. The job outlook for electrical engineering grads is expected to grow 14% over the next decade. The average annual salary of electrical engineering grads is $100,000. Undergraduate Application Deadlines Freshmen Transfers International Fall May 1 Spring November 1 Summer March 1 Fall July 1 Spring November 1 Summer March 1 Fall March 1 Spring September 1 Summer January 1 Ready to get started? Apply Today Start Your Application Today Ready to get started? Take the next step to save your spot at UCF. 1 Check out your application requirements. See what freshmen and transfer students need to apply. 2 Short on time? You can start your application today and come back later to finish. Apply Today Course Overview Junior Design Develop preparatory skills for senior design: Engineering design requirements specifications, test equipment utilization, microcontroller development tool usage, schematic capture and PCB design tools. Linear Circuits I & II Analyze linear circuits, AC analysis, power calculations, first order RL, RC circuits, three phase circuits. The course includes recitation and exploration of areas of study within electrical and computer engineering. The second course looks at second order RLC circuit response, Laplace transform, frequency selective circuits, Fourier series; two port networks. Engineering Analysis and Computation Gain an understanding of engineering analysis and computation with structured constructs. Subscripted variables, functions, input/output. Applications in embedded systems and examples in numerical methods. Electrical Engineering Skills You'll Learn Identify, formulate and solve complex electrical engineering problems by applying principles of engineering, science and mathematics. Apply engineering design to produce solutions that meet specified needs. Communicate effectively with a range of audiences and collaborate with various teams to establish goals and meet objectives. Develop and conduct appropriate experimentation, analyze and interpret data, and use engineering judgment to draw conclusions. Acquire and apply new knowledge as needed, using appropriate learning strategies. Utilize contemporary modeling and simulation tools. Career Opportunities Electrical Engineer Circuits Engineer Power Systems Engineer Project Engineer Controls Engineer Computer Hardware Engineer Engineering Manager College of Engineering and Computer Science News Check out more stories Colleges & Campus UCF Students Oust Top Teams at 2022 North America Collegiate Programming Contest, Advance to World Finals After beating dozens of top teams to earn seventh place, UCF will advance to the World Finals for the 11th consecutive year. Colleges & Campus 5 UCF Scholars to be Inducted into Academy of Science, Engineering and Medicine of Florida The organization’s members are top scholars and researchers from universities, public agencies, and industries statewide who are committed to addressing key issues and challenges impacting… Colleges & Campus Elite Students Coming to UCF for North America Collegiate Programming Contest UCF will host and compete against 49 other top student programming teams — including Stanford, MIT, Harvard, Caltech, UCBerkeley and Georgia Tech. Research Aerodynamics of Perching Birds Could Inform Aircraft Design A team of UCF researchers have investigated the mystery behind different bird perching maneuvers to better understand the aerodynamic forces of landing an aircraft. Degree Search College of Engineering and Computer Science programs Bachelors Electrical Engineering (BSEE) University of Central Florida Colleges Burnett Honors Arts and Humanities Business Community Innovation and Education Graduate Studies Health Professions and Sciences Medicine Nursing Optics and Photonics Sciences Undergraduate Studies Hospitality Management University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida