Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Department of Anthropology About Undergraduate Graduate People Our Work Resources News & Events Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact People in the Department of Anthropology Faculty & Staff Emeriti Faculty Faculty in Other Departments Part-time Instructors Student Directory Take Action Undergraduates Join the Graduate Program Support the Department Contact Us Follow Us Online FacebooktwitterYoutubeLinkedn Home Department of Anthropology Faculty, Staff & Students Kathryn Hicks Dr. Kathryn Hicks Associate Professor Phone 901.678.3328 Email kahicks2@memphis.edu Fax 901.678.4283 Office 304 Manning Hall, Memphis, TN 38152 Office Hours Call for Hours CV About Dr. Hicks Dr. Kathryn Hicks completed her PhD in anthropology at Northwestern University in 2008. Her dissertation research examined norms of social support in the Bolivian city of El Alto, particularly forms of economic or instrumental support, and evaluated interactions between women’s marital status and access to social support in predicting health outcomes such as immune function and body composition. Dr. Hicks joined the Department of Anthropology at The University of Memphis in the fall of 2008. As a compliment to the research projects described below, she is currently writing about the importance of political economic and evolutionary approaches for understanding inequalities in risk and experiences of chronic disease. Expertise and Interests Biological and Medical Anthropology, human-environmental interactions, developmental systems theory, political economy, social justice, health inequities, environmental health, Andes, US. Research Projects Dr. Hicks has worked on a number of projects in the Memphis area including an evaluation of the social and nutritional impacts of the South Memphis Farmers Market with Dr. Katherine Lambert-Pennington. She is currently collaborating with Rita Harris of the Sierra Club and anthropology students to document the history of environmental racism and environmental justice organizing in Memphis. Dr. Hicks and her students have engaged in service-learning with other faculty and a number of local non-profit and community organizations on an evaluation of community perceptions of a proposed extension to the Shelby Farms Greenline, neighborhood perceptions of environmental inequality in SW Memphis, and an assessment of fresh food availability in local corner stores. Students from her classes have also volunteered at the local Sierra Club’s annual grassroots environmental justice conference. Dr. Hicks has also continued her work in highland Bolivia since coming to Memphis. In collaboration with Dr. Nicole Fabricant of Towson University, she is exploring perceptions of climate change, social movement action and environmental policy in the cities of El Alto and La Paz, and the role of Bolivians in multilateral climate change negotiations. Selected Publications Hicks, K. and N. Fabricant. In Press. The Bolivian Climate Justice Movement: Mobilizing Indigeneity in Multilateral Climate Change Negotiations. Latin American Perspectives. Hicks, K. and W.R. Leonard. 2014. Developmental Systems and Inequality: Linking Evolutionary and Political Economic Theory in Biological Anthropology. Current Anthropology. 55(5): 523-550. Hicks, K. 2014. A Biocultural Perspective on Fictive Kinship in the Andes: Social Support and Women’s Immune Function in El Alto, Bolivia. Medical Anthropology Quarterly. 28(3): 440-458. Hicks, K. and K. Lambert-Pennington. 2014. Evaluating the South Memphis Farmers Market As a Strategy to Improve Access to Healthy Foods: Lessons from 2011. Journal of Agriculture, Food Systems, and Community Development. March: 45-59. 2013 Hicks, K. Instrumental Social Support and Women’s Body Composition in El Also, Bolivia. American Journal of Physical Anthropology. 152(1): 51-57. Selected Awards 2015 University of Memphis Green Fee Grant with Keri Brondo and Robert Marczynski 2012 Professional Development Assignment from the College of Arts and Sciences 2009 AAA Anthropology and Environment Small Grant Award with Keri Brondo Courses Intro to Biological Anthropology and Prehistory (ANTH 1100) Race and Health Disparities (ANTH 4571/6571) Health, Culture, and Environmental Justice (ANTH 4510/6510) Human Adaptations (ANTH 4111/6111) Biocultural Epidemiology (ANTH 7/8521) History of Anthropological Theory (ANTH 7/8200) Additional Resources University of Memphis and the Sierra Club Team up to Promote Education, Advocacy & Activism at Environmental Conference Report on the South Memphis Farmers Market (K. Hicks and K. Lambert-Pennington, 2013) White House Blog on Opening of South Memphis Farmers Market Bolivian Platform Against Climate Change Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 2/26/21 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.