The Office of the Chaplain | SPARC HOME ABOUT US WHO WE ARE STAFF WORK STUDY STUDENTS CONTACT US EVENTS CALENDAR HISTORY ORGANIZATIONS STUDENT ORGANIZATIONS Welcome Class of 2025! THE FAITH FUND INTERFAITH PRISM IBELIEVE: INTERFAITH DIALOGUE COURSE SHARING OUR SCRIPTURES SPARC Awards The Stephen Wise Award The Annie Stout Award The Francis Johnson Baton: An Award for Altruism WORSHIP HOUSES OF WORSHIP HOLIDAYS DAILY GATHERINGS SUPPORT & WELLNESS NEED TO TALK? WELLNESS AT PENN WEBSITE AMF – GRIEF SUPPORT GROUP HIGH PRESSURE GROUPS RESOURCES RESERVE A SPACE RELIGIOUS DINING ON CAMPUS Daily SPARC #VirtualRitual PENN HOME STUDENT ORGANIZATIONS Penn students pursue their faith and fellowship within a wide variety of student organizations. For more information follow the links to each organizational website or contact our office. Organizations are grouped by faith tradition and listed alphabetically. *Many of our student groups are planning virtual gatherings through the summer, please click here for more information or to get connected Scroll down to browse the full list or select a link to jump to a specific section: Baha’i | Buddhist | Christian | Hindu/Jain | Interfaith | Jewish | Meditation/Mindfulness | Muslim | Secular | Sikh | Spiritual | Support Baha’i: Penn Baha’i Association Student Contacts: Sarah Beth Gleeson The Penn Baha’i Association aims to unite members of the Baha’i faith and students of all faiths on Penn’s campus in order to promote the ideals of the oneness of humanity and unity among the world’s religions. Study circles, devotional gatherings, and community service projects form the core activities through which the Association works toward this goal. Buddhist: Penn Meditation and Buddhism Club Staff Contact: Hojin Park, Grace Song Student Contact: Alexa Cornacchia, Hokua Tarnas Penn Meditation and Buddhism Club is a supportive community whose goal is to create a welcoming environment for all to learn and deepen their understanding of the teaching of the Buddha. The club main activities include mindfulness practice, sitting meditation, discussion of Buddhism texts, deep listening, and compassion meditation. Please feel free to contact if you are interested. SGI Buddhist Club at Penn Staff Contact: Eva Davis, Laura Naden Student Contact: sgipennclub@gmail.com SGI Buddhist Club at Penn is a student organization contributing to the creation of a culture of peace and nonviolence based on the teachings of the Nichiren school of Mahayana Buddhism as practiced in the Soka Gakkai International-USA (SGI-USA). This group aims to help students unlock their hidden potential and achieve creative harmony with their environment through the philosophy and practice of Nichiren Buddhism. Christian: Adventist Students for Christ Student Contact: Bruno Saconi Adventist Students for Christ is a student-led Seventh-Day Adventist Christian group that focuses on both studying the Bible through weekly group discussions and developing strong relationships in fellowship among students, staff, and the large Penn community. Our meetings happen every Friday from 7-8PM on Zoom (link available upon request). We also host many programs throughout the semester such as fun hangouts, dinners, conferences, end of semester celebration, and more. What we all have in common is LOVE: We love to have fun, we love the Lord, and we love meeting new people! Keep an eye on our Instagram and Facebook pages for events and updates. We are looking forward to meeting you! Asian Baptist Student Koinonia Staff Contact: James Won, William Chung (grad fellowship) Student Contact: Lydia Ko Asian Baptist Student Koinonia (ABSK) is a campus group committed to studying the Word of God and building Christ-centered relationships as a family of God. We strive to learn more about God through the Bible and share God’s love with all in the Penn community. All are welcome to join us on Friday nights for thought-provoking Bible studies, food, fun and fellowship. ABSK is a Christian fellowship ministering to college and university communities around the world. CCO at Penn Staff Contact: Ryan McCormick Student Contacts: Nicole Harrington, Nolan Jacobs, Megha Thomas The CCO is a Christian organization that gives students a vision for serving Jesus Christ in all of life: in their studies, jobs, communities, and families. We host the Rule of Life Spiritual Formation Community at Penn. A rule of life is a framework of regular spiritual habits that provides order to our busy and chaotic lives, enabling us to thrive spiritually in a stressful and distracting world. Together we practice traditional Christian spiritual exercises like prayer and scripture reading, but also habits of healthy tech boundaries, rest, and friendship. Practicing these habits together help us orient our lives around the loving presence of God. If you are interested in joining, please fill out this online form! CCO at Penn is affiliated with City Church & CCO (Coalition for Christian Outreach) Chi Alpha Penn Staff Contacts: Dr. Philip and Valerie McLeod Student Contact: Alexandra Dumas Chi Alpha Christian Fellowship at the University of Pennsylvania is a body of students earnestly following Jesus, who come together to worship our amazing God, to learn His Word and be discipled, to encourage one another and pray, and to have fun making friendships that will last a lifetime. Even though our name is Greek, we’re not a fraternity or sorority. However, if you’re looking for brothers and sisters, you’ve come to the right place! Chi Alpha is sponsored by the Assemblies of God with over 300 chapters throughout the United States. China Outreach Ministries Staff Contact: Gregg Smyrl, Fangying Nong China Outreach Ministries is a national organization of Americans and Chinese who serve students, scholars and their families from China studying at universities in North America. We are not a church but we are a Christian group that works with local churches in sharing Christian love. We welcome everyone from China to participate whether they have religious beliefs or not. China Outreach Ministries serves in co-operation with University City Chinese Christian Church, Philadelphia, PA. The Christian Association Staff Contacts: Megan LeCluyse, Anthony Jones Student Contacts: Teji Wang, Thomas Kaupus The CA is a student community where all are invited to explore their faith, question what they believe, and are welcomed exactly as they are. We share dinner together on Wednesday nights followed by a discussion about faith, have a book group for grad students, and offer opportunities to serve God and have fun together. Christian Students at Penn Staff contact: Russell Cox, Matt Martin Student contact: Tammy Chen, Priscilla Cho We are the Penn chapter of Philly Christian Students, an association of undergraduate and graduate-student believers in Christ from diverse backgrounds at Penn, Temple, Drexel, Villanova, and other Philadelphia-area college campuses. We seek to help believers to grow in their Christian life and to help non-Christians understand what it means to be a Christian. Our goal is to cooperate with God for the fulfillment of His eternal purpose to have an expression and representation of Himself on the earth (Eph. 3:8-12). Though our outward environment has changed we are not abandoning our own assembling together, but continue to pursue and enjoy fellowship with one another. Come and see at our Bible studies, home gatherings, weekend retreats and more! Please direct message us or visit our website for locations and links. Christian Students @ Penn is affiliated with Philly Christian Students and receives support from a local congregation, the church in Philadelphia. Christian Union Martus Staff Contacts: Cory Lotspeich, Caiti Vera Student Contact: Kassidy Johnson, Leo Chen, Justin James, and Gabby Hachem Christian Union at Penn is a gospel-centered community that welcomes students from all backgrounds. Our ministry emphasizes leadership development, rigorous study of scripture, social justice and active involvement in campus and community life. We encourage every student to pursue their calling as servant, disciple and leader, growing in the likeness and knowledge of Jesus Christ. For an updated list with useful links about CU events, click here. If you’re interested in getting involved with CU, fill out this Google Form and we’ll get back to you. Christian Union Martus is resourced by Christian Union. The Collegium Institute for Catholic Thought & Culture Staff contact: Dr. Dan Cheely, Jessica Sweeney Student contact: Joseph Squillaro, Ayana Shirai The Collegium Institute Student Association at Penn is a vibrant academic community that draws mainstream learning at Penn into conversation with the Catholic intellectual tradition, and with the “catholic” or universal questions that animate a human life. For undergraduates it offers weekly dinner discussions (Food for Thought), Faith & Reason seminars, inter-collegiate humanities feasts, Medical Humanities fellowship series, a Philosophy of Finance fellowship program, Legal Humanities fellowship series, classical language workshops, lectures and special events, and a robust student fellows program. Its flourishing depends upon its members working together to cultivate certain virtues of mind and character, such as humility, trust, honesty, justice, and the love of truth. Collegium’s faculty and student fellows come from a variety of religious faiths and none. Hear from our students by clicking to watch this video here. Episcopal Campus Ministry at Penn Staff Contacts: The Rev. Mariclair Partee Carlsen Student Contacts: Jonathan Ashton The Episcopal Campus Ministry at Penn is a resource and a home for students at the University of Pennsylvania who are interested in the Anglican approach to faith, life, and community informed by scripture, tradition, and reason. Sponsored by, and housed in, St. Mary’s Episcopal Church located at 3916 Locust Walk (next door to Civic House), we are guided by the commandment to love God and love our neighbor. Our Sunday 11AM mass is a traditional Anglican service with volunteer choir, and our weekly sung Compline service (Thursdays during term at 8PM) for undergraduate and graduate students is a simple, chanted candlelight service to end your week with peace and contemplation. Also, on Tuesdays during term we offer a low mass with healing prayers at 12:15PM- it is under half an hour. Our St. Hilda’s Chapel is open weekdays from 9AM-2PM, as an oasis on campus of quiet for prayer or meditation. When we say all are welcome at St. Mary’s, we mean it- we strive to be inclusive, diverse, and inviting no matter who you are or where you are in your journey of faith. Every Nation Campus Staff Contact: Courtney Nazaire Student Contact: Tanijah Johnson Every Nation Campus (ENC) is a city-wide, multi-ethnic movement of students with a vision to reach every nation with the Gospel. We are growing together in love for God and love for people, connected with the local church, and being equipped to make disciples. Our goal is to see thousands of university students in the Philadelphia area who are passionately devoted to Jesus Christ. Join us on the journey! Fellowship of Christian Athletes in Action Advisor: Jordan Lozzi FCAIA helps sports-minded people think and live Biblically at the intersection of sport and Christianity. FCAIA is a co-ed, inter-sport community that is open to all. Affiliated with Fellowship of Christian Athletes (FCA) and Athletes in Action (AIA) Full Measure A Cappella Student Contacts: Helene Cho As Penn’s first and only Christian a cappella group, we hope to be inspired by the Holy Spirit to spread the Gospel on campus and the West Philadelphia area. In acknowledgment and celebration of God’s sovereignty, we seek to worshipfully compel others to know Jesus more through music and our lives. Global Connect: U City Global Connect: U City aims to enhance the lives of all international students at Penn by providing service opportunities that meet practical needs, hosting social events to build connections among Americans and International students, and promoting spiritual growth by learning about Christianity and the Bible. Global Connect: U City is open to people of all ethnicities, nationalities, and religious backgrounds. Global Connect: U City is a partnership between Intercultural Friends, International Students Inc & Philly Bridges God’s Property Staff Contact: Stanley Williams (Baptist Campus Minister) Student Contact: upenngp@gmail.com God’s Property is a student led organization committed to fostering community among Christian students who relate to black culture. Grace Covenant Church Staff Contact: Bryan Mun Student Contact: penn@gracecovenant.net The mission of our church is to raise up kingdom workers who are transformed by Christ to influence the world. We strive to be Bible-based, Spirit-led, prayer-driven, and missions-focused. If you’re an undergraduate student, graduate student, working young adult, or young married couple, we’d love for you to come check us out! Intercultural Friends Staff Contact: Sarah Mitchell, Roger Converse Student Contact: pcflead@googlegroups.com We bring together students, researchers, and their families from any country, culture, or religion for the purpose of friendship, learning, and spiritual support. We offer free English chats, Bible discussions for internationals from any faith, multi-national discussions forums, social activities, and holiday celebrations with Americans. Find more on our Facebook page or follow us on Instagram – @interculturalfriends. We are associated with Penn Graduate Christian Fellowship (PGCF) and Global Connect U City locally and InterVarsity Christian Fellowship USA International Students Inc. (ISI) Staff Contacts: Lyn Newbrander, Tim Newbrander Student Contact: Pranoy Luis, Akshata Naik Nimbalkar ISI Philly is a Christian organization that offers international students and scholars friendship with American families, help navigating life in the USA, special activities (cultural, social, recreational), ESL opportunities, discussions about the Bible, and small group gatherings. We meet on Friday nights via Zoom and other events are listed on the website. The first Fridays are generally a fun time, and the other Fridays in the month are an interactive Bible discussion for all faiths/no faith. Additionally, on the second and fourth Saturday mornings, we offer Zoom support for professional women via our “Women’s International Connection.” The topics are designed to support professional women, by professional women. We want to help you connect and would love to know how we can serve you so that you have family away from home! ISI Philly welcomes any student, regardless of race, nationality, or religious preference. You do not have to be a member of the Christian faith to join ISI Philly. ISI Philly is affiliated with International Students, Inc. nationally, and locally works in partnership with Global Connect: U City Korean Christian Fellowship Student Contact: Jenny Choi KCF is a group for Korean Christian students to engage in fellowship at the University of Pennsylvania. Our group is open to both undergraduate and graduate students. We have weekly Bible Study, worship, prayer, and gatherings. Through the group, we learn to encourage one another to live in Christ while being students at Penn. The meetings are held in both Korean and English. KCF also helps to connect students to local churches, like the Korean speaking congregation at Emmanuel Church and the on campus gatherings held by Grace Covenant Church Latter Day Saints Student Association Student Contact: upennldssa@gmail.com The UPenn Latter-Day Saints Student Association (LDSSA) exists to serve the friends and members of The Church Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints who are a part of the University of Pennsylvania Community. The club seeks to foster friendships and promote faith through weekly scripture study, frequent social events, inter-collegiate conferences, and inter-faith campus events. Students of any faith are more than welcome to participate in LDSSA activities and events! Affiliated with the LDS Philadelphia YSA Ward located at 1682 Wood Street Philadelphia, PA 19103 Lutheran Campus Ministry Staff Contacts: Student Contacts: Lutheran Campus Ministry, hosted by University Lutheran Church, is a ministry for students, faculty, staff and others on campus and in the community, and is not just a ministry for Lutherans. LCM hosts both weekly and monthly events for students and young adults and we invite students to attend our Sunday morning worship. University Lutheran Church is part of the Evangelical Lutheran Church in America and is an official Campus Ministry of the ELCA. My Brother’s Keeper (MBK) Student Contacts: Hakiem Ellison, Jared Elters MBK seeks to provide a space for black men to discuss the application of Christian faith to their everyday lives and form a community of support, leadership and guidance amongst black men on Penn’s campus. We seek to help and encourage one another develop consistent habits in studying and reading the bible, to pursue Christ and to learn more about how we can live like Jesus. We also hope to build strong relationships with one another to stay encouraged and make you feel welcomed! We are open to all Christian and non Christian members to better understand the word of God as it applies to the lives of black men so feel free to join. New Spirit of Penn Gospel Choir Staff Contact: Stanley Williams (Baptist Campus Minister) Student Contact: As a group focused on ministry, the New Spirit of Penn Gospel Choir seeks to spread the word of the Lord through song and help to serve as a catalyst for change in the spiritual lives of those affiliated with the University of Pennsylvania, as well as in the surrounding communities. The choir meets twice a week, Mondays and Wednesdays, from 8 to 10 pm in ARCH Auditorium. The choir has open rehearsals and auditions are not required! Orthodox Christian Fellowship (OCF) Staff Contacts: The Orthodox Christian Fellowship (OCF) meets weekly on campus. Our mission is to provide all students engagement with the ancient Christian faith. The OCF is student led with Orthodox clergy advising. Our weekly activities include among other things prayer, discussion, and fellowship. OCF is affiliated with the Standing Conference of Canonical Orthodox Bishops in the Americas. Penn Catholic Newman Community Staff Contacts: Patrick Travers, Jule Coppa Student Contacts: Gaby Utomo, Finn Connors The Penn Catholic Newman Community is the Roman Catholic Church’s presence on Penn’s campus. Penn Catholic offers a variety of social, spiritual, and service opportunities to help enrich one’s relationship with God, self, and others through a greater understanding of the Catholic faith. All Penn students are welcome to participate. Penn Catholic Newman Community is affiliated with Sts. Agatha & James Parish in the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Philadelphia. Penn Catholic Service Association Student Contact: The Penn Catholic Service Association was founded to offer students a university-sponsored forum to meet other Catholics and live their faith through service to the community. With the help of Fox Leadership’s Faith and Service Partnership, we are committed to Catholic social teaching through service to Penn, West Philadelphia, and the global community. Penn Cru Staff Contact: Addison Frank, Hannah Gajari Student Contact: Jared Elters, Zoe Patterson Penn Cru helps students and faculty come to know Jesus, grow in their faith, and go to the world to tell others about God’s love. We are the local chapter of Cru at the University of Pennsylvania. Penn Epistle Student Contact: Sydney Sun The Penn Epistle is a Christian journal dedicated to sharing and echoing the words of Christ’s followers. We encourage and accept all Christian students from diverse backgrounds to share their testimonies, emotions, beliefs, and experiences about their journeys and what it means to be Christian. This organization hopes to become a vessel for the Lord’s words in order to comfort, support, and inspire believers and nonbelievers to pursue and deepen their faith. Anyone and everyone is welcome to join this community and write for The Penn Epistle! Penn for Jesus Student contact: Jadah Daley Penn for Jesus functions as a coalition group for Christ-centered organizations on Penn campus to forge partnerships in prayer and build missional communities that transform college campuses with the Gospel of Jesus. Our main goals are to unify the existing Christ-centered ministries on campus and engage the greater Penn community to represent Christ and His mission. For more information, please contact pennforjesus@gmail.com. Follow us on Instagram – @pennforjesus and Facebook Affiliated with Campus Renewal Ministries. Penn Graduate Christian Fellowship Staff Contact: Sarah Mitchell Student Contacts: Stephen Phillips, Jonathan Rumley PGCF is a heterogeneous community of University of Pennsylvania graduate students growing in our understanding of God through Christ and His revealed Word, living integrated Christ-transformed lives, and inviting others to know Him. We have weekly prayer, worship, small group Bible discussion, and occasional social events. Find more on our Facebook page or follow us on Instagram – @penngcf We are affiliated with Intervarsity Christian Fellowship USA. Penn Students for Christ Staff Contact: Jared Cochrum Student Contact: Suzanne Carpenter, Clarice Helfand, Justin James Penn Students for Christ (PSC) is a campus ministry of Tenth Presbyterian Church for students at the University of Pennsylvania. PSC offers weekly on-campus Bible studies and campus outings, community service ministries, Christian community on campus, and the opportunity for students to stay connected with a local church during their time at Penn. Penn Students for Christ is a part of the college ministry of Tenth Presbyterian Church. Philly Bridges Staff Contact: BJ Flenner Philly Bridges exists to serve you as an international students in our community. We do that through… Service: Providing you with valuable services that meet your tangible needs. Social: Providing social networking opportunities to get to know other Americans and fellow international students. Spiritual Resource: Providing you with opportunities to learn about Christianity and the Bible. Philly Bridges is part of Bridges International Queer Christian Fellowship Student contact: pennqcf@gmail.com Staff contact: Megan LeCluyse Group description: The Queer Christian Fellowship is a supportive community for LGBT Christians and allies who want to talk more about faith and sexuality. QCF aims to be an open space where all people can learn. You don’t have to be queer or even out, and you don’t have to know everything about being LGBT or about being a person of faith. Our meetings will include group discussions about scripture and current events, as well as social gatherings on campus and around Philadelphia. Affiliated with the Christian Association Renewal College Fellowship Staff Contact: Justin Kim Student Contacts: Lilian Chen The mission of Renewal College Fellowship (RCF) is for every individual to experience the gospel of the life-changing grace of Jesus Christ within a caring Christian community. Our hope is that you would be able grow in Christ and find a community that encourages you on your spiritual journey. RCF is the college ministry of Renewal Presbyterian Church Story Philly Campus Chapter Staff Contact: Josh Edgar Student Contact: Story chapter is a constituent of Story Philly, a church located in Center City. We believe that God is doing something new in our city and that He plans to bring restoration through people who will live for others, love well, stand against injustice, and pursue integrity. It is our hope that through this group your ambitions, dreams, and influence may be expanded to impact your spheres, our city, and the globe. This chapter will aim to allow its members to grow in love for Jesus and one another, as well as to be a “launch-pad” of inspiration through shared times of prayer, bible-study, and community events. Tenth International Outreach Staff Contact: Enrique Student Contact: Isaiah Smith Tenth International Outreach (Tenth IO) is part of Tenth Presbyterian Church located in center city. Tenth IO hosts a variety of events including weekly bible studies and a Sunday service (socially distanced and virtual!). At Tenth IO, we would love to welcome you to join our community of internationals and Americans worshiping Jesus together in one church. Please reach out to Isaiah Smith to get connected to Tenth IO. Tenth International Outreach is a part of the college ministry of Tenth Presbyterian Church. Young Life College Staff Contact: Theron Huff Student contact: Callista Dyer The mission of Young Life is introducing adolescents to Jesus Christ and helping them grow in their faith and life. Young Life at Penn is seeking to engage students who are skeptical about faith in general – whether their own faith tradition or religious worldviews in general. We hold weekly dinners to engage in conversation around different topics chosen by students. Everyone is welcome to come as often as they would like. Young Life at Penn is resourced by Young Life Hindu/Jain: Hindu Jain Association Student Contacts: Nikhil Avadhani, Sachi Patel Penn HJA was started in 1999 to increase awareness about Hinduism and Jainism. In the last decade, we have expanded rapidly on the national scene to become one of the most active chapters in the nation. HJA’s main events include Garba, Diwali, Saraswati Puja, and Hindu Jain Awareness Month along with many weekly activities. We are affiliated with the OmKar foundation which helps college organizations with religious and prayer services. Interfaith: The Faith Fund Student Contacts: Erick Jara The Faith Fund committee is a group of committed religious student leaders who work to provide funding and programming support for activities that consider religious and spiritual themes and non-event based support for religious and spiritual organizations. Religious and non-religious Penn student organizations are eligible to apply for event funding. PRISM – Programs in Religion, Interfaith, and Spirituality Matters Student Contacts: Sarah Beth Gleeson, Bailey Hanson PRISM is Penn’s religious umbrella group. We work with individual groups to promote religious life at Penn while also encouraging interfaith dialogue. We plan regular interfaith service and dialogue projects and through the Faith Fund we provide funding for religious events on campus. Jewish: Hillel at the University of Pennsylvania Staff Contact: Rabbi Gabe Greenberg Student Contacts: Avidan Baral, Rachel Wechsler Hillel at the University of Pennsylvania is the umbrella organization for Jewish life on campus. We encompass many religious, educational, social, cultural, Israel advocacy, and other groups that allow students to explore and create their own Jewish experiences on campus. Our lively, fun community is comprised primarily of Penn undergraduates, but we also work with and support students from all the Penn grad schools. Conservative Jewish Community at Penn Staff Contacts: Jenna Ferman Student Contacts: Micah Kanter The Conservative Jewish Community at Penn offers social, educational and religious opportunities for the Penn community. CJC holds Shabbat services every Friday night that are filled with upbeat melodies and singing. We foster a welcoming community and organize events such as informal text learning, social gatherings and delicious dinners. Affiliated with Penn Hillel J-BaGeL Staff Contact: Lonnie Kleinman J-Bagel is a Philadelphia-wide student group dedicated to serving members of the LGBTQAI (Lesbian, Bisexual, Transexual/Transgender, Queer/Questioning, Ally, Intersex) community. J-Bagel runs events for the Jewish and/or LGBTQAI community, including social gatherings, panel discussions, and Shabbat dinners. J-Bagel keeps an active online listserv where privacy is deeply respected. Affiliated with Penn Hillel Jewish Renaissance Project (JRP) Staff Contact: Gabriel Greenberg The Jewish Renaissance Project is about you, your interests, your friends, and your Jewish identity! JRP is an alternative choice for Penn students who want to figure out what Judaism means in a sophisticated and intellectually open way with other people who look and talk just like you. JRP programs are diverse (with different designs for freshmen, Greeks, those who live off-campus and everyone else in between) and cover any way that you could want to explore your Judaism. Affiliated with Penn Hillel Orthodox Community at Penn Staff Contacts: Rabbi Joshua Klein, Sara Klein Student Contacts: Ari Portal, Ariella Linhart The Orthodox Community at Penn is one of the most active and vibrant student groups of Orthodox Jews in the country! Join us for daily events, classes, and services – or just come chat in the kosher dining hall at Hillel (Steinhardt Hall, 39th and Locust). Affiliated with Penn Hillel Penn Hillel Tzedek Social Justice Staff Contact: Rabbi Micah Shapiro Student Contacts: David Isaacs Tzedek Social Justice (TSJ), is Hillel’s community service and advocacy group on campus. Framed by the Jewish imperatives of tzedakah (righteousness), gemilut chasadim (acts of loving-kindness), and tikun olam (repairing the world), Penn Hillel TSJ is committed to engaging and empowering students in meaningful public service both on and off campus and encouraging creative Jewish thinking about social justice issues. Some of our annual events include Mitzvah Day, Adopt-a-Family Drive and Relay for Life. Affiliated with Penn Hillel Reform Jewish Community Staff Contact: Rabbi Ariel Milan-Polisar Student Contacts: Mira Potter-Schwartz, Rachel Zaff RJC is Penn’s Reform Jewish Community, providing a spiritual, social, and religious home for Reform Jews on campus. If you are interested in musical and creative Shabbat services, warm and welcoming social events and dinners, or opportunities to learn more about Judaism, let us know! Affiliated with Penn Hillel Shabbatones – (Jewish A Capella) Student Contact: Mia Shechter The Shabbatones always put on a great show. Having toured London, California, Florida and Boston, they have brought their a capella delight far and wide. With a repertoire of popular Israeli, American and Jewish songs, the Shabbatones’ music appeals to a wide group of people. So make sure to keep an eye out for this fantastic group as they rock their vocals all over campus. Shira Chadasha Staff Contact: Rabbi Micah Shapiro Student Contacts: Gabriela Skovronsky, Micah Weitzman, Samuel Strickberger Shira Chadasha is a community which strives to provide Penn’s Jewish student body with spirited and inclusive prayer opportunities. We offer a traditional service that promotes the maximum participation of females and males within a halachik framework. Meeting throughout the semester, Shira Chadasha hosts lively Friday Night and Shabbat day services attended by a diverse group of students from throughout the Penn Hillel community. Shira Chadasha aims to increase awareness and discussion of issues related to prayer and spirituality, gender roles and Jewish Law, and the fostering of inclusivity in our Jewish communities. Affiliated with Penn Hillel Jewish Graduate Student Network Staff Contact: info@jewishgrads.org The Jewish Graduate Student Network, a program of Hillel of Greater Philadelphia, serves all of the Jewish graduate and professional students in the Philadelphia area through campus-based and city-wide events. The Grad Network offers a wide range of social, educational, cultural, and religious programs, as well as career development and community service opportunities. The Grad Network offers extensive programming for Penn students as well as opportunities for Penn students to meet their peers at other universities. Affiliated with the Greater Philly Hillel Network Lubavitch House at Penn (Chabad) Staff Contacts: Rabbi Ephraim Levin, Rabi Levi Haskelevich, Nechama Haskelevich, Rebecca Feldman Student Contacts: Lubavitch House, a branch of Chabad on Campus, creates an open and welcoming environment for students of all backgrounds and affiliations, to celebrate and explore their heritage. Our goal is to provide students a warm and non-judgmental space to participate in a variety of expressions of Jewish life: Educational classes, religious celebrations and holidays, community service and social programming. We strive to be the place where “every Jew is family.” Jewish Heritage Programs Staff Contact: Leigh Hershkovich Student Contact: Since 1993, JHP has been dedicated to sustain the Jewish community through mentorship, education and, where possible, outreach to disengaged individuals. JHP energizes individuals not normally engaged in Jewish communal activities to engage their friends in activities that inspire and inform, to create and celebrate greater Jewish pride and identity. JHP is affiliated with the Lubavitch House at Penn Meor Penn Staff Contacts: Rabbi Rick Fox, Student Contacts: Meor Means Illumination. Light reveals and inspires. Light expands vision and uncovers new realities. Meor is dedicated to illuminating lives with Jewish light. We hope to create a vibrant Jewish future led by a new generation of Jewish students who are: literate in Jewish wisdom, culture, and heritage; instilled with a deep personal identity that inspires commitment to Jewish values; empowered and actively engaged in Jewish community and support of Israel. We are affiliated with the national branch of Meor, located in NYC. Meditation/Mindfulness: Muslim: Muslim Life Program Staff Contact: Patty Anton The Muslim Life Program at the University of Pennsylvania support for Muslims on campus through the Muslim chaplain, programming and a physical home on campus. Visit us at 118 S. 37th St (behind Pottruck Gym – in the space that we share with the Christian Association. The Muslim Life Program supports graduate and undergraduate students and works with all Muslim student organizations and interfaith partners on campus. The Muslim Life Program seeks to create a welcoming environment for the students and community members that provides opportunities for intellectually and spiritually engaging with Islam. Muslim Students Association Staff Contact: Patty Anton Student Contact: Aaisha Khalique, Kamal Suleiman Penn MSA seeks to build an inclusive and engaging community for Muslims on Penn’s campus. Through diverse programming, we aim to positively contribute to the social, professional, religious, and spiritual development of our members, and to collectively give back to the broader Penn and West Philadelphia communities. Additionally, our campus minister provides religious, spiritual and pastoral guidance and counseling to Muslims at Penn in order to enrich their experience while here. Follow us on Instagram – @upennmsa & Facebook Penn Sapelo Staff Contact: Kameelah Mu’Min Rashad Student Contact: Penn Sapelo is the University of Pennsylvania’s Black Muslim Student Organization dedicated to fostering dialogue, creating community, and engaging in service around the Black Muslim experience on campus and in the broader community. We are a family of both undergraduate and graduate students, and welcome all who identity as Black and Muslim and our ally friends to our organization. Secular/Atheist: Sikh: Penn Sikh Organization Staff Contact: Student Contact: The Penn Sikh Organization (PSO) aims to foster greater awareness of Sikh values and tradition. The organization offers members the opportunity to learn more about the religion. In addition, it gives them the option to share this knowledge and the history of Sikhism with the greater Penn community through interfaith events. Spiritual: The Book Club Student Contact: Sarah Bernstein The Book Club is a club focused on exploring mysticism, spirituality and witchcraft. We welcome all practioners to our group to meet others and learn about new techniques and traditions, as well as people with no experience at all who are interested in various aspects of both religious and non-religous mysticism, spirituality, and witchcraft. Support: Cogwell Staff Contact: Melissa Hopely Rice, Ephraim Levin Student Contact: Allie Schlager, Allison Gelfarb, Emily Marucci CogWell is a student-run peer-to-peer support network on Penn’s campus. Each semester we provide professional training of Active Listening skills to students and also provide mini workshops to various groups on campus. The group is based on friends helping friends on campus. Cogwell partners with the Chaplains Office and CAPS. SPARC HOURS 10-9 Mon-Thurs 10-5 Fri Visit Us The Office of the Chaplain | SPARC Address - 240 Houston Hall (directly above the Hall of Flags on the 2nd floor) 3417 Spruce St Philadelphia, PA 19104 Phone: 215.898.8456 Website: http://www.upenn.edu/chaplain Contact Us The Office of the Chaplain | SPARC Address - University of Pennsylvania 3417 Spruce Street, 240 Houston Hall Philadelphia, PA 19104 Phone: 215.898.8456 Website: www.upenn.edu/chaplain SPARC HOURS 10-9 Mon-Thurs 10-5 Fri Report accessibility issues and get help Follow us Copyright © 2017 All Rights reserved. Designed by WPlook Studio