Skip to Main Content Brown University News from Brown Site Navigation Featured Events For Journalists Search Menu Topics News and Events Date March 4, 2021 2021-03-04 Media Contact Brian E. Clark [email protected] 401-863-1638 All News Share Facebook Twitter Linkedin Email Federal court dismisses claims seeking tuition refunds in class action complaint The court ruled that COVID-19 “upended countless aspects of our society’s usual and customary practices” and that students are not entitled to any tuition refund based on Brown’s transition to remote learning in March 2020. PROVIDENCE, R.I. [Brown University] — A federal court has dismissed a series of claims from students who filed a lawsuit alleging they were entitled to a tuition refund after the COVID-19 pandemic forced Brown in March 2020 to transition to remote learning for the remainder of its Spring 2020 semester. In response to Brown’s motion to dismiss for failure to state a claim, Judge John J. McConnell Jr. of the U.S. District Court in Rhode Island issued a March 4, 2021, court order that dismissed breach of contract and tort claims in Choi et. al v. Brown related to payment of tuition. In dismissing the tuition claims, McConnell noted that “no plausible reading” of Brown’s course catalogs, student handbooks, policies, marketing or other materials offer a contractual promise for in-person education. And he emphasized that the University explicitly reserved the right to alter the administration of its academic offerings. McConnell noted that the reality of the COVID-19 pandemic contrasted particularly with the plaintiffs’ claims that Brown’s “usual and customary practice of providing on-campus courses” contributed to an expectation that Brown would provide an on-campus educational experience. “While this Court’s central finding is that nothing in the complaint indicates a contractual obligation for Brown to hold in-person programs, the unique nature of this moment warrants emphasis,” he wrote in his decision, which dismissed similar claims against three other Rhode Island universities as part of a consolidated order. “Brown, and other Defendants were responding to the remarkable circumstances of this pandemic — which has upended countless aspects of our society’s usual and customary practices. One can reasonably infer that the universities reserved their rights for situations just like what occurred in 2020 — unexpected events, in this case a global pandemic.” Brown successfully argued in its motion to dismiss that despite the circumstances brought on by the pandemic, the University continued to provide students with a world-class education and students continued to learn remotely as they earned academic credit toward completion of their degrees. The case is a class action filed by the plaintiffs on behalf of students who paid Brown tuition, fees and/or room and board for the Spring 2020 semester. Following the March 4 order, the only remaining claim to be litigated in the matter relates to the plaintiffs’ claims to partial refund of certain fees. While the University refunded unused room and board and recreation fees after transitioning to remote instruction, the court ruled that the plaintiffs alleged plausible claims that they expected certain services, such as student activities, in exchange for fees paid. This is the only issue left to be litigated, and the court established deadlines for discovery. The court’s decision is available in full on the web. Tags COVID-19 Related news: News and Events $25 million gift from Shoman family advances Brown’s goal for need-blind international admission June 1, 2022 The largest gift for international financial aid in University history, from alumni Aysha and Omar Shoman, will expand Brown’s ability to educate the most exceptional international students from all socioeconomic groups. Read Article Open details for $25 million gift from Shoman family advances Brown’s goal for need-blind international admission News and Events Brown Corporation elects two new fellows, eight trustees June 1, 2022 Brown’s governing body elected each new member based on their commitment to the University and its mission of education and research. Read Article Open details for Brown Corporation elects two new fellows, eight trustees News and Events Brown Corporation approves base budget for Fiscal Year 2023 June 1, 2022 The $1.5 billion base budget includes deep investments in student financial aid and support for faculty and staff, balancing continued advancement in academic excellence with a focus on long-term financial sustainability. Read Article Open details for Brown Corporation approves base budget for Fiscal Year 2023 Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Snapchat Twitter YouTube Social Media Directory © Brown University Brown University For You Current Students Faculty Staff Parents & Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Featured Events For Journalists Topics Arts and Humanities Environment Health and Medicine News and Events Science and Technology Social Sciences Student Life University Initiatives Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events For You Give to Brown All of Brown.edu People News Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Federal court dismisses claims seeking tuition refunds in class action complaint Open details for Federal court dismisses claims seeking tuition refunds in class action complaint Bookmark this Page