Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Legal Affairs & General Counsel General Counsel right arrow down arrow Office of General Counsel right arrow down arrow Public Records Requests Contracting with UC Ethics Attorneys & Staff Contact Us Enterprise Risk Management right arrow down arrow Insurance & Claims right arrow down arrow Insurance Verification or Claims History right arrow down arrow Claims History / Proof of Insurance Request Non-Employee Exception Sheet Medical Malpractice Cross Reference Certificate of Insurance Loss Control & Training right arrow down arrow Drones right arrow down arrow Flight Request Form Fleet Safety right arrow down arrow Driver Registration Protection of Minors Special Events Student Organizations About the Process right arrow down arrow Staff FAQ's Ask a Risk Manager Privacy Internal Audit Home » About UC » Legal Affairs & General Counsel » Enterprise Risk Management » Insurance & Claims » Certificate of Insurance Set Navigation title in component Insurance & Claims Insurance Verification or Claims History Claims History / Proof of Insurance Request Non-Employee Exception Sheet Medical Malpractice Cross Reference Certificate of Insurance Loss Control & Training Drones Flight Request Form Fleet Safety Driver Registration Protection of Minors Special Events Student Organizations About the Process Staff FAQ's Ask a Risk Manager Certificate of Insurance What is a Certificate of Insurance? Exchanging proof of insurance is a common step in the contracting process. A Certificate of Insurance (COI) is a document from your insurance company as proof your entity is insured. The document lists all of the information required to file a claim in the event of an accident or injury: the name of the insured, the policy numbers, the type of coverage, and the limits on coverage. Below is an example of a Certificate of Insurance. Download Sample Certificate of Insurance Request Certificate of Insurance Third parties who contract with the University may request proof of insurance. Please visit the University's memorandum of Insurance website. Note: this would not include additional insured status. To request consideration for additional insured status please complete the form below with complete and accurate information for your request to be processed within 3-5 business days. To request medical provider claims history or proof of medical malpractice insurance, click here - medical professional coverage and claims history requests. University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-0000 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-0000 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top