Skip to main content Skip to main navigation SearchMenu Baylor>Search Find Site By A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Websites starting with 'A': About Baylor Baylor University, a private christian university and a nationally ranked research institution, provides a vibrant campus community for more than 16,000 students by blending interdisciplinary research with an international reputation for educational excellence and a faculty commitment to teaching and scholarship. Academic Administrative Resource Center A comprehensive resource for department chairs and their administrative staff. Academic Calendar Committee The Academic Calendar Committee is appointed by the Faculty Senate and approved by the Administration. They are charged with recommending the academic calendar to be followed each year. They are responsible for a calendar that includes the approved number of class days, final examination schedule and university holidays (when they affect the class day count). They also work with other groups to set dates for Homecoming, Parents Weekend and Diadeloso. Academic Enrollment Management The overarching goal of managing academic enrollment is to facilitate student success and progress toward graduation while working within the resource capacities of the academic areas and in light of the institutional goals and revenue needs. Academic Integrity and Honor Code The Office of Academic Integrity, in coordination with the chair of the Honor Council and the provost, has oversight for all records and information related to the Honor Code and academic integrity at Baylor University. Academic Progress Reports Assisting students in their pursuit of higher education, they sometimes need to access resources on campus beyond what they are already doing. Each time a member of faculty submits a Progress Report on a student, it is an opportunity to help a student reach his or her potential. This page contains some tools for professors to submit an Academic Progress Report. Academics With the range of Baylor's offerings, you can pursue almost any career path. Choose from 150 baccalaureate programs in fields as varied as business, nursing, pre-medicine, music, and computer science. Academy for Teaching and Learning Baylor University’s Academy for Teaching and Learning (ATL) has a two-fold mission: globally, to support and inspire a flourishing community of learning; locally, to promote the integration of teaching, scholarship, collegiality, and service in a Christian environment. This pursuit of wholeness reflects the University’s pursuit of personal and academic integrity: the integrated person in the integrated community. Accelerate Baylor University Pre-College Program gives students the opportunity to begin their academic pursuits and get ahead on core course requirements that will apply to a range of Baylor degrees, but are also transferable to other universities. Accounting & Business Law, Department of A degree in accounting prepares you for a variety of careers. Many people choose to enter public accounting as either an auditor or tax consultant. These positions are available in firms of all sizes - from large multinational firms to small local firms. Others choose to enter industry and work as general accountants, controllers, treasurers, tax managers, or internal auditors. Governmental agencies employ a number of accountants at the local, state, and federal levels. Over 30 employers currently recruit Baylor accounting majors. Accounts Payable The Accounts Payable department provides accurate and timely processing of vendor payments, student reimbursements, bank transfers, and other payments and to effectively document these transactions. Activate Bear ID/Change Password All faculty, staff, and students to Baylor are issued a computer account called a Bear ID. Your Bear ID is the only account that you will need to access many of the various computer systems on campus. Before you can use your Bear ID, you must first activate it. Add Milk! Healthy Fluid Milk Incentive Welcome to Add Milk! If you’re a SNAP participant, this program gives you buying power to add more milk to your healthy diet. When you buy certain qualifying milk products, you’ll get a dollar-for-dollar coupon you can use to buy more milk on your next store visit. Administrative Departments A listing of websites for administrative departments at Baylor. Admissions: Graduate School Baylor University offers a diverse catalog of more than 100 master's and doctoral programs to help you reach your career goals. Here, you'll find the support of a caring Christian community and the opportunity to work alongside world-class faculty in purposeful research. Admissions: Law School You belong at Baylor Law School if you want to be the kind of lawyer who not only receives training in all facets of the law . . . but also learns how to practice it more effectively than your peers. While all law schools teach theory, ethics and modern legal doctrine, a recent national survey showed that only 17% of law students felt that law school had adequately prepared them for the practice of law. That will not happen to you at Baylor. Admissions: Truett Seminary At Baylor’s Truett Seminary, students are equipped with both knowledge and experience to pursue God’s call to ministry. Students work in mentoring relationships alongside pastors, international missionaries and leaders of faith-based entities to gain a unique understanding of life in ministry and insight into the day-to-day operations of churches and organizations. Truett graduates are academically prepared and spiritually equipped to lead and to serve the Church and a world in need. Admissions: Undergraduate Baylor University is a private Christian University and a nationally ranked research institution. The University provides a vibrant campus community for more than 16,000 students by blending interdisciplinary research with an international reputation for educational excellence and a faculty commitment to teaching and scholarship. Chartered in 1845 through the efforts of Baptist pioneers, Baylor is the oldest continually operating University in Texas and welcomes students from all 50 states and more than 80 countries. Affordability Planner Plan ahead to help make your Baylor experience affordable. Includes resources to help you plan ahead and explore the ways Baylor can work with your finances. Air Force ROTC Baylor's Air Force ROTC detachment was created in July 1948 as one of the first detachments in the nation. AirBear Wireless Network The AirBear Wireless Network (AIRBEAR WPA2) connects and empowers the Baylor University community. The following links provide detailed information about connecting to Baylor's wireless networks. You can also learn about the other wireless networks available on campus. All University Sing Presented by the Department of Student Activities, All-University Sing has been a tradition at Baylor University since 1953. Student organizations perform 7-minute, Broadway style productions in competition with one another. The top 8 acts will advance to Pigskin Revue in the fall semester. Production leadership for Sing is provided by the Student Productions Committee. Allbritton Art Institute The Allbritton Art Institute was established within the Department of Art, Baylor University in 1998 by Mr. and Mrs. Joe Allbritton whose vision is to promote the appreciation and comprehensive study of the artists and art movements of the nineteenth and twentieth centuries. Alleluia Conference The Alleluia Conference is one-of-a-kind enrichment event featuring superb clinicians who re-energize and inspire worship leaders, music ministers, children's choir leaders, and keyboard ministers. Alumni By Choice Whether or not one has graduated from Baylor doesn't determine one's allegiance to "That Good Old Baylor Line." Alumni By Choice allows those who love Baylor to become a part of its storied alumni through the nomination of a Baylor Alum. Alumni Directory The Baylor Alumni and Friends online directory helps the university stay connected with you as valued members of our Baylor family and allows you to search for other Baylor Bears. Alumni Programs Baylor Alumni have access to a number of programs to continue their link to Baylor University and the Baylor Family. Alumni Search Need some information on a Baylor Alum? Simply enter a name here and click the Search button. This will bring up a list of matching names. From there, click on a name to see that individual's detailed info. Alumni-Elected Regents Alumni-elected Regents will serve 3-year terms; however, the 2016 appointees were installed with 1-, 2- and 3-year terms to allow the election process to commence in spring 2017. The process outlined on this site governs the annual nomination, review, and selection of alumni-elected Regents. Each year, one alumni-elected Regent will complete their term and the graduates of Baylor University will select or re-elect an Alumni-elected Regent. Ambassadors for Baylor Ambassadors for Baylor will equip you to be an even stronger voice in your community, sharing with others the mission and vision of this institution. Here you can learn more about the Baylor you know, love and believe in, providing you engaging stories to share with others in your communities. American Studies Both a Bachelor of Arts and a Master of Arts degree in American Studies may be earned at Baylor University. The curriculum focuses on creating a deeper understanding of American culture and society, particularly in the areas of history, literature, political processes, and contemporary philosophy. Anesthesia Nursing DNP Program The United States Army Graduate Program in Anesthesia Nursing (USAGPAN) educates and prepares individuals to become independent Certified Registered Nurse Anesthetists (CRNAs). Upon graduation, ARMY CRNAs will serve for five years with the option to stay in and continue to serve while increasing rank and salary as well as function as respected members of the military healthcare team. Army and Veteran’s Administration (VA) CRNAs provide full-spectrum anesthesia at Army and VA hospitals across the continental United States, Hawaii, Europe, Korea, and anywhere in the world they are needed. Anthropology, Department of Anthropology is a unique discipline, both in terms of its approach to understanding human behavior and in terms of its methodology. Our discipline offers a perspective that allows examination and understanding of our history across all geographical regions and through time, as well as the use of this information to address contemporary problems by the applied practitioners of our discipline. Arabic At Baylor University we teach the spoken Syrian or Levantine dialect of Arabic which is the dialect spoken to a greater extent in Lebanon, Syria, Jordan, and among the Palestinian Arab inhabitants of Israel, the West Bank of the Jordan River, and in the Gaza Strip. In conjunction with the Syrian dialect, students will first learn to read and write the Arabic Sound and Script System. Armstrong Browning Library and Museum The Armstrong Browning Library is a research library devoted to the study of the lives and works of the Victorian poets, Robert and Elizabeth Barrett Browning. Privately funded by Baylor University, but free and open to the public, it houses the world's largest collection of books, manuscripts, and memorabilia pertaining to the Brownings. The Library also contains a heavy concentration of materials on the Victorian era, especially those literary figures who were contemporaries and associates of the Brownings. Army ROTC The Army ROTC is one of the strongest leadership training programs in the country. It is designed to work for all students in any major or degree program. Through classes and field training, you'll learn first-hand about leading and motivating others and conducting missions as an officer in the Army. Upon graduation from Army ROTC, you will have earned the bar of a Second Lieutenant and will be a leader for life. Staffed by Army personnel, the program prepares students for a commission as an officer in the U. S. Army, U. S. Army Reserve or the Army National Guard. In addition to knowledge and experience in leadership and management, you'll gain a rich understanding of the Department of Defense and the role of the U. S. Army in national security and world affairs. Army-Baylor DPT US Army-Baylor University Doctoral Program in Physical Therapy Our top-ranked physical therapy doctoral program recruits and selects highly-qualified individuals from the civilian sector to join the military and become officers in the US Army or the US Navy. Our program also selects applicants from within the active duty and reserve forces to transfer into our program from other military occupational specialties. Following basic officer initial entry training, these officers engage in 30 months of entry-level physical therapy training to receive the doctorate of physical therapy degree (DPT). Upon graduation, our graduates are well-prepared to serve in two unique professions - as an active-duty officer and as a military physical therapist. Army-Baylor MHA | MBA Army-Baylor University Graduate Program in Health and Business Administration! We have been serving the Federal Health System by providing high quality graduate education and research through our affiliation with Baylor University for more than half a century. Our strategic partnership with Baylor and the excellence exhibited by our faculty, students, and alumni have enabled us to develop one of the most highly regarded health administration programs in America. Army-Baylor Occupational Therapy The mission of the US Army Doctor of Science in Occupational Therapy Program is to produce technically and tactically proficient advanced occupational therapy clinicians. Army-Baylor OMPT Doctor of Science in Physical Therapy Mission: To train and educate specialized, advanced-practicing physical therapists who maximize military readiness and health outcomes through patient care, research, and teaching Art, Department of In an increasingly visual world, the demand for the skills of artists and designers is growing. Whether creating with paint, pencil or charcoal on canvas or paper; with tactile materials such as clay, fibers, metal or wood; with light on photographic paper; or with pixels on a computer screen - artists and designers play a key role in communication of ideas, information and aesthetics. the Department of Art at Baylor University meets the challenge of educating future generations of artists and designers with a faculty of sixteen full-time, professionally active artist/teacher/scholars, two of which hold positions as Artist in Residence. Arts & Sciences Core Curriculum The College of Arts & Sciences core curriculum is the foundation for a degree from Baylor University. For this reason, the College maintains a robust core curriculum across diverse academic disciplines such as the sciences, social sciences, humanities, and fine arts Arts & Sciences Magazine Arts & Special Collections Research Center The Arts & Special Collections Research Center (formerly known as the Crouch Fine Arts Library) is home to resources and services for research and performance in music, art, theater, and special collections in all disciplines. Arts and Sciences Technology Center The Arts & Sciences Technology Center works closely with the academic departments in the College of Arts & Sciences to plan the computer technology needed in classrooms, department labs, and offices. Asian and African Languages Languages available are Arabic, Chinese, Japanese, Korean, Swahili and Thai Asian Studies Asian Studies, Foreign Language Ask a Librarian To make a request for assistance or to make a suggestion to a librarian, please visit our website and fill out our online form. Ask Baylor Can't find an answer on our web site? Need to contact the webmaster or find out about admissions or financial aid or something else? Send fill out this form and we'll be happy to help. Austin-Waco EMBA The Baylor University Executive MBA Program strives to equip today's business leaders with tools to tackle the challenges of tomorrow's complex business environment. Began in Waco in 1991 under the guiding principles of leadership and teamwork, the program develops and enhances skills the candidates already possess via an environment that fosters educational exchange. Available Faculty Positions Faculty recruitment and retention is a top priority of the university. In particular, we seek to improve Baylor's academic excellence while enhancing our integration of outstanding scholarly productivity and strong Christian faith. Principal activities include conducting searches for nationally and internationally distinguished scholar-teachers, enhancing productive opportunity for current faculty, and overseeing planning and policy committees whose work is central to accelerated academic development at Baylor. Available Staff Positions The current lists of available staff positions at Baylor University are available from this site. Faculty/Staff homepages starting with 'A': Allman,Dwight Baylor Faculty and Staff: Update your homepage address or learn more about your homepage and privacy settings. Show More General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678