Skip to main content Navigation Academics Admissions Research Locations Student Life Alumni & Giving Athletics Apply Now Nursing, BSN Advance Your Future in Nursing Program at a Glance Program Bachelor College(s) College of Nursing Department(s) Nursing Practice 4-5 Years In State Tuition Out of State Tuition $212.28 per credit hour $748.89 per credit hour Learn more about program tuition and fees. Prepare to Help Lead the Future of Healthcare A Bachelor of Science in Nursing (BSN) degree prepares you to provide comprehensive care in a variety of acute, community and rehabilitative settings. The program emphasis includes clinical nursing practice, health promotion and maintenance, and preparation for assuming leadership roles. The baccalaureate curriculum also provides you with the foundation for graduate study in nursing if you choose to continue your education. With flexible, convenient and affordable options, you can complete you degree while balancing school, work and life. Ready to get started? Explore the application process and requirements for UCF BSN degrees. Please note that UCF nursing programs are limited access. You must be admitted to UCF before you can apply to the College of Nursing’s BSN program. Nationally accredited by the Commission of Collegiate Nursing Education (CCNE), our nursing programs meet the educational eligibility criteria for licensure as a registered nurse (RN) in the state of Florida. Traditional BSN The traditional BSN provides you with a basis for professional nursing practice. The program has four tracks: traditional, accelerated second degree, concurrent and RN to BSN. Admission is limited and occurs once a year on UCF’s Orlando, Cocoa and Daytona Beach campuses. You’ll want to apply to this program prior to your junior year of college. Second Degree BSN If you have a non-nursing bachelor’s degree and are now pursuing a career in nursing, you’ll want to select the second degree BSN track. A full-time ‘lock-step’ program, it takes four consecutive semesters to complete, including summers. Admission is limited and occurs each summer on UCF’s Orlando campus. Concurrent ASN to BSN This path provides qualified students with an opportunity to take ASN courses at approved state colleges while concurrently taking BSN courses at UCF. You’ll complete your ASN degree with more than half of your BSN credits already earned, allowing you to complete your BSN degree from UCF sooner. Seminole State/UCF Concurrent Track Valencia College/UCF Concurrent Track Florida College System Concurrent Track RN to BSN If you’re currently a registered nurse with an associate degree or diploma in nursing, the RN to BSN track provides you with an opportunity to earn a BSN. Each applicant is reviewed individually and guided to prevent repetition of previous coursework. Courses are primarily online with some face-to-face classes. Contact the College of Nursing for specifics on the RN to BSN program. Highlights UCF educates the most newly licensed BSN nurses in the state university system. A significant number of UCF BSN graduates choose to stay in Florida after completing their degree — 92% of them. The NCLEX-RN first-time pass rate of recent BSN graduates is 97% which far exceeds both state and national averages. Florida has one of the highest employment levels of registered nurses who earn an annual mean wage of $69,510. Nursing BSN Application Deadlines Application deadlines vary by track. Please note that you first must be admitted to UCF before you can apply to the College of Nursing’s BSN program. Find application deadlines Start Your Application Today Ready to get started? Take the next step to save your spot at UCF. 1 Check out the application process and requirements for UCF BSN degrees. Questions? Reach out the College of Nursing for assistance. 2 Start your UCF undergraduate admissions application at least three months before before the BSN application deadline. Apply Today Nursing Skills You'll Learn Identify emerging healthcare problems, appraising current evidence, and its potential for application to improve outcomes. Demonstrate effective professional communication as part of an interdisciplinary team, collaborating to provide for optimal health outcomes. Analyze the healthcare policy process for the improvement of healthcare for all. Demonstrate competence in the management of information and the application of technology to deliver quality care. Develop health promotion and disease prevention interventions at the individual and population level to improve health. Actualize professional values such as altruism, autonomy, integrity, social justice and respect for human dignity. Provide the highest quality of nursing care across the lifespan and continuum of healthcare environments. Career Opportunities Hospital Nurse Nurse Case Manager Nurse Informatics Specialist Clinical Nurse Specialist Staff Nurse College of Nursing News Check out more stories Colleges & Campus UCF Nursing Student, Leukemia Survivor Inspired by Nurse Alumna who Treated Him Max Jones beat the odds and is now pursuing a career path in pediatric oncology thanks to the mentorship of his nurses, including a very… Colleges & Campus Knights Do That Podcast: The Future of Nursing UCF College of Nursing Associate Professor Desiree Diaz shares how UCF is leading the charge in virtual reality education, the importance of teaching students about… Health & Medicine UCF Lake Nona Hospital Training Future Doctors, Nurses Sooner than Expected Within the year since its opening, the hospital has gained national recognition among HCA hospitals for quality of care and patient satisfaction. Colleges & Campus 2022 UCF Founders’ Day Honorees The annual celebration honors the academic achievements of our faculty members and students. Degree Search College of Nursing programs Bachelors Nursing (BSN) University of Central Florida Colleges Burnett Honors Arts and Humanities Business Community Innovation and Education Engineering and Computer Science Graduate Studies Health Professions and Sciences Medicine Optics and Photonics Sciences Undergraduate Studies Hospitality Management × The BSN program prepares graduates who will be able to: Integrate concepts from liberal education with nursing curriculum to enhance critical thinking and implementation of quality care. Integrate principles of leadership and management through intra- and inter- disciplinary collaborations to address client needs and outcomes. Foster scholarship in nursing practice through identification of emerging health care problems, appraising current evidence, and its potential for application to improve outcomes. Demonstrate effective professional communication as part of an interdisciplinary team, collaborating to provide for optimal health outcomes. Analyze the health care policy process for the improvement of health care for all. Demonstrate competence in the management of information and the application of technology to deliver quality care. Develop health promotion and disease prevention interventions at the individual and population level to improve health. Actualize professional values such as altruism, autonomy, integrity, social justice, and respect for human dignity. Provide the highest quality of nursing care across the lifespan and continuum of healthcare environments. For individuals who are not Registered Nurses. The College of Nursing has a demanding curriculum. The classes are work-intensive and courses include clinical practice in a variety of settings. Due to this, it is strongly recommended that students be at least one-year post-high school prior to applying to the basic nursing program. Students with concerns or questions should contact the College of Nursing Undergraduate Student Services Office for an appointment with an academic advisor. The program is accredited by the Commission on Collegiate Nursing Education (CCNE) and approved by the Florida State Board of Nursing. The Nursing (B.S.N.) program will meet the educational eligibility criteria for the National Council for Licensure Examination for Registered Nurses (NCLEX-RN) for obtaining a license to practice as a registered nurse in Florida. Out-of-state instructional limitations apply to this degree program. For more information on this and how this program may prepare you in that regard, please visit https://apq.ucf.edu/files/Licensure-Disclosure-Nursing-BSN.pdf Degree Requirements Core Requirements: Advanced 62 Total Credits Complete the following: NUR3065 - Health Assessment (2) NUR3065L - Health Assessment Lab (1) NUR3028 - Essentials of Nursing Practice (3) NUR3028L - Essentials of Nursing Practice Lab (1) NUR3755L - Essentials of Nursing Practice Clinical (2) NUR3616 - Health Promotion Across the Lifespan (2) NUR3616L - Health Promotion Across the Lifespan Clinical (1) NUR3125 - Pathophysiology for Nursing Practice (3) NUR3145 - Pharmacology for Nursing Practice (3) NUR3225 - Nursing Care of the Adult I (3) NUR3225L - Nursing Care of the Adult I: Clinical Practice: (2) NUR3816 - Professional Nurse Seminar (1) NUR3445 - Nursing Care of Families (4) NUR3445L - Nursing Care of Families Clinical (2) NUR3165 - Nursing Research (3) NUR4837 - Health Care Issues, Policy, and Economics (3) NUR4227 - Nursing Care of the Adult II (4) NUR4227L - Nursing Care of the Adult II: Clinical Practice (3) NUR4535 - Psychiatric Mental Health Nursing (3) NUR4535L - Psychiatric Mental Health Clinical (2) NUR4257 - Introduction to Critical Care Nursing (3) NUR4945L - Nursing Practicum (4) NUR4828 - Nursing Leadership, Management and Role Transition (3) NUR4637 - Public and Community Health Nursing (3) NUR4637L - Public Health Nursing Clinical (1) Restricted Electives 3 Total Credits Earn at least 3 credits from the following types of courses: One College of Nursing elective. A list of approved restricted elective courses is found in the myKnight audit. Grand Total Credits: 65 University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida