Skip to main content Search Giving Contact Make a Gift Cullen College of Engineering William A. Brookshire Department of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering Top 20 Doctoral Program — National Research Council Main menu About Message from the Chair Strategic Plan UH Calendar Open Positions Contact Us Welcome People Faculty Staff Graduate Students Student Organizations Alumni Research Research Areas Faculty Expertise Facilities and Laboratories Centers and Consortia Seminars Theses and Dissertations Industrial Relations Undergraduate Accreditation Admissions Degree Programs Advising Courses Class Schedules Scholarships ChBE Department College of Engineering FAQ Accelerated BS/MS Graduate Overview Admissions & FAQs Degree Programs Courses Class Schedules Graduate Guide Graduate Tuition Fellowships ACS Bridge Program Resources Forms Online Programs UH-Extend Online Master of Chemical Engineering Online Programs at the Cullen College News News Transport Newsletter UH Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering We are engineering chemicals and petrochemicals, clean energy, and medicines and inventing new advanced materials, polymers, and biotechnologies for a healthier prosperous America. Our academic programs cultivate broad knowledge and creative thought in one of the most impactful disciplines in science and engineering. Be part of UH CHBE. UH Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering We are engineering chemicals and petrochemicals, clean energy, and medicines and inventing new advanced materials, polymers, and biotechnologies for a healthier prosperous America. Our academic programs cultivate broad knowledge and creative thought in one of the most impactful disciplines in science and engineering. Be part of UH CHBE. Dr. William A. Brookshire The UH ChBE department has been renamed as the William A. Brookshire Department of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering. Dr. William A. Brookshire graduated from UH in 1957 with a bachelor’s degree in chemical engineering and later co-founded S&B Engineers and Constructors. Though he passed away in 2017, his continued philanthropic impact on the educational excellence of UH faculty, students and researchers is significant. Endowments fuel the momentum of the academic mission in perpetuity, helping the Cullen College of Engineering excel as an internationally recognized hub of research activity in the fields of chemical and biomolecular engineering. Learn more about the naming gift here Research Excellence Biomolecular Research in the Department interfaces Chemical Engineering with the biological sciences and emphasizes biomolecular and metabolic engineering in… Learn more Catalysis and Reactions Catalysis, the process of increasing the rates of reactions in addition to engineering reactions to produce biofuels and other products is an area of… Learn more Energy and Environment Researching the interactions between complex fluids and surfaces that confine or support them to tackle challenges such as biofouling and… Learn more Materials and Polymers The synthesis and processing of materials including polymeric and biopolymeric materials that have specific electrical, optical, or mechanical… Learn more Transport and Separations Research on the production, transformation, and transport of biochemicals, chemicals, and energy, and on exploiting the differences in chemical or… Learn more Process and Materials Design Computing Modeling and analysis of the interactions between transport processes and chemical reactions in various systems of engineering interest our faculty.… Learn more View Faculty By Research Area ACS BRIDGE PROGRAM IN CHEMICAL AND BIOMOLECULAR ENGINEERING The ACS Bridge Program (ACS BP) mission is to strengthen the chemical sciences in the United States by increasing the number of underrepresented minority students who receive doctoral degrees in chemical sciences. Learn more Research News Finding Drugs for Formerly Undruggable Cancer Targets Kourentzi receives 1st federal grant as lead, to develop test for leukemia Benjamin receives inaugural ASEE Engineering Post Doctoral Fellowship More Research News Student News EAA recognizes 50 students for academic achievements, leadership UH NSBE receives $10k grant for community garden revamp Opportunities, community at UH allow ChBE's Koehler to flourish More Student News Upcoming Seminars (no upcoming seminar) Seminars Archives Announcements Mountziaris Joins UH As William A. Brookshire Department Of Chemical And Biomolecular Engineering Chair More Announcements Prospective Undergraduate Students Learn More Prospective Graduate Students Learn More Current Students Learn More Facilities & Laboratories Learn More Partner with Us Learn More Support Us Learn More Fast Facts 462 UNDERGRADUATE STUDENTS 128 GRADUATE STUDENTS 19 FACULTY MEMBERS THE UH CHEMICAL & BIOMOLECULAR ENGINEERING GRADUATE PROGRAMS The UH Cullen College of Engineering offers MChE non-thesis, M.S. course-based and Ph.D. degrees in chemical engineering. Learn More Contact University of Houston Cullen College of Engineering William A. Brookshire Department of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering Engineering Building 1, Room S222 4226 Martin Luther King Boulevard Houston, TX 77204-4004 Phone: 713-743-4300 Contact Us Quick Links About People Research Undergraduate Graduate Resources Online Programs News MAKE A GIFT ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. UH Home Academic Calendar Campus Maps Emergency UH System Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies About Message from the Chair Strategic Plan UH Calendar Open Positions Contact Us Welcome People Faculty Staff Graduate Students Student Organizations Alumni Research Research Areas Faculty Expertise Facilities and Laboratories Centers and Consortia Seminars Theses and Dissertations Industrial Relations Undergraduate Accreditation Admissions Degree Programs Advising Courses Class Schedules Scholarships ChBE Department College of Engineering FAQ Accelerated BS/MS Graduate Overview Admissions & FAQs Degree Programs Courses Class Schedules Graduate Guide Graduate Tuition Fellowships ACS Bridge Program Resources Forms Online Programs UH-Extend Online Master of Chemical Engineering Online Programs at the Cullen College News News Transport Newsletter