Skip to main content Search form Search Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers Contact Give About Search Menu Public Health Now News Events Publications Topics Student Voices Celebrating the Centennial Our Work to Address COVID-19 Columbia Public Health Magazine Academics Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy & Procedures Office of Education Research Featured Research Global Health Centers Programs Grants & Awards Corporate Partnerships People Our Faculty Current Students Friends and Supporters Partners Alumni Become a Student Meet Our Faculty Life & Community Degree Finder How to Apply Career Services More Information Master of Public Health Degree Programs Certificate Program Core Curriculum Search You are here Home People Partners Winter Storm Update/Impacts to Campus and Services Last Updated 12:50pm Fri May 6 See Coronavirus Updates for information on campus protocols. GRAPH GRAPH Partners Population Health is Everyone’s Responsibility In addition to insight and intellect, the work of improving population health requires the participation of many. While familiar challenges such as tuberculosis, maternal mortality, and air pollution persist, problems like obesity, climate change, and post-traumatic stress disorder have become much more prevalent. As advocated by the Institute of Medicine, improving public health in the 21st century demands the energy of a broad coalition, one that is radically more inclusive of all the sectors that shape health. Here at the Mailman School, we recognize the unique role of academic public health working in concert with others. We routinely partner with sectors that align with our core mission to improve population health. For instance, the School has worked with local healthcare institutions to map a neighborhood’s disease burden, which enables its hospitals to more efficiently serve the community. We are also in development with a major overseas online gaming provider to create a scientifically based game that would delay development of Alzheimer’s symptoms and enhance community and connectivity for older adults. Many of the Mailman School’s collaborative projects are run through the Global Research Analytics for Population Health (GRAPH) program. GRAPH’s multidisciplinary team of researchers is dedicated to helping organizations and communities identify cost-effective levels to promote health and prevent disease. Learn more about the School's consulting services, offered through the Department of Biostatistics. Platforms for maximizing partnerships relationships at the Mailman School are currently in development. For more information or to inquire about a potential collaboration, contact: Sebastian Fries Executive Director Columbia Population Health Partnership sf2799 [at] cumc.columbia.edu More to Explore Friday 03June COVID-19: From Causes to ConsequencesMay 27 2022 Study Examines Resilience of Immigrant Youth in Various Living ArrangementsApr 22 2022 A University-Community Partnership Established at the Height of COVID Stands the Test of TimeApr 20 2022 Bench-to-Bedside: A Dream or Reality?Apr 13 2022 Sign up for Transmission Columnbia Mailman Connect with Us Public Health Now News Events Publications Topics Student Voices Academics Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy & Procedures Office of Education Research Featured Research Global Health Centers Programs Grants & Awards Corporate Partnerships People Our Faculty Current Students Friends and Supporters Partners Alumni Become a Student Meet Our Faculty Life & Community Degree Finder How to Apply Career Services More Information Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health | 722 West 168th St. NY, NY 10032 Site Map Privacy Columbia University Irving Medical Center Copyright © Columbia University 2019 Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers