Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Performing Arts Certificate (Undergraduate) You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Performing Arts Certificate (Undergraduate) Apply Request More Info Performing Arts Certificate (Undergraduate) Admissions Performing Arts Undergraduate Certificate Develop your individual artistic expression with the Performing Arts Undergraduate Certificate in Temple’s Boyer College of Music and Dance. This certificate program is designed to give you the opportunity to study an array of performing arts, including dance, film, poetry and voice. Students pursuing the Performing Arts Undergraduate Certificate will develop and refine their musicianship; explore the various forms, styles and uses of movement, and develop their own unique approach; learn about practical concerns in the world of performing arts, including the economic, political and social challenges; and study, recite and perform the words of influential poets such as Robert Frost and Langston Hughes. The 12-credit certificate program is ideal for students who are interested in perfecting their craft, whether in dance, media arts, music or theater performance. It is not available to Dance or Music majors. The program’s required courses are intended to be completed concurrently with baccalaureate coursework. Classes & Curriculum The Performing Arts certificate program requirements consist of core required courses and electives, as well as ensemble participation. There are no exit requirements for the certificate, but the program should be completed within six semesters. Certificate completion will be acknowledged on the official transcript at the time of the awarding of the bachelor's degree. Required courses and electives available include Introduction to Film & Video Analysis, Media & Culture, Movement Improvisation, and Poetry as Performance. Learn more about coursework for the Performing Arts Undergraduate Certificate. Tuition & Fees The tuition for this Certificate Program is based on school or college of your major, program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. Learn more about our tuition and fees. Ensembles Choral Ensembles Ensembles comprise nearly 200 students each year and have received national and regional acclaim for their performances, both collectively and individually. Students can earn one credit for most of the ensembles. Consider joining an ensemble, like the Concert Choir, which comprises undergraduate and graduate students at the Boyer College of Music and Dance. In addition to performing the great masterworks of the choral and orchestral canon, the choir performs a lot of new American choral music and has presented many first Philadelphia performances. Singing Owls, a mixed choir, comprising Temple University alumni, faculty, staff and students as well as members of the Greater Philadelphia community. The ensemble's primary goal is to create a dynamic and inclusive singing community through the appreciation and performance of music from diverse cultures, genres, places and time periods. University Chorale, a choir of men's voices, representing a wide range of majors within the Boyer and across the university. The chorale performs music of many cultures and times. In recent years, the choir has placed a special emphasis on contemporary American music, including works by Jeffery Ames, Carol Barnett, Eric William Barnum, Daniel Pinkham, Frank Ticheli and Z. Randall Stroope. Women's Chorus, a mixed choir of female students, representing a wide range of majors within the Boyer and across the university. The ensemble performs four times per year on campus as well as with the combined choirs and orchestra for the annual Kimmel Center for the Performing Arts concerts. Learn more about Temple University Choirs and other Boyer ensembles. Instrumental Ensembles Boyer students have opportunities to perform in over 10 instrumental ensembles, comprising bands, orchestras and more. Ensembles include The Boyer College Electroacoustic Ensemble Project, which creates electroacoustic music in a collaborative environment. It functions as an electronic music band, a fusion of computers and traditional instruments, and a laptop orchestra. Chamber Orchestra, which performs larger chamber works in a true chamber music setting. The Chamber Orchestra generally performs one concert per semester and on occasion has joined with the Temple University Concert Choir in a combined performance. Diamond Marching Band, which performs at athletic events throughout the academic year, including traditional pregame and varied halftime shows throughout the season. The “Pride of the Cherry and White” Marching Band performs at all home games and also travels to select away games. Opera Orchestra, which accompanies Opera Theater each semester in a fully staged production. Percussion Ensemble, which provides a quality educational chamber music experience for its members, promotes the performance of percussion literature in a variety of styles, and encourages the composition of new works for the medium. Symphony Orchestra, an orchestra consisting of undergraduate and graduate students. It has performed in recent years at the Kimmel Center for the Performing Arts in Philadelphia, as well as Carnegie Hall and the Lincoln Center. Wind Symphony, an ensemble that comprises advanced graduate and undergraduate musicians and performs at least six formal concerts throughout the academic year. Learn more about instrumental studies ensembles and other Boyer ensembles. Jazz Ensembles Boyer boasts a number of jazz ensembles that range in level and style. You also have the opportunity during the first two weeks of the semester to enroll in small jazz ensembles, coached by Jazz Studies faculty members. Temple University Lab Band has served as the opening act for the Temple University Jazz Band’s Kimmel Center performances and as the headliner for the annual Big Band Dance swing dance held each spring in The Underground at the Howard Gittis Student Center. The band has also performed at Temple Performing Arts Center and in Tomlinson Theater. Temple University Jazz Band performs on Temple’s Main Campus and throughout the Greater Philadelphia region. It hosts the annual Essentially Ellington Eastern Regional High School Jazz Band Festival. Jazz Band Number Three provides an environment in which students can improve application and knowledge of ballad concepts, ensemble and section blend, expansion of dynamic range and rhythmic interpretation. The repertoire covers a wide chronological range, from the Count Basie and Duke Ellington catalogues to contemporary arrangements and compositions. Learn more about instrumental studies ensembles and other Boyer ensembles. Additional information Our Academic Advisors The Center for the Performing and Cinematic Arts has a centralized advising office with five staff members. This advising team serves all undergraduate students in the Boyer School of Music and Dance and the School of Theater, Film and Media Arts. Advisors help students navigate the undergraduate curriculum for each degree program. The academic advising team for Music, Dance, Theater, and Film and Media Arts majors is located in Mitten Hall, Suite 200 West. To schedule an advising appointment based on your individual needs or for more help, contact the advising team. Phone: 215-204-8301 Schedule an advising appointment. Program Contact Ed Flanagan, associate dean for student affairs, is the faculty contact for the Performing Arts Certificate (Undergraduate). Phone: 215-204-9399 Email: flanagan@temple.edu Accreditation The Boyer College of Music and Dance is accredited by the American Music Therapy Association, National Association of Schools of Music, National Association of Schools of Dance and Pennsylvania Department of Education. BC-PFAR-CERT Additional Program Information School/College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Performing Arts Certificate (Undergraduate) Admissions Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info