Search | Directories | Reference Tools UW Home > Discover UW > Student Guide UW Bothell Course Descriptions UW Tacoma Course Descriptions Glossary COLLEGE OF ARTS & SCIENCES ENGLISH Detailed course offerings (Time Schedule) are available for Spring Quarter 2022 Summer Quarter 2022 Autumn Quarter 2022 ENGL 101 Writing from Sources I (5) Academic reading and graphics from different genres to provide opportunities for noticing lexis and grammar of genre and specific topic. Students discuss topic, receiving feedback on use of structures and lexis, and write short responses to the type of questions that might be asked on exams related to the readings. Sentence-level issues related to sentence structure and lexis. Limited to student admitted to UW with English language requirement. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 101 ENGL 102 Essentials of College Reading & Writing (5) Develop and practice the reading, writing and critical thinking strategies needed for analyzing and responding to academic texts. Strengthen grammar, organization and vocabulary to improve accuracy and fluency in writing. Prerequisite: either ENGL 101 or placement by test score. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 102 ENGL 103 Writing from Sources (5) Developmental and practice of reading, writing, and critical thinking strategies needed to create organized and correctly documented papers using academic sources. Practices critical reading of academic texts, developing research questions, making claims, determining credibility of sources, and appropriately citing sources in writing. Prerequisite: either ENGL 102 or placement by test score. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 103 ENGL 104 Essentials of College Communication (5) Discover how to take effective notes, give clear presentations and oral reports, and participate in important class discussions. Practice asking engaging questions, sharing opinions, and arguing your point persuasively in the classroom. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 104 ENGL 105 English for International Teaching Assistants (5) Develops language production skills, lesson planning and presentation skills, and TA-student interaction skills related to classroom teaching for international teaching assisants. Requires speak exam. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 105 ENGL 106 Advanced Placement (AP) English Preparation for University Study in English (5, max. 10) Course awarded based on Advanced Placement (AP) score. Consult the Admissions Exams for Credit website for more information. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 106 ENGL 107 International Baccalaureate (IB) English Preparation for University Study in English (5) Course awarded based on International Baccalaureate (IB) score. Consult the Admissions Exams for Credit website for more information. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 107 ENGL 108 Writing Ready: Preparing for College Writing (5) Builds writing confidence through frequent informal writing, and introductions to key learning strategies. Includes user-friendly orientation to library and research documents, revision skills, and peer review work central to 100- and 200-level college writing assignments. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 108 ENGL 109 Critical Composition I: Inquiry (5-) DIV Approaches writing as social action and language as tied to identity, culture, and power. Centers students' diverse language resources and discourse traditions. Builds rhetorical capacities for composing ethically, critically, and impactfully across different contexts, audiences, genres, and goals within the university and beyond. Emphasizes inquiry. English composition awarded if credit received for both ENGL 109 and ENGL 110. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 109 ENGL 110 Critical Composition II: Research (-5) C Approaches writing as social action and language as tied to identity, culture, and power. Centers students' diverse language resources and discourse traditions. Builds rhetorical capacities for composing ethically, critically, and impactfully across different contexts, audiences, genres, and goals within the university and beyond. Emphasizes research. English composition awarded if credit received for both ENGL 109 and ENGL 110. Prerequisite: ENGL 109. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 110 ENGL 111 Composition: Literature (5) C Study and practice of good writing; topics derived from reading and discussing stories, poems, essays, and plays. Prerequisite: may not be taken if minimum grade of 2.0 received in either ENGL 111, ENGL 121, or ENGL 131. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 111 ENGL 115 Writing Studio (2) Supports multilingual students concurrently enrolled in a composition course. Builds academic reading skills in order to analyze complex texts, review, and analyze grammar structures to produce different writing effects. Also assists students to develop critical reflective skills to become better familiarized with the writing and revision process. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 115 ENGL 121 Composition: Social Issues (5) C Focuses on the study and practice of good writing: topics derived from a variety of personal, academic, and public subjects. Includes a service-learning component allowing students to engage with and write about social issues in applied ways. Prerequisite: may not be taken if a minimum grade of 2.0 received in either ENGL 111, ENGL 121, or ENGL 131. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 121 ENGL 131 Composition: Exposition (5) C Study and practice of good writing: topics derived from a variety of personal, academic, and public subjects. Prerequisite: may not be taken if a minimum grade of 2.0 received in either ENGL 111, ENGL 121, or ENGL 131. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 131 ENGL 141 The Research Paper (5) C Includes study of library resources, the analysis of reading materials, and writing preparatory papers as basic to writing a reference or research paper. Prerequisite: Either ENGL 111, ENGL 121, or ENGL 131. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 141 ENGL 182 Composition: Multimodal (5) C Study and practice of strategies/skills for effective writing/argument in various situations, disciplines, genres; explicit focus on how multimodal elements of writing--words, images, sound, design, etc.-- work together to produce meaning. Cannot be taken if student already received a 2.0 or higher in ENGL 111, 121, or 131. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 182 ENGL 195 STUDY ABROAD (1-5, max. 15) Equivalency for 100-level English courses taken on UW study abroad programs or direct exchanges. General elective credit only; may not apply to major requirements. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 195 ENGL 197 Interdisciplinary Writing/Humanities (5, max. 15) C Expository writing based on material presented in a specified humanities lecture course. Assignments include drafts of papers to be submitted in the specified course, and other pieces of analytical prose. Concurrent registration in the specified course required. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 197 ENGL 198 Interdisciplinary Writing/Social Science (5, max. 15) C Expository writing based on material presented in a specified social science lecture course. Assignments include drafts of papers to be submitted in the specified course, and other pieces of analytic prose. Concurrent registration in specified course required. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 198 ENGL 199 Interdisciplinary Writing/Natural Science (5, max. 15) C Expository writing based on material presented in a specific natural science lecture course. Assignments include drafts of papers to be submitted in the specified course, and other pieces of analytical prose. Concurrent registration in the specified course required. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 199 ENGL 200 Reading Literary Forms (5) VLPA Covers techniques and practice in reading and enjoying literature in its various forms: poetry, drama, prose fiction, and film. Examines such features of literary meanings as imagery, characterization, narration, and patterning in sound and sense. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 200 ENGL 201 Introduction to English Within the Humanities (5) VLPA Concepts in the study of language, literature, history, culture, and civilization. Offers substantive encounters with a range of humanities and methods of study. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 201 ENGL 202 Introduction to the Study of English Language and Literature (5) VLPA Gateway course designed for English pre-majors and majors. Introduces critical, historical, and theoretical frameworks important to studying the literature, language, and cultures of English. Cannot be taken for credit if student has taken ENGL 301. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 202 ENGL 204 Popular Fiction and Media (5) VLPA Introduces students to the study of popular culture, possibly including print or visual media, understood as sites of critical reflection. Particular attention to dynamics of production and reception, aesthetics and technique, and cultural politics. Topics may foreground genres (science fiction; romance) or forms (comics; graffiti). Offered: S. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 204 ENGL 205 Method, Imagination, and Inquiry (5) VLPA Examines ideas of method and imagination in a variety of texts, in literature, philosophy, and science. Particularly concerned with intellectual backgrounds and methods of inquiry that have shaped modern Western literature. Offered: jointly with CHID 205. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 205 ENGL 206 Rhetoric in Everyday Life (5) VLPA Introductory rhetoric course that examines the strategic use of and situated means through which images, texts, objects, and symbols inform, persuade, and shape social practices in various contexts. Topics focus on education, public policy, politics, law, journalism, media, digital cultural, globalization, popular culture, and the arts. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 206 ENGL 207 Introduction to Cultural Studies (5) I&S/VLPA Kimberlee Gillis-Bridges Introduces cultural studies as an interdisciplinary field and practice. Explores multiple histories of the field with an emphasis on current issues and developments. Focuses on culture as a site of political and social debate and struggle. Offered: S. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 207 ENGL 208 Data and Narrative (5) DIV Contexts and differential impacts of various data and the narratives created around them. How data are communicated through narrative: the stories data tell for good or ill; the stories we tell about data; the harm and histories of various data; the content data narratives obscure; and their asymmetrical effects on diverse groups. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 208 ENGL 210 Medieval and Early Modern Literature, 400 to 1600 (5) VLPA Introduces literature from the Middle Ages and the Age of Shakespeare, focusing on major works that have shaped the development of literary and intellectual traditions of these periods. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 210 ENGL 211 Literature, 1500-1800 (5) VLPA Coldewey, Remley, Shields, Streitberger Introduces literature from the Age of Shakespeare to the American and French Revolutions, focusing on major works that have shaped the development of literary and intellectual traditions in these centuries. Topics include: The Renaissance, religious and political reforms, exploration and colonialism, vernacular cultures, and scientific thought. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 211 ENGL 212 Literature, 1700-1900 (5) VLPA Introduces eighteenth- and nineteenth-century literature, focusing on representative works that illustrate literary and intellectual developments of the period. Topics include: exploration, empire, colonialism, slavery, revolution, and nation-building. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 212 ENGL 213 Modern and Postmodern Literature (5) VLPA Introduces twentieth-century literature and contemporary literature, focusing on representative works that illustrate literary and intellectual developments since 1900. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 213 ENGL 225 Shakespeare (5) VLPA Introduces Shakespeare's career as dramatist, with study of representative comedies, tragedies, romances, and history plays. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 225 ENGL 242 Reading Prose Fiction (5) VLPA Critical interpretation and meaning in works of prose fiction, representing a variety of types and periods. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 242 ENGL 243 Reading Poetry (5) VLPA Critical interpretation and meaning in poems, representing a variety of types and periods. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 243 ENGL 244 Reading Drama (5) VLPA Critical interpretation and meaning in plays, representing a variety of types and periods. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 244 ENGL 250 American Literature (5) VLPA Introduces American culture through a careful reading of a variety of representative texts in their historical contexts. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 250 ENGL 251 Literature and American Political Culture (5) VLPA/I&S Introduction to the methods and theories used in the analysis of American culture. Emphasizes an interdisciplinary approach to American literature, including history, politics, anthropology, and mass media. Offered: jointly with POL S 281. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 251 ENGL 256 Introduction to Queer Cultural Studies (5) I&S, DIV Examines the cultural practices in literature, film, and art that articulate and give meaning to bodies, sexualities, and desires. Teaches critical thinking about identity, power, inequalities, and marginality. Offered: jointly with GWSS 264. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 256 ENGL 257 Asian-American Literature (5) VLPA, DIV Examines the emergence of Asian American literature as a response to anti-Asian legislation, cultural images, and American racial formation. Encourages thinking critically about identity, power, inequalities, and experiences of marginality. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 257 ENGL 258 Introduction African American Literature (5) VLPA, DIV Introduction to various genres of African American literature from its beginnings to the present. Emphasizes the cultural and historical context of African American literary expression and its aesthetics criteria. Explores key issues and debates, such as race and racism, inequality, literary form, and canonical acceptance. Offered: jointly with AFRAM 214. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 258 ENGL 259 Literature and Social Difference (5) VLPA, DIV Literary texts are important evidence for social difference (gender, race, class, ethnicity, language, citizenship status, sexuality, ability) in contemporary and historical contexts. Examines texts that encourage and provoke us to ask larger questions about identity, power, privilege, society, and the role of culture in present-day or historical settings. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 259 ENGL 265 Introduction to Environmental Humanities (5) I&S/VLPA, DIV Introduces the study of the environment through literature, culture, and history. Topics include changing ideas about nature, wilderness, ecology, pollution, climate, and human/animal relations, with particular emphasis on environmental justice and the unequal distribution of environmental crises, both globally and along class, race and gender lines. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 265 ENGL 266 Literature and Technology (5) VLPA J. Knight Provides an introduction to manuscript, print, and digital media cultures with a focus on the production and dissemination of literature in English. Topics include the history of the book, reading and reception, orality and literacy, editing and publishing, early computing, and the future of literary writing in a digital era. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 266 ENGL 267 Introduction to Data Science in the Humanities (5) VLPA Concepts and methods in data science and their applications to humanistic research in language, literature, and culture. Also examines humanistic perspectives on the cultural use and applications of data in society. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 267 ENGL 270 The Uses of the English Language (5) VLPA Surveys the assumptions, methodologies, and major issues of English in its cultural settings. Connects English language study with the study of literature, orality and literacy, education, ethnicity, gender, and public policy. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 270 ENGL 277 Introduction to Children's and Young Adult Literature (5) VLPA Introduction to creative works written for children and young adults, with emphasis on historical, cultural, institutional, and industrial contexts of production and reception. Also examines changing assumptions about the social and educational function of children's and young adult literature. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 277 ENGL 281 Intermediate Expository Writing (5) C Writing papers communicating information and opinion to develop accurate, competent, and effective expression. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 281 ENGL 282 Intermediate Multimodal Composition (5) C Strategies for composing effective multimodal texts for print, digital physical delivery, with focus on affordances of various modes--words, images, sound, design, and gesture--and genres to address specific rhetorical situations both within and beyond the academy. Although the course has no prerequisites, instructors assume knowledge of academic writing. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 282 ENGL 283 Beginning Verse Writing (5) VLPA Intensive study of the ways and means of making a poem. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 283 ENGL 284 Beginning Short Story Writing (5) VLPA Introduction to the theory and practice of writing the short story. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 284 ENGL 285 Writers on Writing (5) VLPA Bosworth, Kenney, Shields, Sonenberg Experiencing literature from the inside. Members of the creative writing faculty and other practicing writers discuss their poetry, fiction, and literary nonfiction, literary inspiration, artistic practice, and the writer's life. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 285 ENGL 288 Introduction to Professional and Technical Writing (5) C Josie W Engages in professional genres and communication practices in light of emerging technologies. Students produce texts that prepare them to enter professional spaces. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 288 ENGL 289 Business Writing (5) C Josie W Theory and practice of written, visual, and digital writing within business contexts. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 289 ENGL 295 Study Abroad (1-5, max. 30) VLPA Equivalency for 200-level English courses taken on UW study abroad programs or direct exchanges. May not apply to major requirements. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 295 ENGL 296 Critical Literacy in the Natural Sciences (5) C Megan Callow Develops critical literacy in the diffuse but interlocking disciplines of the natural sciences. Through analysis and composition of various texts, students become authoritative participants in scientific discourse while also becoming familiar with ways that Western values are embedded and centered (often invisibly) in the sciences and its related institutions. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 296 ENGL 297 Intermediate Interdisciplinary Writing - Humanities (5, max. 15) C Expository writing based on materials presented in a specified humanities course. Assignments include drafts of papers to be submitted in the specified course, and other pieces of analytical prose. Concurrent registration in the specified course required. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 297 ENGL 298 Intermediate Interdisciplinary Writing - Social Sciences (5, max. 15) C Expository writing based on materials presented in a specified social science course. Assignments include drafts of papers to be submitted in the specified course, and other pieces of analytical prose. Concurrent registration in the specified course required. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 298 ENGL 299 Intermediate Interdisciplinary Writing - Natural Sciences (5, max. 15) C Expository writing based on materials presented in a specified natural science course. Assignments include drafts of papers to be submitted in the specified course, and other pieces of analytical prose. Concurrent registration in the specified course required. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 299 ENGL 300 Reading Major Texts (5) VLPA Intensive examination of one or a few major works of literature that have stood the test of time. Classroom work to develop skills of careful and critical reading. Readings consist of major works by significant pre-contemporary authors and of selected supplementary materials. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 300 ENGL 302 Critical Practice (5) VLPA Intensive study of, and exercise in, applying important or influential interpretive practices for studying language, literature, and culture, along with consideration of their powers/limits. Focuses on developing critical writing abilities. Topics vary and may include critical and interpretive practice from scripture and myth to more contemporary approaches, including newer interdisciplinary practices. Prerequisite: minimum 2.0 in ENGL 202. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 302 ENGL 303 History of Literary Criticism and Theory I (5) VLPA Literary criticism and theory from its beginnings in Plato through the early twentieth century. Philosophical and theoretical grounds for critical practice put forward by philosophers and critics. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 303 ENGL 304 History of Literary Criticism and Theory II (5) VLPA Provides an introduction to contemporary literary, cultural, and critical theory and modern antecedents. Explores frameworks used in study of literature and culture by scholars today. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 304 ENGL 305 Theories of Imagination (5) VLPA/I&S Survey of theories of imagination since the seventeenth century. Focuses on the uses of the concept in literature, criticism, science, and society. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 305 ENGL 306 Introduction to Rhetoric (5) VLPA Introduces rhetorical theory from the classical period to the present, including an overview of core issues, vocabulary, and concepts in rhetorical theory; a discussion of methods for studying rhetoric, and a consideration of the social importance of studying rhetoric in the contemporary moment. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 306 ENGL 307 Cultural Studies (5) VLPA Overview of cultural studies with a focus on reading texts or objects using cultural studies methods and writing analytic essays using cultural studies methods. Focuses on culture as a site of political and social debate and struggle. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 307 ENGL 308 Marxism and Literary Theory (5) VLPA Introduces Marxist theory and methodology. Explores how and why Marx's writings, Marxist theory, and materialist methods became central to the study of literature and culture over the course of the twentieth century. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 308 ENGL 309 Theories of Reading (5) VLPA Investigates what it means to be a reader. Centers on authorial and reading challenges, shifting cultural and theoretical norms, and changes in the public's reading standards. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 309 ENGL 310 The Bible as Literature (5) VLPA Introduction to the development of the religious ideas and institutions of ancient Israel, with selected readings from the Old Testament and New Testament. Emphasis on reading The Bible with literary and historical understanding. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 310 ENGL 311 Modern Jewish Literature in Translation (5) VLPA Survey of Jewish experience and its literary expression since 1880. Includes such Yiddish writers as Sholom Aleichem, Peretz, and I. B. Singer; such Israeli writers as Agnon, Hazaz, and Appelfeld; and such writers in non-Jewish languages as Primo Levi and Kafka. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 311 ENGL 312 Jewish Literature: Biblical to Modern (5) I&S/VLPA, DIV A study of Jewish literature from Biblical narrative and rabbinic commentary to modern prose and poetry with intervening texts primarily organized around major themes: martyrdom and suffering, destruction and exile, messianism, Hasidism and Enlightenment, Yiddishism and Zionism. Various critical approaches; geographic and historic contexts. Offered: jointly with JEW ST 312. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 312 ENGL 313 Modern European Literature in Translation (5) VLPA Covers selected fiction, poetry, drama, and nonfiction (diaries, manifestos, etc.) in translation by European writers from the mid-19th century to the present. Considers questions of aesthetics, history, and form. Writers may include Bachmann, Baudelaire, Brecht, Celan, Chekhov, Dostoevsky, Ferrante, Flaubert, Ibsen, Jelinek, Kafka, Perec, Proust, Rilke, Tsvetaeva, and Undset. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 313 ENGL 314 Transatlantic Literature and Culture (5) VLPA Explores literatures and cultures produced in the Atlantic world. Emphasizes historical lines of communication and exchange among Atlantic cultures and their literature. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 314 ENGL 315 Literary Modernism (5) VLPA Introduces the genealogy, character, and consequences, of modernism/modernity. Topics may include: preoccupations with novelty/the new; narratives of historical development; temporality; constructions of high and low culture; intersections between aesthetics and politics; transnationalism; and philosophical influences upon literary modernism. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 315 ENGL 316 Postcolonial Literature and Culture (5, max. 10) VLPA, DIV Readings of major texts and writers in postcolonial literature and culture. Surveys some of the most important questions and debates in postcolonial literature, including issues of identity, globalization, language, and nationalism. Cultural focus may vary; see professor for specific details. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 316 ENGL 317 Literature of the Americas (5) VLPA, DIV Examines writings by and about people of the Americas, with a focus on intersections of gender, colonialism, race, sexuality, and ethnicity. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 317 ENGL 318 Black Literary Genres (5) VLPA, DIV Considers how generic forms and conventions have been discussed and distributed in the larger context of African American, or other African diasporic literary studies. Links the relationship between generic forms to questions of power within social, cultural, and historical contexts. Offered: jointly with AFRAM 318; AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 318 ENGL 319 African Literatures (5) VLPA, DIV Chrisman Introduces and explores African literatures from a range of regions. Pays particular attention to writings connected with the historical experiences of colonialism, anti-colonial resistance, and decolonization. Considers the operations of race, gender, nationhood, neocolonialism, and globalization within and across these writings. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 319 ENGL 320 English Literature: The Middle Ages (5) VLPA Literary culture of Middle Ages in England, as seen in selected works from earlier and later periods, ages of Beowulf and of Geoffrey Chaucer. Read in translation, except for a few later works, which are read in Middle English. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 320 ENGL 321 Chaucer (5) VLPA Chaucer's Canterbury Tales and other poetry, with attention to Chaucer's social, historical, and intellectual milieu. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 321 ENGL 322 Medieval and Early Modern Literatures of Encounter (5) VLPA, DIV Cultural encounters across medieval and early modern worlds, with particular attention to how these works depict cultural difference, race/racism, and geopolitical power. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 322 ENGL 323 Shakespeare to 1603 (5) VLPA Explores Shakespeare's early drama and poetry. May include the sonnets, narrative poems, and selected comedies, histories, or tragedies. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 323 ENGL 324 Shakespeare after 1603 (5) VLPA Explores Shakespeare's later works. Focuses on the mature tragedies and late-career romances, by may include selected comedies and histories. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 324 ENGL 325 Early Modern Literature (5) VLPA Covers selected poetry, prose, and/or drama from the English Renaissance through the English Civil War and Commonwealth. Readings may include Petrarchism and the early English laureates, early defenses of poesy, the first essays, works by Shakespeare and/or his contemporaries, the metaphysical poets, Milton, and early transatlantic writers such as Anne Bradstreet. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 325 ENGL 326 Milton (5) VLPA Milton's early poems and the prose; Paradise Lost, Paradise Regained, and Samson Agonistes, with attention to the religious, intellectual, and literary contexts. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 326 ENGL 327 Narratives of Bondage and Freedom (5) VLPA, DIV Atlantic slavery's impress on culture and politics from 1619 to the present through comparison of literature written before and after Emancipation. Treats historical slave narratives and other archives of slavery in relation to contemporary narratives of social death, captivity, and incarceration. Explores transformation of ideas of "bondage" and "freedom" over time. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 327 ENGL 328 Eighteenth-Century Literature and Culture (5) VLPA Explores an era that saw the development of the novel, newspapers, and magazines; the formation of a modern public sphere; and the entrance of women, working-class, and Black writers into the literary marketplace. Readings introduce a world marked by extremes of poverty and luxury, tradition and revolution, enlightened reason and subversive feeling. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 328 ENGL 329 Rise of the English Novel (5) VLPA Traces the development of a major and popular modern literary genre - the novel. Readings survey forms of fiction including the picaresque, the gothic, the epistolary novel, and the romance. Authors range from Daniel Defoe to Jane Austen and beyond. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 329 ENGL 330 English Literature: The Romantic Age (5) VLPA Literary, intellectual, and historical ferment of the period from the French Revolution to the 1830s. Readings from major authors in different literary forms; discussions of critical and philosophical issues in a time of change. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 330 ENGL 331 Globalization and Nationalism in the Age of Empire (5) VLPA, DIV How empire and colonialism have shaped the modern world, including the global flows of people, commodities, and ideas. Includes colonialism and imperialism, the slave trade and abolition, extractive industry, and resource frontiers; nationalism, independence and resistance movements. Connections between empire and cultural production. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 331 ENGL 332 Nineteenth-Century Poetry (5) VLPA Examines the enduring influence of literary Romanticism, the growth of reading publics, and the globalization of anglophone print culture in the nineteenth century, an age when poetry enjoyed both great prestige and great popularity, producing many of the best-known and best-loved poems in English. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 332 ENGL 333 Nineteenth-Century Novel (5) VLPA Romantic and Victorian phases of the English novel, including realism, gothic, historical fiction, and the emergence of science and detective fiction. Authors such as: Walter Scott, Jane Austen, the Brontes, Charles Dickens, George Eliot, Thomas Hardy, Robert Louis Stevenson, Olive Schreiner, H.G. Wells, and Joseph Conrad. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 333 ENGL 334 English Novel: Later Nineteenth Century (5) VLPA Examines the high water mark of the realist novel, as well as its fragmentation into popular genres like science and detective fiction and the emergence of literary modernism. Possible authors include: George Eliot, Thomas Hardy, Robert Louis Stevenson, Marie Corelli, Olive Schreiner, H.G. Wells, and Joseph Conrad. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 334 ENGL 335 English Literature: The Victorian Age (5) VLPA Examines literary works from Victorian Britain and its empire (1837-1901), paired with contemporary social, scientific, and historical developments such as industrialization; urbanization; child labor; imperial expansion; scientific ideas of evolution and geologic time; changing ideas of gender/sexuality; mass education and mass literacy; and the popularization of print media. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 335 ENGL 336 English Literature: Early Twentieth Century (5) VLPA Explores fiction, poetry, and drama in English from the period of 1900-1945. Considers the literature in socio-historical context. Modernism, realism, imperialism, and questions f nationality may be foregrounded. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 336 ENGL 337 The Modern Novel (5) VLPA Explores the novel in English from the first half of the twentieth century. May include such writers as Virginia Woolf, D.H. Lawrence, Gertrude Stein, E.M. Forster, Claude McKay, Elizabeth Bowen, Raja Rao, William Faulkner, Jean Rhys, and Edith Wharton. Includes history and changing aesthetics of the novel as form, alongside the sociohistorical context. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 337 ENGL 338 Modern Poetry (5) VLPA Covers poetry from the 1890s through the 1940s, focusing on modernism and the avant-garde. This period, with the birth of free verse, is one of formal and social tumult. Likely topics include Imagism and Dada; the Harlem Renaissance; World War I and the Great Depression; urbanization; and the New Woman. Authors may include Eliot, H.D., Hughes, Loy, Moore, Pound, Stein, Stevens, Williams, and Yeats. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 338 ENGL 339 Globalization and Contemporary World Literature (5) VLPA, DIV Literary genres and styles of the era of globalization. Considers the deep contradictions between new global elite readerships and the experiences of migrants and historically marginalized groups. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 339 ENGL 340 Irish Literature (5) VLPA Examines how Irish writers have responded to Ireland's history of being divided by both British colonialism and religious conflict. Covers how these authors brought literary experimentation and innovation to Celtic storytelling traditions. Varied readings, with some imagining a unified Irish identity, while others explore the continued legacies of colonialism on issues of gender, race, religion, and citizenship. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 340 ENGL 341 Studies in the Novel (5) VLPA Explores the workings and evolution of the novel. Introduces the distinct styles and purposes of the novel, such as the romance, the roman-a-clef, realism, naturalism, modernism, and postmodernism. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 341 ENGL 342 Contemporary Novel (5) VLPA Study of recent fiction by diverse writers with attention to contemporary ideas in all kinds of forms. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 342 ENGL 343 Studies in Poetry (5) VLPA Explores the workings and development of poetry and poetic theory. Possible topics may include theories and practices of individual genres (e.g. lyric, epic, romance, verse drama) or subgenres (e.g. the ode, the sonnet, the sestina) and verse forms (regular meter vs. free verse). View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 343 ENGL 344 Studies in Drama (5) VLPA Explores the workings and historical development of theatrical practices, including performance and spectatorship more broadly. Possible topics include genres of drama (tragedy, mystery play, melodrama, agitprop); histories of drama (Elizabethan theater, Theater of the Absurd, the Mbari Mbayo club, In-Your-Face Theater; and theorists of performance and dramaturgy. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 344 ENGL 345 Studies in Film (5) VLPA Types, techniques, and issues explored by filmmakers. Emphasis on narrative, image, and point of view. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 345 ENGL 346 Studies in Short Fiction (5) VLPA The American and English short story, with attention to the influence of writers of other cultures. Aspects of the short story that distinguish it, in style and purpose, from longer fiction. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 346 ENGL 347 Studies in Non-Fiction Prose (5) VLPA Explores the workings and evolution of non-fiction prose, Introduces the distinct styles and purposes on non-fiction prose such as autobiography, biography, personal essay, reflective and meditative writing, social and scientific inquiry, and persuasive writing. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 347 ENGL 348 Studies in Popular Culture (5) VLPA Explores one or more popular genres (fantasy, romance, mystery) or media (comics, television, videogames), with attention to historical development, distinctive formal features, and reading protocols. May include study of audience, reception histories, or fan cultures. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 348 ENGL 349 Science Fiction and Fantasy (5) VLPA Study of historical developments and debates within the genres of fantasy and/or science fiction, with attention to the ideological implications of these genres' characteristic techniques for constructing alternatives to existing social norms and realisms. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 349 ENGL 350 American Fiction (5) VLPA Study of novels and shorter fiction by diverse writers, ranging from the earliest narratives to the present. Considers the history and aesthetics of genres of fiction as embedded in their social and cultural context. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 350 ENGL 351 Writing in the Contact Zone: North America to 1800 (5) VLPA Examines the genres that render the encounter of indigenous peoples, Africans, and Europeans in the first three centuries of colonization. May include chronicles, memoirs, captivity and conversion narratives, sermons, indigenous oral traditions, court records, epic and lyric poetry, and slave narratives. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 351 ENGL 352 Literatures of the United States to 1865 (5) VLPA Examines literatures of the early national period through the Civil War. How does the establishment of national political institutions and a national public culture affect literary production and reception? How are competing conceptions of the nation, the people, citizenship, democracy, industrialization, land, slavery, gender, race, and class represented and debated? Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 352 ENGL 353 American Literature: Later Nineteenth Century (5) VLPA Explores American fiction, poetry, and prose during the latter half of the nineteenth century. May include such representative authors of the period as Twain, Dickinson, DuBois, Crane, Wharton and Chopin, along with supplementary study of the broader cultural and political milieu. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 353 ENGL 354 American Literature: Early Twentieth Century (5) VLPA Investigates the period of American literary modernism (1900 to WW II). Topics include nationalism, migration, race, gender, and the impact of the visual arts on literary modernism, as well as the relation between modernity/modernization (social, economic, and technological transformation) and modernism (revolution in literary style). View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 354 ENGL 355 Contemporary American Literature (5) VLPA Examines the production of texts circulating through various genres, media, and forms in recent American culture. Constituting a cultural and social history of the present, features diverse voices and examines how texts are shaped by, or in turn shape, systems of power. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 355 ENGL 356 American Poetry (5) VLPA Examines American poetry in its historical and cultural contexts. Possible authors include Dickinson, Whitman, Eliot, Frost, Hughes, Brooks, Ginsberg, and Plath. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 356 ENGL 357 Jewish American Literature and Culture (5) VLPA, DIV Butwin Examines the literary and cultural production of American Jews from the colonial period to the present time. Considers ways in which American Jews assimilate and resist assimilation while Jewish writers, filmmakers, playwrights, and graphic novelists imitate and alter American life and literature. Offered: jointly with JEW ST 357; AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 357 ENGL 358 African American Literature (5) VLPA, DIV Selected writings, novels, short stories, plays, and poems by African American and African-descended writers in or from the United States. Study of the historical, cultural, and intellectual context for the development of literary work by such writers, including attention to identity, power, and inequality. Offered: jointly with AFRAM 358. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 358 ENGL 359 Contemporary American Indian Literature (5) VLPA, DIV Creative writings (novels, short stories, poems) of contemporary Indian authors; the traditions out of which these works evolved. Differences between Indian writers and writers of the dominant European/American mainstream. Offered: jointly with AIS 377. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 359 ENGL 360 American Literature and Culture (5) VLPA/I&S American literature and culture in its political and cultural context. Emphasizes an interdisciplinary approach to American literature and culture, including history, politics, anthropology, and mass media. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 360 ENGL 361 American Political Culture: After 1865 (5) VLPA/I&S, DIV American literature in its political and cultural context from the Civil War to the present. Emphasizes an interdisciplinary approach to American literature, including history, politics, anthropology, and mass media. Includes attention to thinking critically about differences of power and inequality stemming from sociocultural, political, and economic difference. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 361 ENGL 362 Latino Literary Genres (5) VLPA, DIV Considers how conventions of genre have been distributed in U.S Latino literature and beyond in networks of Latino transnationalism and trans-border exchanges. Links the relationship between generic forms to questions of power within social, cultural, and historical contexts. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 362 ENGL 363 Literature and the Other Arts and Disciplines (5, max. 10) VLPA Examines the relationships between literature and other arts: for example, painting, photography, architecture, and music; or between literature and other disciplines, such as sciences (e.g. biology, physics, and math) and social sciences (e.g. sociology, psychology, fashion, and environmental studies). View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 363 ENGL 364 Literature and Medicine (5) VLPA/I&S How changing concepts of doctor-patient relationship and of body depicted in literary texts affect decisions throughout the human life cycle. Medicine and disease as metaphors for personal experience and social analysis. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 364 ENGL 365 Literature and Environment (5) VLPA, DIV Covers ecocriticism, the study of literature and environment. Explores both environmental writing and the way literature and other cultural artifacts reflect environmental issues, including their intersection with history, inequality, and systems of power, and the placing of humanistic methods in dialogue with the sciences. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 365 ENGL 366 Literature and Law (5) VLPA Introduces and explores topics in law and literature, with a focus on the relationship between legal materials and literary or cultural imaginaries. Surveys debates in the field of law and literature or focuses on a specific problem, genre, or historical period. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 366 ENGL 367 Gender Studies in Literature (5, max. 15) VLPA, DIV The study of contemporary approaches to analyzing the gender politics of literature and culture. Examines special topics in the history and development of the major theoretical trends, including the relationship of certain theories of gender to relevant works of literature. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 367 ENGL 368 Women Writers (5, max. 15) VLPA, DIV Investigates how perceptions of "woman writer" shape understandings of women's literary works and the forms in which they compose. Examines texts by women writers with attention to sociocultural, economic, and political context. Considers gender as a form of social difference as well as power relationships structured around gender inequality. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 368 ENGL 369 Research Methods in Language and Rhetoric (5) VLPA Introduces research theories and methodological approaches in language and rhetoric. Methods and content focus vary by instructor and may include ethnography, corpus analysis, case study, discourse analysis, rhetorical criticism, and various other qualitative and quantitative research methods. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 369 ENGL 370 English Language Study (5) VLPA Wide-ranging introduction to the study of written and spoken English. Includes the nature of language; ways of describing language; the use of language study as an approach to English literature and the teaching of English. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 370 ENGL 371 English Syntax (5) VLPA Description of sentence, phrase, and word structures in present-day English. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 371 ENGL 372 World Englishes (5) VLPA, DIV Examines historical, linguistic, economic, and sociopolitical forces involved in the diversification of Global/New Englishes. Attention to changing power relations, language hierarchies, and inequalities associated with the teaching, learning, and use of English. Explores current debates on linguistic imperialism and resistance, concepts of 'mother tongue', nativeness, comprehensibility/intelligibility judgments, and language ownership. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 372 ENGL 373 History of the English Language (5) VLPA Explores evolution of English sounds, forms, structures, and word meanings form Anglo-Saxon times to the present. Topics include the history of standardizing practices, colonial/post-colonial English, the evolution of English words, and textual history. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 373 ENGL 374 The Language of Literature (5) VLPA Examines the ways that literary texts structure and use language. Topics may include sound, meter, style, sentence and discourse structure, conversation strategies, narrative orientation, and/or dialect/variation in literature. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 374 ENGL 375 Rhetorical Genre Theory and Practice (5) Explores the workings and evolution of rhetorical genres as they emerge from and shape recurring social situations. Focuses on the relationship between form and content, and how the typified rhetorical features and linguistic styles of genres are related to specific purposes, activities, relations, and identities. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 375 ENGL 376 Introduction to Middle English Language (5) VLPA Moore Explores the language and culture of the Middle English period in England (1100-1500). Examines Middle English texts, the cultural importance of written material, the shifting roles of literacy in early England, the relationship to French and Latin, the regional dialects of English in the period, and manuscript culture. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 376 ENGL 378 Special Topics in Genre, Method, and Language (5, max. 15) VLPA Introduces and explores a specific question or topic pertaining to the study of genre, method, or language. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 378 ENGL 379 Special Topics in Power and Difference (5) VLPA Introduces and explores a specific question or topic related to how systems of power and social difference operate in and through language, literature, and culture. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 379 ENGL 380 Special Topics in Literature, Culture, and History (5, max. 15) VLPA Introduces and explores a specific area of history as it has influenced the production, practice, or study of literature, language, and culture in English. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 380 ENGL 381 Advanced Expository Writing (5) C Concentration on the development of prose style for experienced writers. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 381 ENGL 382 Special Topics in Multimodal Composition (5, max. 10) C Focuses on emerging questions, debates, genres, and methods of multimodal analysis and production. Topics vary but might include transmedia storytelling, digital humanities, audiovisual essays, new media journalism, and performance. Although course has no prerequisites, instructors, assume knowledge of academic argumentation strategies. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 382 ENGL 383 The Craft of Verse (5) VLPA Intensive study of various aspects of the craft verse. Readings in contemporary verse and writing using emulation and imitation. Prerequisite: ENGL 283; ENGL 284. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 383 ENGL 384 The Craft of Prose (5) VLPA Intensive study of various aspects of the craft of fiction or creative nonfiction. Readings in contemporary prose and writing using emulation and imitation. Prerequisite: ENGL 283; ENGL 284. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 384 ENGL 385 Global Modernisms (5) VLPA, DIV Includes anglophone modernisms from the global south as well as Black, Latinx, Indigenous, and Asian diasporic modernisms; narratives of historical development and modernity; intersections between art and politics; global circulation of ideas, artifacts, and forms. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 385 ENGL 386 Asian-American Literature (5) I&S/VLPA, DIV Examines different forms of Asian American expression as a response to racial formations in local and global contexts. Teaches critical thinking about identity, power, inequalities, and marginality. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 386 ENGL 387 Screenwriting (5) VLPA Shawn H. Wong Students read screenwriting manuals and screenplays, analyze exemplary films, and write synopses, treatments, and first acts of their own screenplays. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 387 ENGL 388 Professional and Technical Writing (5) C Prepares students to become conscious and conscientious communicators in various modes, platforms, and professions. Recommended: ENGL 288. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 388 ENGL 395 Study Abroad (1-5, max. 30) VLPA Relates major works of literature, literary theory and criticism, or creative writing to the landscape and activities of their settings for students in UW English Department study abroad programs. Equivalency for upper-division English coursework taken on a UW study abroad program or direct exchange. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 395 ENGL 407 Special Topics in Cultural Studies (5) VLPA Advanced work in cultural studies. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 407 ENGL 411 Introduction to the Folktale Among Literate Peoples (3) VLPA Techniques of classification, geographic-historical distribution, theories of origin and interpretations, and related areas of investigation of the oral prose folk narrative of literate peoples. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 411 ENGL 422 Arthurian Legends (5) VLPA Medieval romance in its cultural and historical setting, with concentration on the evolution of Arthurian romance. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 422 ENGL 430 British Writers: Studies in Major Authors (5, max. 15) VLPA Concentration on one writer or a special group of British writers. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 430 ENGL 431 Topics in British Literature (5, max. 15) VLPA Themes and topics of special meaning to British literature. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 431 ENGL 440 Special Studies in Literature (3/5, max. 10) VLPA Themes and topics offering special approaches to literature. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 440 ENGL 442 The Novel: Special Studies (5, max. 10) VLPA Readings may be English or American and drawn from different periods, or they may concentrate on different types - gothic, experimental, novel of consciousness, realistic novel. Special attention to the novel as a distinct literary form. Specific topic varies from quarter to quarter. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 442 ENGL 443 Poetry: Special Studies (5, max. 10) VLPA A poetic tradition or group of poems connected by subject matter or poetic technique. Specific topics vary, but might include poetry as a geography of mind, the development of the love lyric, the comic poem. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 443 ENGL 444 Dramatic Literature: Special Studies (5, max. 10) VLPA Study of a particular dramatic tradition (such as expressionism or the absurd theatre) or character (the clown) or technique (play-within-a-play, the neoclassical three unities). Topics vary. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 444 ENGL 451 American Writers: Studies in Major Authors (5, max. 15) VLPA Concentration on one writer or a special group of American writers. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 451 ENGL 452 Topics in American Literature (5, max. 15) VLPA Exploration of a theme or special topic in American literary expression. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 452 ENGL 453 Introduction to American Folklore (5) VLPA Study of different kinds of folklore inherited from America's past and to be found in America today. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 453 ENGL 457 Pacific Northwest Literature (5) VLPA Concentrates in alternate years on either prose or poetry of the Pacific Northwest. Prose works examine early exploration, conflicts of native and settlement cultures, various social and economic conflicts. Pacific Northwest poetry includes consideration of its sources, formative influences, and emergence into national prominence. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 457 ENGL 466 Queer and LGBT Studies (5) VLPA/I&S, DIV Special topics in queer theory and lesbian/gay/bisexual/transgender (LGBT) studies. Examination of ways lesbian, bisexual, transgender and queer histories and cultures are represented in criticism, literature, film, performance, and popular culture. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 466 ENGL 470 Theory and Practice of Teaching Literature (5, max. 10) VLPA Reviews the institutional history of English as an academic discipline and the core debates and politics that have shaped the content, teaching, and study of literature and literacy theory. Introduces some theoretical and methodological approaches that inform the teaching of literature. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 470 ENGL 471 Theory and Practice of Teaching Writing (5) VLPA Reviews the research, core debates, and politics that have shaped the practice, teaching and study of writing. Introduces theoretical and methodological approaches that inform the teaching and learning of writing. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 471 ENGL 472 Language Learning (5) VLPA Consideration of how an individual achieves psychological and esthetic grasp of reality through language; relates language development to reading skills, literary interpretation, grammar acquisition, oral fluency, discursive and imaginative writing. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 472 ENGL 473 Current Developments in English Studies: Conference (5) VLPA View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 473 ENGL 474 Special Topics in English for Teachers (1-10, max. 10) VLPA View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 474 ENGL 475 Colloquium in English for Teachers (1-5, max. 10) VLPA View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 475 ENGL 476 Puget Sound Writing Program Institute (10) VLPA Focus on the writing process and the teaching of writing, accomplished through research, writing, reflection, and demonstration of writing instruction. Affiliated with the National Writing Project. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 476 ENGL 477 Children's Literature (5) VLPA An examination of books that form a part of the imaginative experience of children, as well as a part of a larger literary heritage, viewed in the light of their social, psychological, political, and moral implications. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 477 ENGL 478 Language and Social Policy (5) VLPA/I&S, DIV Examines the relationship between language policy and social organization; the impact of language policy on immigration, education, and access to resources and political institutions; language policy and revolutionary change; language rights. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 478 ENGL 479 Language Variation and Language Policy in North America (5) VLPA/I&S, DIV Surveys basic issues of language variation: phonological, syntactic, semantic, and narrative/discourse differences among speech communities of North American English; examines how language policy can affect access to education, the labor force, and political institutions. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 479 ENGL 481 Special Studies in Expository Writing (5) VLPA Individual projects in various types of nonfictional prose, such as biographical sketches, informational reports, literary reviews, and essays. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 481 ENGL 483 Advanced Verse Workshop (5, max. 10) VLPA Intensive verse workshop. Emphasis on the production and discussion of student poetry. Prerequisite: ENGL 383; ENGL 384. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 483 ENGL 484 Advanced Prose Workshop (5, max. 10) VLPA Intensive prose workshop. Emphasis on the production and discussion of student fiction and/or creative nonfiction. Prerequisite: ENGL 383; ENGL 384. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 484 ENGL 485 Novel Writing (5, max. 15) VLPA Experience in planning, writing, and revising a work of long fiction, whether from the outset, in progress, or in already completed draft. Prerequisite: ENGL 384. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 485 ENGL 486 Playwriting (5, max. 10) VLPA Experience in planning, writing, and revising a play, whether from the outset, in progress, or in already completed draft. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 486 ENGL 490 Looking Forward: Professionalization and Public Life (5) Kimberlee Gillis-Bridges Offers methods for students to identify transferrable skills gleaned while completing the English major. Connections between specific skills of literary/theoretical and critical reading and writing, and the demands of contemporary workplaces and civic life offer students the opportunity to consider their post-college goals. Students will develop an e-portfolio to help present their skills to potential employers. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 490 ENGL 491 Internship (1-6, max. 12) Supervised experience in local businesses and other agencies. Open only to upper-division English majors. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 491 ENGL 492 Advanced Expository Writing Conference (1-5, max. 10) Tutorial arranged by prior mutual agreement between individual student and instructor. Revision of manuscripts is emphasized, but new work may also be undertaken. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 492 ENGL 493 Advanced Creative Writing Conference (1-5, max. 10) Tutorial arranged by prior mutual agreement between individual student and instructor. Revision of manuscripts is emphasized, but new work may also be undertaken. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 493 ENGL 494 Honors Seminar (5, max. 10) VLPA Survey of current issues confronting literary critics today, based on revolving themes and topics. Focuses on debates and developments affecting English language and literatures, including questions about: the relationship of culture and history; the effect of emergent technologies on literary study; the rise of interdisciplinary approaches in the humanities. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 494 ENGL 495 Major Conference for Honors in Creative Writing (5) Special projects available to Honors students in creative writing. Required of, and limited to, Honors students in creative writing. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 495 ENGL 496 Major Conference for Honors (5) Individual study (reading, papers) by arrangement with the instructor. Required of, and limited to, Honors seniors in English. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 496 ENGL 497 Honors Senior Seminar (5) VLPA Seminar study of special topics in language and literary study. Limited to Honors students majoring in English. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 497 ENGL 498 Senior Seminar (5) VLPA Seminar study of special topics in language and literary study. Limited to seniors majoring in English. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 498 ENGL 499 Independent Study (1-5, max. 10) Individual study by arrangement with instructor. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 499 ENGL 501 Textual Theory (5) Provides an introduction to the intellectual foundations of textual studies; historical background in disciplines of philology and textual criticism, theories of textuality from formalism and New Criticism to poststructuralism, and media-specific analysis; current and emerging concerns in the history of the book, media studies, globally comparative philologies, and digital humanities. Offered: jointly with C LIT 551. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 501 ENGL 502 Manuscript Studies (5) An examination of the theoretical and methodological issues attending the study of written texts including literacy, circulation, production, and reception in Premodern genetics, and archival research methods. Offered: jointly with C LIT 552. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 502 ENGL 503 Studies in Print Culture and Publication (5) An examination of the theoretical and methodological issues attending the study of printed texts; training in bibliography and the history of the book from Gutenberg's hand press to the machine and periodical presses of the nineteen and twentieth centuries; and contemporary book art. Offered: jointly with C LIT 553. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 503 ENGL 504 Digital Literary and Textual Studies (5) An examination of digital textuality from the rise and fall of "hypertext" to contemporary convergence and transmediation in hybrid visual-verbal genres; computer games, digital video, and e-poetry. Coverage of practical issues surrounding digital scholarship and the digital humanities. Offered: jointly with C LIT 554. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 504 ENGL 505 Theories of American Literature (5) Examination of selected texts in American Literature, concentrating on the specific problems of interpretation and scholarship characteristic of the study of works in this field. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 505 ENGL 506 Modern and Contemporary Critical Theory (5) Engages ongoing critical conversations that inform English studies, including: language, textual production, disciplinarity, the university, capital, nation formation, postcolonialism, the environment, race, gender, class, and sexuality. The historical focus is contemporary, with attention to foundational modern theorists. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 506 ENGL 507 History of Literary Criticism and Theory I (5, max. 15) A general introduction to the major issues in the history of criticism followed by the study of the classical theorists, including Plato, Aristotle, Longinus, and the major medieval critics. Offered: jointly with C LIT 507. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 507 ENGL 508 History of Literary Criticism and Theory II (5, max. 15) Literary criticism and theory from the Middle Ages and the Renaissance through the eighteenth century to, but not including, Kant. Offered: jointly with C LIT 508. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 508 ENGL 509 History of Literary Criticism and Theory III (5, max. 15) Literary criticism and theory from Kant's Critique of Judgment to the mid-twentieth century and the work of Northrop Frye. Offered: jointly with C LIT 509. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 509 ENGL 510 History of Literary Criticism and Theory IV (5, max. 15) A study of the major issues in literary criticism and theory since about 1965. Offered: jointly with C LIT 510. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 510 ENGL 512 Introductory Reading in Old English (5) View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 512 ENGL 513 Old English Language and Literature (5, max. 15) View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 513 ENGL 514 Middle English (5, max. 15) View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 514 ENGL 515 Chaucer (5, max. 15) View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 515 ENGL 516 Topics in Medieval English Literature (5, max. 15) View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 516 ENGL 517 Sixteenth-Century Literature (5, max. 15) View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 517 ENGL 518 Shakespeare (5, max. 15) View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 518 ENGL 520 Seventeenth-Century Literature (5, max. 15) View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 520 ENGL 522 Topics in the English Renaissance, 1485-1660 (5, max. 15) View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 522 ENGL 524 Restoration and Eighteenth-Century Literature (5, max. 15) View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 524 ENGL 527 Romanticism (5, max. 15) View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 527 ENGL 528 Victorian Literature (5, max. 15) View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 528 ENGL 529 Topics in Nineteenth-Century Studies (5, max. 15) View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 529 ENGL 531 Early American Literature (5, max. 15) View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 531 ENGL 532 Nineteenth-Century American Literature (5, max. 15) View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 532 ENGL 533 Modern American Literature (5, max. 15) View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 533 ENGL 535 American Culture and Criticism (5, max. 15) View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 535 ENGL 537 Topics in American Studies (5, max. 15) View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 537 ENGL 540 Modern Literature (5, max. 15) View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 540 ENGL 541 Contemporary Literature (5, max. 15) View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 541 ENGL 543 Anglo-Irish Literature (5, max. 15) View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 543 ENGL 544 World Literature in English (5, max. 15) View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 544 ENGL 546 Topics in Twentieth-Century Literature (5, max. 15) View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 546 ENGL 550 Studies in Narrative (5, max. 15) View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 550 ENGL 551 Studies in Poetry (5, max. 15) View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 551 ENGL 552 Studies in Drama (5, max. 15) View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 552 ENGL 554 Theories of Structure, Genre, Form, and Function (5, max. 15) View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 554 ENGL 555 Feminist Theories (5, max. 15) View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 555 ENGL 556 Cultural Studies (5, max. 15) View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 556 ENGL 558 Capstone in Textual and Digital Studies (1) Capstone in Textual and Digital Studies. Prerequisite: ENGL 501/C LIT 551; recommended: Must have completed a sequence of three courses, beginning with an Introduction to Textual Theory course (ENG 501/C LIT 551) and followed by one core elective and one open elective related to Textual and Digital Studies . Credit/no-credit only. Offered: jointly with C LIT 555. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 558 ENGL 559 Literature and Other Disciplines (5, max. 15) View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 559 ENGL 560 The Nature of Language: History and Theory (5) View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 560 ENGL 561 Stylistics (5) View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 561 ENGL 562 Discourse Analysis (5) View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 562 ENGL 563 Research Methods in Language and Rhetoric (5, max. 15) Introduces research theories and methodological approaches in language and rhetoric. Methods and content focus include ethnography, corpus analysis, case study, discourse analysis, rhetorical criticism, and various other qualitative and quantitative research methods. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 563 ENGL 564 Current Rhetorical Theory (5, max. 15) Prerequisite: teaching experience. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 564 ENGL 567 Approaches to Teaching Composition (1-5, max. 10) Readings in composition theory and discussion of practical classroom applications. Prerequisite: previous experience or concurrent assignment in teaching writing. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 567 ENGL 568 Topics in Composition Studies (5, max. 15) Covers various issues in composition studies including: the history of composition study, contemporary composition theory, basic writing, service-learning pedagogy, engaged scholarship, new media and digital studies, writing assessment, writing across the curriculum, and writing program administration. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 568 ENGL 569 Topics in Language and Rhetoric (5, max. 15) View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 569 ENGL 570 Practicum in Teaching English as a Second Language (5, max. 10) Discussion and practice of second-language teaching techniques. Three hours per week teaching required in addition to regular class meetings. Prerequisite: ENGL 571 or permission of instructor. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 570 ENGL 571 Theory and Practice on Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages (5, max. 10) Topics include second language reading, aural/oral skills, critical pedagogy, program administration, and language policy. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 571 ENGL 572 Methods and Materials for Teaching English as a Second Language (5) Prerequisite: LING 445 or permission of instructor. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 572 ENGL 574 Research Methods in Second-Language Acquisition (5) Prerequisite: ENGL 572, LING 449, or permission of instructor. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 574 ENGL 575 Pedagogy and Grammar in Teaching English as a Second Language (5) View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 575 ENGL 576 Testing and Evaluation in English as a Second Language (5) Evaluation and testing of English language proficiency, including testing theory, types of tests, and teacher-prepared classroom tests. Prerequisite: ENGL 571 and ENGL 572 or permission of instructor. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 576 ENGL 578 Colloquium in Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages (5, max. 10) Overview of major issues in second-language acquisition, teaching methodology, and classroom practice with special emphasis on links between theories of language learning and practical aspects of teaching English to speakers of other languages. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 578 ENGL 581 The Creative Writer as Critical Reader (5, max. 15) View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 581 ENGL 584 Advanced Fiction Workshop (5, max. 20) Prerequisite: graduate standing. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 584 ENGL 585 Advanced Poetry Workshop (5, max. 20) Prerequisite: graduate standing. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 585 ENGL 586 Graduate Writing Conference (5) View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 586 ENGL 587 Topics in the Teaching of Creative Writing (3/5) View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 587 ENGL 590 Master of Arts Essay (5/10, max. 10) Research and writing project under the close supervision of a faculty member expert and with the consultation of a second faculty reader. The field of study is chosen by the student. Work is independent and varies. The model is an article in a scholarly journal. Prerequisite: graduate standing in English. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 590 ENGL 591 Master of Arts for Teachers Essay (5) Research and writing project under the close supervision of a faculty member expert in the field of study chosen by the student within the MAT degree orientation toward the teaching of English, and with the consultation of a second faculty reader. The model is an article in a scholarly journal. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 591 ENGL 592 Graduate English Studies (1-5, max. 10) View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 592 ENGL 595 Topics in Teaching Literature (5, max. 15) View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 595 ENGL 597 Directed Readings (*, max. 18) Intensive reading in literature or criticism, directed by members of doctoral supervisory committee. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 597 ENGL 598 Colloquium in English (1-5, max. 10) Lectures and seminars presented by visiting scholars or a range of local scholars relevant to English graduate studies. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 598 ENGL 599 Special Studies in English (5, max. 15) View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 599 ENGL 600 Independent Study or Research (*-) View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 600 ENGL 601 Internship (3-10, max. 10) Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 601 ENGL 700 Master's Thesis (*-) View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 700 ENGL 800 Doctoral Dissertation (*-) View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 800 Office of the University Registrar registrar@uw.edu Modified: May 30, 2022