Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Brown University Robert J. & Nancy D.Carney Institute for Brain Science Search Brown University Home Research Research Projects Where Brain Science Happens BRAINSTORM Program Centers & Core Facilities Center for Alzheimer's Disease Research Center for Computational Brain Science COBRE Center for Neuromodulation Center for the Neurobiology of Cells and Circuits Center for Translational Neuroscience Center for Vision Research COBRE Center for Central Nervous System Function Research Projects Research Cores Behavior and Neuroimaging Core Design and Analysis Core MRI Research Facility Carney Human Testing Space The Bioluminescence Hub COVID-19 Resuming Research Plan Training Undergraduate Students Concentrations Graduate Study Postdocs Executive Committee Carney Summer Scholars Training Programs ICoN - Interdisciplinary Training Interdisciplinary Vision Training Program TPCP - Training Program People Institute Team Executive Committee Affiliated Faculty Community Spotlights Center Directors Scientific Advisory Board News & Events News Upcoming Events Past Events BrainExPo Seminar Series Carney Conversations Methods Meetups Resources Funding Opportunities Research Toolbox Brain Facts Education & Outreach Research & Educational Resources About Our Impact Affiliated Units Where Brain Science Happens FAQ Partner With Us Give To Carney Give To Carney Home Research Training People News & Events Resources About Partner With Us Search Carney Institute for Brain Science Alzheimer’s Disease Alzheimer’s disease is the sixth leading cause of death in the United States. With support from two generous gifts totaling $30 million, Brown University established a new Center for Alzheimer’s Disease Research with the aim of building a world-class research program focused on early detection and treatment of Alzheimer's disease and related dementias. The center integrates the expertise of the Robert J. and Nancy D. Carney Institute for Brain Science and the Division of Biology and Medicine. Housed within the Carney Institute, the Center for Alzheimer’s Disease Research catalyzes collaborations across basic and clinical research groups toward uncovering when, where and how Alzheimer’s disease first arises to advance the pace toward treatment. The center's research projects integrate knowledge across biological systems in humans, including behavioral, neural, vascular and immune. Alzheimer’s and other neurodegenerative diseases require collaborative thinking across disciplines in both basic and clinical research to generate the knowledge we need to advance prevention, treatments and cures. Read below for examples of Alzheimer’s disease research projects, or visit the Center for Alzheimer’s Disease Research website for more information about the center and its mission. Research Projects Developing novel cognitive and neuroimaging markers of preclinical Alzheimer’s disease Alzheimer’s Disease, Cognition and Behavior, Neurobiology of Cells & Circuits Discovering the mechanisms underlying brain aging using direct reprogramming Alzheimer’s Disease, Neurobiology of Cells & Circuits Drug discovery for the prevention and treatment of Alzheimer’s disease Alzheimer’s Disease, Cognition and Behavior, Neuroengineering and Neurotechnology Head-to-head harmonization of tau PET tracers – The HEAD study Alzheimer’s Disease New biomarkers for neurodegenerative disease Alzheimer’s Disease, Neurobiology of Cells & Circuits Risk and Resilience for Alzheimer’s Disease: A 60-year prospective study Alzheimer’s Disease, Cognition and Behavior Targeting age-related inflammation to slow Alzheimer’s disease: The LINE-AD study Alzheimer’s Disease, Cognition and Behavior, Neurobiology of Cells & Circuits U.S. POINTER Trial Alzheimer’s Disease, Cognition and Behavior Robert J. & Nancy D. Carney Institute for Brain Science Robert J. & Nancy D. Carney Institute for Brain Science Brown University Box 1901 164 Angell St., 4th Floor Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-7421 Email [email protected] Brown University Giving to Brown Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA 401-863-1000 Contact Us Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility All Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top