Skip to main content Search for people, departments & websites Submit keywords Toggle search Columbia University Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Main navigation expanded Admissions Academics Research Campus Life About News You are here: Home Copyright Copyright Expand all Collapse all Copyright All users of Columbia’s network facilities are expected to be familiar with the policies outlined in its Computer and Network Policy Use Policy and the consequences of violation, and to comply with copyright law. To Report a Copyright Violation In accordance with the Digital Millennium Copyright Act of 1998 (DMCA), Columbia has designated an agent to receive notification of alleged copyright infringement occurring on web pages or computer servers under the Columbia.edu domain (Columbia sites). If you believe that your copyrighted work is being infringed on a Columbia site, please notify Columbia’s designated agent for receiving such notices at the following address: The University’s registered agent(s) to receive complaints of copyright infringement under the DMCA is Joel Rosenblatt (Columbia University Information Technology, 615 W. 131st St., 5th Flr., New York, NY 10025; Phone: 212-854-1919; Fax: 212-662-6442). Content of Notices The DMCA requires that such notices of alleged copyright infringement be in writing. In order for the University to take any action on the basis of your notice, the written communication must include the following information: Identification of the copyrighted work or works claimed to have been infringed. If multiple works are allegedly being infringed at a single site, please provide a representative list of such works. A description of the material that is claimed to be infringing, and information sufficient to permit Columbia’s agent to locate the material. Contact information for you, including your address, telephone number, and/or email address. A statement by you that you have a good faith belief that the use of the material in the manner complained of is not authorized by the copyright owner, the owner’s agent, or by the law. A statement by you that the information in the notification is accurate, and under penalty of perjury, you are authorized on behalf of the owner to enforce the copyrights that are claimed to be infringed. A physical or electronic signature of the copyright owner or the person authorized to act on behalf of the rights owner. The University will not be able to act promptly on your complaint, or at all, if you do not provide all of the information listed above. Further Information For more information on U.S. Copyright Law and the DMCA, visit www.copyright.gov. Read more about Columbia University’s acceptable use and copyright policies in the IT Policies library. For information about copyright in connection with teaching and research activities, visit the Copyright Advisory Office. Notice of Nondiscrimination Columbia University is committed to providing a learning, living, and working environment free from unlawful discrimination and harassment and to fostering a nurturing and vibrant community founded upon the fundamental dignity and worth of all of its members. Consistent with this commitment, and with all applicable laws, it is the policy of the University not to tolerate unlawful discrimination or harassment in any form and to provide those who feel that they are victims of discrimination with mechanisms for seeking redress. Also consistent with this commitment, Columbia University prohibits any form of discrimination against any person on the basis of race, color, religion, sex, gender, pregnancy, age, national origin, disability, sexual orientation, marital status, status as a victim of domestic violence, citizenship or immigration status, creed, genetic predisposition or carrier status, unemployment status, partnership status, military status, or any other applicable legally protected status in the administration of its educational policies, admissions policies, employment, scholarship and loan programs, and athletic and other University-administered programs and functions. Nothing in this policy shall abridge academic freedom or the University's educational mission. Prohibitions against discrimination and discriminatory harassment do not extend to actions, statements or written materials that are relevant and appropriately related to course subject matter or academic debate. This policy governs the conduct of all Columbia University students, faculty, staff and visitors that occurs on the University’s campuses or in connection with University-sponsored programs. This policy also governs conduct by Columbia University students, faculty, staff and visitors that creates, contributes to, or continues a hostile work, educational, or living environment for a member or members of the University community. Learn more by visiting Columbia's online portal for EOAA concerns. Statement on Public Access Columbia University is committed to providing an accessible and welcoming environment for faculty, staff, students, guests, visitors and members of the public, and it encourages individuals with disabilities to participate in its programs and activities. Individuals with disabilities who anticipate needing accommodations or who have questions about physical access may contact the Office of Disability Services. Useful Links Campus Maps Columbia Bookstore Columbia's Nobel Laureates Student Consumer Information University Administration Morningside Campus Information 116th and Broadway, New York, NY 10027 212-854-1754 Office of Communications and Public Affairs 212-854-5573 Office of Alumni and Development 212-851-7800 Public Safety 212-854-2797 212-854-5555 (emergency) CUIT Help Desk 212-854-1919 askcuit@columbia.edu Undergraduate Admissions Columbia College / 212-854-2522 Fu Foundation School of Engineering and Applied Science / 212-854-2522 School of General Studies / 212-854-2772 General Counsel University Compliance 866-627-3768 (Hotline) Web & Identity Guidelines Other Campuses Columbia University Medical Center 212-305-CUMC Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory 845-359-2900 Nevis Laboratories 914-591-8100 Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close