Skip to main content Service Request Penn Homepage Penn Sustainability Penn Connects Search this site Main menu About Services Standards & Policies Sustainability Capital Process Maps Directions to FRES Directions to FRES Print Facilities & Real Estate Services 3101 Walnut Street, Philadelphia, PA 19104 Driving Information: (enter at 3160 Chestnut Street) Walnut Street traffic is one-way westbound and only metered parking is available. Chestnut Street traffic is one-way eastbound with metered parking. For visitor parking or drop-off to FRES, the Children's Center, Environmental Safety & Technology Transfer, enter the parking lot at 3160 Chestnut Street. Obtain and display a parking permit tag from the department receptionist. For deliveries to the FRES receiving area, continue east on Chestnut Street and turn right onto 31st Street. Proceed to Lower Walnut Street / Jones Way and turn right onto Jones Way. At the Class of 1923 Ice Rink, turn left and follow a one-way, clockwise route around the Ice Rink to the FRES receiving area located at 3133 Jones Way. Pedestrian Entry: Pedestrian entry to Facilities & Real Estate Services at 3101 Walnut Street is accessible across a bridge that leads into the upper lobby of an elevator head-house. The elevator connects to a lower lobby level, where Facilities & Real Estate Services is located. The lower lobby level of Facilities & Real Estate Services can also be accessed from 3160 Chestnut Street. The offices of Facilities & Real Estate Services are open to the public: Monday through Friday, 8:00am to 5:00pm. The Penn Children's Center is accessible at the 3160 Chestnut Street level, Suite 100. The Center for Technology Transfer is accessible at 3160 Chestnut Street, Suite 200 and the Environmental Health & Radiation Safety is accessible at the 3160 Chestnut Street level, Suite 400. FRES Directions (PDF) About Mission Organizational Chart Departments Campus History Campus Plan News Divisional Overview Vendor Information Directions to FRES Info for: Penn Community Facilities & Real Estate Services 3101 Walnut St Philadelphia, Pa 19104 Emergency/Vehicular Address: 3160 Chestnut Street (proceed to the glass Pavilion at end of the parking lot) © 2022 University of Pennsylvania Report accessibility issues and get help » Webmaster Contact » Service Request Penn Homepage Penn Sustainability Penn Connects About Mission Organizational Chart Departments Campus History Campus Plan News Divisional Overview Vendor Information Directions to FRES Services Maintenance and Renovation Campus and Building Plans Landscape Planned Events Real Estate Signage Moving Services Standards & Policies Standards Policies Safety Procedures Sustainability Energy Management Built Environment Waste Management and Recycling Collaborative Efforts Capital Process Initiate a Project Capital Planning Facilities Renewal Maps and Locations Building Locations Penn Connects Public Art Bike Racks Discover Penn Public Parking Printing the Campus Map PennAccess Location List Contacts Penn Community Penn Homepage