Your browser does not support iframes. Skip to main content Menu Scheller College of Business Request More Information Attend an Info Session Contact Us Directory Apply Now Search Why Scheller? Programs Executive Education Academics Centers & Initiatives News & Events Overview & History Dean's Message and Report Meet Ernest Scheller Jr. Advisory Board Accreditation Strategic Plan Business at Tech Graduates Get Hired Return on Investment Faculty and Advisors Global Perspective A Good Fit Corporate Engagement Trading Floor Georgia Tech Community Student Life Making Connections and Learning Opportunities Diversity Diversity News Career and Recruiter Services Career Services for Students Hire Our Students Giving to the College Meeting the Challenge Priorities and Needs Faculty Support Student Support Program Enrichment Unrestricted Endowment The Impact of Your Gift How to Make a Gift FAQs Scheller MBA Annual Fund Alumni Network Alumni News Alumni Resources Update Contact Information Visit Campus Tech Square and Atlanta Full-time MBA Admissions Curriculum Career Development Leadership Development Student Organizations Student & Alumni Profiles Meet an MBA Ambassador FAQsEvening MBA Admissions Curriculum Career Advancement Leadership Development Student Organizations Student & Alumni Profiles Meet an MBA Ambassador FAQs Executive MBA Admissions Curriculum Career Development Student & Alumni Profiles FAQsMBA Programs Which Georgia Tech MBA is Right for Me? Commitment to Diversity, Inclusion, and Equity Dual Degree Options Experiential Learning For Engineers For Military Community MD/MBA Option MBA Early Admission for Undergrads Rankings The Intersection Podcast Earn Your MBA in Atlanta Graduate Certificate Business Analytics Certificate Undergraduate Admissions Curriculum Career Services Student Services Student Life Scholarships & Awards Rankings & Stats Connect With Us The Intersection Podcast, Undergrad PhD Concentrations Program Milestones Faculty and Staff Funding Admissions FAQs Recruiting Events Student Bios Program News Request Program Information Interdisciplinary M.S. M.S. in Quantitative & Computational Finance (QCF) Master of Science in Analytics at Georgia Tech Lean Six Sigma Certification Lean Six Sigma Green Belt Certification Lean Six Sigma Black Belt Certification FAQs Custom Programs FAQs Accounting Finance Information Technology Management Law & Ethics Marketing Operations Management Organizational Behavior Strategy & Innovation Student Certificates Engineering Entrepreneurship Entrepreneurship International Management Management of Technology Technology Innovation: Generating Economic Results Academic Speaker Series Guest Speakers in Accounting Guest Speakers in Finance Guest Speakers in Marketing Current Faculty Opportunities Business Analytics Center Engage with Us Executive Council News Research Education People Cecil B. Day Program for Business Ethics About Cecil B. Day The Cecil B. Day Prize Speakers and Events Faculty Support Net Impact Center for International Business Education and Research Projects Research Events Books People at CIBER Inside CIBER News and Events Archives International Management Certificate Sign Up for Future CIBER News Financial Analysis Lab Subscribe to Reports Institute for Leadership and Social Impact About Us Programs News Impact Speaker Series Leadership for Social Good Study Abroad Program Social Impact Fellows Ideas to Serve (I2S) Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Servant Leadership Programs Minor in Leadership Studies Excel Alumni Other ILSI Programs Partnerships Program for Engineering Entrepreneurship Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business About Us Sustainable Business Insights Research Briefs Sustainable Business Events Sustainable Business News Blog Research & Thought Leadership Empowering Students Industry Engagement Newsletter Participating in the Drawdown Georgia Compact Drawdown Georgia Business Compact Meet the Team Alumni Steven A. Denning Technology & Management Program Director's Message About Steven A. Denning T&M Curriculum Program Faculty & Staff Admissions T&M Corporate Affiliates Denning T&M Program News TI:GER® and CDL-Atlanta Program Network TI:GER MBA & PhD FAQs News Apply Inquire Resources in Technology Innovation and Entrepreneurship Scheller News Event Calendar The Intersection Podcast Media Inquiry Marketing Innovation Conference @ Scheller PhD Admissions Home » Programs » PhD » Admissions Menu PhD Concentrations Program Milestones Faculty and Staff Funding Admissions FAQs Recruiting Events Student Bios Program News Request Program Information Admission into the PhD program in Management is highly selective, with a limited number of offers extended each year. APPLY NOW FOR FALL 2022 ADMISSION The application deadline for Fall 2022 admission is January 6, 2022. Primary factors considered in the evaluation process include: Overall undergraduate and (if applicable) graduate grade point averages GMAT or GRE scores Compatible research interests with faculty Career interests and goals as stated in the essay Excellent letters of evaluation Appropriateness for graduate study Ability to handle advanced-level research. Background Requirements You need a strong background in college-level mathematics, particularly knowledge of linear algebra, calculus, and statistics. All applicants to the PhD program must take the Graduate Management Admission Test (GMAT) or the Graduate Records Examination (GRE) and request that the scores be sent directly to Georgia Tech using institution code HWK-54-07 for the GMAT and 5248 for the GRE. GMAT or GRE scores older than five years will not be accepted. Additionally, all international applicants must submit a valid TOEFL or IELTS score. Exceptions to the English standardized exams are listed on the Graduate Studies English Proficiency webpage. TOEFL scores are valid for two years and the minimum score requirement is 100 on the TOEFL internet-based test (iBT). IELTS score must be a minimum of 7. Use institute code 5248 to report test scores. Online testing opportunities may be offered for select countries in response to world-wide operational challenges with COVID-19 outbreak. To learn more visit the following pages: TOEFL IELTS International applicants who received a degree from a US college or university do not need to submit a TOEFL score. The Admission Process The admission process to the PhD program has two stages. First, an applicant must pass a screening by faculty in the appropriate academic area. Second, all members of the PhD Committee review the application and make a final decision on whether to admit the candidate. Essay Questions Applicants must complete an essay on the following topic: Describe your academic interests, research interests and projects, and career objectives. Also, please discuss any unique aspects of your candidacy and provide the PhD Admission Committee with any information pertinent to your application that you did not cover in the rest of the application. Three Letters of Recommendation Letters of recommendation should come from individuals capable of commenting on your academic and research abilities and potential. Each recommender whose email you include in your application will be sent instructions on how to fill out a recommendation for you. If your recommender would like to email the letter, please email the letters to and we will upload it to your application. We also accept recommendation letters via Interfolio. Please send the attachment or link to and we will open the file and upload the letters to your application. Transcripts You can UPLOAD all supporting documents to your application. We will accept unofficial documents. Only if admitted, you will be asked for official documents. An unofficial transcript from the registrar of each college you attended must be submitted. These transcripts can be uploaded online or mailed to the Graduate Admissions at the address provided during the application process. International applicants, in addition to submitting transcripts in their native language, must also provide: A copy of the English translation of the transcript Native language and English translation copies of documents verifying proof of their degree. Resume Please include a copy of your most recent resume with your application package. You can also send the resume to if you have any issues uploading it to your application. Please visit Graduate Admissions for additional information on required application documents. PhD Program Director Ursula Reynolds, (404.385.3896) Scheller College of Business Home Why Scheller? Overview & History Business at Tech Georgia Tech Community Career and Recruiter Services Giving to the College Alumni Network Visit Campus Tech Square and Atlanta Programs MBA Undergraduate PhD Interdisciplinary M.S. Executive Education Lean Six Sigma Certification Custom Programs Academics Accounting Finance Information Technology Management Law & Ethics Marketing Operations Management Organizational Behavior Strategy & Innovation Student Certificates Academic Speaker Series Current Faculty Opportunities Centers & Initiatives Business Analytics Center Cecil B. Day Program for Business Ethics Center for International Business Education and Research Financial Analysis Lab Institute for Leadership and Social Impact Program for Engineering Entrepreneurship Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business Steven A. Denning Technology & Management Program TI:GER® and CDL-Atlanta News & Events Scheller News Event Calendar The Intersection Podcast Media Inquiry Marketing Innovation Conference @ Scheller LinkedIn Instagram Facebook Twitter Youtube Flickr Georgia Institute of Technology Scheller College of Business 800 W. Peachtree St. NW Atlanta, GA 30308 404.894.2600 © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology Intranet Emergency Information Contact the College Privacy & Legal Notice Accountability Web Accessibility Resources for People with Disabilities Plugins Youtube Usage Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures