Emergency Notification: COVID-19 Visit the Health Advisories website for the latest updates, FAQs, vaccination information, and to Report a Case. Skip to main content San José State University Menu Visit Campus Tours Maps Parking Silicon Valley Hammer Theatre SJSU Loves SJ Academics Colleges and Departments Majors and Programs Centers and Institutes Academic Calendar Classes King Library Admissions Tuition and Fees Housing Professional Education Parent and Family Programs Campus Life Health and Wellness Safety SJSU Cares Events Traditions Student Alumni Connection Research and Innovation Office of Research SJSU Research Foundation Student-Faculty Collaborations Become a Research Partner About Administration and Leadership Facts and Accomplishments Partnerships Transformation Defined SJSU on Facebook SJSU on Twitter SJSU on LinkedIn SJSU on Instagram SJSU on YouTube Athletics Alumni Association Giving to SJSU Canvas one.SJSU Search University Menu .Go toSJSU homepage. Visit Campus Tours Maps Parking Silicon Valley Hammer Theatre SJSU Loves SJ Academics Colleges and Departments Majors and Programs Centers and Institutes Academic Calendar Classes King Library Admissions Tuition and Fees Housing Professional Education Parents and Family Programs Campus Life Health and Wellness Safety SJSU Cares Events Traditions Student Alumni Connection Research and Innovation Office of Research SJSU Research Foundation Student-Faculty Collaborations Become a Research Partner Athletics About Administration and Leadership Facts and Accomplishments Partnerships Transformation Defined Home Commencement Ceremonies Commencement Commencement Menu Ceremonies Programs Celebration Events Grad Fest FAQ Crew and Faculty Archives Archives Past Ceremonies Communications Ceremonies Programs Celebration Events Grad Fest FAQ Crew and Faculty Archives Past Ceremonies Communications Commencement Ceremonies Congratulations Class of 2022! San José State University is honored to host your in-person commencement ceremonies at the end of the semester! Commencement ceremonies will take place Wednesday, May 25 - Friday, May 27 at the Provident Credit Union Event Center at SJSU. On this page: Commencement Ceremony Schedule Registration Guest Tickets Academic Regalia Graduation Gifts Event Parking Photography COVID-19 Protocols Event Venue Event Prohibited Items Commencement Ceremony Schedule Ceremonies are expected to last up to 2 hours depending on the number of students attending. Doors to the venue will open 1 hour before each ceremony start time. Each ceremony will be live streamed. Click on the ceremony time below to access the YouTube link for the live stream. At this time, our ceremonies require safety protocols that include wearing a mask indoors at all times, and outdoors when social distancing is not possible. Full details can be found below: Wednesday, May 25, 2022 Provident Credit Union Event Center Charles W. Davidson College of Engineering 8:30 a.m. – Watch Live Stream: - Aerospace Engineering - Biomedical Engineering - Civil & Environmental Engineering - Computer Engineering - Industrial & Systems Engineering 12 p.m. – Watch Live Stream: - Aviation - Chemical and Materials Engineering - Electrical Engineering - Interdisciplinary Engineering - Mechanical Engineering - Technology College of Social Sciences 4 p.m. – Watch Live Stream: - African American Studies - Anthropology - Chicana and Chicano Studies - Communication Studies - Economics - Environmental Studies - History - Justice Studies 7:30 p.m. – Watch Live Stream: - Political Science - Psychology - Sociology - Urban & Regional Planning Thursday, May 26, 2022 Provident Credit Union Event Center College of Health and Human Sciences 8:30 a.m. – Watch Live Stream: - Kinesiology - Nursing - Nutrition, Food Science & Packaging - Occupational Therapy 12 p.m. – Watch Live Stream: - Public Health and Recreation - Social Work College of Science 4 p.m. – Watch Live Stream: - All Departments Connie L. Lurie College of Education 7:30 p.m. – Watch Live Stream: - All Departments Friday, May 27, 2022 Provident Credit Union Event Center Lucas College and Graduate School of Business 8:30 a.m. – Watch Live Stream: - Accounting & Finance: Accounting, Accounting Information Systems, Corporate Accounting and Finance, Finance - Business Graduate Programs - School of Global Innovation & Leadership: Entrepreneurship, Global Operations Management, International Business - Hospitality, Tourism, Event Management - School of Information Systems & Technology: Management Information Systems 12 p.m. – Watch Live Stream: - Marketing & Business Analytics: Business Analytics, General Business, Marketing - School of Management: Human Resource Management, Management College of Humanities and the Arts 4 p.m. – Watch Live Stream: - All Departments College of Professional and Global Education 7:30 p.m. – Watch Live Stream: - All Departments Registration The Deadline to Register Passed On April 22, 2022 at 12:00 p.m. Eligible students received a registration email to their "Preferred Email Address" on file with the University with a unique registration link for their ceremony. If you need to update your preferred email, please do so in your MySJSU portal. Check our Communications Archive for all messages that have been sent to students. Guest Tickets Each registered student will receive six (6) guest tickets at no cost. Guest tickets can be claimed in the MarchingOrder registration system using the drop down menu to select the total number of guest tickets needed. Additional tickets were released to registered students on May 3. No additional ticket releases are expected. Tickets are only valid for the ceremony that is listed on the ticket. Check our Communications Archive for all messages that have been sent to students. * Guest tickets are not required for participating graduates. Guest tickets are required for all guests age three and up. Guest ticket allowance is subject to change based on capacity, CDC, state and county health guidelines. Academic Regalia Herff Jones (official academic regalia vendor) Academic regalia, graduation announcements, class rings and more, may be purchased in-person at the Spartan Bookstore. Choose the ALUMNI PACKAGE and save over 50% on an annual SJSU Alumni Association Membership! * All participating graduates are required to wear academic regalia to attend the commencement ceremony. ** Undergraduate students who are eligible for Latin Honors may pick up their medallion at the Spartan Bookstore tent outside of the venue, on the day of their ceremony. Graduation Gifts Class T-shirts, sweatshirts, flower bouquets and more! Graduation gifts are available now for pre-order and on-site purchasing. Pre-ordered items will be available for contact-free pick up on-site. Event Parking Each registered student received an email with instructions for claiming their complimentary parking permit. Check our Communications Archive for all messages that have been sent to students. Guest Parking Information: Guest parking permits are available now for pre-sale at a discounted rate of $4.00. The cost of on-site event parking will increase to $5.00 per permit starting May 25. Guests may purchase their discounted parking permit by following the instructions below: Scan the QR code below or go to this link https://sjsu.t2hosted.com/pnw2/selectevent.aspx Select the ceremony you are attending Check the box for the parking structure that you want to park in Click ‘ADD TO BASKET’ Enter your Vehicle License Plate # and click ‘NEXT’ Scroll down to the bottom of the page and select ‘PAY NOW’ Scroll to the bottom of the page and select ‘PAY NOW’ Complete the required fields and pay for parking with a credit card Photography Best Grad Photo (official photography vendor) Each student will have three (3) photos taken by our professional photographers during the commencement ceremony. Photos will be edited and emailed to each student following the commencement ceremonies. COVID-19 Protocols: On April 1, the California Department of Public Health updated its mega indoor event guidelines. SJSU Commencement ceremonies will align with these changes and no longer require proof of vaccination or a negative COVID test result for entry into the Spring 2022 Commencement Ceremonies and activities. However, it is still strongly recommended that all graduates and guests are either fully vaccinated or receive a negative COVID-19 test result before attending their ceremony. SJSU will continue to require masks or face coverings to be worn indoors for the remainder of the semester per the announcement made on April 11, 2022. This requires all graduates and guests over the age of two to wear a mask while inside the venue at all Spring 2022 Graduation Ceremonies. Graduates will be allowed to briefly take their masks off as they cross the stage. We appreciate your adherence to this policy. Event Venue The Provident Credit Union Event Center is an accessible building on campus. Students and guests with ADA accessibility needs will enter through the designated entrance on the ground floor of the venue. ADA accessible seating will be available inside of the venue. For questions, please contact the Commencement Office at commencement@sjsu.edu. Event Prohibited Items: Commencement is a "Clear Bag Policy" [pdf] event. For the safety and enjoyment of all attendees, the following items are not permitted at the event: NO Drones or airborne flying devices NO Helium Balloons NO Artificial noise-making devices, horns, air horns NO Inflatable balls, frisbees, tortillas, etc. NO Confetti or streamers NO Skateboards, scooters, rollerblades NO Signs or banners larger than 3’ x 5’ and must be foldable (if a banner is brought, it will be inspected before being admitted. It may not be attached to any railings, fencing, etc. Must be held only) NO Coolers, hard sided coolers NO Outside Food or Beverages (Including Alcohol, Fruit and Candy) NO Illegal Substances, Drugs or Drug Paraphernalia NO Tobacco Products or Paraphernalia NO Markers, Pens or Spray Paint NO Laser Pointers NO Solid Backpacks, Purses or Bags (anything over 10“ x 10”) with the exception of a diaper bag that must accompany the child that uses it, and is subject to search (see our clear bag policy [pdf]) NO Weapons of Any Kind (Includes Pocket Knives, Pepper Spray, Fireworks, etc.) NO Professional Recording Equipment – Photo Video, or Audio (No Detachable Lenses, Tripods, Big Zooms or Commercial Use Rigs) NO Items deemed to be dangerous or inappropriate by management that may disrupt other attendees' enjoyment of the event NO Pets are permitted at this event. ADA service animals are allowed. Note: There is no public storage for prohibited items, nor can any items be held by the event staff. SJSU is not responsible for any lost or stolen items. All guests will be subject to search, which may include the use of electronic devices, pat downs and inspections of bags. Guests are discouraged from bringing unnecessary items to the event. Ceremonies Programs Celebration Events Grad Fest FAQ Crew and Faculty Archives Past Ceremonies Communications Commencement PLACEHOLDER-FOR-XSL:VALUE-OF(SITE-TITLE) on Instagram Contact Us Phone: 408-924-6517 Email: commencement@sjsu.edu Visit Office Clark Hall 300 One Washington Square San Jose, CA 95192-0254 Footer San José State University SJSU on Facebook SJSU on Twitter SJSU on LinkedIn SJSU on Instagram SJSU on YouTube One Washington Square San José, CA 95192 408-924-1000 Accessibility Title IX Diversity Land Acknowledgement Privacy Colleges Business Education Engineering Graduate Studies Health and Human Sciences Humanities and the Arts Professional and Global Education Science Social Science Resources A-Z Index Annual Security Report [pdf] Bookstore Calendars Careers and Jobs Catalog Current Students Emergency Food & Housing King Library Parking and Maps Contact Us Contact Form Directory Doing Business with SJSU Emergency Info Report a Web Problem Report a Title IX Complaint Last Updated May 23, 2022