Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu UofM Media Room Publications News Releases Podcasts Events Resources Contact Us Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact News Releases Awards News Releases Archive Take Action Music Performance Calendar Upcoming Art Exhibits University Events Contact Us Follow Us Online InstagramFacebooktwitterYoutubeLinkedIn Home UofM Media Room News Releases USNWR UofM receives 31 U.S. News & World Report Best Graduate Programs Rankings March 29, 2022 — The University of Memphis was ranked in 31 U.S. News & World Report Best Graduate Programs national rankings for 2023 that were released Tuesday, an increase from 26 a year ago. The Cecil C. Humphreys School of Law received 13 of those honors in the categories of Best Graduate Law, Clinical Training (No. 46), Legal Writing (No. 62), Health Care Law, Intellectual Property, International Law, Trial Advocacy, Environmental Law, Tax Law, Business Corporate Law, Contracts-Commercial Law, Criminal Law and Constitutional Law. The Loewenberg College of Nursing received Best Graduate Nursing-Master’s Degree (No. 80) followed by Best Graduate Social Work (No. 94), Best Graduate Public Affairs, Best Graduate Public Health, Best Graduate Education and Best Graduate Business-Part-Time MBA. The Herff College of Engineering received recognition for their overall graduate program as well as five individual programs, including Biomedical-UofM/UTHSC partnership, Computer Engineering, Civil Engineering, Electrical Engineering and Mechanical Engineering. Best Graduate Social Sciences and Humanities received seven honors, including Social Work, Geology, Math, Psychology, Computer Science, Chemistry and Biology. The UofM was the highest-ranked institution in Tennessee for the third-straight year by U.S. News & World Report in its 2022 rankings of online programs. The UofM’s status in these rankings began its incredible climb five years ago, culminating in the top spot for three consecutive years. The UofM was ranked in the top 150 in nine categories nationally, including six in the top 30. In addition, the University of Memphis has recently been named an R1 institution by the Carnegie Classification of Institutions of Higher Education, putting the UofM in the top tier of research universities nationally. This milestone solidifies the University as one of two flagship public institutions in Tennessee. Carnegie R1 status is a credit to the vision, work ethic and dedication of the faculty, staff and leadership at the UofM. U.S. News & World Report’s national ranking this past September for the University of Memphis improved for the fourth straight year for Top Public Schools and third consecutive year for Best National Universities. The No. 2-ranked public university in the State of Tennessee, UofM’s Top Public School ranking has increased to No. 123 in 2022 from No. 126 in 2021, No. 135 in 2020 and not ranked in 2019. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 3/29/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.