Skip to content iastate.edu Index Directory Maps Safety Sign ons Toggle Navigation HOME ACADEMICS Undergraduate Programs Masters Programs PhD Program Faculty Research UNDERGRADUATE STUDENTS Majors, Minors and Certificates Transfer Students Scholarships Undergraduate Student Services Undergraduate Career Services International Programs Writing & Speaking Center Student Organizations Hire an Ivy Graduate Start Something GRADUATE STUDENTS Masters Programs MBA Programs PhD Program Graduate Student Services Graduate Career Services Hire an Ivy Graduate Start Something ABOUT Ivy College of Business College Leadership Faculty & Staff Directory Rankings Alumni & Friends Upcoming Events Feature Stories APPLY SEARCH Loading... Phd Programfritzn2022-01-12T15:33:25-06:00 The Ivy Doctoral Program Research. Publish. Teach. The doctorate program at the Ivy College of Business is a full-time, residential program that focuses on theory and development and will prepare you to transition to academic positions at leading universities in the United States and abroad. You can choose from the following specializations: Entrepreneurship Finance Information systems and business analytics Management Marketing Supply chain management Our program will prepare you to conduct and publish scholarly research. In addition to excellent coursework, your education will be enhanced through participation in research seminars, joint research projects with faculty, and participation in academic conferences. As a PhD student, you are strongly encouraged to publish your work in top journals in preparation for future job placement. PhD Job Placement AT A GLANCE Program Duration: 4-5 years Program Start Date: Fall Final Application Deadline: January 15 Required Test: GMAT preferred, GRE accepted Master’s Degree Requirement: Preferred, but not required WHAT TO DO NEXT Request Information × We're here to help PhD Request Information Name First Last Email Phone Which PhD area of interest are you interested in? Entrepreneurship Finance Information systems Management Marketing Supply chain management Are you an international student? Yes No CAPTCHA Email This field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged. When you click submit above, a confirmation of your submission will be sent to the email address you provide. If you do not see a copy, check your spam folder or feel free to contact us at businessPhD@iastate.edu Close CONNECT WITH US × Connect with us! We’re here to help answer all of your questions: Send us an email: businessphd@iastate.edu Call at 515-294-2474 any time between 8:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m., Monday-Friday Close APPLY TODAY! × Apply to the Ivy PhD Program * Please select “Business and Technology” as your major in the online application. Start Your Application Here Close Application Process The Ivy College of Business uses a two-phase application process. Individual faculty cannot directly admit students. Area Committees make recommendations, and the Department Committee makes the final decisions. Phase one (Due December 15) Free of charge and requires you to submit the following application materials: Online application Statement of purpose Resume or curriculum vitae College transcripts GMAT/GRE GMAT preferred: 600 minimum GMAT, or equivalent if using GRE GMAT (school code TNQ-WX-02) or GRE (school code 6306) English exam for international students TOEFL: 600 paper (PBT) 100 Internet (iBT) IELTS: 7 PTE: 68 Unofficial records may be scanned and uploaded to your online application. An unofficial transcript is a copy of the front and back of an official transcript. Should your credentials meet admission guidelines, you’ll be invited to continue to phase two, which requires additional information and payment of the application fee. All information from phase one will be forwarded to phase two. Completing phase two is not a guarantee of admission. Phase two (Due January 15) Requires online application fee and the following additional materials: Online application fee ($60 domestic/$100 international) Three letters of recommendation A writing sample is strongly encouraged You will be notified via email of admission decisions by early March. Should you be offered admission, official transcripts sent directly from your institution(s) will be required. Transcripts can be mailed directly to: Graduate Admissions 100 Enrollment Services Center 2433 Union Dr. Ames, IA 50011-2042 Electronic transcripts can be sent to etranscript@iastate.edu. For questions about the application process, contact us at businessphd@iastate.edu. Curriculum and Requirements Our program is highly selective, with up to 12 students admitted annually. Applications are evaluated based on academic merit, compatibility of interests, and research ability. A master’s degree is not required but students without a sufficient business background and basic knowledge of statistics will take extra courses. The program consists of seminars in content areas, statistics and research methodology in the first two years. After passing comprehensive exams, students will focus on their dissertation. This 74-credit program requires a minimum of four years to complete. All work, including the dissertation, must be done in residence (on campus). For more information, contact us at businessphd@iastate.edu. Funding All students admitted to the PhD program receive a half-time assistantship that includes an annual stipend of $30,000 and tuition waiver. The assistantship appointment requires you to work as a research assistant or a teaching assistant for 20 hours per week. Graduate assistantships also include health insurance coverage and prescription drug benefits at no cost to you. Coverage for spouses and children may be purchased. Dental insurance may be purchased for an additional fee. The college will also provide doctoral students with development funds for travel associated with research presentations at major academic conferences. Recent Research cindyr2022-02-23T14:55:06-06:00 Faculty Research: Digital Selling: Organizational and Managerial Influences for Frontline Readiness and Effectiveness Raj Agnihotri is an associate professor in marketing, director of the Ivy sales forum, and Mary Warner Fellow at the Ivy College of Business. cindyr2022-02-23T14:38:38-06:00 Faculty Research: Marketplace Literacy as a Pathway to a Better World: Evidence from Field Experiments in Low-Access Subsistence Marketplaces Ashley Goreczny is an assistant professor of marketing at the Ivy College of Business. cindyr2022-02-22T16:56:07-06:00 Faculty Research: The Evolution of Resource-Based Inquiry: A Review and Meta-Analytic Integration of the Strategic Resources–Actions–Performance Pathway Laura D'Oria is an assistant professor of management at the Ivy College of Business. cindyr2022-02-22T16:43:48-06:00 Faculty Research: Endogeneity: A review and agenda for the methodology-practice divide affecting micro and macro research Scott Johnson is an associate professor in management and entrepreneurship, interim associate dean for research, and the Thome Professor in Business at the Ivy College of Business. cindyr2022-02-21T16:18:50-06:00 Faculty Research: Sharing Economy: International Marketing Strategies Ju-Yeon Lee is an associate professor and Dean’s Faculty Fellow at the Ivy College of Business. cindyr2022-02-21T16:19:54-06:00 Faculty Research: Overnight returns, daytime reversals, and future stock returns Paul Koch is the Kent Corporation Chair in Business, and professor in the Department of Finance at the Ivy College of Business. cindyr2022-02-21T15:59:33-06:00 Faculty Research: Peer Selection and Valuation in Mergers and Acquisitions Feng (Jason) Guo is an assistant professor in the accounting department at the Ivy College of Business. cindyr2022-02-18T09:11:07-06:00 Faculty Research: Measuring M&A premiums: Does the use of ﬁxed pre-merger event windows impart bias? Tingting Liu is the John and Connie Stafford Professor in Finance at the Ivy College of Business. 12Next Load More Posts Ivy College of Business 2200 Gerdin 2167 Union Drive Ames, IA 50011-2027 CONTACT IVY VISITORS About Ivy Faculty & Staff Directory News & Events AACSB Accredited Rankings Learning Goals Facilities Alumni & Friends FOR COMPANIES Recruit a Student Post a Job CyBiz Lab Pappajohn Center SBDC Faculty Research Business Career Services Employer Services FACULTY & STAFF Iowa State Sign ons Faculty & Staff Directory News & Events Marketing Project Request Faculty Research Awards Faculty & Staff Resources Ivy A-Z Index CURRENT STUDENTS Iowa State Signs ons Faculty & Staff Directory News & Events Academic Advising Business Career Services Student Services Student Organizations CyHire Start Something FUTURE STUDENTS About Ivy Undergraduate Programs Master’s Programs MBA Programs PHD Programs International Programs Transfer Students Facilities Apply Ivy College of Business 2200 Gerdin 2167 Union Drive Ames, IA 50011-2027 CONTACT IVY VISITORS About Ivy Faculty & Staff Directory News & Events AACSB Accredited Rankings Learning Goals Facilities Alumni & Friends FOR COMPANIES Recruit a Student Post a Job CyBiz Lab Pappajohn Center SBDC Faculty Research Business Career Services Employer Services FACULTY & STAFF Iowa State Sign ons Faculty & Staff Directory News & Events Marketing Project Request Faculty Research Awards Faculty & Staff Resources Ivy A-Z Index CURRENT STUDENTS Iowa State Signs ons Faculty & Staff Directory News & Events Academic Advising Business Career Services Student Services Student Organizations CyHire Start Something FUTURE STUDENTS About Ivy Undergraduate Programs Master’s Programs MBA Programs PHD Programs International Programs Transfer Students Facilities Apply Copyright © 2022 | Iowa State University – Ivy College of Business | All rights reserved | Non-discrimination Policy | Privacy Policy | Digital Accessibility Policy | Remote Support | Iowa State Sign ons | Iowa State A-Z Index | Media Credits × Page load link Go to Top