Skip to main content Restrict my search to College of Liberal Arts and Social Sciences Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Creative Writing Program About Us Prospective Students Faculty Advice Graduate Application Cheat Sheet How to Apply Financial Aid Life in the Program and City Houston Neighborhoods Program Master of Fine Arts in Creative Writing PhD in Creative Writing and Literature Inprint Student Writing Awards Reading Series Publications Collaborative Arts Partnerships People Faculty & Staff Students CWP Spotlight Newsletters Events Upcoming Events Recent Events Support Us UH Home College of Liberal Arts and Social Sciences Department of English Academic Programs Graduate Programs Creative Writing Program Creative Writing Program CWP Spotlight Department of English College of Liberal Arts and Social Sciences University of Houston 3687 Cullen Boulevard Room 229 Houston, TX 77204-5008 Phone: (713) 743-3015 Facebook Twitter Instagram / Youtube Follow us on Subscribe to our chanel CWP Bulletin Board Upcoming Events Current Students CWP News How to Apply FAQs Creative Writing Program Welcome to the Creative Writing Program. The CWP offers writers intensive training in both creative writing and literary studies. Meet our faculty and staff. CWP student, alumni, and faculty spotlight. Get to know Houston. Thinking of applying? Here are some things you'll need to know. Wondering what kind of financial support students can expect? Here's a brief overview. The faculty and staff of the University of Houston Creative Writing Program work hard to ensure that their students have a rich and engaging graduate education. The staff provides support for both faculty and students, and the faculty are dedicated to providing a graduate education that helps their students grow as writers and people of letters. Through workshops, independent studies, and literature courses, the faculty work with students to challenge their understanding of themselves as writers and to deepen and critically reflect on the aesthetic, ethical, and political assumptions behind their writing. The faculty and staff seek, above all else, to provide students with a community in which writers can flourish. Our students and alumni have had book-length works and collections published by Alice James Books, Copper Canyon Press, FiveChapter Books, Four Way Books, Graywolf Press, Harper Perennial, Houghton Mifflin Harcourt, New Issues Poetry Press, Penguin Press, St. Martin’s Press, Tin House Books, Riverhead, and University of Iowa Press, among others. Their books, poems, stories, and essays have garnered an impressive array of accolades. UPCOMING EVENT George Henson and Daniel Saldaña ParÍs Thursday, January 13, 7pm (Zoom link: Brazos Bookstore) Brazos Bookstore and Third Place Books welcome translator George Henson and Mexican writer Daniel Saldaña París discussing Henson’s translation of The Love Parade by Sergio Pitol, “one of Mexico’s most culturally complex and composite writers.” (Publishers Weekly) George Henson is a translator of contemporary Latin American prose and a 2021-2023 Tulsa Artist Fellow. His eight book-length translations include Cervantes laureate Elena Poniatowska’s The Heart of the Artichoke, Luis Jorge Boone’s The Cannibal Night, Alberto Chimal’s The Most Fragile Objects, and Cervantes laureate Sergio Pitol’s The Art of Flight, The Journey, The Magician of Vienna, Mephisto’s Waltz: Selected Short Stories, and, most recently, The Love Parade. Daniel Saldaña París is a novelist, essayist, and poet. Author of the novels Among Strange Victims (Coffee House Press, 2016) and Ramifications (Coffee House Press, 2020), he was recently awarded the Eccles Centre & Hay Festival Writers Award in the UK. His collection of personal essays Planes Flying Over a Monster is forthcoming next year. Learn more » UPCOMING EVENT Gulf Coast Reading Series featuring Cameron Dezen Hamon, Robbie Howell, Gabriella Adriana Iacono, Adele Elise Williams Friday, January 14, 7pm (Zoom Link: GC Reading Series) The Gulf Coast reading series presents the poetry and prose of UH graduate students, paired with prominent featured visiting writers, at Lawndale Art Center. Participating students come from the MFA and PhD programs in Creative Writing. Gulf Coast Reading Series featuring Cameron Dezen Hamon, Robbie Howell, Gabriella Adriana Iacono, Adele Elise Williams Learn more » UPCOMING EVENT Joshua Nguyen reads from Come Clean Thursday, January 20, 7pm (Zoom link: Brazos Bookstore) Joshua Nguyen will be presenting with Ariana Brown and Ayokunle Falomo. Joshua Nguyen is a queer Vietnamese-American writer, a collegiate national poetry slam champion (CUPSI), and a native Houstonian. He is the author of the chapbook, “American Lục Bát for My Mother” (Bull City Press, 2021) and has received fellowships from Kundiman, Tin House, Sundress Academy For The Arts, and the Vermont Studio Center. His debut poetry collection, “Come Clean” (University of Wisconsin Press), was the winner of the 2021 Felix Pollak Prize in Poetry. He is a PhD student at The University of Mississippi, where he also received his MFA. Ariana Brown is a queer Black Mexican American poet from the Southside of San Antonio, Texas. She is the author of the poetry collections We Are Owed. (Grieveland, 2021) and Sana Sana (Game Over Books, 2020). Ariana’s work investigates queer Black personhood in Mexican American spaces, Black relationality and girlhood, loneliness, and care. Ayokunle Falomo is Nigerian, American, and the author of African, American (New Delta Review, 2019) and two self-published collections. A recipient of fellowships from Vermont Studio Center and MacDowell, his work has been anthologized and published in print and online, including The New York Times, Houston Public Media, Michigan Quarterly Review, The Texas Review, New England Review, Write About Now among others. Learn more » UPCOMING EVENT Inprint Margarett Root Brown Reading Series featuring Honoree Fanonne Jeffers & Tiphanie Yanique Monday, January 24, 7pm (Livestream via Inprint Website; Cost - $5) Honorée Fanonne Jeffers and Tiphanie Yanique will give brief readings from their new novels The Love Songs of W.E.B. Du Bois and Monster in the Middle. Raised throughout the South, Jeffers is the author of five award-winning poetry collections including The Gospel Barbecue, Outlandish Blues, and Red Clay Suite. Her fifth collection The Age of Phillis was nominated for the National Book Award, the PEN/Voelcker Award, and the Los Angeles Times Book Prize and won the NAACP Image Award. A former Houstonian, Tiphanie Yanique received an Inprint C. Glenn Cambor Fellowship while earning an MFA from the University of Houston Creative Writing Program. With the publication of her debut short story collection How to Escape a Leper Colony, Yanique was named to the National Book Foundation’s prestigious “5 Under 35” list. Yanique’s first novel Land of Love and Drowning won the Flaherty-Dunnan First Novel Award, the Phillis Wheatley Award for Pan-African Literature, and the Rosenthal Family Foundation Award from the American Academy of Arts and Letters. Learn more » University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies