Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Residence Life & Student Housing (RLSH) About Apply for Housing Apply for Housing SMU Housing Portal Rate and Fees Living On Campus Living On Campus Residential Commons Upper-Division Housing Apartments Policies Get Involved Get Involved Dallas Community Departments Faculty Graduate Students Staff Undergraduate Students Make A Request ☰ Limitless Opportunities Unlike Anywhere Else. RLSH Living On Campus Residential Commons Residential Commons SMU’s Residential Commons allow students to experience the cohesiveness and intimacy of a small school while still enjoying the cultural and scholarly resources of a large university. SMU’s implementation of the residential college system is perhaps the most distinctive feature of the University. It offers students a familiar, comfortable living environment, personal interaction with faculty members and administrators, and exciting opportunities for academic and extracurricular exploration. The Residential Commons do much to foster spirit, allegiance, and a sense of community at SMU. SMU has designed the Residential Commons to integrate the academic, residential, and social experience and to create a sense of belonging. Each Commons has unique identities, traditions, gatherings, and meaningful activities that build community and long-term bonds among residents. Each Commons is led by a Faculty-in-Residence (FiR), a Residential Community Director (RCD), and a variety of student leaders. Everyone has a commons affiliation All entering first-year students receive assignment to 1 of 11 Residential Commons. Students remain affiliated with their Residential Commons during their time at SMU (and beyond). SMU makes every effort to represent the diversity of the entire undergraduate community within every Residential Commons. In this sense, each college is a microcosm of the larger student population. First-year commuters and transfer students who do not live in a Residential Commons affiliate with Boaz Commons or Ware Commons, respectively—every undergraduate student belongs to a Residential Commons. A place everyone can call home You've never lived and learned like this Apply Visit School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share