Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search About Us Staff What is a Compliance and Ethics Program? Contact Us Focus Areas Alcohol and Other Drug Programs Athlelics Compliance Conflict of Interest (Purchasing) Conflict of Interest (Research) Export Control GDPR Information Security ORA - Research Compliance Office of Privacy & Data Security Student Affairs Title IX Youth Programs and Activities Report A Concern Who Do I Call? University Hotline UComply Compliance & Ethics Week Policies Code of Conduct Conflicts of Interest Drug and Alcohol Sexual Misconduct Youth Protection Partnerships UM Compliance Groups UM Campus Resources Government and Nonprofit Entities About Us Focus Areas Report A Concern UComply Policies Partnerships Search About Us Staff What is a Compliance and Ethics Program? Contact Us Focus Areas Alcohol and Other Drug Programs Athlelics Compliance Conflict of Interest (Purchasing) Conflict of Interest (Research) Export Control GDPR Information Security ORA - Research Compliance Office of Privacy & Data Security Student Affairs Title IX Youth Programs and Activities Report A Concern Who Do I Call? University Hotline UComply Compliance & Ethics Week Policies Code of Conduct Conflicts of Interest Drug and Alcohol Sexual Misconduct Youth Protection Partnerships UM Compliance Groups UM Campus Resources Government and Nonprofit Entities No company, large or small, can be successful in the long run without employees who believe in the mission and leadership of that organization. No company, large or small, can be successful in the long run without employees who believe in the mission and leadership of that organization. Education and Training Proper education and training is the only way to ensure that operations run smoothly. Without either, an organization will slowly erode from the inside out. Education and Training Proper education and training is the only way to ensure that operations run smoothly. Without either, an organization will slowly erode from the inside out. Integrity "Always do right. This will gratify some people and astonish the rest."-Mark Twain Integrity "Always do right. This will gratify some people and astonish the rest."-Mark Twain Ethics "Ethics in business is extremely important; your reputation is all you have in life."-Sir Freddie Laker Ethics "Ethics in business is extremely important; your reputation is all you have in life."-Sir Freddie Laker University Hotline The University of Miami's secure reporting system to identify, address, and resolve workplace misconduct. Learn more Policies University of Miami database containing the policies and procedures of the University. Learn more ULearn Training and Education platform for first-time and recurring training sessions. Learn more Title IX Information about sexual misconduct policies, procedures, resources, and reporting. Learn more University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 University Compliance Services 1320 S. Dixie Highway, Gables One Tower, Suite 700 Coral Gables, FL 33146 (305) 284-4636 (305) 284-4636 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices