Skip to main content Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Admissions Application Checklist Undergraduate Master's Doctoral Application Deadlines Undergraduate Master's Doctoral Audition Requirements Undergraduate Master's Doctoral Audition Dates International Applicants Financial Aid Undergraduate Graduate Visit Boyer Incoming Students Undergraduate Master's Doctoral Exam Schedule Boyer Ensembles Academic Programs Programs Undergraduate Programs Master's Programs Doctoral Programs Professional Studies Certificate Undergraduate Certificates Certificate Application Minors Music Dance Areas of Study Choral Conducting Dance Instrumental Studies Jazz Studies Keyboard Studies Music Music Composition Music Education Music History Music Technology Music Theory Music Therapy Voice and Opera Faculty Dance Instrumental Studies Jazz Studies Keyboard Studies Music Education Music Studies Music Therapy Vocal Arts Events Calendar of Events Venues Arronson Hall Conwell Dance Theater Klein Recital Hall Rock Hall Auditorium Temple Performing Arts Center Tomlinson Theater Summer Workshops & Professional Development 2022 Festival of Winds Programs Past Performances Community Temple Music Prep Programs Individual Lessons & Suzuki Instruction Center for Gifted Young Musicians Community Music Scholars Program Philadelphia String Project at Temple University Children's Classes: Infant to Teen Adult Classes and Community Ensembles Summer Programs Events & Important Dates Music Prep Faculty About Music Prep Contact Music Prep Arts & Quality of Life Research Center Research Education & Training Outreach Resources Community Ensembles Give to Boyer Where to Give How to Give Donor Recognition Learn More About Message from the Dean Mission/Vision/Core Values Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Our Faculty and Staff Facilities and Technology BCM&D Records Academic Departments Dance Faculty Reflection:Response Choreographic Commission Dance Studies Colloquium Institute of Dance Scholarship TU Dance Ensemble Instrumental Studies Faculty Instrumental Ensembles Temple Bands Jazz Studies Faculty Ensembles Keyboard Studies Faculty Music Education Faculty Music Studies Composition Music Music History Music Theory Music Technology Faculty Music Studies Colloquium Ensembles & Student Organizations Music Therapy Faculty Vocal Arts Choral Activities Vocal Arts Ensembles Voice and Opera Opera Theater and Opera Workshop Faculty Ensembles & Performance Opportunities Open Faculty Positions Hire a Student Musician Contact Us Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Temple University Schools and Colleges Art & Architecture Business & Management Dentistry Education & Human Development Engineering Environmental Design Law Liberal Arts Media & Communication Medicine Music & Dance Pharmacy Podiatric Medicine Public Health Science & Technology Social Work Theater, Film & Media Arts Sport, Tourism & Hospitality Management Temple.edu Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Housing Financial Aid Campus Life Giving Explore Temple University Apply Give Alumni Event Livestream Contact Boyer College of Music and Dance Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Excellence in the Arts Excellence in the Arts Apply Apply Ready to apply? Learn more about Boyer's admissions process. Apply Faculty Faculty World-class educators with an enduring commitment to artistic excellence. Faculty Event Calendar Event Calendar Presenting 500+ events a year, most free and open to the public. Event Calendar Apply Apply Ready to apply? Learn more about Boyer's admissions process. Apply Faculty Faculty World-class educators with an enduring commitment to artistic excellence. Faculty Event Calendar Event Calendar Presenting 500+ events a year, most free and open to the public. Event Calendar Double row carousel (default) Visit Boyer Visit Boyer Learn more about Boyer by scheduling a virtual appointment with an admissions representative. Visit Boyer Watch Now Watch Live & Past Events Live and archived concerts, recitals, lectures and more can be viewed on Boyer's YouTube channel. Watch Now Watch Live & Past Events Latest Stories See All Stories Dr. Rollo Dilworth is the Inaugural Recipient of Chorus America's 2022 Alice Parker Fund Award Dr. Rollo Dilworth is the Inaugural Recipient of Chorus America's 2022 Alice Parker Fund Award Dr. Rollo Dilworth is the Inaugural Recipient of Chorus America's 2022 Alice Parker Fund Award Boyer College of Music and Dance Dr. Rollo Dilworth is the Inaugural Recipient of Chorus America's 2022 Alice Parker Fund Award by Boyer College May 04 New this year, Chorus America established the Alice Parker Fund Award to support the composition and thoughtful presentation of choral music based in the traditions of Black ... Temple University Jazz Band Places Second at the 2022 Jack Rudin Jazz Championship Temple University Jazz Band Places Second at the 2022 Jack Rudin Jazz Championship Temple University Jazz Band Places Second at the 2022 Jack Rudin Jazz Championship Boyer College of Music and Dance Temple University Jazz Band Places Second at the 2022 Jack Rudin Jazz Championship by Boyer College April 21 Boyer College is pleased to announce that the Temple University Jazz Band (TUJB) placed second at the 2022 Jack Rudin Jazz Championship, hosted by Jazz at Lincoln Center (JAL... Department of Music Studies Honors the Retirement of Dr. Cynthia Folio Department of Music Studies Honors the Retirement of Dr. Cynthia Folio Department of Music Studies Honors the Retirement of Dr. Cynthia Folio Boyer College of Music and Dance Department of Music Studies Honors the Retirement of Dr. Cynthia Folio by Boyer College April 18 Honoring the retirement of Dr. Cynthia Folio, the Department of Music Studies welcomes the distinguished professor of music studies as the first presenter for the new CPCA@... Dr. Shana Goldin-Perschbacher Releases New Book Dr. Shana Goldin-Perschbacher Releases New Book Dr. Shana Goldin-Perschbacher Releases New Book Boyer College of Music and Dance Dr. Shana Goldin-Perschbacher Releases New Book by Boyer College April 14 Boyer College congratulates Dr. Shana Goldin-Perschbacher on the release of Queer Country, published by the University of Illinois Press on March 22, 2022. Her new book exa... Jazz trumpeter Terell Stafford is focused on mentoring the next generation of musicians Jazz trumpeter Terell Stafford is focused on mentoring the next generation of musicians Jazz trumpeter Terell Stafford is focused on mentoring the next generation of musicians Boyer College of Music and Dance Jazz trumpeter Terell Stafford is focused on mentoring the next generation of musicians by Jonny Hart April 12 When Terell Stafford was a young and budding trumpet player, he was told he might have a problem. The way in which he applies his mouth to his mouthpiece—what is referred to... /about/bcmd-records BCM&D Records Boyer's Grammy-nominated record label's latest releases: TU Wind Symphony and PRISM Quartet's recording of Bolcom's Concerto Grosso, TU Jazz Band's "Without You, No Me" and "No Strings Attached" from the Philadelphia Percussion + Piano Project. /about/bcmd-records BCM&D Records /alumni Alumni Stay connected through the Temple University Alumni Association and the Boyer College Alumni Association. Alumni Apply Visit Request More Info Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Temple University Boyer College of Music and Dance Presser Hall 2001 North 13th StreetPhiladelphia, PA 19122 USA Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube Sign Up for Weekly Event Emails Livestream: View Live and Archived Performances Visit Temple.edu Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Policies Social Media TUportal TUMail Accessibility Careers at Temple Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Apply Visit Request More Info