Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Coronavirus (COVID-19) Information Menu University Updates About Baylor Dashboard COVID-19 Contact Isolation and Quarantine Procedures - 2022 Faculty & Staff Resources How to Report a COVID-19 Positive Case COVID-19 Testing Information Vaccine Information Hybrid or Remote Work Resources Learning Together External Resources FAQs Testing, Face Coverings Vaccination Isolation/Quarantine Procedures Student Health, Pastoral Care and Counseling Services Operations & Facilities Interim COVID-19 Policies/University Requirements General Information About COVID-19 COVID-19 Information Sources Outside of Waco Travel Contacts COVID-19 Testing Vaccination Information Resources Primary Resources For Students For Faculty and Staff Travel Advisories and Resources From the CDC COVID-19 Contact Baylor>Coronavirus (COVID-19) Information>University Updates>Isolation and Quarantine Procedures - 2022 Isolation and Quarantine Procedures - 2022 It's important for each member of the Baylor Family to understand the University’s updated guidelines regarding isolation and quarantine, based on CDC guidance. Below is an outline of what you should do if you are exposed to or test positive for COVID-19. ISOLATION – If You Test Positive for COVID-19 Who Take the following actions Everyone, regardless of vaccination status Stay home for 5 days. *If you are fever-free for the prior 24 hours (without the use of fever-reducing medicines) and your other symptoms are mild and improving, you can leave your home after the 5-day isolation period. Continue to wear a mask around others for 5 additional days. *If you have a fever or symptoms have not improved, continue to stay home for up to 10 days, until your fever resolves, and symptoms improve. QUARANTINE – If You Were Exposed to Someone with COVID-19 Who Take the following actions If you have been boosted or fully vaccinated Wear a mask around others for 10 days. Test on day 5. If you develop symptoms, get tested and stay home. If you are unvaccinated Stay home for 5 days. Continue to wear a mask around others for 5 additional days. Test on day 5. If you develop symptoms, get tested and stay home. If you are unvaccinated but tested positive in the last 90 days Wear a mask around others for 10 days. If you develop symptoms, get tested and stay home. University Updates About Baylor Dashboard COVID-19 Contact Isolation and Quarantine Procedures - 2022 General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 University Updates About Baylor Dashboard COVID-19 Contact Isolation and Quarantine Procedures - 2022 Faculty & Staff Resources How to Report a COVID-19 Positive Case COVID-19 Testing Information Vaccine Information Hybrid or Remote Work Resources Learning Together External Resources FAQs Testing, Face Coverings Vaccination Isolation/Quarantine Procedures Student Health, Pastoral Care and Counseling Services Operations & Facilities Interim COVID-19 Policies/University Requirements General Information About COVID-19 COVID-19 Information Sources Outside of Waco Travel Contacts COVID-19 Testing Vaccination Information Resources Primary Resources For Students For Faculty and Staff Travel Advisories and Resources From the CDC COVID-19 Contact