Skip to main content Visit Harvard.edu Covid-19 Information Keep Harvard Healthy Health & Wellbeing Keep Harvard Healthy Campus Access For Students For Faculty, Staff, and Researchers For Visitors School & Program Information Event Guidance Health & Wellbeing Testing & Tracing Results Dashboard Weekly Test History Understanding Test Results Exposure, Quarantine, & Isolation Travel Guidance Post-Travel COVID Testing Policy Vaccine Information Verify Your Vaccination & Booster Updates & Messages FAQs Keep Harvard Healthy Campus Access For Students For Faculty, Staff, and Researchers For Visitors School & Program Information Event Guidance Health & Wellbeing Testing & Tracing Results Dashboard Weekly Test History Understanding Test Results Exposure, Quarantine, & Isolation Travel Guidance Post-Travel COVID Testing Policy Vaccine Information Verify Your Vaccination & Booster Updates & Messages FAQs Make Healthy Habits Your Routine We must continue to practice the healthy habits and behaviors that reduce the risk of transmission. Review the resources below for socializing, masks, vaccination, boosters, testing, exposure guidance, symptom reporting, and hygiene. Together, these measures provide proven protection for our community members and enable us to monitor the public health situation and adjust our guidance as needed. Socialize thoughtfully Vaccination, boosters, and masking and testing as needed, are the foundations of Harvard’s health and safety measures. While public health conditions continue to trend in a positive direction, it is still prudent to engage across the community and socialize with friends and colleagues thoughtfully, with health and safety always top of mind. Keep a mask handy Face coverings on campus are optional in all indoor and outdoor spaces on Harvard’s campuses. Schools and Central Administration Units may continue to require masking in certain settings as they deem appropriate, and masks will continue to be required in certain settings, such as medical facilities and certain lab spaces. Because anyone may unexpectedly need to enter a space where masks are still required, it is also advisable to carry a mask at all times. If you feel the need to continue to wear a mask for your own protection, or to protect someone close to you, you should do so. Plan smart events Be creative! Plan events outdoors when possible, and plan for smaller or separate groups, as opposed to many people in one space. While attendees no longer have to remain stationary while eating and drinking, spacing out tables or setting aside areas for eating is always a good idea. Learn more at the event guidance webpage. How does wearing a mask help keep you and others safe? Mask when you need to, and wear it correctly Although face coverings are optional in most indoors and outdoor Harvard spaces, they are still required in certain spaces on campus such as medical facilities and certain lab spaces. Masks may also be required in certain classes in which the faculty requires it. All community members should carry a mask when coming to campus in case it becomes necessary to wear it. We encourage the use of high-quality disposable masks, worn in a way that minimizes air gaps around the edges. A surgical-style mask or a cup-style protective mask such as KN-95, layered under a form-fitting fabric mask, can ensure good filtration as well as an effective seal. ASTM- or FDA-accepted masks offer greater assurance of filtration quality. If you feel the need to continue to wear a mask for your own protection, or to protect someone close to you, you should do so. Detailed mask guidance from EH&SOpens new window Get vaccinated and boosted Campus-wide vaccination and boosters are the best defense against the coronavirus. Harvard is requiring COVID vaccination for all community members and one COVID-19 booster for all eligible community members. This includes students, faculty, staff, and researchers. And consistent with federal guidance, all Harvard employees, including those who are on 100% remote work status, must be fully vaccinated. If you received the vaccine and/or booster outside of Harvard University Health Services (HUHS), you can submit that information to HUHS through the patient portal. COVID-19 vaccine & booster information Test when you need to While Harvard is no longer requiring routine testing for COVID-19, all affiliates have the option of doing so if they wish, by taking a self-administered test and submitting it via Color. Anyone with symptoms or known exposure should also continue to test and follow HUHS guidance. Testing information Understand exposure, quarantine, & isolation guidance Timely communication is critical. If you test positive, the HUHS Contact Tracing Team will email you to explain next steps, including isolation. And if you’ve been exposed to a COVID-positive person, you may need to quarantine. Check your Harvard email. Review exposure, quarantine, & isolation guidance Report symptoms, exposure, or a positive non-Harvard COVID test Stay home if you feel sick. Use Crimson Clear to report if you have symptoms, have been exposed to someone with COVID-19, or have tested positive outside of the University’s testing program or HUHS. Report your symptoms or exposure Stop the Spread of Germs like Seasonal Flu and COVID-19 Wash your hands often Use soap and water with 20 seconds of rubbing, or use an alcohol-based hand sanitizer. Do this before and after touching anything that needs to be touched by other people, and before eating, drinking, or touching your face or face covering. Avoid touching your eyes, nose, and mouth. Cough/sneeze into a tissue or your sleeve. Disinfect frequently-touched objects and surfaces. How to stop the spread of germsOpens new window Health & Wellness Resources Manage Fear & Anxiety Your mental health is just as important as your physical health. Review the guide from HUHS Balance work/life Learn about programs and resources to help you balance your work and life. HR Work/Life website Counseling & Mental Health Services Learn about CAMHS operations, hours, and teleconsults. CAMHS website Harvard University Health Services Learn about HUHS operations, hours, and telemedicine. HUHS website Employee Assistance Program Contact the Employee Assistance Program to speak with a mental health professional. EAP website Harvard Center for Wellness & Health Promotion Explore yoga, meditation, and mindfulness through virtual classes offered by the Center for Wellness and Health Promotion HUHS Center for Wellness and Health Promotion website Security & Brand Report Copyright Infringement Report Security Issue Trademark Notice Website Accessibility Digital Accessibility Privacy Statement Get In Touch Contact Harvard Maps & Directions Jobs © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube