Skip to site alert. Skip to content Columbia School of Nursing Students Alumni Faculty Contact Us Search Make a Gift About Us About Us Message From the Dean Leadership Faculty Our Culture News Events Facts and Figures Accreditation Make a Gift Contact Us Our Culture Diversity and Cultural Affairs Civility Statement Social Justice and Health Equity and Anti-Racism Commitment Sustainability Our History Jonas Partnership Join Our Team Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Learn about our commitment to social justice and health equality and anti-racism. View Our Progress Academics Academics A Columbia Nursing Education Admissions at a Glance Academic Programs Courses Financial Aid Continuing Nursing Education Helene Fuld Health Trust Simulation Center Academic Programs Doctor of Nursing Practice Doctor of Nursing Practice in Nurse Anesthesia Doctor of Philosophy Masters Direct Entry Program For Non-Nurses Masters in Advanced Clinical Management and Leadership Online Prerequisites for Entry to Nursing Transgender Non-Binary (Trans NB) Health Care for Advance Practice Nurses and PAs Palliative Care Throughout the Lifespan for Advanced Practice Registered Nurses (APRNs) Admissions at a Glance Learn more about Admissions at Columbia Nursing, including important dates and deadlines, and how to apply to all of our programs. Learn More About Admissions Research Research Research Faculty and Postdoctoral Fellows Research Areas of Focus Research Centers and Programs Training Programs Research Resources Research Centers and Programs Center for Health Policy Center for Improving Palliative Care for Vulnerable Adults with MCC Precision in Symptom Self-Management Center Center for Healthcare Delivery Research and Innovations Center for Research on People of Color Center for Sexual and Gender Minority Health Research Linking to Improve Nursing Knowledge Research Areas of Focus Explore the research areas of focus conducted by our faculty, postdocs, and students. View Our Focus Areas Patient Care Global Health Global Health Global Opportunities for Students Global Research International Visitors WHO Collaborating Center Contact Global Opportunities for Students Global opportunities for clinical practicum and research may be available for MDE and doctoral students at Columbia Nursing. Get More Information Message From the Dean Leadership Faculty Our Culture News Events Facts and Figures Accreditation Make a Gift Contact Us About Us Mission and Vision As a leader in graduate nursing education for more than a century, Columbia University School of Nursing prepares expert nurse clinicians and researchers to improve the health of individuals, families, and communities in the United States and around the world. Our emphasis on clinical practice, the creation of new knowledge, and leadership in health policy place Columbia Nursing at the forefront of nursing excellence. Values We value the pursuit of excellence in nursing by supporting academic integrity and rigor and by encouraging free and open dialogue through interdisciplinary and mutual support. We value a culture of inclusion by embracing multicultural perspectives among faculty, students, and staff and by upholding the principles of health equity, which embrace respect for racial, gender, and cultural diversity in the care of patients, families, and the community. Strategic Goals Excel as the national model for innovative graduate nursing education. Lead nursing research and scholarship that transforms national and global health. Exemplify accessible, evidence-based, interdisciplinary, and culturally competent primary health care through our faculty practice. How We Achieve Our Goals Embody a culture of respect, integrity, and diversity. Be a trusted, influential voice on nursing practice, research, health policy, and graduate education that improves the public’s health. Function at the highest level of fiscal and administrative accountability, efficiency, and effectiveness. Commit to lifelong engagement of alumni and other partners that enhances our reputation, financial strength, mentorship, and global network. Leadership Meet Columbia Nursing's executive leadership team and Board of Visitors. Leadership Our Culture Learn about Columbia University School of Nursing culture, including our history and our commitment to diversity and sustainability. Our Culture Message From the Dean Lorraine Frazier, PhD, RN, FAAN Welcome to Columbia Nursing. Our commitment to preparing our future nurses to meet all challenges and to advance social justice and health equity is our legacy. Message From the Dean Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian ColumbiaDoctors About Us Academics Research Patient Care Global Health Contact Us Students Alumni Intranet Careers Columbia University School of Nursing 560 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Back to top