Close Alert Message Alert Carolina! Normal The University is currently operating under normal conditionsLast updated at 6:00pmFriday, May 27th, 2022Skip to Main Content Top Level Navigation Discover Navigate Navigate About the UniversityDisplay Sub Menu for About the University About the University Alumni By the numbers Branding and Identity GuidelinesOpens in new site Carolina NextOpens in new site For the MediaOpens in new site Frequently Asked Questions History and Traditions Leadership Mission & Values Support the University UNC Social Media UNC SystemOpens in new site News and UpdatesDisplay Sub Menu for News and Updates News and Updates Academics Around Campus Arts & Humanities Athletics Events Calendar Global Health & Medicine Innovation & Entrepreneurship University News Research Working at CarolinaOpens in new site Campaign for CarolinaOpens in new site AcademicsDisplay Sub Menu for Academics Academics Academic Calendar and Registrar Academic Enhancements Continuing Education Opportunities Academic Departments Friday Center for Continuing Education Libraries Online and Distance EducationOpens in new site Programs and Curricula Summer School Admissions and Aid SchoolsDisplay Sub Menu for Schools Schools College of Arts & Sciences Adams School of Dentistry Education Eshelman School of Pharmacy Gillings School of Global Public Health Government Graduate School Information & Library Science Law Kenan-Flagler Business School Hussman School of Journalism and Media Medicine Nursing Social Work Come Visit Us Diversity and Inclusion Research Innovation and Economic Development Arts and Culture GlobalOpens in new site Life at CarolinaDisplay Sub Menu for Life at Carolina Life at Carolina About the Town Campus Recreation Carolina Housing Carolina UnionOpens in new site Community and Public Service Health & Wellness AthleticsDisplay Sub Menu for Athletics Athletics GoHeels.comOpens in new site Campus RecreationOpens in new site IntramuralsOpens in new site Sports ClubsOpens in new site UNC HealthOpens in new site Search The University of North Carolina at Chapel HillHide Main Navigation Menu Featured Diamond Heels claim ACC title Tar Heels cap undefeated season with NCAA title Sections Featured Bold Moves Campus Life Dynamic Minds Global Engagement Impact on Our State Search PeopleOpens in new window PlacesOpens in new window Search UNC.edu Global Engagement A new publication celebrates all things global Catherine Haas ’22 (M.A.) and fellow graduate students won an Arts Innovation Grant to launch a new digital student journal, The Global Gazette. By Kim Spurr, College of Arts & Sciences, Friday, May 20th, 2022 Global studies graduate student Catherine Haas in the FedEx Global Education Center, one of her favorite spots on campus. (photo by Donn Young) Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on Pinterest Share via Email Print Friendly Catherine Haas loves the interdisciplinary nature of Carolina’s master’s program in global studies. Now she and fellow graduate students are leaving their mark on campus by creating a publication that celebrates that same diverse mindset. The forthcoming Global Gazette will be more than an academic student journal. “We wanted something that would be academic and creative, that would allow people to express their experiences in whatever form that took shape,” said Haas, who is from Winston-Salem and majored in international studies and Spanish at UNC-Asheville before coming to Chapel Hill. “I thought about how compelling Richard Powers’ Pulitzer Prize-winning book “The Overstory” is, for instance, or films that evoke emotion.” Haas and Greg Kyle are second-year M.A. students who helped to create the publication, along with first-years Eleni Econopouly and Scarlett Hawkins. The team won a 2022 Arts Everywhere Arts Innovation Grant to support their efforts. “Undergraduate and graduate students have valuable insights and perspectives, and we wanted to offer them a platform to share their engaging ideas with the world,” Kyle added. “We want to connect with the community through shared experiences.” Haas said the first edition includes academic papers, a reflective essay, some poems, a painting, a photo collection and op-eds from TheGlobal Gazette team. In future years, the editorial team hopes to pair the publication of the journal with a public symposium where contributors can share their works with an audience and create an open forum for discussion. Haas defended her thesis on April 21; her area of research focus is political ecology. She appreciates that she was able to take courses through the graduate program across departments, in anthropology and geography and political science — even the law school. Each global studies graduate cohort is about 10 students per year. Haas’ thesis focuses on the “Rights to Nature” movement, which has been gaining momentum as people advocate for ecosystems, rivers, mountains, national parks and other natural resources to have legal rights and protections similar to people. “I’m looking at why it’s gaining momentum in certain parts of the world and how indigenous leadership has propelled the movement forward,” Haas said. “It began 50 years ago, but today it’s happening all over the world as countries and communities are taking action in courts and at international conferences and more.” (For instance, Ecuador recognized “Rights of Nature” in its constitution in 2008. There’s a global network committed to the movement, Global Alliance for the Rights of Nature, www.garn.org.) Haas said faculty members Jonathan Weiler (who taught a course on politics and institutions and society) and Elizabeth Olson (who taught a course on global theory) were among her favorite professors. “Dr. Weiler has been essential to my entire M.A. experience, my academic and emotional journey,” she said. “And Dr. Olson is an incredible academic and mentor. She had us engage in discussions that really dug deep and were morally and ethically difficult. These complex topics don’t have clear answers, and they really challenged my perception and helped me to develop my research proposal and thesis topic.” When asked about her favorite spot on campus, Haas laughed and said it was probably the teaching assistants’ office in the FedEx Global Education Center because she spent so much time there. Post-graduation, Haas’ research on “Rights to Nature” will be ongoing as she works with a political scientist at the University of Oregon who was one of the first academics in the United States to begin researching the movement in the early 2000s. She’ll also continue her work with Women’s Earth Alliance, an environmental justice nonprofit based in California. Her long-term plans may include law school. As she reflects on her Carolina journey, Haas said that her time at Carolina felt like both “the longest and the shortest time.” She urged incoming graduate students to “lean in to the experience.” “Lean in to campus, your cohort, your professors. Really experience the experience. Don’t miss any opportunities.” Read more stories from the College of Arts & Sciences Categories Global You May Also Like... Diamond Heels claim ACC title It was the team's first appearance in the title game since winning the title in 2019 and marks the eighth conference tournament win in program history. Tar Heels cap undefeated season with NCAA title The top-ranked Tar Heels finished the season 22-0, setting a school record for wins and becoming the first undefeated national champion since 2017. Comeback puts women’s lacrosse in championship game With a 15-14 win over Northwestern, the top-ranked Tar Heels improved to 21-0 on the season and will play for their third NCAA title. Display Previous Slide of Related Articles Carousel Display Next Slide of Related Articles Carousel An unconventional path Dedren Snead '12 is an Innovator-In-Residence at the UNC Shuford Program in Entrepreneurship, but his path to this point in his career has been anything but a linear trajectory. The pivotal point in his journey, he says, was getting a degree from Carolina. A commitment to the Carolina family: Jenny Levy’s leadership Jenny Levy is only the fourth person to both play on and coach a national championship women's lacrosse team. Her overall record as the Tar Heels' head mentor has been exemplary, and on Sunday the team will play for its third national title. Filing flora More than 800,000 rare, extinct and native flora have been preserved by the North Carolina Botanical Garden’s Herbarium, where biodiversity is found in every filing cabinet. Display Previous Slide of Related Articles Carousel Display Next Slide of Related Articles Carousel May 06 – Sep 12 Health Insurance is Mandatory! Campus Health Services320 Emergency Room DriveChapel HillNC27599 | May 31 Carolina Public Humanities – Great Books Reading Group 10:00 a.m. - 12:00 p.m. Flyleaf Books752 Martin Luther King Jr. Blvd.Chapel HillNC27514 | $40 Jun 03 600 HIGHWAYMEN | A Thousand Ways (Part Three): An Assembly 8:00 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. CURRENT ArtSpace + Studio123 W Franklin StChapel Hill27516 | $15 Display Previous Slide of Events Carousel Display Next Slide of Events Carousel Accessibility Alert Carolina Alumni Connect Carolina Campus Map Contact Us Careers Departments A – Z Ethics and Integrity For the Media Libraries People Directory Privacy Statement UNC Student Stores The Well Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest © 2022 The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill Tweet Share E-mail Tweet Share E-mail Tweet Share LinkedIn E-mail