Skip to main content Search Global dropdown menu Research Support Subject Librarians Reach out to a librarian for specialized help in a discipline. Library Catalog Find books, audio and video, music scores, maps and more. Research Guides Use the best resources we have, picked by librarians. Databases There's a wealth of information to be found through our database subscriptions. Collections Print and digital collections serve as extensions of our teaching and research facilities. Research Services We're available throughout all stages of your research. Quick Links Library Search JSTOR PubMed Make an Appointment Newspapers Journals Collections Program Borrow & Renew Library Catalog Find books, audio and video, music scores, maps and more in the catalog. Borrowing & Requesting Learn how to borrow materials at Dartmouth and from other libraries via BorrowDirect or DartDoc. Tech Loans We've got everything from chargers to a professional portable recording studio. Alumni Access and Resources How to access resources, on and off-campus. Media Discover an extensive range of movies, television series, documentaries, educational programs, audio and more. Off-Campus Access Students, staff, and faculty can access most of our electronic resources off-campus. Quick Links BorrowDirect DartDoc Course Reserves for Faculty Course Reserves for Students Libraries & Spaces Study and Meeting Spaces Book a meeting room for a group or sign up to use a private study room. Hours and Locations Our hours, holiday closings, street addresses and contact information. Baker-Berry Library Our main library houses the humanities, mathematics, music, physical sciences and social sciences collections Biomedical Libraries The Dana and Matthews-Fuller libraries support the disciplines of health and life sciences. Evans Map Room Houses thousands of sheet maps, mapping software, atlases, globes & more. Feldberg Business & Engineering Library Offers support for the Tuck School of Business & Thayer School of Engineering. Jones Media Center Provides facilities & collections for researching, viewing & producing media. Rauner Special Collections Library Includes rare books, manuscripts & more. Sherman Art Library Supports the departments of Art History, Studio Art, as well as the Hood Museum of Art. About Us Hours and Locations Events Latest News Privacy Policy Dean’s Council for Equity and Inclusion Strategic Objectives Visiting & Exhibits Help Library Search Learn about signing into your account, search options and tips, getting to resources and working with citations. Research Support We're committed to partnering with you to enhance and showcase your research. Publishing Support We provide consultation focusing on opportunities in digital publishing and scholarship. Subject Librarians We have a subject librarian for your major who wants to help! Teaching Support We have librarians who specializes in your subject area and can support your students’ learning. Workshops & Events We offer a variety of events to assist you in developing skills ranging from research to programming. Quick Links Contact Us FAQs Off-Campus Access Send Us Feedback Staff Directory Login Students, Faculty & Staff DHMC & Guests Alumni BorrowDirect DartDoc Toggle navigation Search Global dropdown menu Research Support Borrow & Renew Libraries & Spaces Help Login Students, Faculty & Staff DHMC & Guests Alumni BorrowDirect DartDoc Privacy Policy The Dartmouth Library protects the privacy of those who use the library. Staff and student workers protect registration information about borrowers, their requests for information and materials, and their loan transactions. Library employees are legally prohibited from providing information regarding a patron's library account to any other person regardless of their status or identity, except as required by a subpoena, search warrant, or court order. Patron Record Privacy A library registration record is created for each patron. The record contains the borrower's name, address, and other identifying information. This information is used only for library circulation purposes. The library's circulation function links a patron with the library materials he or she has checked out. For each item checked out to a patron, the library maintains the following information: Item specific details such as the author, title, call number, and barcode number. The date charged, loan period, and the date due. The number of renewals and the date of the last renewal. Staff or student workers will not disclose the following: The name of a patron who has a particular item checked out. The titles that are checked out to a particular patron. Personal information of any patron (address, phone number, email, etc). Identify a patron who has checked out a particular item or describe them in any other way. Staff or student workers MAY take the following actions: Give the due date of a particular item. Recall any checked out item (with the exception of reserve material). Suggest that they contact class members regarding the item. Information Regarding Privacy Issues from the American Library Association The Library encourages you to explore the ALA web site for more information. Questions and Answers on Privacy and Confidentiality About the USA Patriot Act Web Statistics The Dartmouth Library collects and analyzes data about the use of its website to improve service. The Library may choose to use an externally hosted service (e.g., Google Analytics) to collect these data. Most external services use web browser cookies to track usage. To opt-out of such tracking (for the Dartmouth Library's or any other website), examine the cookies you are accepting as you use the internet. Additional Dartmouth College privacy policy documents Information Technology Privacy Policy Community Standards and Accountability Requests for Educational Records About Us Service Updates Visiting and History Strategic Objectives Privacy Policy Collections Department and Staff Directory Dean of Libraries Sue Mehrer Council on Libraries Friends of the Library Careers Fellowships Awards 250th Celebration Hindsight Is 20/19 Historical Accountability Student Research Program Open Education Initiative Dartmouth Library Baker-Berry Library Book Arts Workshop Evans Map Room Jones Media Center Biomedical Libraries Feldberg Business & Engineering Library Rauner Special Collections Library Records Management Sherman Art Library About Us Strategic Objectives Staff & Departments Subject Librarians Alumni Services Visiting & History Accessibility Library Catalog Careers Friends of the Library More About Us Contact Us 25 North Main Street Hanover, NH, USA 03755 Phone: 603-646-2567 Contact Us Give Us Feedback Connect with Us Facebook Instagram YouTube Footer copyright Dartmouth Copyright © 2020 Trustees of Dartmouth College Privacy