Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries English MA You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs English MA Apply Request More Info English MA Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Master of Arts in English Explore traditional and innovative areas of literary criticism with the Master of Arts in English in the College of Liberal Arts at Temple University. Hone the skills needed to conduct thorough research, formulate nuanced arguments, and approach writing with a creative and critical eye. Lay the groundwork for doctoral study in English, or become a more competitive candidate for professional work in editing, publishing, journalism, teaching or any field that values writing and critical thinking. In the English MA program, you will focus on a foundational area of literary scholarship—such as British and American literature, modernism, or contemporary literature—or choose one of several areas of intensive study. Areas of study include critical theory, cultural theory, film theory, interdisciplinary methods, minority literature and women’s studies. Advanced seminars are also offered in the following specialized areas. Critical and cultural theories Ethnic and African American literature Gender and sexuality Literature and visual studies Poetry and poetics Postcolonial and global literatures Theory of genres You can also explore information about the Master of Fine Arts in Creative Writing. Our Community The College of Liberal Arts at Temple comprises many disciplines and research areas. Now more than ever, an interdisciplinary liberal arts education is invaluable for your future pursuits. It offers the opportunity to further push your drive to create real change in the world, here at Temple and beyond. In this graduate program, you’ll work closely with diverse faculty members who are highly esteemed in their field and with a curious, passionate community of peers. Program Format & Curriculum The 30-credit Master of Arts in English can be completed within two years of full-time study. Classes are offered on Temple’s Main Campus. Courses offered in this program include the following. Composition Research Methods Early American Literature Early British Literature History of Critical Theory Special Topics in Creative Writing Translation Study Students must also demonstrate a reading knowledge of at least one foreign language. The culminating event for all English students is a master’s essay of 4,000–6,000 words, which demonstrates a student's ability to write perceptively, lucidly and at length. Learn more about English MA requirements. Related Graduate Degrees Creative Writing MFA English PhD Journalism MJ* Media and Communication PhD* *Klein College of Media and Communication Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Master of Arts offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $966.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,329.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Program Contact With questions regarding the English MA, contact the following staff member. Tara Lemma is a program coordinator in the English Department. Phone: 215-204-1796 Email: tara.lemma@temple.edu The following staff members lead the English Department. Roland Williams is chair of the English Department. Email: rolandw@temple.edu Miles Orvell is the director of graduate studies in the English Department. Phone: 215-204-1796 Email: orvell@temple.edu Student Clubs & Organizations Supplement your College of Liberal Arts coursework and enhance your graduate education experience through student clubs and organizations. You’ll meet and network with other students, become involved with the community, and build invaluable skills to help you realize your personal and professional goals. The following clubs and organizations are available to English MA students. The Graduate English Association is open to all graduate students in the English Department. The group makes recommendations to the faculty on departmental issues and enriches the graduate experience with developmental workshops and social events. The Journal of Modern Literature features scholarly research covering literature in the 20th century and beyond. Two English department professors serve as editors for the journal, while several other faculty members hold roles on its advisory staff. TINGE Magazine is an online literary journal that publishes twice annually. Edited by graduate students of the Master of Fine Arts in Creative Writing program, submissions to TINGE are open to all students. Learn more about the English Department’s student clubs and organizations. Study Away Temple’s study away programs offer you the opportunity to spend an academic year, semester or summer abroad. Complete coursework, participate in internships or collaborate in research while immersing yourself in the culture, history and people of your host city. Enrich your experience in the English department by immersing yourself in the Rome Seminar in Art and Culture at Temple University’s Rome campus, the Villa Caproni. This six-credit seminar explores the human sciences as well as current trends of thought in postmodern culture. The seminar combines classwork, field trips and guest lectures. The city of Rome is used extensively as a resource. For more information, contact Miles Orvell, director of graduate studies. Phone: 215-204-7365 Email: orvell@temple.edu Learn more about your options for studying away. Accreditation Temple University’s departments and programs are accredited by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education. LA-ENG-MA Additional Program Information Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in English MA Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info