Skip to content marquette.edu // Search // Contacts // A-Z Index Marquette UniversityLibraries Libraries Admissions Applying to Marquette Ready to apply? The links below will direct you to the online application pages for each college, school or special academic program. ADMISSIONS FOR Undergraduate programs Graduate programs Graduate business Dentistry Law SPECIAL ACADEMIC PROGRAMS Study abroad Study in Washington, D.C. Special academic programs International students Transfer students Summer studies Visit Marquette Marquette University, an urban university located in Milwaukee, Wis., provides daily visits to prospective students. Visit Marquette. Watch students tell their stories What's it like to live, study and play at Marquette University? Nobody knows better than those doing just that. Watch students tell their stories in My Marquette. Academics Academics at Marquette Marquette is routinely listed among the country's top universities, renowned for academic rigor, innovation and the achievements of its community of scholars. Colleges and schools Klingler College of Arts and Sciences College of Business Administration Diederich College of Communication School of Dentistry College of Education Opus College of Engineering Graduate School Graduate School of Management College of Health Sciences Law School College of Nursing Rankings Marquette ranks 84th in the 2020 edition of America's Best Colleges, released by U.S. News & World Report. View more rankings. Enhance your experience Whether it's through studying abroad, community service or student organizations, Marquette students take advantage of numerous programs to add to their experience. About About Marquette Marquette is a Catholic and Jesuit university located in Milwaukee, Wis., that offers more than 80 majors in its nationally and internationally recognized colleges and schools. About Marquette Tuition & costs Catholic & Jesuit Diversity at Marquette Our mission Our history Student demographics Academics Colleges & schools Majors & programs How we measure the student experience Assessment Accreditation Rankings & recognition Marquette en Español Acerca de Marquette Beyond the classroom Community Engagement Corporate Engagement Land Acknowledgment COVID-19 COVID-19 Information Libraries The libraries at Marquette The libraries at Marquette are a place where people, technology, and the printed word come together in a vibrant atmosphere that advances learning and discovery. Raynor Memorial Libraries Raynor Memorial Libraries website Library hours Raynor Memorial information desk: (414) 288-7556 Law Library Ray & Kay Eckstein Law Library website Current semester hours Building hours Student services Law information desk: (414) 288-7031 Collections and archives The Department of Special Collections and University Archives features university treasures, including the J.R.R. Tolkien Collection. University Archives Learn about the collections Search the collections Digitized collections Research Research at Marquette Research at Marquette has a strong sense of purpose and action, whether through the extension of knowledge beyond existing boundaries, the development of solutions to the world’s most pressing problems or the search for answers to life’s deepest questions. Learn more Grants, awards & presentations Books by Marquette faculty Discover research at Marquette Centers & institutes Faculty awards Office of Research & Innovation Office of Research & Sponsored Programs Marquette experts DISCOVER Marquette research Every spring, DISCOVER: Marquette University Research and Scholarship showcases some of the most interesting research happening on and off campus. Check out our interactive 2019 Discover Magazine Accessible PDF See past issues Athletics Athletics at Marquette The university's 16 varsity sports teams play in the BIG EAST Conference. Join us as we proudly say: We are Marquette! Teams Men's basketball Women's basketball Cross country Men's golf Men's lacrosse Women's lacrosse Men's soccer Women's soccer Men's tennis Women's tennis Track & field Women's volleyball Tickets The Ticket Office conducts ticketing for seven Golden Eagles' varsity sports: men’s and women’s basketball, men’s and women’s lacrosse, men’s and women’s soccer and women’s volleyball. Spirit Shop The Spirit Shop features the most popular brands of attire for Marquette fans. Shop on campus or online. Alumni Marquette alumni Ring out ahoya with fellow alumni through the Marquette University Alumni Association, an organization of nearly 110,000 members worldwide. Learn more About MUAA Class notes and news Clubs & chapters Events & reunions Alumni Newsletter Networking Join the CIRCLES business networking program Connect with the MUAA group on LinkedIn Marquette Magazine Marquette Magazine is the university's official quarterly alumni publication. View latest issue. Giving Help to enrich and expand student opportunities, support our teacher-scholars, foster innovation and transform our campus. Give online today and rise with us! Marquette’s Raynor Memorial Libraries and the Ray and Kay Eckstein Law Library offer more than 1.5 million volumes, hundreds of research databases, computer access, laptops on loan, a CD and video collection, and library staff members who help researchers from around the world. Raynor Memorial Libraries The Raynor Memorial Libraries are a central hub for discovery and learning on campus, providing students, faculty, and staff with access to hundreds of research databases, millions of print and digital books, unique archival collections (including the J.R.R. Tolkien collection), and other research collections and tools. Specialized research expertise and general research help are readily available from the library’s friendly staff. The library’s buildings feature a mix of comfortable seating and group study spaces, more than 200 computer stations, and 24/7 access to Raynor Library’s first and second floors during regular semester hours. Visit the Raynor Memorial Libraries homepage. Ray and Kay Eckstein Law Library The Ray and Kay Eckstein Law Library is a library without borders — a library fully integrated into Eckstein Hall and the law school community on all four floors. The law library collection is available to law faculty and law students all times the building is open. All non-law MU faculty and students are welcome to use the law library during building hours. However, at times, access to the third and fourth floors is restricted to the law community. To obtain items on the third and fourth floors during these restricted periods please inquire at the circulation desk. The law library is also open to the public for purposes of conducting legal research. Public patrons must adhere to Eckstein Hall’s visitor policy. Reference librarians and library staff are available during library service hours. Visit or call for more information about law library services and access. Visit the Ray and Kay Eckstein Law Library homepage. Key Resources Digital Scholarship Lab Funding Information Center e-Publications@Marquette Special Collections and University Archives Raynor Memorial Hours Today's hours Hours by month Brew @ the Bridge Service hours Information desk: (414) 288-7556 Law Library Hours Current and Upcoming Hours Brew @ the Bridge Information desk: (414) 288-7556 Art Museum Haggerty Museum of Art In addition to the libraries, Marquette University's Haggerty Museum of Art is considered one of the country's leading university art museums. It serves as a resource for Marquette students, faculty and the Milwaukee community and conducts art education programming. The Haggerty Museum houses a permanent collection of more than 6,000 works in all media and annually presents between 10 and 12 special exhibitions. Current exhibitions Permanent collection Education programs PROBLEM WITH THIS WEBPAGE? Report an accessibility problem To report another problem, please contact webrequests@marquette.edu. Location Marquette University 1355 W. Wisconsin Ave. Milwaukee, WI 53233 Phone: (800) 222-6544 Key Resources Campus contacts Campus map Contact us Search marquette.edu eMarq CheckMarq D2L MyJob MARQUETTE A to Z ABCDEFGHIJKLM NOPQRSTUVWXYZ Privacy Policy Legal Disclaimer Non-Discrimination Policy Accessible Technology © 2022 Marquette University ©