Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Baylor in Washington Menu About Us News Institutional Impact Our Team Sign up to Receive Updates Support Baylor in Washington Student Opportunities Semester in Washington Apply Now! Housing & Program Benefits Credits & Coursework Internship Opportunities Program Costs & Scholarships Photo Gallery Frequently Asked Questions Our Current Cohort Alumni Testimonials Upcoming Student Interest Sessions Summer Internships in Washington Mayborn Scholarship Poage-Mayborn Seminar Baylor Summer Internship Course Summer Intern Housing Options Summer Internship Indication of Interest Form Washington, D.C. Student Advisory Committee Past Committee Members Civic Education and Events 2022 Summer Workshop Upcoming Events Past Events Christian Environmental Stewardship and Its Critics Civil Discourse in Action A Roadmap for Campus Free Expression Christian Political Judgment Can American Politics Survive Pluralism? Gender, Race, and Justice: The Future of American Policing The Black Church and American Political Renewal Does Civility Still Matter? Evaluating Liberalism Free Speech on Campus: Is it in Danger? The Inequality Gap: Asking the Right Questions Social Justice: Biblical and Secular Render Unto Caesar: How Should Faith Inform Our Politics? Civic Engagement for All Falls Church Forum w/ Dr. George Yancey Myth, Race, and the Media: From Pandemic to Protests Virtual Event: Christian Leadership in a Time of Crisis Virtual Event: Communities of Faith and Covid-19 'A Long, Long Way' Film Series 2020 The Decline of Social Trust in America Faith and the American University Poverty in America: Is Progress Possible in our Polarized Times? Faith and the Future of Criminal Justice Reform Biblical Witness in American History Violence, Faith & Policing in Baltimore Rational Disagreement: An Examination The Summer of '68: Robert Kennedy, American Politics & the Legacy of the 60's The Life and Legacy of The Reverend Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Faith and the Challenges of Secularism: A Jewish-Christian-Muslim Trialogue What is a University? Religious Freedom Summit A Way Forward: Strengthening Communities Through American Manufacturing Shout: Black Gospel Music Moments Muslims and the Making of America Hope and Change for Youth in Anacostia: New Research Demonstrates the Social Impact of The House DC Civic Engagement Opportunities for Students Initiatives and Partnerships Joint Initiative on Faith and the American Commonwealth Meet The Author Series Advancing the Cause of Religious Freedom Robert P. George Initiative Baylor Collaborative on Hunger and Poverty Viewpoints: Baylor Law School's Conversation Series Sign up for Our Newsletter Baylor>Baylor in Washington>Civic Education and Events>Past Events>Christian Environmental Stewardship and Its Critics Christian Environmental Stewardship and Its Critics Many Americans are skeptical about climate change. Is it real? Are human beings the cause? Is the crisis as imminent and severe as some suggest? Is there anything reasonable that can be done about it? Given the hyper-politicization of climate change today such skepticism is perhaps to be expected. But it can also stand in the way of the Christian duty of stewardship— “to serve the Garden in which we have been placed.” How should Christians navigate these tensions? How, especially, when the very concept of “Christian stewardship” has come under criticism from within and without the Christian church? On March 16th , 2022 Baylor in Washington was pleased to host a panel discussion about the theological and scientific motivations for environmental stewardship. Panel: Ryan Hobert is the UN Foundation’s Managing Director for Energy, Climate, and the Environment. Since joining the UN Foundation in 2004, Ryan has helped lead the Foundation’s efforts to combat the global climate crisis, transition the world to low-carbon energy, and tackle our most pressing environmental challenges – from the loss of biodiversity to unsustainable agricultural practices. He is particularly focused on working to promote and protect the Paris Climate Agreement, the world’s first global deal on climate change, which was universally adopted by 195 countries in 2015, after two decades of negotiations. Before joining the UN Foundation in 2004, Ryan worked in the energy branch of the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) in Paris. He holds a B.A. in political science from Wheaton College in Illinois; and a master’s degree in international affairs from the Institute of Political Studies (Sciences Po) in Paris. Dr. Jessica Moerman is a climate and environmental scientist, a church planter, and serves as Senior Director for Science and Policy at the Evangelical Environmental Network (EEN). Prior to joining EEN, Jessica was a AAAS Science and Technology Policy Fellow at the U.S. Department of Energy. She received her Ph.D. in Earth and Atmospheric Sciences from the Georgia Institute of Technology and has been a research fellow at Johns Hopkins University, University of Michigan, and the Smithsonian National Museum of Natural History, where she researched how climate has changed throughout Earth’s history. Jessica is passionate about leading church communities towards positive solutions to safeguard our cities, neighborhoods, and the next generation from the effects of a warming world and life-threatening pollution and has been featured on the NBC Today Show, the Washington Post, Christianity Today, and numerous podcasts. Together with her husband Chris, Jessica co-pastors Grace Capital City, a local church in the Dupont Circle neighborhood of Washington, DC. Dr. Matthew Whelan is Assistant Professor of Moral Theology in the Honors Program at Baylor University, where his research centers on Catholic social teaching, Latin American and liberation theologies, and ecological theology and ethics. Besides offering courses on these subjects, he also teaches on scripture, church history, Christian theology and ethics, and both ancient and medieval great texts. Dr. Whelan is the author of the award-winning book, Blood in the Fields: Óscar Romero, Catholic Social Teaching, and Land Reform (Catholic University of America Press, 2020), which argues that Romero’s advocacy for justice in the distribution of land—a commitment with deep roots in the Christian tradition and preserved in Catholic social teaching—illumines the meaning of his witness, along with that of other land and environmental defenders today. Moderated by: Dr. Jenny Howell serves as the Director of the Program for Theology, Ecology, and Food Justice at Truett Seminary. After earning a BA from the Honor’s Program at Texas A&M University, Howell went on to receive her MDiv (Duke Divinity School) and PhD in Theology and Ethics (Baylor University). Her scholarship focuses on the doctrine of creation. Howell also serves as the Theologian in Residence at the World Hunger Relief Farm. Civic Education and Events 2022 Summer Workshop Upcoming Events Past Events Christian Environmental Stewardship and Its Critics Civil Discourse in Action A Roadmap for Campus Free Expression Christian Political Judgment Can American Politics Survive Pluralism? Gender, Race, and Justice: The Future of American Policing The Black Church and American Political Renewal Does Civility Still Matter? Evaluating Liberalism Free Speech on Campus: Is it in Danger? The Inequality Gap: Asking the Right Questions Social Justice: Biblical and Secular Render Unto Caesar: How Should Faith Inform Our Politics? Civic Engagement for All Falls Church Forum w/ Dr. George Yancey Myth, Race, and the Media: From Pandemic to Protests Virtual Event: Christian Leadership in a Time of Crisis Virtual Event: Communities of Faith and Covid-19 'A Long, Long Way' Film Series 2020 The Decline of Social Trust in America Faith and the American University Poverty in America: Is Progress Possible in our Polarized Times? Faith and the Future of Criminal Justice Reform Biblical Witness in American History Violence, Faith & Policing in Baltimore Rational Disagreement: An Examination Our Distinguished Panelists The Summer of '68: Robert Kennedy, American Politics & the Legacy of the 60's Our Distinguished Panelists The Life and Legacy of The Reverend Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Our Distinguished Panelists Faith and the Challenges of Secularism: A Jewish-Christian-Muslim Trialogue Our Distinguished Panelists What is a University? Religious Freedom Summit Summit Videos A Way Forward: Strengthening Communities Through American Manufacturing Shout: Black Gospel Music Moments Muslims and the Making of America Hope and Change for Youth in Anacostia: New Research Demonstrates the Social Impact of The House DC Civic Engagement Opportunities for Students Baylor in Washington 700 K St. NW, Ste. 300 Washington, D.C. 20001 (202) 870-9978 Washington@baylor.edu Sign up for our Newsletter Name: Email Address: Classification: Please select... Alumni Student Friend Submit About UsEventsMake a Gift General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 About Us News Institutional Impact Our Team Sign up to Receive Updates Support Baylor in Washington Student Opportunities Semester in Washington Apply Now! Housing & Program Benefits Credits & Coursework Internship Opportunities Program Costs & Scholarships Photo Gallery Frequently Asked Questions Our Current Cohort Alumni Testimonials Upcoming Student Interest Sessions Summer Internships in Washington Mayborn Scholarship Poage-Mayborn Seminar Baylor Summer Internship Course Summer Intern Housing Options Summer Internship Indication of Interest Form Washington, D.C. Student Advisory Committee Past Committee Members Civic Education and Events 2022 Summer Workshop Upcoming Events Past Events Christian Environmental Stewardship and Its Critics Civil Discourse in Action A Roadmap for Campus Free Expression Christian Political Judgment Can American Politics Survive Pluralism? Gender, Race, and Justice: The Future of American Policing The Black Church and American Political Renewal Does Civility Still Matter? Evaluating Liberalism Free Speech on Campus: Is it in Danger? The Inequality Gap: Asking the Right Questions Social Justice: Biblical and Secular Render Unto Caesar: How Should Faith Inform Our Politics? Civic Engagement for All Falls Church Forum w/ Dr. George Yancey Myth, Race, and the Media: From Pandemic to Protests Virtual Event: Christian Leadership in a Time of Crisis Virtual Event: Communities of Faith and Covid-19 'A Long, Long Way' Film Series 2020 The Decline of Social Trust in America Faith and the American University Poverty in America: Is Progress Possible in our Polarized Times? Faith and the Future of Criminal Justice Reform Biblical Witness in American History Violence, Faith & Policing in Baltimore Rational Disagreement: An Examination The Summer of '68: Robert Kennedy, American Politics & the Legacy of the 60's The Life and Legacy of The Reverend Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Faith and the Challenges of Secularism: A Jewish-Christian-Muslim Trialogue What is a University? Religious Freedom Summit A Way Forward: Strengthening Communities Through American Manufacturing Shout: Black Gospel Music Moments Muslims and the Making of America Hope and Change for Youth in Anacostia: New Research Demonstrates the Social Impact of The House DC Civic Engagement Opportunities for Students Initiatives and Partnerships Joint Initiative on Faith and the American Commonwealth Meet The Author Series Advancing the Cause of Religious Freedom Robert P. George Initiative Baylor Collaborative on Hunger and Poverty Viewpoints: Baylor Law School's Conversation Series Sign up for Our Newsletter