COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW WSU News Kaitlyn Cowen chose to attend chose to attend WSU after she was offered scholarships which allowed her to graduate debt-free. May 05, 2022public health sciencespsychologyBiological SciencesGraduate ProfilesagingHealth ManagementAccess and AffordabilityCollege of Health Professions Meet a Shocker: Kaitlyn Cowen By Abigail Klein, public relations advisor Kaitlyn Cowen will graduate in spring 2022. She chose to attend Wichita State because of its access and affordability. Kaitlyn is one of more than 2,400 students eligible for spring 2022 graduation. Learn more about her time at WSU and what is next for the grad. Hometown Andover, Kansas Degree Bachelor of Science in Health Management and Health Science, with minors in psychology, biological sciences, public health, and aging studies. What made you want to attend Wichita State? I chose to attend WSU because the scholarships that WSU offered me allowed me to graduate debt-free while also staying close to family and friends. How are you feeling leading up to graduation? I am feeling nervous but excited about the future. I'm looking forward to starting my career and continuing my education in graduate school. What has been your biggest challenge as a student and how dd you overcome it? During my time at WSU, the biggest challenge was probably all the changes that this campus and I had to make because of COVID-19. Adjusting to temporarily living at home, attending online classes, and having to pull back from student organizations was tough. What has been your most helpful learning experience at Wichita State? My most helpful learning experience has been my position as a student assistant at Student Health Services. I've learned so many valuable skills and have been able to apply the things that I learned in my classes directly in an office setting. What are your plans after graduation? After graduation, I will be attending Johns Hopkins University in Maryland to pursue a Master of Health Science in Epidemiology. How did the COVID-19 pandemic affect your time at Wichita State? As an on-campus resident and a College of Health Professions student, COVID-19 impacted my time at Wichita State greatly. Although I lost a sense of community in one aspect due to the pandemic, I gained another in working at Student Health administering COVID-19 tests and helping with vaccine distribution on campus. What advice would you give other Wichita State students? I would advise other Wichita State students to put themselves out there, to step out of their comfort zones, meet new people and experience everything that the school has to offer. Your time here goes by so fast, and the connections you make can make a difference to your level of success once you leave. Bachelor of Science Health Management The fast paced health care environment needs managers with solid business skills who can apply creative approaches to health care delivery and support services. You will be prepared to plan, direct and coordinate medical and health services and adapt quickly to changes in health care laws, regulations and technology. Health care is a business with all the challenges of effective and efficient business operations. As a health care manager you will demonstrate strong business skills tempered with the traditional medical mission of service to others. Bachelor of Science Health Management Read more stories like this Related Stories Talent Pipeline Beyond the Classroom: Anllir Ramirez-Tenorio Access and Affordability Beyond the Classroom: Keegan Staats Talent Pipeline Beyond the Classroom: Alia Michaelis Graduates Meet a Shocker: Rola Khaleel 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©