Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Mathematics and Computer Science with Teaching Major You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Mathematics and Computer Science with Teaching Major Apply Visit Request More Info Mathematics and Computer Science with Teaching Major Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Mathematics and Computer Science with Teaching Major The Bachelor of Science in Mathematics and Computer Science with Teaching in the College of Science and Technology at Temple University prepares you to take the Pennsylvania Praxis exam for secondary school STEM education. You’ll work toward teaching mathematics or computer science in this undergraduate, 124-credit-hour program offered through Temple TUteach. Mathematics and Computer Science with Teaching The Mathematics and Computer Science with Teaching BS curriculum is especially designed for Science and Mathematics majors, with extensive opportunities for experience teaching in Philadelphia School District classrooms. The blend of College of Science and Technology and College of Education and Human Development classes provides highly focused coursework to develop problem-solving and critical thinking skills. You'll also learn to develop and deliver inquiry-based lesson plans; grow your teaching skills under the guidance of School District of Philadelphia teachers; prepare mathematics and computer science lessons for practice in Philadelphia schools; respond effectively to students with varying learning styles; and use state-of-the-art technology in designing science and mathematics lessons. In particular, the curriculum focuses on teaching awareness of equity and diversity issues as they relate to classroom learning. Temple TUteach TUteach is a collaboration between the College of Science and Technology and the College of Education and Human Development. TUteach integrates a secondary school (grades 7 through 12) mathematics or science teaching track so you can become eligible to take the Praxis certification exam upon graduation. Learn more about the TUteach program degrees. Classes & Curriculum As well as teaching experience, you’ll gain expertise in both mathematics and computer science. Your computer science courses will cover the core concepts of computing, including artificial intelligence, hardware design, operating systems and networks, programming and software design, and theoretical foundations. In mathematics courses you’ll also learn to effectively use advanced topics in calculus, algebraic concepts, linear algebra and numerical computations. Learn more about Mathematics and Computer Science with Teaching Major courses. Related Graduate Degrees Accomplished Teaching MSEd* Computational Data Science MS Computer Science MS Cyber Defense and Information Assurance PSM Education PhD* High-Performance Computing for Scientific Applications PSM Higher Education MEd* Information Science and Technology MS Mathematics MS Mathematics PhD Middle Grades and Special Education MEd* Middle Grades Education MEd* Secondary Education and Special Education MEd* Secondary Education MEd* School Leadership MEd* Related Graduate Certificates Computer Science Information Science and Technology Student Affairs Leadership* Teaching in Higher Education* *College of Education and Human Development Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, the Bachelor of Science offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. Learn more about our tuition and fees. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $20,568.00 per year Out-of-state: $33,792.00 per year Our Academic Advisors Center for Academic Advising and Professional Development The Center for Academic Advising and Professional Development in the College of Science and Technology helps you navigate New Student Orientation, advises on specific degree programs and courses, provides post-graduation guidance, and offers peer support. You can also be matched with a qualified student ambassador/ombudsperson who will further assist with degree and academic questions or concerns. Learn more about the Center for Academic Advising and Professional Development's academic advisors and student ambassadors/ombudspersons. Program Contact Anthony Hughes, associate professor in the Department of Computer and Information Sciences, is the faculty contact. Phone: 215-204-7910 Email: hughes@temple.edu TUteach Contacts Kristina Najera is the assistant dean of teacher education and an advisor for TUteach. Email: knajera@temple.edu Kenneth Ruff is an advisor for TUteach. Phone: 215-204-3628 Email: kenneth.ruff@temple.edu Susan Varnum is the associate dean for science education and an advisor for TUteach. Phone: 215-204-6390 or 215-204-4073 Email: susan.varnum@temple.edu Student Clubs & Organizations Student clubs and organizations in the College of Science and Technology provide opportunities to meet with peers, network with professionals or scientists in your field of study and learn about internship opportunities. The College of Science and Technology offers 15 major clubs and 12 prehealth clubs for undergraduate students. Enhance your academic study and social life by participating in a club related to your major or interests. Students pursuing a Mathematics and Computer Science with Teaching Major degree may be interested in the following clubs and organizations. The Alliance for Minority Participation in STEM works to increase opportunities for students and help them complete their undergraduate and graduate degrees in STEM fields. The Association for Computing Machinery promotes the academic, professional and social development of students interested in computer technology. The Association for Computing Machinery for Women provides support and advocacy for women pursuing careers in technology. The Association for Women in Mathematics - Temple University Chapter promotes equal opportunities for women in the field and encourages them to seek careers in mathematics. Leadership, Education and Development in Science empowers Philadelphia middle school students to take an interest in STEM through mentor-led science experiments. The Math Club is a community of students and College of Science and Technology faculty that promotes mathematics through social activities and discussions. The Society for Industrial and Applied Mathematics is a professional society for students interested in applied, computational or industrial mathematics. Members attend seminars, explore career opportunities and meet with scientists in the field. TU Dev is a community of students with a mutual interest in software design that fosters discussions on emerging trends and technologies in the field. Explore the full list of College of Science and Technology student clubs and organizations. Study Away Opportunities Deepen your understanding of your math, natural science or computer science coursework by experiencing firsthand how such disciplines are studied overseas. Temple’s study abroad program offers College of Science and Technology students opportunities to spend a summer or semester studying in Germany, Italy, Japan and Spain. Learn more about your options for studying away. College of Science and Technology undergraduate students can also take part in international research. These opportunities include the following external scholarship programs. The Benjamin Gilman International Scholarship provides funding for underrepresented students to study in nontraditional destinations such as Australia and Eastern Europe. The Boren Scholarship Summer STEM Initiative offers undergraduate STEM majors opportunities to participate in a language-intensive program. The Indian Institute of Science Education and Research and Temple offer opportunities for students in biology, chemistry and physics programs to work in research groups in Pune, India, over the summer. The Siena Biomedical Research Program provides the opportunity for students to spend their summer working full time in a biotechnology and pathology lab based in Tuscany, Italy. The Sicily Applied Biotechnology Program allows students to learn the biological basis behind the technology used for art conservation and then apply that knowledge in the laboratory and in the field. Learn more about study abroad programs for College of Science and Technology students. Accreditation As a division within Temple University, the College of Science and Technology is accredited by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education. ST-MCTC-BS Additional Program Information Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Mathematics and Computer Science with Teaching Major Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Visit Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Visit Request More Info