Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Campus Recreation Hours-Schedule Member Services Member Services Online Member Portal Online Member Portal Instructions Membership Rates Fees Room Reservations and Events Parking Programs Programs Aquatics Fitness Intramural Sports Outdoor Adventures Sport Clubs Youth Spirit Spirit Band Rotunda Spirit Squads About ☰ Aquatics Campus Recreation Programs Aquatics OPEN SWIM HOURS Open Swim Hours are subject to change with little notice. We will attempt to notify membership via email and Dedman Center’s social media sites. OPEN SWIM HOURS: Monday-Friday 11:00am-2:00 pm Wednesday/Thursday/Friday 4:00 pm-7:00 pm Sunday 1:00 pm-4:00 pm CLOSED: May 15-29 for repairs. Please note, this is a tentative dateline. July 4th Swim Lessons SMU Campus Recreation Aquatics strives to provide quality water safety instruction and swim lessons for adults and children in a safe and encouraging environment. Instructors will design lessons for varying abilities, from non-swimmers to advanced stroke refinement. Minor children must be age three (3) or older and out of diapers. Please read the below conditions and rules. Request a Swim Lesson links are below. NOTE: All requests are reviewed and offered to instructors. Once an instructor assumes the client, we will contact the requester and provide additional instructions and directions. Lessons: 30 minutes Private Lessons (1 Person Per Instructor Per Lesson): · Single Lesson: $40 · 5-Pack: $175 · 10-Pack: $320 Pairs Lessons (2 People Per Instructor Per Lesson): · Single Lesson: $70 · 5-Pack: $300 · 10-Pack: $500 SMU Campus Recreation Aquatics is NOT responsible for matching participants for Pairs lessons. Participants are responsible for acquiring their own partners. Pairs lessons provided to an individual will continue to account for one lesson. We only accept VISA, MasterCard, and Discover payment methods. Swim Lesson participants, accompanying family members or caretakers, and Swim Instructors are responsible for self-monitoring for signs or symptoms of COVID-19 before arrival for appointment. Stay at Home and cancel or reschedule (See Cancellations) IF: · Exhibiting Signs/Symptoms of COVID-19; · Contact with person(s) exhibiting signs/symptoms of COVID-19 or awaiting test results; or · Contact with someone that has tested positive for COVID-19 within the last 10 days. Swim Lesson Rules: · SWIM LESSON PACKAGES WILL EXPIRE 180 DAYS OR 6 MONTHS FROM DATE OF PURCHASE. Package becomes invalid upon expiration. Swim Lessons are non-refundable and non-transferrable, only for the use of the person(s) to which it is sold. · Swim lesson participants and accompanying individuals will be expected to abide by University Policies and Dedman Center Rules and Expectations at all times while on property. · Lessons must be purchased in advance from the Dedman Center before the first lesson. · Swim Lessons are only for the owner of the package or lesson. · Swim lesson participants are required to Check-in at the Dedman Center before entering the facility. · Except for the duration of the lesson, swim lesson participants are NOT permitted to use the pool or facility without a Dedman Center membership and subject to Dedman Center Rules and Standards. · The family members of swim lesson participants must remain on the pool deck during lesson and NOT permitted to use the pool or facility without a Dedman Center membership. · A single lesson is 30 minutes. Swim instructors may arrange for a longer duration, equating to multiple lessons. EX: a 1-hour session = 2 lessons. Cancellations · COVID-19 related cancellations and reschedules may occur at any time with no penalty. Better Safe than Sorry. · COVID: Cancellations due to COVID-19 will require a minimum of 10 days of contact for the next appointment. · Cancellations are to be communicated three hours in advance between instructor and client or client and instructor. · Non-COVID-related cancellations or failure to arrive for scheduled lessons without proper notification will result in the loss of lesson. · Instructor Cancellations will not result in loss of lesson. Tardy Participants · Late arrival by swim lesson participants will shorten the lesson by that amount of time with no refund or reimbursement. Tardy Instructor · Instructors arriving later than 10 minutes for a scheduled appointment will result in a complimentary lesson to swim lesson participant’s package. Contact Aquatics Management/Dedman Center Operations at 214-768-9916 or amlara@smu.edu Dissatisfaction · A swim lesson participant dissatisfied with instructor may contact Aquatics Management/Dedman Center Operations at 214-768-9916 or amlara@smu.edu. Minor Children · Child participants are expected to be respectful to the instructor and adhere to safety directions. · Minors must be three years of age or older and out of diapers for lessons. · Parent/guardian MUST accompany minors at all times including the locker rooms. · COVID: We do not want wet patrons walking through the facility, so okay to use locker rooms escorted by parent/guardian or adult caretaker or change on the pool deck. If applicable, we suggest the WRAP-N-GO method of arriving in swim attire and immediately drying off after lesson, and wrapping in a towel to depart the facility. Please submit the associated and relevant form below. Once a suitable and appropriate swim instructor can be confirmed, a member of the SMU Campus Recreation Aquatics program will contact you. *NOTE: DUE TO CURRENT SWIM INSTRUCTOR AVAILABILITY, LESSON REQUESTS MAY TAKE UP TO 2 WEEKS OR MORE TO ACCOMMODATE. ADULT PRIVATE SWIM LESSON ADULT PAIRS SWIM LESSON CHILD PAIRS SWIM LESSON CHILD PRIVATE SWIM LESSON Pool Rules Swimmers must abide by Dedman Center Rules and Protocols to access the pool. Children who are not potty trained must wear a swim diaper in the water An adult must accompany children under the age of 16. Children under 4’0” must have an adult in the water within arms-reach of them. No person may conduct any personal aquatic activity classes without written permission from the Director of Recreational Sports or the Assistant Director of Operations/Aquatics. Dunking or hanging on the basketball rim or volleyball nets is not allowed. Participants may not enter the pool until a lifeguard is present. Lifeguards will make final decisions concerning the safety of all participants in the pool area. No glass of any kind is permitted Running, rough play, intoxication, and profanity is prohibited Swimsuits are required. No cut-offs, gym shorts, or other attire is allowed. Changing clothes on deck is prohibited Lap Swimming Etiquette Choose an appropriate lane for the speed at which you will be swimming. Lane 1 is fastest and speed decreases to Lane 5, the slowest. Always swim on the right side of the lane, in a counter-clockwise fashion, unless all members of a lane decide to split the lane. When passing, notify swimmer with a tap on the foot and pass on their left. If you are continually passing or being passed, move into the next appropriate lane. Please observe proper lane speeds. Emergency Closure Protocols Pool may be temporarily closed until appropriate staffing can be met. Lightening will result in temporary clearing or closure of the exterior pool for a duration minimum of 30 minutes after last indication. Water temperature below 80o or above 84o Fahrenheit. Chemical imbalance below or exceeding recommended levels. Pool conditions determined to by unhygienic or a safety concern. Power outage. University or Dedman Center Operations initiates Evacuation, Shelter in Place, or Lockdown protocols. Please stop by the Dedman Center for more information or contact our Aquatics Staff at 214-768-9916 or amlara@smu.edu For more information, please contact David Chambers. Email David Apply Visit School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share