Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search OVPRS Websites Research and Scholarship Home Research Development and Evaluation Research Capacity and Operations Research Administration Regulatory Affairs and Assessment Research Navigator About IBISResearch Project Background Benefits of IBISResearch Security & Roles How to Access IBISResearch Core Team Project Champions Education & Resources Faculty Resources Administrator Resources Training Calendar Job Aids and User Guides FAQs Subscribe to ListServ Other Research Resources IBISResearch News IBISResearch News Articles IBISResearch Newsletter Events and Trainings Contact Us General Contact Information Who is my ORA Contact Share a Comment IBISResearch Help Desk About IBISResearch Education & Resources IBISResearch News Contact Us Search About IBISResearch Project Background Benefits of IBISResearch Security & Roles How to Access IBISResearch Core Team Project Champions Education & Resources Faculty Resources Administrator Resources Training Calendar Job Aids and User Guides FAQs Subscribe to ListServ Other Research Resources IBISResearch News IBISResearch News Articles IBISResearch Newsletter Events and Trainings Contact Us General Contact Information Who is my ORA Contact Share a Comment IBISResearch Help Desk What is IBISResearch? IBISResearch is the University of Miami’s new Grants and Sponsored Agreements management system. How to access IBISResearch? This page contains information on how to access the IBISResearch system. When to use IBISResearch? IBISResearch is currently used for Awards and Sponsored Agreements. Please visit this page to learn when to use IBISResearch. IBISResearch FAQs This page contains a list of Frequently Asked Questions regarding the IBISResearch system. IBIS Research Administrator Resources IBISResearch is the University of Miami's new Grants and Agreements management system. Various resources are available to assist administrators with using the IBISResearch system. Please visit this page to view resources for creating proposals, managing awards, agreements, etc. Faculty Resources Please visit this resource, especially created for Principal Investigators. It includes the Top Five Things A PI Needs to Know About IBISResearch. Job Aids and User Guides Please visit this page to view Job Aids and User Guides to assist you with the IBISResearch system. Events and Trainings Please view calendar and sign up for upcoming courses and educational activities related to Research Administration and IBISResearch. Sign up for IBISResearch Virtual Drop-In Labs being offered daily in April. About IBISResearch IBISResearch is the University of Miami's Award Management system. Please view this page to learn more about it. Learn all about IBISResearch Education & Resources This section contains educational resources for faculty and departments such as job aids and reference guides. Please visit the training calendar to view upcoming courses. View Educational Resources IBISResearch News Please visit the IBISResearch News webpage to view current and archived news articles, the IBISResearch Newsletter, and a calendar with events and trainings. View IBISResearch News Contact Us Please contact us if you have any questions or concerns regarding the IBISResearch system. Call Help Desk: 305-284-9733 Email: ORA-SI@miami.edu Contact Information Reporting This section contains information on reporting and data provided by ORA to assist researchers to make decision on sponsored projects. Reporting data is available in our secure site. Please log in with your Cane ID and password. View Reports and Data Security and Roles This section contains information on system security regarding the IBISResearch system. View Security and Roles ORA Please visit the Office of Research Administration (ORA) website for additional information. Below is a list of the most helpful ORA webpages. Submitting to ORA Who is my ORA Contact Grants Toolbox Forms and Rates Policies Other Research Resources This section contains links to other research resources. Effort Reporting Conflict of Interest (COI) Internal Review Board (IRB) Other Research Resources University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 IBISResearch 1320 S. Dixie Hwy, Suite 650 Coral Gables, FL 33146 305-284-9733 305-284-9733 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices