COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Management, Major MajorManagement All Programs W. Frank Barton School of Business Management The Bachelor of Business Administration (BBA) in management from Wichita State's Barton School combines its AACSB-accredited program with the unmatched opportunities for applied learning and internships found in Kansas' largest city. You'll be eligible to compete for some of the state's largest business scholarships. And you can build a professional resume and make the connections that lead to your dream career. Management is also offered as part of the WSU at McConnell program. Learn how management is the right fit for you. Request Info Start Your Application Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the program To be admitted to the Barton School of Business, you must first be admitted to Wichita State. For WSU's admission requirements, and to apply, click the link below. Admission requirements Inside the Program Business students gain competitive edge Professional Edge is a professional development program free to all undergraduate business majors. You'll learn critical success skills from industry experts, increasing your competitiveness as you enter the job market. Learn more about Professional Edge Curriculum The management program will provide you with the knowledge and skills needed for successful management and leadership in all types of organizations. You'll take courses in leadership, motivation, organizational development and design, group dynamics, communication and decision-making—in addition to core business courses. View the curriculum Careers A management degree from Wichita State will give you the management and leadership skills that lead to successful careers in a wide range of fields—from sales and human resources to international business and finance. Learn more about careers in this field Similar Programs Accounting Accounting (Minor) General Business Business - General (Minor) Finance Finance (Minor) 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©