Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Explore Brown University Search Global Navigation Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering John Nicholas Brown Center for Public Humanities and Cultural Heritage Home About Graduate Program Initiatives People Events Blog Site Navigation Home About Land Acknowledgment Programs History Nightingale-Brown House Richard Neutra's "Windshield" House Model Nightingale-Brown House Digital Tour Black Labor at Nightingale-Brown House Brochure: Slave Labor and the Making of the Nightingale-Brown House Doing Public Humanities Diversity and Inclusion Action Plan DIAP Summary Update 2019-2020 Year in Review Graduate Program M.A. Program Requirements Courses Practicums Past practicums Master's Theses Fellowships and Funding Tuition Scholarship & Other Funding Public History of Slavery Fellowship Native American & Indigenous Studies Fellowship Curatorial Fellowships City Year (Americorps) Agreement Graduate Certificate 5th-year M.A. Contacts Public Humanities Students Handbook Graduate School Handbook Forms and Resources Initiatives Conferences Exhibitions Gallery Publications Partnerships Digital Projects Suffrage in Rhode Island: A Lippitt Family Perspective Nightingale-Brown House Digital Tour Public Work: A Public Humanities Podcast Rhode Tour Public Humanities Blog Day of Public Humanities Brown FACADES App Year of the City: The Providence Project People Faculty & Staff Faculty Advisory Board Public Humanities Fellows Current Students Alumni Alumni Directory Alumni Interviews Events Conferences Exhibitions Lectures J. Carter Brown Architecture Lectures Performances Workshops Blog Obituary: Beech Tree at the Nightingale-Brown House Garden Last month, the John Nicholas Brown Center lost an old friend, the beech tree that stood on the grounds at the corner of Power and Benefit Streets. Believed to be well in excess of 200 years old, the tree was witness to many changes in the land, buildings, and people that surrounded it. The tree was home to squirrels and birds who ran and rested upon its branches and a shady spot to many humans sheltered by its limbs. Severely weakened by internal decay, the topmost section was torn away by a storm several years ago. To prevent its inevitable and untimely collapse, tree surgeons performed its final removal on October 27. The tree will live on in the creations of the many artists who took parts of its trunk and branches, and in the spring its presence will be replaced by a newly landscaped area highlighted by a bench inspired by Edwin Lutyens' Thakeham Bench of 1902. Here are some photos of the tree from the past years and of the tree removal process in October 2021. The beech tree was featured in a short film shot on a Bolex camera for MCM 0710A Introduction to Filmic Practice: Time and Form (Instructor: Jennifer Montgomery) in the summer of 2021 by Hana Butler Gutiérrez'24, Lana Hadziosmanovic'24, and Kyra Douglass'24. Filmmakers write: "This was our first roll of color film, and when we saw the Nightingale-Brown House garden, we knew we had to film there. Our only instructions for the film were to use movement in our shots, rather than still frames. We were transfixed by the tree, which is why the film started and ended with shots of it". John Nicholas Brown Center for Public Humanities and Cultural Heritage John Nicholas Brown Center for Public Humanities and Cultural Heritage Brown University Box 1880 Nightingale Brown House 357 Benefit Street Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-1177 Fax: 401-863-7777 Email [email protected] Twitter Twitter Facebook Facebook Instagram Instagram Brown University Giving to Brown Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA 401-863-1000 Contact Us Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility All Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top