COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Music - Piano Accompanying, Master's Master'sMusic - Piano Accompanying All Programs College of Fine Arts School of Music Wichita State's Master of Music degree program will help you take your musical talent—and career—to a higher level. The program combines professional training with acclaimed faculty and year-round performance opportunities—on campus and throughout Kansas' center of arts and culture. Learn how Music - Piano Accompanying is the right fit for you. Request Info Start Your Application Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the program For admission into the Master of Music program, you must: Be admitted to the WSU Graduate School Have a Bachelor of Music degree in your area of specialization Successfully complete an audition Submit a letter of recommendation and statement of goals For additional admission details, click on the link below. Admission requirements Inside the Program Piano major finds early success as a freshman As a master's student with an accompanying piano concentration, you will have opportunities to exercise your talents. As just a freshman, piano major Patrick Orr won the grand prize in the Kansas City Symphony Young Artist Competition. As the winner of the competition, Orr received the honor of accompanying the Kansas City Symphony in two performances. Orr's interest in the piano began after he watched “Titanic” as a kid and decided to learn how to play the hymn “Nearer My God to Thee.” Curriculum The Master of Music degree—piano accompanying concentration—requires the completion of at least 32 credit hours, including a graduate degree recital or two-hour professional in-service presentation project as the terminal requirement. Of these hours, 20 must be in courses numbered 700–899. Every MM concentration requires 12 credit hours of core courses—in addition to hours in your specialization area. View the curriculum Careers Thanks to WSU's extensive network of employer connections, students in every major have opportunities to gain real-world experience—helping them build a resume, make professional connections and land their dream jobs. Learn more about careers in this field 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©