Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Brown University A-Z Index People Directory Students Alumni Careers News Events Search Give Explore Brown University's School of Public Health Admissions Academics Research Faculty About Diversity Admissions Academics Research Faculty About Diversity A-Z Index People Directory Students Alumni Careers News Events Center for Gerontology and Healthcare Research Home About People Research Training Programs AHRQ Fellowship Application Process AHRQ Alumni Surdna Fellowship Brown Bag Series News Site Navigation Home About Open Positions People Leadership Operations Management Committee Strategic Interactions Advisory Committee Core Faculty Postdocs Affiliates Staff Research Recent Publications New Funding Awards External research funding Ginsberg Aging Research Fund Awardees for the Ginsberg Aging Research Fund Training Programs AHRQ Fellowship Application Process AHRQ Alumni Surdna Fellowship Surdna Alumni Application Process Brown Bag Series News AHRQ Application Process Interested physicians who have completed some clinical training (preferably a residency and clinical fellowship, if appropriate) and non-physicians who have completed a PhD are invited to apply. Once completed and applications have been reviewed by the faculty, a select group of candidates are invited for an interview. An invitation is based on a candidate's demonstrated academic ability, depth of commitment to health services research, and compatibility of research interests with ongoing projects at the Center. Invited candidates spend an entire day at the Center, give a research presentation, interview with the faculty who comprise the Evaluation and Review Committee, and meet the current postdoctoral fellows. The program director and the faculty review written evaluations by faculty and fellows, as well as information provided through informal discussions. Applicants must be U.S. Citizens or permanent residents. Women, minorities, and members of protected groups are encouraged to apply. Term of appointment is for one year, renewable contingent upon funding. Brown University is an equal opportunity/affirmative action employer. Please see link below to apply: http://apply.interfolio.com/61529 AHRQ Fellowship Application Process AHRQ Alumni Center for Gerontology and Healthcare Research Center for Gerontology and Healthcare Research Brown University Box G-121-6 Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-3604 Email [email protected] Twitter Twitter Brown University Giving to Brown 121 South Main Street, Providence, Rhode Island 02903, USA 401-863-3375 Contact Us Newsletter Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility Brown Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top