Skip to main content Search form Search Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers Contact Give About Search Menu Public Health Now News Events Publications Topics Student Voices Celebrating the Centennial Our Work to Address COVID-19 Columbia Public Health Magazine Academics Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy & Procedures Office of Education Research Featured Research Global Health Centers Programs Grants & Awards Corporate Partnerships People Our Faculty Current Students Friends and Supporters Partners Alumni Become a Student Meet Our Faculty Life & Community Degree Finder How to Apply Career Services More Information Master of Public Health Degree Programs Certificate Program Core Curriculum Search You are here Home Research Featured Research Food Systems and Public Health Winter Storm Update/Impacts to Campus and Services Last Updated 12:50pm Fri May 6 See Coronavirus Updates for information on campus protocols. Food Fellows Faculty Food Fellows Faculty Food Systems and Public Health Food is at the center of many critical public health issues, from hunger to obesity, chronic disease to climate change. Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health created our Program in Food Systems and Public Health to catalyze research and practice on food-related issues. The program explores the interconnectedness of food to issues such as income inequality, the global economy, climate change, policy, and health. Unhealthy diets contribute to approximately 678,000 deaths in the U.S. each year, and globally, the numbers of overweight and obese adults is rising in nearly every region and every country. Thirteen percent of the world’s population are now obese. Unhealthy diets are linked to a wide range of chronic health conditions, which also increase the risk of hospitalization and death from COVID-19. About half of all American adults now have one or more preventable diet-related chronic diseases. Food security and nutrition are increasingly seen as powerful determinants of health. Alongside the Program in Food Systems and Public Health, the Food Fellows Program allows students to benefit from a hands-on learning opportunity with organizations working at the intersection of food and public health. Students can deepen their engagement by participating in the Food Policy and Obesity Prevention (FPOP) student group, which provides comprehensive extracurricular opportunities for the Columbia University Medical Center community around food access, policy, and advocacy. Sample Courses Students taking courses with the Program on Food Systems and Public Health examine the historical, environmental, cultural, economic, and behavioral impacts of food on health and health systems. Highlights of current courses: Food, Public Health, and Social Justice - This course casts a close eye on the policies that promote healthy populations. Guest speakers—including food experts, labor advocates, scientists, members of the government, and journalists—explore the impact of health disparities, nutrition, worker rights, and climate change on access to food. Confronting Obesity: Society, Structures, and Policy - Through this broad overview of the socio-cultural factors associated with the obesity epidemic taught by Gretchen Van Wye, students identify promising strategies for intervention and assess multi-pronged solutions to this multi-factorial problem. Food Nutrition in Complex Emergencies - Utilizing real-life scenarios and examples, students learn how to contribute to nutrition programs or nutrition assessment in emergencies, among populations that are often already undernourished. Instructors Casie Tesafi and Jeanette Bailey, who work daily with nutrition emergencies in global populations, teach this course together. Nutritional Epidemiology - The course, taught by Sandra Albrecht, introduces students to key concepts and methods in Nutritional Epidemiology to equip them with the tools to design, analyze, interpret, and critically evaluate population-based nutrition research. Microbiome and Health - This course taught by Rupak Shivakoti will provide an introduction to the microbiome and its role in human health. The concepts and methods learned in the course are applied to various topics of microbiome and health such as gastrointestinal diseases, infectious diseases, cancer, cardio-metabolic diseases and environmental health. Food Security, Plant Biology, Climate Change and Public Health - This course taught by former USDA researcher Lewis Ziska focuses on how CO2 and climate change alter plant biology and the subsequent consequences for human health. More to Explore Friday 03June COVID-19: From Causes to ConsequencesMay 27 2022 A University-Community Partnership Established at the Height of COVID Stands the Test of TimeApr 20 2022 Bench-to-Bedside: A Dream or Reality?Apr 13 2022 Historically Redlined Neighborhoods Burdened by Excess Oil and Gas WellsApr 13 2022 Columnbia Mailman Connect with Us Public Health Now News Events Publications Topics Student Voices Academics Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy & Procedures Office of Education Research Featured Research Global Health Centers Programs Grants & Awards Corporate Partnerships People Our Faculty Current Students Friends and Supporters Partners Alumni Become a Student Meet Our Faculty Life & Community Degree Finder How to Apply Career Services More Information Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health | 722 West 168th St. NY, NY 10032 Site Map Privacy Columbia University Irving Medical Center Copyright © Columbia University 2019 Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers