Skip to main content Skip to main content Degree Programs Perkins Chapel Bridwell Library Skip to main content Connect Connect Visit Visit Apply Apply Give Give Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Admission Connect Connect Request Information Meet the Team Visit Campus Visit Campus Virtual Visits Perkins Comes to You Apply Apply Application Steps Application Submission Dates Degrees at a Glance International Students Affording Seminary Affording Seminary Scholarships Financial Literacy Bursar's Office Cost Summary Admit Portal ☰ Perkins School of Theology Perkins Admission Visit Campus Visit Campus We understand that taking the next step toward obtaining a graduate theological degree can feel a bit daunting. That is why we continue to host students on campus for either an Inside Perkins event or for an Individual Visit. Making a visit is an important step in your journey and we are excited to host you as you get a sense for what your future could be! Inside Perkins Do you want to experience what it’s like to be a seminary student? If so, Inside Perkins is for you! Join others in connecting with current Perkins students, sitting in on a class, learning about our renowned intern program, and hearing from the Office of Enrollment Management team about the application process and scholarship opportunities. We will do all that we can to make it possible for your well-planned, on-campus visit to occur with your safety in mind, so please review our COVID-19 protocols before scheduling a visit to campus to ensure you are comfortable with the requirements. Upcoming Inside Perkins Registrations: We will have more events posted before long. We look forward to connecting with you! Register for the next Inside Perkins Individual Visits We understand that making decisions about where you will pursue your graduate theological degree can be difficult. Perkins School of Theology is here to help by hosting students for Individual Visits. We will do all that we can to make it possible for your well-planned, on-campus visit to occur with your safety in mind, so please review our COVID-19 protocols before scheduling a visit to campus to ensure you are comfortable with the requirements. Thank you for your cooperation. We hope you can experience the beauty of the SMU Perkins campus by scheduling through the link below. We look forward to meeting you! Register for an Individual Visit Looking for a virtual visit? If you are like many of us, travel is not an option for you at this time. You may also simply prefer learning about SMU Perkins from the comfort of your home or during a lunch break. Select from an array of virtual visit opportunities to find an event that right for you! Learn more "I visited seven seminaries... and out of them all, Perkins had the most welcoming community. I felt like I was a welcomed student before I even applied. Through Perkins connections, I have been able to work as a classroom leader in a nonprofit after-school program. This experience invites me to connect my theological education with a ministry in West Dallas. I feel led to start a nontraditional church in my home conference, and my classes at Perkins provided a space of open discernment for what that could look like.” —Kristina Roth (Master of Divinity, Class of 2020) An Academy for the Whole Church in the Whole World Prepare to Serve Our groundbreaking Intern Program allows students to transform classroom knowledge into actual practical experience before graduation. Diverse Community We believe cross-cultural immersion experiences best teach students to build intercultural relationships, resolve cultural conflicts and guide intercultural ventures. Academic Excellence The combination of courses taught by renowned scholars with a diverse list of degree programs best prepares students for a wide variety of roles in ministry. Connect Visit Apply Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © SMU Perkins School of Theology, PO Box 750133, Dallas, TX 75275-0133 214-768-8436 or 1-888-843-6564 twitter facebook youtube share