Skip To Main Content Report an Accessibility Barrier The Department for Disability Support Services Search | Menu Search Resources Email Canvas Banner PiratePort PirateID IT Help Videoconferencing Engage Work Request Directory Maps Virtual Tour A-Z Index Academic Calendar Event Calendar Catalog PRR Catalog A-Z Recently Updated Interim Repealed About Policy Sources University Policy Committee Help PRRs> Finance, Operations and Auxiliary Services> Accounting Services> Bankruptcy Notification - Version 1 Bankruptcy Notification Version 1 (Current Version) Print All Versions: Version 1 Policy REG07.35.05 Title Bankruptcy Notification Category Finance, Operations and Auxiliary Services Sub-category Accounting Services Authority Chancellor History Approved by the Chancellor's Executive Council, December 13, 2021 Contact ECU Collections Manager, (252) 328-1497, holleyk@ecu.edu Related Policies Statewide Accounts Receivable Program G. S.147-86.22 Statewide Accounts Receivable Policies and Procedures Accounts Receivable Requirement G.S. 147-86.21 United States Bankruptcy Code, Section 362 Additional References UNC Business Process Compliance Standards Accounts Receivable Website 1. Introduction Section 362 of the United States Federal Code on bankruptcy law describes an automatic stay as an automatic injunction that halts actions by creditors, with certain exceptions, to collect debts from a debtor who has declared bankruptcy. An automatic stay begins immediately after a bankruptcy petition is filed. East Carolina University (University) receives copies (hard copy and/or electronic) of bankruptcy related documents as it collects delinquent accounts from patients, students, employees, and others. The University is responsible for ensuring that these documents are available to units that report accounts receivables to the NC Office of State Controller in accordance with N.C.G.S. §147-86.21. The University shall devise techniques and procedures for how units manage the receipt and notice of these bankruptcy documents. The purpose of this regulation is to provide guidance to units throughout the University to ensure that collection actions are halted when an automatic stay is in place. Collection actions should be halted pending an official bankruptcy discharge or dismissal, thus avoiding penalties for violating an automatic stay. 2. Applicability This regulation applies to any University unit that bills and/or collects receivables from any business or person who has filed for bankruptcy, regardless of the type. 3. University Financial Services Bankruptcy Site (Bankruptcy Site) The ECU Collections, Collections Manager is responsible for developing and administering the Bankruptcy Site and procedures for site usage. The Bankruptcy Site is a secure repository for all University bankruptcy notifications, related documents, and communications with campus units. The information stored in the Bankruptcy Site is confidential and should only be shared with necessary persons for reasons within the normal scope of operations. Any inadvertent disclosure must be reported to the ECU Collections Manager and resolved. 4. Departmental Requirements Each unit that bills and/or collects funds is responsible for establishing a process consistent with State of NC policies and procedures for collections and bankruptcies, including the halting of collections upon notification that a petition for bankruptcy has been filed. Units should designate a representative responsible for utilizing the Bankruptcy Site and following the procedures located within the Bankruptcy Site. Unit representatives are required to conduct annual Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) training and one-time Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA) training. Bankruptcy documents received by a unit should have their unit representative create the record and upload the documents. If a unit is aware of a bankruptcy and needs access to case information in Public Access to Court Electronic Records (PACER), and does not have their own access, the unit can contact the Office of University Counsel (OUC). OUC can provide a history page, the bankruptcy petition, the notice of meeting of creditors, and any discharge documents if applicable. Legal advice related to bankruptcy matters is provided to units, upon request, by the appropriate ECU attorney. East Carolina University E 5th Street | Greenville, NC 27858 | 252-328-6131 ©2022 | Terms of Use | Accessibility | Report a Barrier