Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Accessibility Network Accessibility Network right arrow down arrow Getting Started right arrow down arrow About us Accessibility Commitment and Policy EIT Accessibility Plan FAQ's Accessibility 101 right arrow down arrow Accessibility Definitions Documents right arrow down arrow Microsoft Excel Accessibility right arrow down arrow Guides Checklist Tutorials Microsoft PowerPoint right arrow down arrow Checklist Tutorials Microsoft Word right arrow down arrow Guides Checklist Tutorials PDF Documents right arrow down arrow Guides Checklist Tutorials Websites right arrow down arrow Headers Links Alt Text Color and Contrast Tables Forms Checklists Video & Media right arrow down arrow Ordering & Editing Auto Captions Ordering Professional Captions YouTube Studio Captioning Checklist Purchasing right arrow down arrow Procurement Policy Accessibility Review VPAT Software and Applications Checklist Canvas right arrow down arrow Ally for Canvas Course Syllabus Create an Accessible Canvas Course Checklist Training right arrow down arrow Digital Inclusion Day right arrow down arrow Call for Proposals Schedule of Events Registration Accessibility Compliance Training right arrow down arrow Request Enrollment - Accessibility Compliance Training Home » About UC » Electronic Accessibility » Web » Links Set Navigation title in component Headers Links Alt Text Color and Contrast Tables Forms Checklists Links A hyperlink, most commonly referred to as a "link", is a highlighted group of words that can be activated by clicking on them. Individuals using only the keyboard or other alternative input devices can navigate through a website by jumping from link to link. It is important to use descriptive words in the hyperlink (link) text, so users know where the link leads. Best Practice Always use hyperlink (link) text that is descriptive of the content it is linking to. Do not use phrases like “read more” or “click here”. Only use a full URL If the URL is relatively short (such as a site's homepage). The key is to be considerate of screen reader users who must listen to the longer, less intelligible URLs. Tip: When selecting a word or words to apply a hyperlink, be careful not to select a blank character space before or after the word(s). This will be labeled as a blank hyperlink and is not correct formatting. You can verify that only the appropriate spaces have the hyperlink applied by checking if the underline extends past your text. If the underline is extended, the hyperlink should be removed and reset. It is not an error if the natural space between words are included in the hyperlink. University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-0000 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-0000 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top