Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. UC News UC News right arrow down arrow UC News Search Topics right arrow down arrow UC Answers #UCtheGood In The News Arts & Culture Science & Tech International Athletics Health College Bound Impact right arrow down arrow #UCtheGood Insights Diversity Experience-Based Learning Next Lives Here Bicentennial COVID-19 Student Experience Colleges right arrow down arrow College of Allied Health Sciences College of Arts & Sciences College of Business Blue Ash College Clermont College College-Conservatory of Music College of Design, Architecture, Art, and Planning College of Education, Criminal Justice, & Human Services College of Engineering and Applied Science Graduate School College of Law College of Medicine College of Nursing College of Pharmacy Units right arrow down arrow Academic Health Center Admissions Alumni Association Board of Trustees Campus Services Equity and Inclusion Hoxworth Human Resources IT@UC Libraries Office of Innovation Office of Research President's Office Provost Public Safety Student Affairs UC Foundation Veteran's Affairs Continuing Education Media Contacts Featured News UC research sheds light on historically marginalized communities May 12, 2022 At the University of Cincinnati’s College of Art and Sciences (A&S), students are often given the opportunity to complete in-depth research tailored to their individual interests. For two graduate students in the history department, this research included challenging the notion that the only research with impact is done by those in white lab coats. Maurice Adkins and Katherine Ranum have spent their graduate school years bringing to light stories of marginalized people, helping to fill gaps within U.S. historical studies. As a result, many institutions are taking notice of Adkins and Ranum, rewarding them with fellowships that allow them to continue their efforts to make historical research more inclusive. Adkins, a recent graduate from the history department’s doctorate program, spent seven years traveling between Cincinnati and North Carolina, scouring archives and hunting down public records to complete his dissertation, which explores Black leadership at historically Black col- leges and Universities (HBCUs) in North Carolina from 1863-1931. This quickly became laborious, Adkins says, due to the underfunding that many HBCUs have faced historically, resulting in poorer record keeping than that of other universities. University of Cincinnati names graduate school dean May 10, 2022 Rose Marie Ward will serve as vice provost and dean of the Graduate School WATCH: CCM’s production of Mozart’s ‘The Marriage of Figaro’ is... April 27, 2022 CCM’s recent production of "The Marriage of Figaro" (Le nozze di Figaro, 1786) is now available for on-demand viewing as part of the CCMONSTAGE Online Archives series. This iconic opera, which was composed by Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart with libretto by Lorenzo Da Ponte, was originally performed live in Corbett Auditorium on Saturday, Nov. 20, 2021. Stream both parts of the opera below. Query for this Latest News Keyword topics Select topics Answers Arts & Culture Athletics Bicentennial College bound COVID-19 Diversity Entrepreneurship Experience-based Learning Faculty Staff Health Impact In The News Insights International Must Read Next Lives Here Science & Tech Student Experience Thought Leadership colleges Select colleges College of Arts and Sciences Blue Ash College College of Allied Health Sciences College-Conservatory of Music College of Engineering and Applied Science College of Education, Criminal Justice, & Human Services Clermont College Lindner College of Business College of Design, Architecture, Art, and Planning Graduate School College of Law College of Medicine College of Nursing Online College of Pharmacy Clear All Filters {{facet.display}} remove {{facet.display}} remove {{facet.display}} remove {{facet.display}} remove University of Cincinnati names graduate school dean May 10, 2022 Rose Marie Ward will serve as vice provost and dean of the Graduate School New sites available now on Bearcats Landing April 27, 2022 UC’s faculty and staff intranet, Bearcats Landing, increases transparency, facilitates common business practices, and provides a platform for university-wide internal communication. Learn about the new sites launching this Spring Semester 2022. UC College of Nursing doctoral students to showcase research April 20, 2022 Event: April 25, 2022 12:00 PM UC College of Nursing will host its second Doctoral Student Project Showcase on April 25. Chemical engineering student researches nanoparticle drug... April 11, 2022 Vishnu Sriram came to the University of Cincinnati from his home country of India to pursue a master’s in chemical engineering. He decided to stay at UC for his Ph.D. to research nanoparticle gene and drug delivery that could someday lead to improved cancer treatments. UC nursing PhD candidate remembered with scholarship for... April 8, 2022 Following UC College of Nursing PhD candidate Louis Gambia Ti Banguima's death, a classmate established a new scholarship fund in his honor. Four UC students selected as Jonas Nursing and Veterans... April 6, 2022 For UC College of Nursing doctoral students will receive funding and leadership training and experience as part of the Jonas scholars program. UC students awarded critical language scholarships April 4, 2022 Three students from the University of Cincinnati were announced as finalists for the Critical Language Scholarship this year. The CLS Program is a study abroad opportunity for American college and university students to learn languages essential to America’s engagement with the world. U.S. News & World Report grad school rankings spotlight UC... March 29, 2022 The 2023 edition of the U.S. News & World Report “Best Graduate School” rankings released March 29 shows several programs at the University of Cincinnati moved up significantly. Information Session for UC Law Master of Legal Studies Program March 23, 2022 Event: April 5, 2022 7:00 PM The Univ. of Cincinnati College of Law will host an information session for the MLS program. Architecture co-op builds experiences for grad student Anshumi... February 23, 2022 International grad student explains the takeaways of a DAAP co-op experience with architectural firm in downtown Cincinnati. Save the Date: Graduate School Conference & Fair, March 3 February 9, 2022 Event: March 3, 2022 10:30 AM UC's Graduate School is hosting a virtual conference for undergraduate students, tristate university students and returning adults considering graduate education. UC online programs ranked among best in nation January 25, 2022 U.S. News online rankings UC among top bowl-bound football teams for academic performance December 14, 2021 When it comes to Academic Progress among top bowl-bound teams, UC ties Alabama for the No. 1 spot among the top four CFP teams; is No. 1 among the seven qualifying AAC teams; and is also No. 1 in Ohio. New opportunities in legal education December 3, 2021 Susan Stephan, College of Law's new director of the MLS Program, answers questions. UC welcomes largest group of new global students ever this fall November 19, 2021 This fall, a record number of international students arrived for the first time at the University of Cincinnati. In spite of ongoing uncertainty over global health and safety, in spite of sometimes chaotic changes to government guidelines or the availability of visa appointments, and in spite of the many complications currently entangling world travel, 1,224 new international students arrived at UC for the first time. Load More Debug Query for this University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45220 513-556-0000 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45220 513-556-0000 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top