Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Conference & Event Services Conference & Event right arrow down arrow Services right arrow down arrow Conference Planning Event Registration Event Equipment Rental Specialty Lighting Promotional Tabling Weddings Summer Intern Housing Summer Conferences & Camps Catering On-Demand Meeting Rooms Venues right arrow down arrow Tangeman University Center right arrow down arrow Great Hall Rates Meeting Rooms Other Event Spaces Nippert Stadium West Pavilion right arrow down arrow West Pavilion Event Policies West Pavilion Catering right arrow down arrow Corry Street Catering Menu West Pavilion Rates Campus Recreation Center Outdoor Classrooms Athletic Facilities Other Stratford Heights Resources right arrow down arrow COVID-19 For Students For Faculty & Staff For Non-University Clients Event Policies Use of Facilities Catering Guide West Pavilion Event & Catering Guide FAQ Contact Us Request A Space right arrow down arrow 25 Live Instructions Home » About UC » Conference & Event Services » Resources » FAQ Set Navigation title in component COVID-19 For Students For Faculty & Staff For Non-University Clients Event Policies Use of Facilities Catering Guide West Pavilion Event & Catering Guide FAQ FAQ Can I still have an event due to COVID-19? right arrow down arrow Updates & guidelines for Events/Meetings How do I schedule an event? right arrow down arrow University Students, Staff and Faculty 1. Using Google Chrome or Firefox, go to the UC Conferences & Event Services website and select Request A Space in the navigation bar. 2. Click on the appropriate location to request a space. Non-University 1. Complete inquiry form. How do I schedule an event in West Pavilion? right arrow down arrow Complete inquiry form. Why doesn’t the room I want show up as an option on the reservation site? right arrow down arrow If a room is not listed, it is not available. Try a different time or date if your program is flexible. If you would like to be contacted by Conference & Event Services, please select “request contact” below the list of available rooms, you can then write the room you would like in the Reservation Comments section of the online form. DO NOT CLICK “NO SPACE NEEDED.” If this is chosen, your event will not be sent to Conference & Event Services for approval and your event will go unconfirmed. Can I have a table for my event being held outside? right arrow down arrow Conference & Event Services (CES) does not provide any equipment for outdoor events, except for paying vendors. Student groups should plan to bring their own table and chairs. If you need equipment you can rent from your on-campus provider, Conference & Event Services.  If we are unable to accomodate your request, you can rent from commerical rental compaines. Here are rental companies you can rent tables from: Conference & Event Services, 513-558-1810 Academy Rentals Group, 513-772-1929 All Occasions, 513-563-0600 Prime Time Party and Event Rental, 937-296-9262 How do I obtain a grill permit for outside events? right arrow down arrow If you are cooking at all a grill permit is required and it needs to be prepared before the event occurs. Please contact Fire Safety at 513- 556-4934 and they will ask you several questions about the event to prepare the permit. If a grill permit is not obtained, you may be subject to a citation fee. Each confirmation email requesting a grill permit has the Cooking Rules attached for outdoor events. I want to have music at my outdoor event. How do I obtain an amplification permit/approval? right arrow down arrow Groups are not permitted to amplify, unless permission has been obtained from Conference & Event Services in advance. Know that the university policy currently permits amplification on on Tuesdays and Thursdays from 12:30 pm to 2:00 pm during the semester. Other days and times require permission. Amplification is not permitted at McMicken Commons or Bearcat Plaza during exam weeks, intercessions or Summer Semester. Is there any charge to use any of the rooms? right arrow down arrow University/Student Organizations are not charged for using space on campus, unless they are charging a fee for people to attend the event, if there is exchange of money at the event, or if charging vendors to participate in your event. Organizations can be charged a fee if they fail to cancel in a timely manner, if they violate the exclusive catering contract of TUC, or if damages occur as a result of the event. Non-University Groups are charged a room rental fee that varies depending on the room. To pass out information outside and to have a table, they will be charged $260.00 Review our list of room specifications and rates. Can I bring in food for my event in TUC? right arrow down arrow Because TUC has an exclusive catering contract with Classic Fare Catering food must be ordered through their service. All events requesting food must be ordered through them at 513-556-3135. Other options for catering in TUC are available from the following food court vendors: Chik-fil-A and Subway. Exceptions: Bake Sales All baked good must be home made. No cream cheese or cream filled items are permitted. Events serving food that Catering cannot provide Group can submit a Food Waiver for consideration. Catering will determine if the menu items cannot be prepared by their operation they can approve a food waiver, and the Director of Food Services determines if other conditions apply to the waiver request, such as required beverages, room rental, etc. Catering can offer a buy out price to the group to bring food into TUC. A food waiver request does not apply to Mick & Mack’s Contemporary Café Events requiring Kosher Meals Although Classic Fare Catering has an affiliate for Kosher meals, a Food Waiver is also required. Events which serve Donated Food Donated food is not a reason to request a food waiver, it must be food items that cannot be prepared by the catering operation. Brown Bag Lunches It is not in violation of the Catering contract if each attendee brings an individual lunch. The event organizer should indicate in the event reservation that BYOB is offered. How do I request electricity, water, or trash bins for my outdoor event? right arrow down arrow Facilities management provides services for outdoor events. To request the service, a work order detailing event needs must be placed in advance. For additional questions, call 513-558-2500. If a work order has not been placed in advance, services cannot be planned. The personnel will evaluate needs with your group relative to the space being reserved. A charge will be billed to the student organization requesting services. For large events, a planning meeting between CES, facilities, public safety and the student organization is held so all details can be reviewed and finalized. Does my event require security? right arrow down arrow Public Safety is notified of all events on campus and they may deem it necessary to have security present. Events that are over 2000 people and serving alcohol must have security presence.  For other events, the decision whether security will be assigned, and if it is a police officer or a security officer, is made by the office of Public Safety. To be knowledgeable about the process and cost, you should request an estimate at the website. Your organization will be billed for the assignment. CES recommends you request a cost estimate for security. Am I allowed to chalk on campus to promote my event? right arrow down arrow Chalking is permitted by registered student organizations only on McMicken Commons sidewalks. No permission is necessary. Chalking elsewhere on campus may incur clean up costs by grounds to the hosting organization. Offensive chalking is prohibited and the individual or sponsor organization will incur cleanup fees when grounds removes it. Only water-soluble chalk may be used. Can I host my wedding at UC? right arrow down arrow Yes! Learn more about planning your dream wedding at UC. What is the university's Expressive Activity Policy? right arrow down arrow View the Expressive Activity Policy on pages 56 - 61. There are also additional FAQs specifically regarding the Expressive Activity Policy. Conference & Event Services 513-558-1810 Tangeman University Center, Suite 265 2766 UC MainStreet Cincinnati, OH 45221-0031 event.services@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Conference & Event Services 513-558-1810 Tangeman University Center, Suite 265 2766 UC MainStreet Cincinnati, OH 45221-0031 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top