Menu Close Menu Skip to content Information For: Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Friends & Supporters A to Z index Search for: Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health Email People Departments Calendar Careers my.harvard Giving About Faculty & Research Admissions & Aid Academics Executive/Continuing Ed News News > News News Menu Search for: News Home Press Releases 2020 Releases 2019 Releases 2018 Releases 2017 Releases 2016 Releases 2015 Releases 2014 Releases 2013 Releases 2012 Releases 2011 Releases Search the press releases archive Features In the News Multimedia 2021 Multimedia 2020 Multimedia 2019 Multimedia 2018 Multimedia 2017 Multimedia 2016 Multimedia 2015 Multimedia 2014 Multimedia 2013 Multimedia 2012 Multimedia HPH Magazine Faculty Stories Faculty News, Notes, and Accolades Student Stories Student News, Notes, and Accolades Alumni Stories Explore Research by Topic Office of Communications Make a Gift All articles related to "health disparities": Related Topics health costs health policy health reform human trafficking Racism, sexism, social class, and health—30 years ago and today Nancy Krieger reflects on the still-relevant themes of a paper for which she was first author three decades ago about racism, sexism, social class, and health. Tackling disparities and stigma around obesity and mental health care for minority populations Physician and mother of four Tiffani Bell Washington, MPH ’22, was honored by the National Minority Quality Forum as one of its “40 Under 40." Shock to the system Ellen Chappelka, MPH ’22, was taken aback by preventable health problems she saw while working as an EMT in New Orleans. Now she wants to change systemic issues that make people vulnerable in the first place. With free health clinic, student brings health care to Rhode Island’s underserved Akosua Dankwah, DrPH ’22, is applying what she’s learned to help the WTL Health Clinic expand its mission. Using patient safety as tool to improve health inequalities Viewing health inequalities through the lens of patient safety could help health care professionals and organizations define concrete steps to improve the care and outcomes of people in marginalized ethnic populations, according to an analysis co-authored by Cian… Could breastfeeding explain disparities in sudden infant deaths? Melissa Bartick, an assistant professor of medicine at Harvard Medical School and an MPH student at Harvard Chan School, studied whether not breastfeeding could be one possible explanation for demographic disparities in sudden unexpected infant deaths. Racial disparities in government responses to asthma-triggering housing conditions In Boston, people of color and poorer people are more frequently exposed to unhealthy housing conditions that can trigger asthma, and the city is typically slower to address these problems than in whiter areas, according to a new… Uncovering the health effects of the Great Migration Cecilia Vu, PhD ’22, uses her quantitative skills to explore the health of African Americans who left the South during the 20th century. Getting to know … Brandon Alexander Anthony, MPH ’22 Armed with degrees in systems engineering, business, and epidemiology, Brandon Alexander Anthony, MPH '22, hopes to launch a company that helps health systems design better services for patients of color, LGBTQ patients, and other marginalized groups. New dashboard shows life expectancy by U.S. congressional district Researchers at the Harvard Geographic Insights Lab have launched the first-ever dashboard that tracks life expectancy on the U.S. congressional district level. Pagination navigation 1 2 3 … 31 32 33 Author add969 Posted on August 26, 2016 May 29, 2019 Categories Uncategorized Related Articles microbiome Off the Cuff: Curtis Huttenhower Renewal of NIEHS grant paves way for new research on how complex environmental exposures affect health New findings from Human Microbiome Project reveal how microbiome is disrupted during inflammatory bowel disease More on this topic Explore HSPH research by topic Harvard Chan School News on Twitter In the wake of a May 24 mass shooting at a Uvalde, Texas, elementary school that left 19 students and two teachers… https://t.co/x8GHo0fMZS RT @dengdiit: This week,I had the honor and responsibility of receiving a master’s degree in public health with concentration in health pol… RT @Harvard: “Don’t let your generation be defined by the pandemic. Let it be defined by public service,” said Attorney General Merrick Gar… RT @HarvardCCHANGE: Looking for ways to take action on #climate? The Climate Health Organizing Fellowship trains health professionals to u… RT @HarvardCCHANGE: Creativity is turning coal mines, landfills, and toxic waters into opportunities for #CleanEnergy. Your lights yearn to… RT @HarvardCenterHH: What is the relationship between #technology and #happiness? This @Forbes article offers potential considerations, wit… Information For: Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Friends & Supporters About Key Facts Renaming the School Office of the Dean Location and Facilities Administrative Offices Contact Us Faculty and Research Faculty and Researcher Directory Academic Departments, Divisions and Centers International Research Postdoctoral Research Fellows Office of Faculty Affairs Faculty Searches Office of Diversity and Inclusion Admissions & Aid Why Harvard Chan Degree Programs Non-Degree Programs Financial Aid Student Experience Career Advancement Apply Academics Academic Departments Divisions Research Centers Flagship Initiatives International Research Research Administration and Support Degree Programs Fellowships and Residencies Summer Programs Continuing Professional Education Interdisciplinary Concentrations Academic Calendar Harvard Chan Viewbook Executive/Continuing Ed Program Offerings Custom Programs Request Information News and Resources About ECPE Contact News Featured News Press Releases Student Stories In the News Newsletters HPH Magazine Why Public Health? Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health 677 Huntington Avenue Boston, MA 02115 +1 (617) 495‑1000 Twitter Facebook YouTube LinkedIn Instagram iTunes Harvard Chan Home Contact Us Harvard University Home Make a Gift Privacy Policy Report Copyright Violation Accessibility Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College