By continuing to use this site, you agree to the use of cookies in accordance with our privacy policy. Dismiss Stay Safe The official source of public health information for Syracuse University. Skip to Content Open menu About Admissions Academics Life Athletics More Search the University Open search Popular searches Close menu Home About Toggle dropdown Leadership Vision & Mission Consumer Information Facts & Figures Plan Your Visit Campus Map History News Partnerships Work at Syracuse Social Media Bookstore Brand Help & Contacts Admissions Toggle dropdown Undergraduate Graduate Online Part-Time Cost & Aid Request Information Visit & Tour Apply Academics Toggle dropdown Schools & Colleges Undergraduate Majors & Minors Graduate Degrees Online Programs Syracuse University Global Study Abroad Opportunities & Support Calendars Departments Research Centers & Institutes Libraries, Collections & Galleries Academic Administration Life Toggle dropdown Accessibility & Diversity Campus Highlights Events Calendar Services & Support Meals & Dining Housing Groups & Activities Recreation & Facilities For Students For Veterans & Military For Faculty & Staff For Parents & Families A-Z Index Sitemap Login Athletics Men’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Football Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Track and Field Women’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Field Hockey Ice Hockey Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Softball Tennis Track and Field Volleyball Athletics Dept. Toggle dropdown Facilities Staff Directory Academic Honors Community Service Spirit Program Varsity Club Sports Medicine Championships Fan Zone Toggle dropdown Dome Schedule Seating Information Orange All Access Otto’s Kids Club Game Photos Promotions Orange Club Schedules News Alumni About Toggle dropdown Notable Alumni Alumni Association Awards News Events and Clubs Toggle dropdown Orange Central Northeast Midwest South West World/Affinity Regions Toggle dropdown Atlanta Boston Chicago Los Angeles Middle East New York San Francisco Washington, DC Services Toggle dropdown Career Network Generation Orange Directory Profile Class Notes Giving Contact Contact Visit Apply Coronavirus Updates Forever Orange Home Admissions Cost & Aid Types of Aid Graduate Student Aid Fellowships More from this Section International Students Diversity Resources Loans Funding Deadlines External Grants & Fellowships Fellowships for Graduate Students Graduate fellowships consist of a stipend and a full-tuition scholarship (up to 30 credits for the academic year). Where appropriate, they are awarded for more than one academic year. Multi-year awards typically include a year of fellowship, followed by a year of teaching or research assistantship, followed by a third year of fellowship support. Apply for financial aid Syracuse University African American Studies Graduate Fellowship African American Studies Fellowships are intended for any U.S. citizen or permanent resident students whose graduate study requires the integration of African American/Pan African studies and who will make an intellectual contribution to the life of the Department of African American Studies. These Fellowships include a stipend and a full-tuition scholarship (up to 30 credits for the academic year). African American Fellows are required to enroll in one three-credit graduate course in fall semester in the African American Studies Program. During the spring semester, fellows must participate in a fellow’s forum and prepare a public presentation regarding research work. Students are also expected to participate in the cultural life of the department. Students interested in being nominated for this fellowship should consult with their academic department. New students should complete their application for admission in January for consideration. STEM Fellowships If you are from an underrepresented group (African American, Hispanic, or Native American) and are applying for doctoral programs in science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM), Syracuse University offers single and multiple-year fellowships to U.S. citizens and permanent residents. To be eligible for these awards, you must be nominated by your academic department. New students should complete their application for admission in January for consideration. McNair Scholars Program Individual Colleges within Syracuse University have the option to fund McNair Fellowships, with preference given to students admitted for doctoral programs. The fellowships consist of a stipend and a full-tuition scholarship (up to 30 credits for the academic year). To be eligible for consideration, you must be either from an underrepresented group (African American, Hispanic, or Native American) or have been a McNair Scholar at your undergraduate institution. Please indicate your interest in being considered for these fellowships by checking the appropriate box on the graduate application when applying to Syracuse University. New students must complete their application in January. You must have already been admitted into a Syracuse University graduate program, formally nominated by your department (with support from the relevant home college) to be considered for the award. GEM Fellowships If you are considering graduate study in engineering, architecture or the sciences, then you should know about GEM. GEM is a program of the National Consortium for Graduate Degrees for Minorities in Engineering and Science, Inc. and provides Fellowships in an engineering or science discipline at any GEM member institution. African American, Latino American, and Native American students are eligible to compete for these portable fellowships. These funds are provided by corporations, and include fellowship stipends and some tuition. Graduate schools provide the remainder of the tuition and sometimes supplement the stipends with their own funds. For more information about the program and how to apply, students should contact: The National GEM Consortium 1430 Duke Street, Alexandria, VA 22314, or visit their website . Related Pages External Grants and Fellowships There are private organizations and government agencies that provide support for graduate study. Speak with a Financial Aid Counselor The Office of Financial Aid and Scholarship Programs is here to assist you and make the financial aid process as easy as possible. Please do not hesitate to contact us with any questions or concerns. Popular Toggle dropdown Academic Calendar Campus Map Careers Libraries Majors and Minors Visit and Tour A-Z Toggle dropdown Academic Departments Schools and Colleges Sitemap Search Contact Toggle dropdown Admissions Financial Aid Emergency Contacts Human Resources Make a Gift Login Toggle dropdown MySlice Blackboard SUMail Syracuse University 900 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, NY 13244 Phone: +1.315.443.1870 Follow S.U. on Instagram Like S.U. on Facebook Follow S.U. on Twitter Follow S.U. on LinkedIn Follow S.U. on Tiktok Subscribe to S.U. on YouTube © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy