Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Information Technology UCIT right arrow down arrow About right arrow down arrow IT College Contacts Diversity and Inclusion Sitemap Services right arrow down arrow Student Hardware Software right arrow down arrow Student Software Productivity (Students) right arrow down arrow Student Printing with Wepa Computer Labs App & Web Development Research Computing Services Connectivity (Visitors) IT NEXT Get Help right arrow down arrow Report an issue Student Quickstart Guide ResNet Documentation Center Home » About UC » IT@UC » About » Diversity and Inclusion Set Navigation title in component IT College Contacts Diversity and Inclusion Diversity and Inclusion Embrace. Empower. Excel. IT@UC partners with the Office of Equity & Inclusion to further the university's commitment to inclusive excellence. We believe a supportive and inclusive culture is one builds upon the diverse strengths of all. For more information about IT@UC Diversity & Inclusion, please email itdiversity@uc.edu. Awareness and Education Our Diversity and Inclusion (D&I) committee coordinates regular workshops to support the IT@UC vision of an inclusive environment where individual talents are leveraged for the greater team. Team members are required to attend at least one IT@UC-sponsored D&I training each year. Anyone from the university community is welcome to attend. Accountability We recognize that our success requires accountability at all levels. Our redesigned employee evaluation form establishes a framework of best practices to ensure a fair and unbiased method for evaluating and providing continual feedback. Recruitment We are committed to promoting staff diversity by increasing hires of underrepresented groups including women and African Americans. Community Engagement IT@UC partnered with the Chief Diversity Officer, CECH and Hughes STEM High school to launch the ShareIT development program for future innovators, engineers, coders and leaders. Through the program's activities, Hughes high school students were exposed to a variety of industry skills including app development, web development and programming, robotics, game design and multimedia. ShareIT is a mentor-rich interactive program, providing an opportunity to promote STEM programs as well as establish early relationships with potential college students. University of Cincinnati IT@UC - 51 Goodman Dr. Cincinnati, Oh 45221-0658 513-556-HELP (4357) UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati IT@UC - 51 Goodman Dr. Cincinnati, Oh 45221-0658 513-556-HELP (4357) © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top