Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Executive Program MBA You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Executive Program MBA Apply Events Request More Info Executive Program MBA Admissions Careers & Opportunities Curriculum Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Master of Business Administration Executive Program Expand your business education and build a diverse professional network to complement your leadership expertise with the Master of Business Administration Executive Program in Temple University’s Fox School of Business. Strengthen your decision-making abilities, broaden your global perspective, enhance your communication skills and steer your career toward the C-suite. Intended for professionals well into their business careers, this master’s degree program requires a commitment of one weekend a month for 16 months. This format provides an immersive, collaborative learning environment without disrupting your professional priorities. The Fox Executive Program MBA offers a diverse population of executives for robust peer-to-peer learning and networking opportunities; in-person classes conveniently delivered in Center City Philadelphia; and market-driven courses and hands-on learning experiences led by world-class and award-winning business leaders and faculty members. With a curriculum designed to mirror an actual workplace, students are assigned to teams and work together extensively to prepare assignments and presentations. Faculty provide support on how to manage a successful team environment, often integrating the latest case studies and new executive guest speakers to give students the most up-to-date insight into the business world. Classes are offered both online and in-person at Convene, offering students a state-of-the-art business and learning environment conveniently located in the heart of Philadelphia. In addition, a weeklong Global Immersion allows Executive Program MBA students to observe global business practices, engage with corporate leaders and apply coursework in an emerging market. Request Information Learn more about the Executive Program MBA program. Apply Now Ready to apply? Submit your graduate application. Learn More Explore all of the MBA programs at Fox and determine which is right for you. Request Information Apply Learn More Global Partners The modular format of the Executive Program MBA curriculum also means that you may take two of your courses at a global partner location, which include the following sites. Beijing, China Bogotá, Colombia These opportunities allow you to explore a new area of the world or keep up with your course sequence while you are traveling for business. Classes & Curriculum Each course in the Executive Program MBA is delivered over the course of one in-person weekend per month plus additional web conferencing sessions. Core courses you will take include Enterprise Financial Management, Financial Information Reporting and Analysis, Global Enterprise Management, Marketing Management in the Enterprise, and Strategy Formulation and Administration. Learn more about the Master of Business Administration Executive Program curriculum. Related Graduate Degrees Business Administration PhD Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Master of Business Administration offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $1,999.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,999.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. See additional fees and costs associated with the Executive Program MBA. Program Contact Mike Guglielmo is the academic director of the Master of Business Administration Executive program. Phone: 215-204-6905 Email: mikegug@temple.edu Coni Zingarelli is the director of Graduate Admissions. Phone: 215-204-3103 Email: czing@temple.edu Student Clubs & Organizations Joining student clubs and organizations is a great way to meet like-minded students; connect with local, national and international businesses; and enhance the skills you use in your professional career. Fox offers more than 30 student professional organizations. Supplement your academic experience by participating in a club related to your major or interests. The following clubs and organizations are available to students in Fox. The Fox Graduate Student Association connects students and alumni with the greater Fox community, providing professional development, networking and volunteer opportunities for graduate students. The mission of Net Impact is to grow and strengthen a network of leaders who use the power of business to make a positive economic, environmental and social impact. It brings together students seeking to network and to use the power of business to create a better world. The International Business Association brings together students from all over the world to learn about foreign business and the global economy, and offers an array of professional development opportunities. Fox Professional Speakers invites students to practice their communication, presentation and leadership skills in a supportive and positive environment. Those with dreams of starting their own business may be interested in the Entrepreneurial Students Association, which aims to support, inspire and encourage students to pursue their entrepreneurial goals. The association is open to students of all majors. See a full list of student clubs and organizations. Global Immersions Network with high-ranking international executives and expand your view of the global marketplace with a one-week global immersion. You will learn new global business practices and experience the way innovative, successful firms operate abroad. Current global immersion destinations include Chile, Israel and Singapore. Learn more about Global Immersions. Accreditation The Fox School of Business is accredited by the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB). The school has maintained AACSB accreditation since 1934. BU-EXPR-MBA Additional Program Information School/College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Executive Program MBA Admissions Careers & Opportunities Curriculum Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Events Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Events Request More Info