Search | Directories | Reference Tools UW Home > Discover UW > Student Guide UW Bothell Course Descriptions UW Tacoma Course Descriptions Glossary COLLEGE OF ARTS & SCIENCES NEAR EASTERN LANGUAGES AND CIVILIZATION NEAR EASTERN LANGUAGES & CIVILIZATION Detailed course offerings (Time Schedule) are available for Spring Quarter 2022 Summer Quarter 2022 Autumn Quarter 2022 NEAR E 101 Gateway to the Near East (5) VLPA/I&S Provides general introduction to the peoples, cultures, and languages of the Near East, both past and present. No previous knowledge of the Near East required. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: NEAR E 101 NEAR E 196 Introductory Studies in Near Eastern Languages and Civilizations (1-5, max. 15) I&S Offered occasionally by visitors or resident faculty. Content varies. View course details in MyPlan: NEAR E 196 NEAR E 199 Study Abroad (1-15, max. 15) Credit for lower division NEAR E courses in an approved Study Abroad program. Requires credit evaluation by department or faculty. Does not automatically apply to major or minor requirements. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: NEAR E 199 NEAR E 201 Introduction to the Ancient Near East (5) VLPA/I&S Surveys the peoples, places, and events of the ancient Near East. Examines the cultures of Mesopotamia, Egypt, Canaan, and Israel with an eye to each culture's cultural contributions. Pays special attention to shared cultural elements as well as distinguishing characteristics of the peoples of these regions. View course details in MyPlan: NEAR E 201 NEAR E 202 Introduction to the Hebrew Bible: Old Testament (5) VLPA/I&S Examines the Hebrew Bible (Old Testament) in translation and its relationship with literatures of ancient Near East. Comparisons drawn between Biblical text and literary works of Canaan, Egypt, Greece, Mesopotamia. Emphasis on the sophisticated literary techniques employed by Biblical writers. Cannot be taken for credit if credit earned in NEAR E 240. Offered: jointly with RELIG 240. View course details in MyPlan: NEAR E 202 NEAR E 203 Introduction to the Archaeology of Western Anatolia: Cross Roads of the Ancient World (5) I&S S. SELOVER An introduction to the archaeology the western coast of Anatolia and its often-neglected place in the ancient Near Eastern and Classical worlds. The class will cover the cities of Troy and Ephesus, and the civilizations of the Phrygians, Lydians, Carians, Lycians and the Ionians in Anatolia. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: NEAR E 203 NEAR E 207 Introduction to the Archaeology of Ancient Iran (5) I&S Introduction to the archaeology of ancient Iran (Persia) from the earliest inhabitants to the end of Sasanian period (circa10,000 BDE-651 CE). Covers the archaeology from various time periods in chronological order, with an emphasis on the archaeology and culture of the Achaemendid (Persian) period. View course details in MyPlan: NEAR E 207 NEAR E 208 Introduction To Ancient Near Eastern Archeology (5) I&S/VLPA Archaeological cultures of the ancient Near East, from 10,000 BCE to 332 BCE, including the civilizations of Mesopotamia )modern day Iraq), Egypt, the Levant (modern day Israel, Jordan, Syria and Lebanon), Anatolia (modern day Turkey) and Persia (modern day Iran). View course details in MyPlan: NEAR E 208 NEAR E 209 Introduction To Ancient Egyptian Archaeology (5) VLPA/I&S Stephanie Selover Survey of the archaeology, art, and architecture of ancient Egypt from the prehistoric cultures of the Nile Valley ( c. 10,000 BCE) until the end of the New Kingdom ( c.1000 BCE), exploring Egyptian gods, divine kings, pyramids, temples, mummification, society, government, religion, medicine, magic, sex, childbirth, and death. Offered: jointly with ARCHY 212. View course details in MyPlan: NEAR E 209 NEAR E 229 Introduction to Islamic Civilization (5) VLPA/I&S Covers major developments in the formative, classical, and modern periods of Islamic civilization from seventh century Arabia to the contemporary Muslim world. Looks at the development of Islamic religious thought and legal practice as well as the Muslim polities, cultures, and intellectual traditions of Asia, Africa, Europe, and America. May not be taken for credit if credit earned in NEAR E 210. Offered: jointly with JSIS A 210. View course details in MyPlan: NEAR E 229 NEAR E 230 Introduction to Muslim Beliefs and Practices (5) VLPA/I&S Examines the origins and development of central beliefs in various Muslim traditions; such as monotheism, prophecy, divine judgment, and predestination. Looks at ritual and socio-cultural practices in Muslim societies in Asia, Africa, and Europe. Offered: jointly with RELIG 211. View course details in MyPlan: NEAR E 230 NEAR E 231 Introduction to the Quran (5) VLPA/I&S A literary, historical, and theological introduction to the Quran. Looks at the historical circumstances of the text's compilation; its collection and redaction; its narrative structure; its rhetorical strategies; its major themes; it connections to and departures from the Hebrew Bible and the New Testament; commentary and exegesis; translation; and its impact on political and religious thought. Offered: jointly with RELIG 212. View course details in MyPlan: NEAR E 231 NEAR E 232 Introduction to the Modern Middle East (5) I&S Major social and political trends in the Middle East during the 18th, 19th, and 20th centuries. Basic principles of Islam and its diversity, changing balance of power during the early modern period; European colonialism and withdrawal; pan-Arabism, nationalism, feminism and religious resurgence. Offered: jointly with JSIS A 215. View course details in MyPlan: NEAR E 232 NEAR E 234 Introduction to Shi'i Islam (5) I&S Basic beliefs of Shi'ism today, how they developed over time, the role of intellectuals in the development of Shi'i thought, and how major law schools of Shi'ism give expression to those beliefs. View course details in MyPlan: NEAR E 234 NEAR E 243 Iranian Culture and Civilization (5) VLPA/I&S Explores the culture and civilization of this Middle Eastern society through a multi-disciplinary approach that includes such manifestations as architecture, carpet-weaving, story-telling, and the composition of poetry. View course details in MyPlan: NEAR E 243 NEAR E 244 Voices of the Iranian Revolution (5) VLPA/I&S Includes critical readings of the 1979 Iranian Revolution as represented in essays, fiction, poetry, memoir, speeches, film, and other arts. Examines the ways that writers, artists, politicians, and intellectuals have depicted the origins and development of the Islamic Republic and the legacy of the revolution in Iranian society and culture today. View course details in MyPlan: NEAR E 244 NEAR E 257 Introduction to Central Asian Turkic Literature in Translation (5) VLPA Provides an overview of the major periods of Central Asian Turkic literature including: the Pre-Islamic Period (eighth-tenth centuries), the Islamic Period (tenth-twentieth centuries), the Modern Period (1905-1991), and the Post-Colonial period (1991-present). Centers on the Turkic peoples who lived under Russia and Soviet colonial rule. View course details in MyPlan: NEAR E 257 NEAR E 258 Introduction to Kyrgyz Writer Chingiz Aitmatov (5) VLPA/I&S Introduces the form and content of the work of the Kyrgyz writer, Chingiz Aitmatov, while also examining his life and influence on the people of Central Asia. View course details in MyPlan: NEAR E 258 NEAR E 259 Introduction to the Writers and Intellectuals of Central Asia under Soviet Colonialism (5) VLPA/I&S, DIV Discusses the lives and works of Kazakh, Kyrgyz Turkmen, and Uzbek poets and writers and intellectuals who lived during the Soviet period from 1917-1991. View course details in MyPlan: NEAR E 259 NEAR E 261 Turkic Peoples of Central Asia (3) I&S History of the Turkic peoples, AD 552 to present. Emphasis on current status of Turkic peoples in Central Asia. Geographical distribution, demographic data, reactions and adaptations to changes resulting from the 1917 revolution. Turkic viewpoint on past and present developments. Offered: jointly with JSIS A 261. View course details in MyPlan: NEAR E 261 NEAR E 262 Central Asian Country Profiles: Introduction to Kazakhstan (5) VLPA/I&S Examines developments in Kazakhstan after the country gained independence from the Soviet Union in 1991. Part of a series on Central Asia. View course details in MyPlan: NEAR E 262 NEAR E 264 Central Asian Country Profiles: Introduction to Uzbekistan (5) VLPA/I&S Survey of the Uzbek people and their history. Examines developments in Uzbekistan after the country gained independence from the Soviet Union in 1991. Part of a series on Central Asia. View course details in MyPlan: NEAR E 264 NEAR E 265 Introduction to Central Asian Turkic Literature in Translation (3) VLPA Introduces the foundations of modern Uzbek literature; the common Turkic literature of the eighth-century and the more recent Chagatay-Uzbek literature. Focuses on post-Soviet literature since 1991. After independence Uzbek writers were able to express themselves without censorship and prosecution. View course details in MyPlan: NEAR E 265 NEAR E 266 The Modern Middle East and Central Asia (5) I&S Ethnographic overview of Muslim societies in the middle east and central Asia from various anthropological perspectives. Examines the unity and diversity of Muslim communities and acquaints students with the significant linguistic, cultural, and political diversity of Muslim societies. Helps students develop an understanding of Islam as a lived experience. View course details in MyPlan: NEAR E 266 NEAR E 267 Folktales Along the Silk Road (3) VLPA/I&S Introduces student to the Silk Road connecting China and Europe through the cities of Samarkand, Bukhara, and Constantinople, now Istanbul. Applies comparative-historical and sociological method in folktale research, i.e. compares Western European stories and motifs with tales from the Silk Road while paying attention to the environment of storytelling. View course details in MyPlan: NEAR E 267 NEAR E 268 Introduction to the Silk Road (5) I&S Introduces students to the Silk Road as a site of cultural exchange between peoples, and of political, economic, and intellectual exchange between regions and continents. Themes include ecology, empire, ethnicity, language, religion, and the arts. Considers the Silk Road as a forerunner and symbol of modern globalization. Offered: jointly with JSIS A 268. View course details in MyPlan: NEAR E 268 NEAR E 270 The Turks: A Global Perspective (5) I&S Introduction to the history of the Turks, as a distinctive cultural and linguistic community set against a global backdrop. Examines the rich experiences of Turk history, and their interactions with peoples and cultures across Asia, the Middle East, and Europe. View course details in MyPlan: NEAR E 270 NEAR E 271 Cultural History of Turkey: From Empire to Nation (5) VLPA/I&S Topics include: social, economic, and political structures of Ottoman and Turkish Anatolia; language, literature, and artistic tradition; social status of women, literacy and illiteracy, the secular enterprise of Kemal Ataturk; Islamic fundamentalism, educational institutions, Kurdish nationalism. View course details in MyPlan: NEAR E 271 NEAR E 285 Religion, Violence, and Peace: Patterns Across Time and Tradition (5) I&S Investigates the complex relationship between violence and peace in a variety of religious traditions. Examines case studies from the ancient Near East, medieval East Asia, and the contemporary West from the standpoint of lived experiences and contemporary theories derived from several academic disciplines. Offered: jointly with HUM 205/RELIG 205; W. View course details in MyPlan: NEAR E 285 NEAR E 286 Themes in Near Eastern Literature (5) VLPA/I&S Significant and interesting aspects of Near Eastern culture and society as represented by literary themes. Aspects of Near Eastern life and art such as women, minority groups, mysticism, and modern literature. Content varies. May not be taken for credit if credit earned in NEAR E 330. View course details in MyPlan: NEAR E 286 NEAR E 287 The Near East in Song (2, max. 8) VLPA Surveys popular song at it has shaped modern culture and identity in the near East. Topics vary. May be repeated for credit if the student has not previously studies the same topic with the same instructor. All texts in English; no previous knowledge of other languages required. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: NEAR E 287 NEAR E 288 Introduction to the Horn of Africa (5) I&S, DIV Joel T Walker, Hamza M. Zafer Explores history, culture, and peoples of the Horn of the Africa. By placing Ethiopia, Eritrea, and Somalia at the center of inquiry, invites reconsideration of standard narratives of world history that all too often ignore or marginalize the region. Includes a broad range of assignments examining art, literature, and societies of the Horn, including vibrant Diaspora communities in America. Offered: jointly with HSTAFM 288; A. View course details in MyPlan: NEAR E 288 NEAR E 296 Special Studies in Near Eastern Languages and Civilization (1-5, max. 15) I&S Offered occasionally by visitors or resident faculty. View course details in MyPlan: NEAR E 296 NEAR E 301 Art of the Ancient Near East (3) VLPA S. NOEGEL Examines the artistic remains of ancient Egypt and Mesopotamia (3000 BCE-550 BCE), with some attention to architecture. Topics examined include: art as ritual power, the relationship betweens text and image, art and cosmology, visual propaganda, and the legacy of ancient Near Eastern art. View course details in MyPlan: NEAR E 301 NEAR E 302 Religions of the Ancient World (3) I&S Scott B. Noegel A comparative exploration into ancient religious customs, rituals, and beliefs (ca. 3000-500 BCE). Focus on peoples of Mesopotamia, Egypt, Syria, and Israel. Topics include conceptions of worship and divinity, sacred space and time, and types and roles of priesthoods, divination, prayers, and afterlife beliefs. Recommended: NEAR E 201. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: NEAR E 302 NEAR E 305 The Biblical Prophets (3) VLPA/I&S Explores the Biblical prophets (in translation) within their Near Eastern contexts. Historicity, literary and rhetorical sophistication, and ideological agendas. Seeks to uncover the meaning and distinctiveness of Israelite prophecy within the context of the larger Near East. No knowledge of the Bible required. Offered: jointly with RELIG 315. View course details in MyPlan: NEAR E 305 NEAR E 306 The History of Biblical Interpretation (3) VLPA/I&S Traces Biblical interpretation and translation technique from the earliest translations of the Hebrew Bible (Old Testament) to the various historical literary, deconstructionist, and holistic strategies of more recent times. Adopts a "hands-on" approach to the material and explores various hermeneutics by applying them in class. Offered: jointly with RELIG 306. View course details in MyPlan: NEAR E 306 NEAR E 307 From Israelites to Jews: the First Six Centuries BCE (3) VLPA/I&S Traces the Israelites, from the Babylonian destruction of the Jerusalemite Temple (586 BCE) to events following the destruction of the second Temple (first century CE). Focuses on primary historical and literary sources as well as archaeological and artistic evidence. No knowledge of Hebrew or the Bible required. Offered: jointly with JEW ST 317. View course details in MyPlan: NEAR E 307 NEAR E 308 Gender and Sexuality in the Ancient Near East (3) I&S/VLPA, DIV Investigates and critically assesses trends and topics in recent studies of gender and sexuality in the ancient Near East, pertaining especially to texts, artifacts, art and images from ancient Mesopotamia, Egypt and the Levant. Explores ancient Near Eastern taxonomies and functions of gender and sexuality, and examines social, political and religious forces that inform and construct gendered categories of gods, humans, and their worlds. Prerequisite: No prerequisites; recommended: NEAR E 201, Introduction to the Ancient Near East Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: NEAR E 308 NEAR E 309 Death and Afterlife in the Ancient World (3) VLPA/I&S Explores human yearnings, obsessions, fears, and aspirations associated with death and afterlife by examining major political, military, social, economic, religious, literary, artistic, and architectural phenomena directly connected to the way ancient cultures, such as Egypt, Mesopotamia, Israel, and the Levant, have conceptualized death. View course details in MyPlan: NEAR E 309 NEAR E 310 Jewish Literature: Foundations and Re-imaginings (5) VLPA, DIV Overview of 3000 years of literary creativity. Considers multiple genres, including Bible, Midrash, medieval poetry, Hasidic tale, modern fiction, TV satire, and popular music lyrics, with emphasis on how later literature reinterprets and re-imagines earlier texts. Explores diversity in Jewish writing, focusing on Jews as minority and diaspora communities as well as on centers and margins within Jewish cultures. Offered: WSp. View course details in MyPlan: NEAR E 310 NEAR E 311 The Archaeology of Biblical Israel (5) I&S Archaeology of ancient Israel (southern Levant). Covers the know archaeological material and Biblical and other contemporaneous textual sources to explore this topic, covering the archaeological cultures from the Middle Bronze Age to the end of the Babylonian Exile (2000-300 BCE). View course details in MyPlan: NEAR E 311 NEAR E 312 Looting and Loss: The Recent Destruction of Cultural Heritage Sites in the Middle East (5) I&S Explores the history and context of recent politicization, looting, and destruction of archaeological and cultural sites in the Middle East, as well as the associated human toll, with primary focus on the current state of modern Syria and Iraq. Covers the politics of archaeology in the Middle East from the First Gulf War to more recent times. View course details in MyPlan: NEAR E 312 NEAR E 313 Ancient Technologies of the Near East (5) I&S Introduction to ancient pyrotechnic technologies. Covers the laboratory methods used by modern archaeologists to study ancient ceramics, glass and metals, the methodologies behind the creation of these materials, and the invention of these technologies in the Near East, with brief comparisons with China and the New World. Offered: jointly with ARCHY 313. View course details in MyPlan: NEAR E 313 NEAR E 314 The Archeology of Early Islam (5) I&S Introduction to the archaeology of early Islam, from 632 to 1000 CE with the study of the rise (and occasional fall) of Islam in Arabia, Egypt, and Spain/Portugal through a survey of the local architecture and material culture. Students study key archaeological sites and histories of these regions. View course details in MyPlan: NEAR E 314 NEAR E 316 Israeli Identities (5) VLPA, DIV Examines fiction and film, as well as selected poetry, popular songs, and essays, to explore diverse groups within contemporary Israeli society. Topics include the sabra ideal, holocaust survivors, Sephardic/Mizrahi communities, religious and secular Jews, Israel's Arab minority, and questions of gender. View course details in MyPlan: NEAR E 316 NEAR E 317 Jewish Life in Literature and Film (5) VLPA/I&S Major themes of Jewish life treated in modern narrative and cinema. Topics include religious tradition and modernity. Jewish immigration to America, responses to the Holocaust and Zionism. Offered: jointly with JEW ST 318. View course details in MyPlan: NEAR E 317 NEAR E 318 Literature and the Holocaust (5) VLPA, DIV Examines fiction, poetry, memoir, diaries, monuments, film, and pop culture from several languages and cultural milieus, with emphases on English and Hebrew. Topics include survivor testimony, shaping of collective memory, the second generation, Holocaust education and children's literature, gender and the Holocaust, and fantasy and humor as responses to catastrophe. May not be taken for credit if credit earned in NEAR E 441. Offered: jointly with C LIT 318. View course details in MyPlan: NEAR E 318 NEAR E 320 Jewish Poetry (5) VLPA Examines elements of traditional Jewish prayers and worship with modern poems that draw on those classical sources. Examines poets from Europe, the Americas, the Near East and North Africa. Taught in English. View course details in MyPlan: NEAR E 320 NEAR E 321 Israel in Film (2) VLPA/I&S Presents films that introduce students to important aspects of Israeli culture. Topics include: Zionism, the Holocaust, immigration, religious and secular communities, mizrachim, Russians, army service, war and trauma, LGBT themes, and Israel's Arab minority. View course details in MyPlan: NEAR E 321 NEAR E 325 Modern Hebrew Literature in English (3) VLPA Major developments in Hebrew literature from the Enlightenment to the current Israeli literature. View course details in MyPlan: NEAR E 325 NEAR E 328 Bioethics: Secular and Jewish Perspectives (3) I&S, DIV Hadar Khazzam-Horovitz Legal, ethical, scientific, and Jewish religious perspectives on contemporary medical and biomedical research practices. Legal and civil rights of women, people with disabilities, minors and minority or marginalized groups. Key differences between secular and Biblical/Rabbinic approaches in interpretation, analysis and application of bioethics, doctor-patient relationships; reproductive methods; abortion; euthanasia; and stem cell research. Offered: jointly with B H 339/JEW ST 339. View course details in MyPlan: NEAR E 328 NEAR E 329 Classical Arabic Literature in Translation (5) VLPA Examines development of Arabic literature from its beginnings through the fall of the Abbasid dynasty and the Mongols. Coincided with period when Arabic language and literature were dominate forces in Islamic civilization. Topics include: Pre-Islamic poetry, impact of Islam on the literature, court poetry, and the rise of Arabic prose. View course details in MyPlan: NEAR E 329 NEAR E 330 Colonialism, Nationalism, and the Modern Arabic Novel (5) VLPA/I&S Examines how representative novels from the modern canon in Arabic have both endorsed and critiqued aspects of nationalism and colonialist ideology. View course details in MyPlan: NEAR E 330 NEAR E 331 Thousand and One Nights (5) VLPA Examines the major story cycles of the Thousand-and-One-Nights collection in their social and historical contexts. View course details in MyPlan: NEAR E 331 NEAR E 332 Arab American Writers (5) VLPA/I&S Explores the influences of Arab American writing both in the United States and the Arab world during the nineteenth and twentieth centuries. Discusses issues of emigration to the United States from the Arab world and its impact on the formation of a distinctive Arab American identity. View course details in MyPlan: NEAR E 332 NEAR E 333 Prophecy in Judaism, Christianity, and Islam (3) I&S Looks at the phenomenon of prophecy in Jewish, Christian, and Muslim thought and writing from antiquity to modernity. Traces the development of prophetic expression in the Hebrew Bible, the New Testament, and the Quran. Surveys major themes and covers various eras, including prophecy in the American context. View course details in MyPlan: NEAR E 333 NEAR E 334 Culture of the Arab World (5) VLPA/I&S General survey of the linguistic, geographical, historical, social, religious, and cultural aspects of the modern Arab world, including the Arabic language, family, and the Arab experience in the United States. Examines Arab American relations, the role of the past and of social change, and Arab art and music. View course details in MyPlan: NEAR E 334 NEAR E 335 Language Conflict and Identity in the Middle East and North Africa (5) VLPA/I&S Explores social and linguistic aspects of the languages and cultures of the Middle East and North Africa, focusing on the relationship between language and national/ethnic identity from the perspective of group conflict. Considers language policies in colonial and post-colonial states, and individual strategies of accommodation and resistance to these policies. View course details in MyPlan: NEAR E 335 NEAR E 336 Islam in Jewish Contexts, Judaism in Muslim Contexts (5) VLPA/I&S An introduction to the Jewish-Muslim encounter: a look at exchange, symbiosis, liminality, and confrontation between these two kindred religio-cultural systems, from the rise of Islam, to the end of its Classical Age - six centuries wherein the majority of the world's Jews lived among Muslim majorities. View course details in MyPlan: NEAR E 336 NEAR E 337 Egyptian Cinema: Glamour on the Nile (5) VLPA History and development of Egyptian cinema. Examines a range of topics, including: the transition to sound, the differentiation into film genres, the nationalization of the film industry in the 1960s, the role of the director as auteur, and the recovery of the Egyptian film industry after 2000. View course details in MyPlan: NEAR E 337 NEAR E 343 Classical Persian Literature in Translation (5) VLPA/I&S Introduces themes, forms, and historical development of Persian literature from the 10th to 19th centuries CE. Topics includes lyric and epic forms, Sufism, premodern poetics, and reception history of English translations. Reading include Rumi, Hafez, Khayyam, Ferdowsi, Sa'di among others. No prior knowledge of Persian language or literature required. View course details in MyPlan: NEAR E 343 NEAR E 344 Modern Persian Literature in Translation (5) VLPA/I&S Introduces Persian literature from early modernizing projects in the 19th century up to today. Includes poetry, fiction, essays, and film. Examines various ways that Persian writers define modernity in their own works and respond to writers in other languages and traditions. No prior knowledge of Persian language or literature required. View course details in MyPlan: NEAR E 344 NEAR E 345 Persian Literature in Translation (5) VLPA Designed to familiarize students with an expanding collection of works translated from Persian literature, both classical and modern, into English. Focuses on a few representative texts and offers interpretations of the culture through close readings. Prior acquaintance with Persian culture not required. View course details in MyPlan: NEAR E 345 NEAR E 350 Archaeology of Ancient Near Eastern Warfare and Empire (5) I&S S. Selover Surveys the archaeological remnants of war, warfare, and empire in the ancient Near East, from the rise of earliest cities to the Roman period (circa 3000 BCE-30 CE), with a focus on the cultural consequences of violence and warfare on various ancient Near Eastern cultures. View course details in MyPlan: NEAR E 350 NEAR E 357 Peoples and Cultures of Central and Inner Asia (5) I&S Introduces Central and Inner Asia with a multidisciplinary, comparative survey of the cultures and societies of contemporary China's Inner Asia (Mongolia, Xinjiang-Eastern Turkestan, Tibet, and Manchuria), the contemporary Muslim Central Asian republics (Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, and Uzbekistan), and the adjacent areas of Afghanistan and Iran. Offered: jointly with ANTH 357/JSIS A 357. View course details in MyPlan: NEAR E 357 NEAR E 358 Islam and Muslims in China (5) I&S Introduces the lived experiences of Muslims in contemporary China. Examines Muslims' understanding of their faith; the relationship of Islam to the political, economic, and social lives of Muslims; how Islam shapes people's sense of culture and identity; and unity and diversity of various Chinese Muslim communities. View course details in MyPlan: NEAR E 358 NEAR E 359 Language and Ethnic Identiy in China (5) VLPA/I&S Analysis of the political, social, and linguistic contexts of languages of China's fifty-six nationalities and the ongoing process of Chinese nation-state building efforts from sociolinguistic and ethnographic perspectives. Examines the relationship of linguistic diversity to social and cultural identity and the role of language in the construction of ethnic identities. View course details in MyPlan: NEAR E 359 NEAR E 360 Oral Literature of the Turkic Peoples of Central Asia I: The Heroic Epos (3) VLPA/I&S Representative heroic poems of Central Asian Turkic peoples now living in the Central Asian Republics and China. Origin of the heroic epos, its relation to the romantic epos and other oral literary genres. Art of the singer and his role in nomadic Turkic society. Emphasis on Manas, the monumental epos of Kirghiz. View course details in MyPlan: NEAR E 360 NEAR E 371 Love and Empire: Cultural History of the Ottoman Empire through Literature (3-5) VLPA/I&S Approaches Ottoman literature through translations and scholarly articles in English. Evaluates this particular literary tradition as an imperial production, through an analysis and critical reading of course materials. View course details in MyPlan: NEAR E 371 NEAR E 372 Modern Turkish Literature in Translation (3) VLPA Covers major theoretical issues concerning Ottoman court literature and Turkish epic and troubadour poetry. Major writers and works of modern Turkish literature read and analyzed in their social, political, and theoretical contexts. Previous study of Turkish literature not required. View course details in MyPlan: NEAR E 372 NEAR E 385 Modern Near Eastern Literature in English Translation (3) VLPA Contemporary cultures of the Middle East studied through exposure to a representative sample of their literary work. Texts selected address major issues in Middle Eastern societies, e.g., tradition versus modernity, national identity and the challenge of the West, Arab-Israeli conflict. View course details in MyPlan: NEAR E 385 NEAR E 386 The Middle East through Cinema (5, max. 12) VLPA Analyzes the function of cinema in shaping communal and individual identities in Middle Eastern cultures. Examines topics including religious transformation, violence, identity, gender, immigration, and exile through film screenings, discussions, and supplementary readings. May not be taken for credit if credit earned in NEAR E 410. View course details in MyPlan: NEAR E 386 NEAR E 391 Writing Seminar for NELC Majors and Graduate Students (3) VLPA S. NOEGEL Seminar offers undergraduate majors and graduate students in the department with a close, systematic, and sustained experience with expository writing. All writing and rewriting will focus on subjects that relate to the Near East. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: NEAR E 391 NEAR E 392 Politics and Poetics of Translation (5) VLPA Aria Fani Major methodological issues in translation studies through close examination of medieval and modern Near Eastern literary texts. Investigates translations from Arabic, Hebrew, Persian, and Turkish into English as well as translations among these languages from different language families. All literary traditions welcome. View course details in MyPlan: NEAR E 392 NEAR E 396 Intermediate Studies in Near Eastern Languages and Civilization (1-5, max. 15) Offered occasionally by visitors or resident faculty. View course details in MyPlan: NEAR E 396 NEAR E 399 Study Abroad (1-15, max. 15) Credit for NEAR E 200-400-level courses in an approved Study Abroad program. Requires credit evaluation by department or faculty. Does not automatically apply to major or minor requirements. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: NEAR E 399 NEAR E 429 Islamic Mystical Literature in English (5) VLPA Readings from the works of principal Sufi writers and poets. View course details in MyPlan: NEAR E 429 NEAR E 430 Muslim Scripture, Historiography, and Exegesis (3) VLPA/I&S Examines the origins and development of early and classical Muslim thought. Provides an in-depth survey of the three key genres of early and classical Muslim writing: scripture (Quran), historiography (Maghazi, Sira, and Tabaqat), and exegesis (Tafsir and Ta'wil). Offered: jointly with RELIG 430. View course details in MyPlan: NEAR E 430 NEAR E 431 Arabic Linguistics (5) VLPA/I&S Studies Arabic through modern linguistic analysis. Covers Arabic's phonology, morphology, syntax, and semantics, and discusses the history of Arabic as well as the frequently debated issue of diglossia in Arabic-speaking countries. Equal attention given to the linguistic features of both FuS'Ha Arabic and modern Arabic dialects. Prerequisite: ARAB 102. View course details in MyPlan: NEAR E 431 NEAR E 432 Arabic Sociolinguistics (5) VLPA/I&S Focuses on how Arabic is used by native speakers in various social contexts. Examines diglossia (co-existence of Modern Standard Arabic with the Arabic vernacular), linguistic variation in the Arab world, and the effect of variables such as education, social status, politics, and gender. Prerequisite: ARAB 101. View course details in MyPlan: NEAR E 432 NEAR E 441 Literature and the Holocaust (5) VLPA Examines fiction, poetry, memoir, diaries, monuments, film, and pop culture from several languages and cultural milieus, with emphases on English and Hebrew. Topics include survivor testimony, shaping of collective memory, the second generation, Holocaust education and children's literature, gender and the Holocaust, and fantasy and humor as responses to catastrophe. View course details in MyPlan: NEAR E 441 NEAR E 457 Turkic Linguistics (5) VLPA Survey of the nature and structure of the Turkic languages, focusing on phonology, morphology, syntax, lexicon, writing systems, history and cultural context, subgrouping and diversification, and linguistic theoretical principles for their description and analysis. View course details in MyPlan: NEAR E 457 NEAR E 485 Digital Media: The Middle East and Central Asia (5) VLPA Hands-on, project-based approach to imaging, new media, electronic text, databases, metadata and accessibility, rights management, and other issues central to contemporary humanities research on the Middle East and Central Asia. View course details in MyPlan: NEAR E 485 NEAR E 486 Methodologies in Near Eastern Studies (5) Investigates prevalent approaches through a survey of scholarship on Near and Middle Eastern civilizations across time periods, cultures, and communities. Examines discourses developed on polytheistic and monotheistic religions, imperial and nationalist social systems, and ideological frameworks, such as Orientalism. Offered: jointly with JSIS A 491. View course details in MyPlan: NEAR E 486 NEAR E 490 Supervised Study (1-6, max. 18) Special work in Near Eastern studies for graduates and undergraduates. View course details in MyPlan: NEAR E 490 NEAR E 491 Senior Seminar in Near Eastern Languages and Civilization (2) Covers issues of methodology as well as linguistic, philosophical, literarily critical, rhetorical critical etc. topics. Focuses on developing academic presentation and communication skills. Includes supervised readings and group discussion. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: NEAR E 491 NEAR E 496 Advanced Studies in Near Eastern Languages and Civilization (3-5, max. 15) I&S Offered occasionally by visitors or resident faculty. Content varies. View course details in MyPlan: NEAR E 496 NEAR E 497 Honors Thesis (5) Participants identify a specific thesis topic and conduct individual research under the direction of a thesis adviser, culminating in an Honors thesis. Open only to juniors and seniors in the Departmental Honors Program. View course details in MyPlan: NEAR E 497 NEAR E 498 Senior Essay (5) VLPA/I&S Supervised individual research and writing of a major paper during the senior year. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: NEAR E 498 NEAR E 499 Undergraduate Research (1-6, max. 18) View course details in MyPlan: NEAR E 499 NEAR E 501 Art of the Ancient Near East (3) S. NOEGEL Examines the artistic remains of ancient Egypt and Mesopotamia (3000 BCE-550 BCE), with some attention to architecture. Topics examined include: art as ritual power, the relationship betweens text and image, art and cosmology, visual propaganda, and the legacy of ancient Near Eastern art. View course details in MyPlan: NEAR E 501 NEAR E 502 Religions of the Ancient World (3) Scott B. Noegel A comparative exploration into ancient religious customs, rituals, and beliefs (ca. 3000-500 BCE). Focus on peoples of Mesopotamia, Egypt, Syria, and Israel. Topics include conceptions of worship and divinity, sacred space and time, and types and roles of priesthoods, divination, prayers, and afterlife beliefs. Recommended: NEAR E 201. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: NEAR E 502 NEAR E 505 The Biblical Prophets (3) Noegel Explores the Biblical prophets (in translation) within their Near Eastern contexts. Historicity, literary and rhetorical sophistication, and ideological agendas. Seeks to uncover the meaning and distinctiveness of Israelite prophecy within the context of the larger Near East. No knowledge of the Bible required. View course details in MyPlan: NEAR E 505 NEAR E 506 The History of Biblical Interpretation (3) Noegel Traces Biblical interpretation and translation technique from the earliest translations of the Hebrew Bible (Old Testament) to the various historical literary, deconstructionist, and holistic strategies of more recent times. Adopts a 'hands-on' approach to the material and explores various hermeneutics by applying them in class. View course details in MyPlan: NEAR E 506 NEAR E 507 From Israelites to Jews: the First Six Centuries BCS (3) Noegel Traces the Israelites, from the Babylonian destruction of the Jerusalemite Temple (586 BCE) to events following the destruction of the second Temple (first century CE). Focuses on primary historical and literary sources as well as archaeological and artistic evidence. No knowledge of Hebrew or the Bible required. View course details in MyPlan: NEAR E 507 NEAR E 508 Gender and Sexuality in the Ancient Near East (3) I&S/VLPA, DIV Investigates and critically assesses trends and topics in recent studies of gender and sexuality in the ancient Near East, pertaining especially to texts, artifacts, art and images from ancient Mesopotamia, Egypt and the Levant. Explores ancient Near Eastern taxonomies and functions of gender and sexuality, and examines social, political and religious forces that inform and construct gendered categories of gods, humans, and their worlds. Prerequisite: No prerequisites; recommended: NEAR E 201, Introduction to the Ancient Near East Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: NEAR E 508 NEAR E 509 Death and Afterlife in the Ancient World (3) Explores human yearnings, obsessions, fears, and aspirations associated with death and afterlife by examining major political, military, social, economic, religious, literary, artistic, and architectural phenomena directly connected to the way ancient cultures, such as Egypt, Mesopotamia, Israel, and the Levant, have conceptualized death. View course details in MyPlan: NEAR E 509 NEAR E 511 The Archaeology of Biblical Israel (5) Archaeology of ancient Israel (southern Levant). Covers the know archaeological material and Biblical and other contemporaneous textual sources to explore this topic, covering the archaeological cultures from the Middle Bronze Age to the end of the Babylonian Exile (2000-300 BCE). View course details in MyPlan: NEAR E 511 NEAR E 513 Ancient Technologies of the Near East (5) Introduction to ancient pyrotechnic technologies. Covers the laboratory methods used by modern archaeologists to study ancient ceramics, glass and metals, the methodologies behind the creation of these materials, and the invention of these technologies in the Near East, with brief comparisons with China and the New World. Offered: jointly with ARCHY 513. View course details in MyPlan: NEAR E 513 NEAR E 515 Israel: Dynamic Society and Global Flashpoint (5) Barzilai, Burstein, Migdal, Pianko, Sokoloff Introduces the people, institutions, and culture of Israel is the context of larger global forces. Examines domestic, regional, and international elements, both historically and in the contemporary period, that have shaped Israel's culture, politics, and special role in world affairs. Topics include nationalism, ethnicity, politics, religion, film, literature, and culture. View course details in MyPlan: NEAR E 515 NEAR E 520 Jewish Poetry (5) Examines elements of traditional Jewish prayers and worship with modern poems that draw on those classical sources. Examines poets from Europe, the Americas, the Near East and North Africa. Taught in English. View course details in MyPlan: NEAR E 520 NEAR E 529 Classical Arabic Literature in Translation (5) Examines development of Arabic literature from its beginnings through the fall of the Abbasid dynasty and the Mongols. Coincided with period when Arabic language and literature were dominate forces in Islamic civilization. Topics include: Pre-Islamic poetry, impact of Islam on the literature, court poetry, and the rise of Arabic prose. View course details in MyPlan: NEAR E 529 NEAR E 530 Colonialism, Nationalism, and the Modern Arabic Novel (5) DeYoung Examines how representative novels from the modern canon in Arabic have both endorsed and critiqued aspects of nationalism and colonialist ideology. View course details in MyPlan: NEAR E 530 NEAR E 531 Thousand and One Nights (5) Examines the major story cycles of the Thousand-and-One-Nights collection in their social and historical contexts. View course details in MyPlan: NEAR E 531 NEAR E 532 Arab American Writers (5) Explores the influences of Arab American writing both in the United States and the Arab world during the nineteenth and twentieth centuries. Discusses issues of emigration to the United States from the Arab world and its impact on the formation of a distinctive Arab American identity. View course details in MyPlan: NEAR E 532 NEAR E 533 Prophecy in Judaism, Christianity, and Islam (5) Looks at the phenomenon of prophecy in Jewish, Christian, and Muslim thought and writing from antiquity to modernity. Traces the development of prophetic expression in the Hebrew Bible, the New Testament, and the Quran. Surveys major themes and covers various eras, including prophecy in the American context. View course details in MyPlan: NEAR E 533 NEAR E 534 Culture of the Arab World (5) General survey of the linguistic, geographical, historical, social, religious, and cultural aspects of the modern Arab world, including the Arabic language, family, and the Arab experience in the United States. Examines Arab American relations, the role of the past and of social change, and Arab art and music. View course details in MyPlan: NEAR E 534 NEAR E 535 Language Conflict and Identity in the Middle East and North Africa (5) VLPA/I&S Explores social and linguistic aspects of the languages and cultures of the Middle East and North Africa, focusing on the relationship between language and national/ethnic identity from the perspective of group conflict. Considers language policies in colonial and post-colonial states, and individual strategies of accommodation and resistance to these policies. View course details in MyPlan: NEAR E 535 NEAR E 536 Islamic Law (2-5) Selected topics in Islamic law that highlight major aspects of Islamic civilization. Offered: jointly with LAW B 556. View course details in MyPlan: NEAR E 536 NEAR E 537 Muslim Scripture, Historiography, and Exegesis (5) Examines the origins and development of early and classical Muslim thought. Provides an in-depth survey of the three key genres of early and classical Muslim writing: scripture (Quran), historiography (Maghazi, Sira, and Tabaqat), and exegesis (Tafsir and Ta'wil). View course details in MyPlan: NEAR E 537 NEAR E 538 Arabic Linguistics (5) VLPA/I&S Studies Arabic through modern linguistic analysis. Covers Arabic's phonology, morphology, syntax, and semantics, and discusses the history of Arabic as well as the frequently debated issue of diglossia in Arabic-speaking countries. Equal attention given to the linguistic features of both FuS'Ha Arabic and modern Arabic dialects. Prerequisite: ARAB 512. View course details in MyPlan: NEAR E 538 NEAR E 539 Arabic Sociolinguistics (5) Focuses on how Arabic is used by native speakers in various social contexts. Examines diglossia (co-existence of Modern Standard Arabic with the Arabic vernacular), linguistic variation in the Arab world, and the effect of variables such as education, social status, politics, and gender. Prerequisite: NEAR E 534. View course details in MyPlan: NEAR E 539 NEAR E 540 Islamic Poetry and Poetics (3) View course details in MyPlan: NEAR E 540 NEAR E 541 Islam in Jewish Contexts, Judaism in Muslim Contexts (3) An introduction to the Jewish-Muslim encounter: a look at exchange, symbiosis, liminality, and confrontation between these two kindred religio-cultural systems, from the rise of Islam, to the end of its Classical Age - six centuries wherein the majority of the world's Jews lived among Muslim majorities. View course details in MyPlan: NEAR E 541 NEAR E 543 Classical Persian Literature in Translations (5) Introduces themes, forms, and historical development of Persian literature from the 10th to 19th centuries CE. Topics includes lyric and epic forms, Sufism, premodern poetics, and reception history of English translations. Reading include Rumi, Hafez, Khayyam, Ferdowsi, Sa'di among others. No prior knowledge of Persian language or literature required. View course details in MyPlan: NEAR E 543 NEAR E 544 Modern Persian Literature in Translations (5) Introduces Persian literature from early modernizing projects in the 19th century up to today. Includes poetry, fiction, essays, and film. Examines various ways that Persian writers define modernity in their own works and respond to writers in other languages and traditions. No prior knowledge of Persian language or literature required. View course details in MyPlan: NEAR E 544 NEAR E 545 Persian Literature in Translations (5) Designed to familiarize students with an expanding collection of works translated from Persian literature, both classical and modern, into English. Focuses on a few representative texts and offers interpretations of the culture through close readings. Prior acquaintance with Persian culture not required. View course details in MyPlan: NEAR E 545 NEAR E 557 Turkic Linguistics (5) Survey of the nature and structure of the Turkic languages, focusing on phonology, morphology, syntax, lexicon, writing systems, history and cultural context, subgrouping and diversification, and linguistic theoretical principles for their description and analysis. View course details in MyPlan: NEAR E 557 NEAR E 558 Peoples and Cultures of Central and Inner Asia (5) Introduces Central and Inner Asia with a multidisciplinary, comparative survey of the cultures and societies of contemporary China's Inner Asia (Mongolia, Xinjiang-Eastern Turkestan, Tibet, and Manchuria), the contemporary Muslim Central Asian republics (Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, and Uzbekistan), and the adjacent areas of Afghanistan and Iran. Offered: jointly with ANTH 522/JSIS D 572. View course details in MyPlan: NEAR E 558 NEAR E 559 Islam and Muslims in China (5) Introduces the lived experiences of Muslims in contemporary China. Examines Muslims' understanding of their faith; the relationship of Islam to the political, economic, and social lives of Muslims; how Islam shapes people's sense of culture and identity; and unity and diversity of various Chinese Muslim communities. View course details in MyPlan: NEAR E 559 NEAR E 560 Language and Ethnic Identiy in China (5) Analysis of the political, social, and linguistic contexts of languages of China's fifty-six nationalities and the ongoing process of Chinese nation-state building efforts from sociolinguistic and ethnographic perspectives. Examines the relationship of linguistic diversity to social and cultural identity and the role of language in the construction of ethnic identities. View course details in MyPlan: NEAR E 560 NEAR E 571 Love and Empire: Cultural History of the Ottoman Empire through Literature (3) Survey of the nature and structure of the Turkic languages, focusing on phonology, morphology, syntax, lexicon, writing systems, history and cultural context, subgrouping and diversification, and linguistic theoretical principles for their description and analysis. View course details in MyPlan: NEAR E 571 NEAR E 572 Modern Turkish Literature in Translation (3) Covers major theoretical issues concerning Ottoman court literature and Turkish epic and troubadour poetry. Major writers and works of modern Turkish literature read and analyzed in their social, political, and theoretical contexts. Previous study of Turkish literature not required. View course details in MyPlan: NEAR E 572 NEAR E 584 Egyptian Cinema: Glamour on the Nile (5) History and development of Egyptian cinema. Examines a range of topics, including: the transition to sound, the differentiation into film genres, the nationalization of the film industry in the 1960s, the role of the director as auteur, and the recovery of the Egyptian film industry after 2000. View course details in MyPlan: NEAR E 584 NEAR E 585 Digital Media: The Middle East and Central Asia (5) Hands-on, project-based approach to imaging, new media, electronic text, databases, metadata and accessibility, rights management, and other issues central to contemporary humanities research on the Middle East and Central Asia. View course details in MyPlan: NEAR E 585 NEAR E 586 Middle East through Cinema (5, max. 12) Analyzes the function of cinema in shaping communal and individual identities in Middle Eastern cultures. Examines topics including religious transformation, violence, identity, gender, immigration, and exile through film screenings, discussions, and supplementary readings. View course details in MyPlan: NEAR E 586 NEAR E 587 Teaching Arabic as a Foreign/Second Language (3) Theory and practice of communicative language teaching; current developments in foreign-language teaching; evaluation of teaching materials; includes participation at the departmental and university-wide fall orientation; required for beginning teaching assistants of Near Eastern Languages. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: NEAR E 587 NEAR E 588 Methodologies in Near Eastern Studies (5) Investigates prevalent approaches through a survey of scholarship on Near and Middle Eastern civilizations across time periods, cultures, and communities. Examines discourses developed on polytheistic and monotheistic religions, imperial and nationalist social systems, and ideological frameworks, such as Orientalism. View course details in MyPlan: NEAR E 588 NEAR E 589 Research Methods (3) Introduction to research in Islamic civilization. Research methods, primary sources, evidence and documentation, reference works, transliteration systems, scholarly writing style. View course details in MyPlan: NEAR E 589 NEAR E 590 Seminar on Near Eastern Civilization and Thought (3-5, max. 30) Content varies. View course details in MyPlan: NEAR E 590 NEAR E 591 Writing Seminar for NELC Majors and Graduate Students (3) VLPA S. NOEGEL Seminar offers undergraduate majors and graduate students in the department with a close, systematic, and sustained experience with expository writing. All writing and rewriting will focus on subjects that relate to the Near East. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: NEAR E 591 NEAR E 596 Special Studies in Near Eastern Languages and Civilization (3-5, max. 15) Offered occasionally by visitors or resident faculty. Content varies. View course details in MyPlan: NEAR E 596 NEAR E 600 Independent Study or Research (*-) View course details in MyPlan: NEAR E 600 NEAR E 700 Master's Thesis (*) View course details in MyPlan: NEAR E 700 Office of the University Registrar registrar@uw.edu Modified: May 30, 2022