Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Climate School Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Home The School Education Research News Events People Giving Shop Leadership Careers COVID-19 Resources Privacy Policy Explore All Programs MA Climate + Society Non-Degree Programs Educator Training Pre-College Programs Professional Learning Undergraduate Research Experiences Office of Research Pre-Award Unit Research Partners Research Projects Columbia Climate School You are here: Home Events Calendar Funding Opportunity: Global Mental Health Council Grants Program Events Past Event Funding Opportunity: Global Mental Health Council Grants Program Share Add to Calendar: Calendar / Outlook Google Yahoo May 9, 2022 - June 1, 2022 Online Event The Council Grants Program is funded by the Columbia Council for the Advancement of Research in Global Mental Health. The program, through one-year pilot grants, serves as a catalyst for generating and supporting novel projects that improve the knowledge, training, or practice of mental health around the world, especially in low-resource settings. Details and timeline: Each award will provide a maximum of $20,000 for one year. Approximately 3-4 awards will be awarded, depending on availability. Open to early investigators committed to a research career relevant to global mental health. Applicants must have a Columbia appointment or, if not, must collaborate with a Columbia faculty member and submit the application in a multiple Principal Investigator (MPI) format. Open to senior investigators seeking to develop new and innovative applications of their research in a global mental health context. Senior investigators must have a Columbia appointment, or submit the application with a Columbia-affiliated investigator in a MPI format. Applications are due by June 1, 2022. Grant Recipients will be selected by August 15, 2022. Click here to download the full Council Grants Program funding application, or visit our website for more information. All questions can be directed to: [email protected] Contact Information Columbia Global Mental Health Programs [email protected] Upcoming Events Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close