Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site OVPRS Websites Research and Scholarship Home Research Development and Evaluation Research Capacity and Operations Research Administration Regulatory Affairs and Assessment Research Navigator Research Lifecycle 1. Get Started 2. Identify Funding Opportunities 3. Write Proposal 4. Submit Proposal 5. Conduct Research 6. Commercialize Work Learners Key Partners About Vice Provost for Research and Scholarship Leadership Administrative Areas Centers and Institutes Core Facilities and Shared Resources Sign up for a Listserv Events Calendar Contact Us Research Lifecycle Learners Key Partners About Site Feedback Search Research Development and Evaluation Public Voices Fellowship Arts & Humanities Fellowship Grant Writing Support Provost's Awards Research Capacity and Operations Research Administration Regulatory Affairs and Assessment Research Lifecycle 1. Get Started 2. Identify Funding Opportunities 3. Write Proposal 4. Submit Proposal 5. Conduct Research 6. Commercialize Work Learners Key Partners About Vice Provost for Research and Scholarship Leadership Administrative Areas Centers and Institutes Core Facilities and Shared Resources Sign up for a Listserv Events Calendar Contact Us Site Feedback OVPRS Websites Research and Scholarship Home Research Development and Evaluation Research Capacity and Operations Research Administration Regulatory Affairs and Assessment Research Navigator Research Development and Evaluation Public Voices Fellowship Arts & Humanities Fellowship Grant Writing Support Provost's Awards Research Capacity and Operations Research Administration Regulatory Affairs and Assessment $sLabel Home About Research and Scholarship Administrative Areas Research Development and Evaluation AAA Research Development and Evaluation Public Voices Fellowship Arts & Humanities Fellowship Grant Writing Support Provost's Awards Research Capacity and Operations Research Administration Regulatory Affairs and Assessment Research Development and Evaluation Teams dedicated to connecting investigators with funding and with each other. They oversee the application and selection process for internal awards like U-LINK and the Provost’s Research Awards. They also provide noticies of funding opportunities and can connect you with experts on grantwriting. U-LINK The world’s most compelling and difficult problems are complex. Addressing the challenges of climate change, for example, requires thinking about weather patterns, relationship of disease and environment/diet, coastal architecture, energy use, city planning, human communication, the role of truth in media, international relations, big data and many other fields. Provost's Research Awards Internal funding programs designed to foster excellence in research and creative scholarship at the University of Miami. The Provost’s Research Awards provide both salary support and support for direct research costs. arts & humanities fellowships The Fellowship in the Arts & Humanities was established to support faculty with the ultimate goal of elevating both individual faculty careers and the University's scholarly reputation. It provides support for the startup of new projects as well as for advancement of existing projects. Finding resources & opportunities Jump to the Research Lifecycle for a comprehensive listing of internal and external funding and collaborative opportunities. Learn more about grant writing support. University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 305-284-2211 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices