Skip to Main Content apply now ☰ Students Parents Alumni People WyoWeb Virtual Tour Give Events A-Z Directory Admissions UW Admissions First Year Transfer International Graduate Cost of Attendance Financial Aid Scholarships Academics Explore Colleges Academic Affairs Catalog/Schedules Degree Plans Graduate Education Honors College Majors/Degrees UW at a Distance Art Museum UW Libraries Athletics NCAA Athletics Athletics Traditions Cowboy Joe Club Athletics Tickets Campus Recreation Club Sports Rodeo Intramural Sports NOLS Research Research & Econ Dev Wyoming INBRE Neuroscience Ctr Tech Business Ctr Nat Parks Service Research Prod Ctr Supercomputing Water Research WY EPSCoR/IDeA Amer Heritage Ctr UW Life Campus Safety Campus Maps Transit & Parking Res Life & Dining Diversity Student Orgs Cultural Prgms Fine Arts Campus Activities University Store UW Pride About UW Points of Pride Alumni Association Geological Museum Foundation Cowboy Parents UWyo Mag Brand Center Visit Campus Download Viewbook Give to UW Request Info Visit Campus Cost of Attendance Apply Undergraduate Transfer Students Admission to the University of Wyoming REQUIREMENTS When you’re considering transferring to the University of Wyoming, it’s a big step. Will my credits transfer? Where will I live? These are the questions, and more, that our team the Transfer Success Center is eager to answer. They’re committed to helping you from the time you apply to UW to when you arrive at campus. Get started with our pre-transfer credit evaluation which will help give you a starting point to discuss your options and determine your next steps. Why The University of Wyoming? We're #1 on the list of 20 states where college is worth the cost. 52% of UW undergrads have graduated with no student loan debt. Our average 14:1 student-to-faculty ratio gives students individualized attention. Study abroad at over 400 domestic and international locations. Over 80 Programs & Majors to Choose From Our undergraduate degrees are designed to give students close interaction with faculty in our incredible facilities, and even outside in the vast open spaces of Wyoming. Many programs also have options to study abroad and conduct undergraduate research! FIND A PROGRAM TRANSFER SUCCESS CENTER RESOURCES LEARN MORE Pre-Credit Transfer Evaluation The Transfer Success Center assists students with their pre-transfer credit evaluation, which is an essential step in helping you understand what previous course credit can be eligible for review by our Registrar once you apply. GET STARTED CONNECT WITH OTHER FUTURE Students! Download the UW ZeeMee app. Connect with other students interested in attending college here and talk to real UW students. The Transfer Experience Each student’s experience is unique at the University of Wyoming. We know our transfer students tend to succeed the best when they can be connected with other peers off the bat. That’s why we have a designated group of Transfer Peer Mentors who can help our incoming transfer students make connections across the university. Getting Ready to Apply The University of Wyoming strives to make obtaining your degree affordable and accessible. That’s why our undergraduate admission is on a “rolling basis”, meaning you can apply at any time for the upcoming semester. This timeline will help you to start thinking about everything you need to prepare as you get ready to apply. And as always, we’re here to help if you have any questions! Step 1 COMPLETE A PRE-TRANSFER CREDIT EVALUATION Using unofficial transcripts, we will conduct a pre-transfer evaluation of the course credits you have already earned. This will help you evaluate what credits could transfer to UW, but note that an official evaluation will be completed upon your admittance to UW by our registrar’s office using your official transcripts. GET STARTED Step 2 DISCOVER TRANSFER STUDENT SCHOLARSHIPS Prior to your first undergraduate experience, you likely filled out a FAFSA application. If your financial situation has changed since then, be sure to complete a new one as this helps you become eligible for financial aid opportunities from UW, and is a critical step in ensuring you are finding the most affordable path to college. Once you’re admitted, you’re also conditionally awarded any financial commitments from UW! FINANCIAL AID Step 3 FILL OUT AN APPLICATION You can apply online or through the Common Application if you're also applying to other schools. There is a low $40 non-refundable application fee to apply and it takes about 10 minutes. Step 4 SUBMIT YOUR OFFICIAL TRANSCRIPTS Have your official transcripts sent directly from your current college’s registrar office to us. Physical transcripts can be sent to: UW Admissions 1000 E. University Ave Dept. 3435 Laramie, WY 82071 Electronic transcripts can be sent through an electronic transcript service to: admissions@uwyo.edu Admission Requirements Be sure to check the requirements that are needed for scholarships, awards and other financial assistance opportunities. Remember, transfer students who have already obtained an Associate's Degree are eligible for UW's financial commitments! A cumulative GPA of 2.0 (on a 4.0 scale.) 12 transferable credit hours. If less than 12 credit hours, a high school transcript is required (ACT or SAT required if under 21.) More Resources Start at a Community College Students who decide to begin education at a community college can pursue their four-year degree with our 2+2 degree plans to help ease the process of coursework transfers from other colleges, including Wyoming’s seven community colleges. The first step in your transition to UW is to connect with our Transfer Success Center so we can help you begin the process. LEARN MORE Find an Admissions Counselor UW is located in beautiful Laramie — the heart of the Mountain West. You can set up one-on-one appointments to ask questions and learn more about UW! MAKE AN APPOINTMENT Visit Campus Three Ways Transferring to a new college is a huge decision and we want to make sure you are feeling confident about your choice. UW offers future students several visit opportunities including in-person visits, a virtual tour and sessions so you can see our beautiful campus. PLAN A VISIT Equal Opportunity Admission Statement Persons seeking admission, employment, or access to programs of the University of Wyoming shall be considered without regard to race, color, religion, sex, national origin, disability, age, veteran status, sexual orientation, or political belief. We're Eager To Help Contact Us UW Office of Admissions Knight Hall 150 Department 3435, 1000 E. University Avenue Laramie, WY 82071 Phone: +1-307-766-5160 Toll-Free: (800) 342-5996 E-mail: admissions@uwyo.edu 1000 E. University Ave. Laramie, WY 82071 UW Operators (307) 766-1121 | Contact Us | Download Adobe Reader Accreditation | Virtual Tour | Emergency Preparedness | Employment at UW | Privacy Policy | Harassment & Discrimination | Accessibility