Your Texas Business Resource Be the first to know about the latest business news and exclusive training events. × Required field* * Business Status Select One Pre-Venture Startup Existing Franchise Exit Account Log In Find Your SBDC Find An Expert Business Advising Business Specialists Government Procurement PTAC International Trade Technology Commercialization Training In-Person Events Webinars Become a Trainer Browse Resources Start Your Business Grow Your Business Marketing International Trade COVID-19 Resources Disaster Preparedness SBDC Blog SBDC News Rent Space Blog About Us About the SBDC Mission and Vision FAQs Starting Your Business Growing Your Business Financing Your Business Marketing Your Business Region Office Locations Success Stories Impact Report University of Houston Small Business Development Center Login Submit Create an Account | Forgot Password Get Helping Small Businesses Start, Grow and Succeed! Business Advising Training Events Ready to Get Started? With 13 locations, the University of Houston Texas Gulf Coast SBDC Network is responsible for providing small business assistance to 32 counties throughout Southeast Texas. If you're in need of small business assistance, the SBDC advising staff can assist you in various stages of the business life cycle: pre-venture or early stage, startup, expansion, growth and exit. Click the link below to find a virtual business advisor at an SBDC location near you. Find your Location Start Your Business Access individualized business advising and resources to start a business. Grow Your Business Get professional assistance to help you develop strategies for business growth. In-Person Events Gain new business knowledge and skills on a variety of small business topics. Webinars Register now for free, live and recorded webinars. Get business tips and strategies taught by experts. Webinars & In-Person Events Upcoming Live Events Live Webinar 6/14/2022 11:00:00 AM Crypto Currency and Your Business Register Live Webinar 6/22/2022 9:30:00 AM Making the Most of Your Marketing Register In Person 6/23/2022 9:00:00 AM QuickBooks Online Register Schedule A Business Advising Session If you are a new client ready to schedule a virtual or in-person appointment with one of our small business advisors, please watch this video for a step-by step guide in requesting an appointment. For existing clients, please contact your current advisor for small business help. Client Survey Help us improve our advisory services to better serve your business needs. Hurricane Preparedness Prepare your small business for hurricane season. Review preparedness plans and more. SBDC News Stay up-to-date with our latest news, success stories, small business workshops and more. Sign Up for Business Tips Subscribe to our newsletter. Small business news, tips and advice straight to your inbox. The University of Houston Texas Gulf Coast SBDC Network is a business advising and training center serving 32 counties in Southeast Texas. The UH Texas Gulf Coast SBDC Network is a program of the UH Bauer College of Business and a resource partner of the U. S. Small Business Administration (SBA). The SBDC is funded in part through a cooperative agreement with the U. S. Small Business Administration. All opinions, conclusions or recommendations expressed herein are those of the author(s) and do not necessarily reflect the views of the SBA. SBDC programs are nondiscriminatory and are available to individuals with disabilities. The University of Houston is an EEO/AA institution. Reasonable accommodations for persons with disabilities will be made if requested at least two weeks in advance. Contact the SBDC at 713-752-8488 for accommodations. About Us | Business Advising | Webinars | FAQS | UH Bauer College of Business | UH Policies | UHS Privacy Notice | Copyright | SBDC Locations Copyright © 2020 University of Houston Small Business Development Center. All rights reserved. ABOUT SSL CERTIFICATES Powered by: Find Your SBDC Find An Expert Business Advising Business Specialists Government Procurement PTAC International Trade Technology Commercialization Training In-Person Events Webinars Become a Trainer Browse Resources Start Your Business Grow Your Business Marketing International Trade COVID-19 Resources Disaster Preparedness SBDC Blog SBDC News Rent Space Blog About Us About the SBDC Mission and Vision FAQs Starting Your Business Growing Your Business Financing Your Business Marketing Your Business Region Office Locations Success Stories Impact Report