Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Rudi E. Scheidt School of Music About Us Admissions Academics Ensembles Faculty Support Events Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Admissions Apply Degree Outlines Audition Information Scholarships and Assistantships Tuition & Financial Aid International Students Admissions FAQ Admissions Events Arrange a Visit Take Action Apply Now Alumni Support Us Scheidt Family Music Center Contact Us Follow the School of Music Online InstagramFacebooktwitterYoutubeLinkedInVimeo Home Music Admissions Graduate Funding Graduate Funding The School of Music offers a variety of financial assistance to help support graduate education, in the form of fellowships, assistantships, scholarships, and internships and is available to talented and academically qualified students. For more information on funding opportunities in a specific studio or area, please contact Music Admission. How to apply? The School of Music application serves as the application for graduate assistantships, scholarships, and internships. When to apply? All application materials must be received and completed by March 1. In addition, graduate students who receive School of Music funding must file a free application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA). Our school code is 003509. Memphis Fellowship Program The Rudi E. Scheidt School of Music, and the Memphis Symphony Orchestra (MSO) have joined to create the Memphis Fellowship Program (MFP), a prestigious performance fellowship program for exceptional string players. The program provides a one to two year learning experience for up to four graduate and post-graduate violin, viola, and cello players coming from African-American and Latinx communities that are historically underrepresented in classical music. Contact Music Admission for more informaiton. Online M.M. Music Education Scholarships Funding is available periodically to students who are NOT receiving a graduate assistantship (GA) and who demonstrate financial need and academic excellence. In addition to this application, requirements include unofficial transcripts, endorsement from a School of Music faculty member, and a written essay. Selections are made based on financial need (50%) and academic merit (50%). Graduate scholarship funding is fluid from one year to the next; therefore, recipients are not guaranteed future funding in subsequent years of their degree programs. Awards appear as credits on recipients' student accounts; cash awards are not possible. Apply > Graduate Assistantships Graduate Assistantships cover tuition up to 9 credit hours, apart from any fees, and provide a stipend of $7,000 per academic year. Recipients are required to commit 20 hours of service per week during the Fall and Spring Semesters and to perform at the Spring Commencement ceremony. The assignment will be based upon the needs of the School of Music, and may include responsibilities in music performance, teaching, or administrative support. This award is renewable for up to three years based on job performance and satisfactory progress toward the degree. This is an excellent opportunity to gain valuable college-level teaching experience while still having the guidance and mentorship of the faculty. Graduate Scholarships Graduate scholarships are awarded to students who perform in assigned ensembles ranging from 5-10 hours per week depending on the award. These awards allow students to focus their attention on performing or teaching while maintaining the flexibility to pursue opportunities outside the School of Music. Graduate Internships Graduate interns are hired to assist with the daily operations of the School of Music. These positions are available to graduate students who are NOT awarded an Assistantship and are selected based on prior experience and interests. Students work between 5-20 hours per week each spring and fall semester. Students in these positions enjoy the convenience of having a part-time job in the same location where they practice, perform and study. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 5/31/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.