Skip to main content Menu Resources Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply or Give Apply Now Make a Gift Masters of Science in Data Science and Analytics Masters of Science in Data Science and Analytics Masters of Data Science and Business Analytics overview from Clemson University on Vimeo. Request Program Info Overview The Masters ofScience in Data Science and Analytics (DSA) is an online degree program developed cooperatively by Clemson’s School of Mathematical and Statistical Sciences and Department of Management. The program requires 30 credit hours, 15 hours from the School of Mathematical and Statistical Sciences and 15 hours from the Department of Management. This unique degree program is entirely online, targets current working professionals, and produces data analysts with course work in decision sciences and management. Career fields for program graduates include manufacturing, military, government, and healthcare administration. Student cohorts for this program begin every Summer. The DSA Program held an Information Session on March 11, 2021. Click here to see the Zoom recording of that session. Why Data Science at Clemson? In today’s market of constant information, the ability to take ideas from multiple sources to form solutions has never been more accessible or desirable. Students need to have a breadth of knowledge while maintaining an individual expertise. Clemson University’s MS in data science and analytics will provide students with knowledge in statistics, mathematics, computer science, and business management. This transdisciplinary approach to learning fosters a breadth of ideas to strengthen the depth of an individual proficiency. A graduate degree in purely computer science, statistics, or business management will provide a depth of knowledge in a field of study, but may not provide the breadth component that has become crucial in today’s workplace. DSA Student 2020 Cohort “After working in the technology industry for over 5 years, I wanted to expand my skillset and knowledge. Working full-time, I also knew that I’d need to find a part-time program that would fit my difficult schedule. The flexibility of the program and diverse background of my classmates in the program have exceeded my expectations and the skills I’ve learned in just the first semester have already been put to use at my full-time job. I’m excited to use this masters degree to further myself in the software industry.” -Steele Schauer “Data Science is one of the most influential and powerful resources of the 21st century. Acquiring the tools and necessary skills from a top-rated university like Clemson was pretty intimidating at first. As a full time mother and wife, I was nervous to start this new journey. I can honestly say the DSA masters program at Clemson is the best of both worlds. The faculty and staff are amazing. The cohort model adds additional benefits through interaction and collaboration with my classmates. It really feels like I’m part of a team here, or better yet, a family." -Tiffany Pirtle Tuition For up to date information about tuition visit Clemson University’s tuition calculator. Navigate to Online programs, then MS Data Science & Analytics. Financial Aid The DSA program does not currently offer assistantships. Resources for financial aid for graduate students can be found here. Home Academics How To Apply Resources About Us Contact Us msdsa@clemson.edu Related Links School of Mathematical and Statistical Sciences Department of Management Graduate School Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram