Skip to main content Main navigation Academics Faculty & Research News & Events Offices & Services About Us Information For Alumni Industry Partners & Recruiters Prospective Students Shortcuts Employment & Jobs Visit Us Make a Gift Search Read the latest updates on coronavirus from Harvard University. For SEAS specific-updates, please visit SEAS & FAS Division of Science: Coronavirus FAQs SearchMenu Prospective Students Prospective Graduate Students Funding & Scholarship: Graduate Programs Financial support for Ph.D. students All students admitted into our Ph.D. program receive full financial support. This support includes tuition, fees, and a cost-of-living stipend ($3413 per month before taxes in AY21-22). Support is independent of need provided a student remains in good academic standing and is making satisfactory progress towards his/her Ph.D. degree. Students are expected to complete their Ph.D. requirements in four to six years. Financial support takes several forms: fellowships, teaching fellowships, and research assistantships. Ordinarily, first-year Ph.D. students are supported with full fellowships so that they can devote all their time to coursework. All Ph.D. students are required to participate in the educational program for about ten hours a week for one term-usually as a quarter time teaching fellow or in a similar capacity- during their second year of study. Beyond the first year, when students are in a better position to teach and assist in research, support is ordinarily provided through research assistantships, or a combination of a teaching fellowship and a research assistantship. For more detailed information, please visit the following pages: GSAS Tuition and Fees GSAS Financial Support for PhD Students External financial support for Ph.D. students Applicants and current students are encouraged and expected to apply for all non-Harvard scholarships for which they are eligible, especially those offered by the National Science Foundation (NSF) Graduate Research Fellowship Program and National Defense Science and Engineering Graduate Fellowship (NDSEG). Each year, many SEAS/GSAS students secure funding from external agencies. Students who are offered external awards are expected to accept them in place of Harvard funding. By freeing up SEAS/GSAS funds for assignment to other students, these students help ensure that the SEAS/GSAS financial aid program is able to do the most good for the largest possible number of students. To ensure equitable treatment of all students, the coordination of external award benefits with a student’s existing funding package is determined by the GSAS financial aid officer in consultation with SEAS. PhD students with external support are eligible for a SEAS-sponsored academic incentive. PhD students who bring in open, competitive external fellowships that are equal to 50% or more of total their support (tuition/fees + stipend) will receive a supplemental award of $3,000 in the first year of the external fellowship. PhD students who bring in open external competitive external fellowships that are not 50% or more of their total support and are at least $10,000 (tuition/fees + stipend or salary) will receive a supplemental award of $1,000. The full $3,000 bonus may also be awarded in certain cases of multi-year fellowships depending on the total amount of support provided. Financial support for masters students (M.E. & S.M.) While financial aid is not available for master’s students in our M.E. and S.M. programs, there are a variety of funding opportunities available. Prospective students are encouraged to apply for independent grants and fellowships to fund their studies. Information about tuition and fees can be found here. Students in our Institute for Applied Computational Science (IACS) masters programs- in Computational Science & Engineering or Data Science-should visit the IACS Funding page and also may contact the GSAS Financial Aid Office to learn more. Students in the MS/MBA:Engineering Sciences program are eligible to apply for need-based HBS Fellowships and student loans in both years of the program. Main navigation Information For In Prospective Students Prospective Graduate Students Learn More Funding & Scholarship: Graduate Programs Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) How to Apply Non-Degree Status: Special Students & Visiting Fellows Contact Information Graduate Student Data Clubs & Organizations Prospective Undergraduate Students What concentrations (majors) are a part of SEAS? SEAS Tours (undergraduate only) Clubs & Organizations Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ's) Student Stories Harvard John A. Paulson School of Engineering and Applied Sciences 150 Western Ave, Allston, MA 02134 29 Oxford Street, Cambridge, MA 02138 Footer - Social Media Links Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn © 2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College Footer Diversity Mission Trademark Notice Accessibility Policy Privacy Policy