Department of English - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to College of Liberal Arts and Social Sciences Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search English About Community Partnerships Academic Programs Graduate Studies Undergraduate Studies Creative Writing Program Faculty and Staff A-Z Faculty Listing Faculty by Specialization Administration & Staff Division Directors Guidelines for Promotion and Tenure Opportunities News and Events Photo Gallery Language and Culture Center Newsletter Giving English News & Events Guggenheim Fellow As an award-winning literary artist, Roberto Tejada has penned more than a dozen books throughout his illustrious career, but it’s his most recent collection of poems, started in the early days of the COVID-19 lockdown, that has earned him a fellowship from the John Simon Guggenheim Memorial Foundation. English Professor Wins Outstanding Fellowship Mentor Award The University of Houston College of Liberal Arts and Social Sciences (CLASS) is pleased to announce that Sally Connolly, associate dean for student and faculty success and associate professor of contemporary poetry, has been awarded the Outstanding Fellowship Mentor Award by the Office of Undergraduate Research and Major Awards (OURMA). Francine J. Harris Receives 2020 National Book Critics Circle Poetry Award The University of Houston College of Liberal Arts and Social Sciences (CLASS) and the Department of English are pleased to announce that Associate Professor of English Francine J. Harris is the winner of the 2020 National Book Critics Circle (NBCC) Award for poetry. She received this honor for her most recent work, “Here is the Sweet Hand” (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, 2020). UH Poet Awarded National Endowment for the Arts Fellowship Joy Priest is a first-year doctoral student in the UH Creative Writing program in the College of Liberal Arts and Social Sciences. She has been awarded a fellowship from the National Endowment for the Arts which will allow her to set aside time for writing, research and travel. English Department News and Events Creative Writing Program Calendar Boldface Conference for Emerging Writers Glass Mountain undergraduate literary journal hosts conference dedicated to emerging writers. Honors Day CWP alum Dr. Lacy Johnson addresses graduates and award winners at English department Honors Day. English Department Faculty Receive Grant from Hobby Center for Public Policy Grant will support project titled, “Digital and Physical Inroads to Sustaining Scholarly-Community Rapport: Toward a Research Collective on Writing, Community, and Global Culture. About English at UH The Department of English advances the intellectual and cultural life of our thriving global city and furthers a national and international dialogue on narrative, poetics, history, and culture. Our faculty in literature, creative writing, rhetoric and composition, linguistics, and folklore produce scholarly and imaginative works that bridge a wide spectrum of disciplinary fields and shape our social surroundings. We educate students to be active, innovative citizens in an information age defined by cultural diversity, interconnection, and boundless interactive possibilities. Connect with us Department Programs Undergraduate Graduate Creative Writing Department Highlights Faculty Bookshelf Periodicals Why Major in English? University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies