Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Engineering Technology Future Students Current Students Research People About Accreditation Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Current Students Undergraduate Graduate Policies & Procedures Finance & Employment Student Societies Forms/Resources Take Action ET Degree Programs Herff College of Engineering Contact Us Home Engineering Technology Current Students Graduate Lean Certificate Applied Lean Leadership Certificate Graduate Certificate Program in Applied Lean Leadership The Department of Engineering Technology offers a Graduate Certificate in Applied Lean Leadership. The certificate is intended for students with a bachelor's degree who are currently working full-time in a production or service industry, and are specifically interested in learning about Lean principles and practices. Through more than 160 hours of instruction by practitioners of the principles and practices of Lean, the program provides students with competitive knowledge and skills for jobs in which Lean is practiced and a cost-effective way to upgrade technical skills in Lean techniques. Based on the Society of Manufacturing Engineers' "Lean Certification Body of Knowledge," a student who completes the certificate program will be expected to be able to pass the Lean Certification Exam at the Bronze level. (Learn more about Lean Certification HERE). For admission, students must apply through the graduate school, but are not required to complete the Graduate Record Examination. Download the Engineering Technology Applied Lean Leadership Graduate Certificate Program Flyer. CURRICULUM: The curriculum consists of two required core courses for a total of 6 semester credit hours, plus two elective courses for an additional 6 semester credit hours. REQUIRED CORE COURSES: TECH 7105: Project Plan & Scheduling (3): Contemporary methods used in project planning and scheduling; emphasis on critical path method (CPM) with computer application; solution of actual problems stressed. NOTE: Due to reasons beyond our control, the TN eCampus (formerly RODP) version of this course offered Summer 2011 and Fall 2011 (R50 Section) is not acceptable for this requirement. TECH 7401: Lean Fundamentals (3): Basic concepts and terminology of Lean, including review of published seminal works and case studies. Concepts covered include: kanban, visual factory & 5S, kaizen, standard work, takt time, flow, poke-yoke, PDCA, SMED and other tools & techniques of Lean. PREREQUISITE: TECH 4/6460 or equivalent, or permission of instructor. Course prerequisites for TECH 7401 will be waived for students who have demonstrated relevant work experience. ELECTIVE COURSES: TECH 7402 - Adv Quality Control (3): Methods for improved process and product design; cost of quality, measurement systems analysis, process capability, design of experiments and analysis, continuous improvement and review of quality standards. PREREQUISITE: TECH 4/6462 or equivalent, or permission of instructor. TECH 7404. Wrld/Clas Manfct Concpt. (3). World-class manufacturing concepts including Training Within Industry (TWI), Standard Work, 5s tools, Ergonomics, Human factors and Cellular Manufacturing. COREQUISITE: TECH 7401. TECH 7406. Material Handling/Auto (3). Analysis, design, and evaluation of traditional and contemporary approaches to materials handling; analytical and computer procedures for designing handling systems. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. TECH 7408. Production Processes. (3). A coordinated study of manufacturing processes and equipment, operation sequence planning, economic aspects of equipment selection, tooling and processing a product from product design to final assembly for quantity production. TECH 7414. Manuf Strat/Syst Design (3). Manufacturing strategy and systems design, including concepts of value stream mapping, theory of constraints, lean and six sigma (TLS) combined use, implementing and sustaining change and overcoming resistance, executive alignment and strategy. COREREQUISITE: TECH 7401. Students may enroll in two electives from the Fogelman College of Business and Economics. Selection of the two business electives must be approved by the student's academic advisor and the Associate Dean of the Fogelman College. For more information, contact: Dr. Kevin Berisso, Graduate Coordinator Department of Engineering Technology kberisso@memphis.edu 901.678.4300 Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 5/13/21 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.