Search | Directories | Reference Tools UW Home > Discover UW > Student Guide UW Bothell Course Descriptions UW Tacoma Course Descriptions Glossary SCHOOL OF DENTISTRY DENTISTRY DENTAL FOUNDATIONS Detailed course offerings (Time Schedule) are available for Spring Quarter 2022 Summer Quarter 2022 Autumn Quarter 2022 DENTFN 500 Early Clinical Immersion (6) Provides introduction to clinical dentistry and each of the pre-doctoral curriculum threads. Students participate in classroom lectures with multidisciplinary faculty. Also includes small group activities, large group activities and offsite experiences. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: S. View course details in MyPlan: DENTFN 500 DENTFN 501 Head and Neck Anatomy for Dental Students (3) An overview of Head and Neck Anatomy geared toward dental students. Through lectures and hands-on dissection, students learn the gross anatomical structures of the oro-facial complex and their interrelationship the organization of the nervous system, (vasculature, lymphatics etc.), of the rest of the body. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: DENTFN 501 DENTFN 510 Molecular and Cellular Basis of Disease - Foundations (4) Teaches the principles of cell and molecular biology, physiology, biochemistry and genetics. Aspects include the organization of the gnome, properties of macromolecules, and cytoarchitecture. Students gain an understanding of intracellular communication, cell-cell interactions, properties of differentiated cells, and the diversity of their physiological properties and functions. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: DENTFN 510 DENTFN 511 Invaders and Defenders - Foundations (5) Covers and integrates the immune system, microbial biology, infectious diseases (including treatment), inflammation and repair, and skin and connective tissue. Topics include the pathogenesis and immunity of infectious disease, immunodeficiencies, hypersensitivity, autoimmunity, the basis of immunologic diagnostics. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: DENTFN 511 DENTFN 512 Foundations of Dental Medicine (2) Familiarizes students with the elements of patient interviewing, including developing a problem-focused, medical, social, and dental history. Covers how to physically assess the dental patient. Teaches how to apply principles of cultural competence and ethics throughout this process. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: DENTFN 512 DENTFN 513 Oral Microbiology (2) Applies basic sciences to an understanding of the molecular bases of the interactions between microorganisms and oral tissues that lead to plaque formation and dental diseases. Covers principles of clinical asepsis and diagnosis of caries and periodontal diseases. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: DENTFN 513 DENTFN 520 Cardiac, Pulmonary, and Renal Diseases - Foundations (8) Covers the structure, function, and diseases of the cardiac, pulmonary, and renal systems, with special emphasis on the management of these diseases in the practice of dental medicine and surgery. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: DENTFN 520 DENTFN 521 Introduction to Dental Public Health (2) Students analyze a real-world public health case, and develop feasible solutions. Each small group present their solutions at the end of the course. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: DENTFN 521 DENTFN 522 Foundations of Dental Medicine (2) Students increase expertise with patient interviewing and developing a problem-focused medical, social, and dental history. Improves student skills in physical assessment, including diagnostic tests. Covers how to develop a differential diagnosis. Students learn and apply principles of cultural competence and ethics throughout this process. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: DENTFN 522 DENTFN 523 Oral Histology and Embryology I (3) Development of orofacial and neck structures; tooth/pulp histology, development, eruption and exfoliation; innervation of teeth and oral structures; craniofacial and dental anomalies; cranioskeletal development; temporomandibular joint; masticatory muscle structure and function; oral mucosa and epithelial differentiation; periodontium and epithelial attachment; specialized mucosa; gustation; and salivary gland structure and physiology. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: DENTFN 523 DENTFN 530 Blood and Cancer - Foundations (3) Provides an overview of hematology and oncology. Students learn the biology of bone marrow and blood, with an introduction to the field of cancer medicine. Specific cancer subtypes are discussed, providing illustrative examples of the impact of molecular biology and environmental risk factors in the development/treatment of malignancy. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: DENTFN 530 DENTFN 531 Energetics and Homeostasis - Foundations (5) Covers energy metabolism, nutrition, obesity, diabetes, gastrointestinal/liver physiology, and endocrinology. Topics include physiology and pathology of digestion and hepatic function; principles and practice of clinical nutrition; endocrine integration of metabolism; and endocrine pathophysiology. Also covers relevant anatomy, histology, and pharmacology of the endocrine and GI systems. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: DENTFN 531 DENTFN 533 Oral Histology and Embryology 2 (3) Examines the development of orofacial and neck structures; tooth/pulp histology, development, eruption and exfoliation; innervation of teeth and oral structures; craniofacial and dental anomalies; cranioskeletal development; temporomandibular joint; masticatory muscle structure/function; oral mucosa and epithelial differentiation; periodontium and epithelial attachment; specialized mucosa; gustation; and salivary gland structure and physiology. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: DENTFN 533 DENTFN 560 Mind, Brain, and Behavior - Foundations (5) Covers the macro- and microscopic structure and function of the human nervous and musculoskeletal systems in terms of students' contribution to observable behavior, ranging from reflexes through cognitive and social behavior. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: DENTFN 560 DENTFN 561 Lifecycle - Foundations (4) Covers the physiology, anatomy/imaging, and pathology of the human lifecycle from conception to death and gives the dental student the necessary medical background to facilitate dental treatment of patients experiencing these diseases and disorders. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: DENTFN 561 DENTFN 562 Foundations of Dental Medicine 3 (2) Reviews the medical, legal, social, and historical contexts affecting the oral and overall health of people with disabilities, patients in all stages of life, and patients from diverse backgrounds. Discusses communication techniques, delivery of care, and health promotion for diverse populations. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: DENTFN 562 Office of the University Registrar registrar@uw.edu Modified: May 30, 2022