Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Music Therapy PhD You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Music Therapy PhD Apply Request More Info Music Therapy PhD Admissions Careers & Opportunities Curriculum Doctoral Audition Requirements Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Music Therapy PhD Advance your scholarship and establish clinical competence with a Music Therapy PhD in Boyer College of Music and Dance. Immerse yourself in quantitative and qualitative research models, and make significant contributions to the field in both research and theory. Led by world-renowned music therapists, Temple’s Music Therapy PhD is recognized as the first of its kind in the U.S. Study advanced areas of Music Medicine and Music Psychotherapy, and acquire focused expertise by specializing in a particular client population, methodology or research paradigm. The curriculum is grounded in advanced music therapy courses complemented by studies of music, research and related health disciplines. Culminating events for doctoral students include a comprehensive examination, as well as a final dissertation and defense. This doctoral degree program emphasizes proficiency in teaching higher education and clinical supervision. Graduates typically become professors, practitioners, researchers or supervisors in healthcare settings. Classes & Curriculum The Music Therapy PhD curriculum includes Advanced Research Methods in Music Therapy, Research in Music Medicine, Research in Music Psychotherapy and Theory Development in Music Therapy. Learn more about the Music Therapy PhD coursework. Explore Boyer Faculty Faculty Discover music therapy faculty in the Boyer College of Music and Dance. Explore Boyer Faculty See faculty members in Boyer music therapy degree programs. Intensive Learning Retreats & Online Instruction Music Therapy courses are offered through various combinations of intensive learning retreats and online instruction via the Canvas program. The amount of time spent in class versus online varies according to the content and objectives of each course. Some courses require the full 12 to 13 hours per credit in class time, while others require less in-class time with more instructional time online. Two intensive retreats are offered each semester. Each retreat lasts from eight to 10 days, but you will only attend those days on which your classes meet. Music Therapy PhD at Temple University, Japan Campus International students can complete a Music Therapy PhD with courses taught in English at Temple’s campus in Tokyo, Japan. Master’s courses in advanced research and clinical practice, including medical music therapy and music psychotherapy, as well as courses on supervision and ethics are offered. Coursework is structured to accommodate the schedules of working music therapists. Classes take place during during a one- to two-week period during the spring or summer, accompanied by online learning throughout the year. Contact Darlene Brooks, the PhD program director, at darlene.brooks@temple.edu for more information. Learn more about the PhD in Music Therapy at Temple University Japan. Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Doctor of Philosophy offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $1,095.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,458.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Our Advisors The coordinator of the Music Therapy PhD serves as the academic advisor for all incoming doctoral students. Your advisor will assist with navigating your program. Once you have completed 30 credits and all preliminary examinations, you can select an advisor in your area of study. Darlene Brooks is the graduate advisor for the Music Therapy PhD. Phone: 215-204-8301 Email: darlene.brooks@temple.edu Program Contact Darlene Brooks is the coordinator for the Music Therapy PhD. Phone: 215-204-8340 Email: darlene.brooks@temple.edu Student Clubs & Organizations Participating in student groups provides peer support and future professional contacts. There are more than 200 student organizations at Temple University. Music Therapy Club raises money for charity organizations and performs community service projects. The club also raises funds to send students to the American Music Therapy Association Mid-Atlantic Conference. National Association for Music Education is a conservatory chapter of the national organization of music educators. Semester activities include creating projects, presenting guest speakers and workshops, attending the PMEA All-State conference, participating in outreach activities, and learning to use various online music education resources. OwlCappella is a coed a cappella group—one of seven student-run a cappella ensembles on campus—that provides a musical outlet for non-music and music majors alike. Learn more about clubs and organizations. Accreditation The Boyer College of Music and Dance is accredited by the American Music Therapy Association, National Association of Schools of Music, National Association of Schools of Dance and Pennsylvania Department of Education. BC-MTHE-PHD Additional Program Information School/College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Music Therapy PhD Admissions Careers & Opportunities Curriculum Doctoral Audition Requirements Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info