Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links Menu Main Nav Learning to Learn Contact Back Back Close About Overview People Contact Programs Overview Applications Learning Theory BC F1RST - College Transition Program DIOP Graduate Mentor Program McNair Exploratory Program McNair Scholars Program Sisters, Let's Talk BC F1RST - Living Learning Community Campus Partners Contact Close Directory A to Z Listing Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close McNair Scholars Program Home Programs McNair Scholars Program Programs Applications Learning Theory BC F1RST - College Transition Program DIOP Graduate Mentor Program McNair Exploratory Program McNair Scholars Program Sisters, Let's Talk BC F1RST - Living Learning Community McNair Scholars Program Funded by the U.S. Department of Education, the McNair program prepares undergraduates from First Generation, Low-Income and underrepresented backgrounds to pursue and attain an advanced degree to enter careers in research and academia. Students are paired with faculty mentors and are provided with academic advising, research opportunities and workshops tailored to the graduate school experience and application process. In addition, through the O'Neill Library, students receive special library privileges, including graduate student borrowing status and an assigned librarian. All disciplines are encouraged to apply. The McNair Program is named in honor of the late Dr. Ronald E. McNair, one of seven crew members aboard the Space ShuttleChallenger. Despite social and economic barriers, Dr. McNair earned many outstanding achievements such as completing a Ph.D. in Physics from M.I.T. at the age of 26 and was the second African-American to fly to space. In addition, Dr. McNair received many distinguished awards, including the National Ford Foundation Fellowship and the Presidential Scholarship. We honor and hope to continue to live out his legacy. If you are a first generation college student and are interested in pursuing a Master's degree or a Doctoral degree post your baccalaureate career at Boston College please visit us at the Learning to Learn office. Applications are due June 1st, 2022 or rolling admissions. Apply Now June 1, 2022 Application Deadline Program Description Program Services Application Information Program Description The Ronald E. McNair Post-Baccalaureate Achievement Program (McNair Program) is a graduate school preparation program for Boston College undergraduates who are low-income, first-generation college students or undergraduate students from underrepresented backgrounds interested in furthering their education and are committed to pursuing an advance degree. The McNair program provides students with programming and services that supports their research and graduate degree attainment ambitions. Through workshops, seminars, summer research and grduate school preparation McNair shcolars build an abudnace of necessary skills to submit graduate applications to the most competitive graduate programs in the nation. Program Services Faculty Mentors Each student is paired with a faculty member in their field of study. Faculty mentors guide students through their research planning and implementation process. Mentors also provide advice about graduate programs and encourage students to participate in local and regional conferences and research forums where students become exposed to the world of research and academia. Research Opportunities During the first year of program participation, a student meets with his/her faculty mentor once per month to explore opportunities for research or assist in the faculty's current research project(s). During the second year (and third year, for those who enter the program as sophomores), the student will develop and complete a research project with ongoing support from the faculty–mentor. Stipends are available during the research phase of program participation. Students present their research at the end of the 8-week summer research program. Graduate School Preparation The McNair Program assists students in all aspects of preparation for graduate school, including standardized test preparation, visiting and assessing graduate schools, and applying for financial aid and fellowships. In addition, a series of workshops supports students throughout the completion of their undergraduate degrees. Applying Applications for this two- or three-year program may be submitted during Spring semester of Freshman or Sophomore year. The application form is available at 50 College Road, or can be accessed online. If downloaded online please print the file and complete the application by hand. Application Eligibility Requirements Boston College undergraduate Citizen of the United States or Permanent Resident A cumulative 2.8 GPA or above Applicants must fall within one of these 2 groups: Meet income guidelines specified by the Department of Education; and have neither parent graduated from a four-year college Or be from an underrepresented group in graduate education Instructions Print application or download and complete, carefully review your information, then submit to McNair Program at the Learning to Learn Office, 50 College Road. Application Materials Include Hard Copy of your Appplication Copy of your unofficial transcript Two forms of recommendation: one from a professor in your major (preferable), and the other from an employer or other person who is not a family member Proof of income: a copy of last year’s tax forms from you or your parent(s)/guardian An essay of 2 pages or less: Your reasons for choosing to participate in the McNair Program Your plans after graduation in regards to furthering your education and your career goals How the McNair Program will help you fulfill your plans in regard to your education and career Back To Top Back To Top Learning to Learn 50 College Road Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 About Programs Events Campus Partners Connect with us Facebook Instagram LTL LinkTree Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College