UH Title IX Directory Toggle navigation Menu University of Hawaiʻi® System Title IX and The Office of Institutional Equity Case Management System Resources Employee Log in Accessibility Info Report to UH Get Help & Support Support Overview Directory Title IX Resources Title IX Coordinators Confidential Resources Community Resources Learn More Learn More Overview Glossary U.S. ED OCR – 2020 Title IX Final Rule Laws & Guidance Events About OIE About OCR Climate Survey Climate Survey Overview What is Campus Climate? (FAQs) Taking the Survey & Translations Survey Results & Methodology Climate Survey Team Media Policies & Procedures Policy Overview Title IX Policy & Procedures FAQs related to EP 1.204 & AP 1.204 Responsible Employees under EP 1.204 (Aug. 14, 2020) UH Systemwide Policies and Procedures Information System (PPIS) Training Training Overview Request Live Training by OIE Online Training Employees Online Title IX Training – Students Title IX Training Archive Search Search this site: Search Home The University of Hawaiʻi is committed to maintaining and promoting safe and respectful campus environments that are free from sex discrimination and gender-based violence. COVID-19 Update: Title IX Coordinators and advocacy services will remain available to our students and employees at this time. However, we encourage students to contact services by email or phone. More information available at the link below. Get Support Title IX Coordinators Campus Security UH Confidential Resources Title IX Coordinator (See also Official with Authority) The University of Hawai’i has Title IX Coordinators and Deputy Title IX Coordinators on each … Continued UH Student Campus Climate Survey Regarding Sexual Harassment & Gender-Based Violence What is campus climate? Check out the Title IX brochure for resources and information. Download Brochure Temporary Restraining Order (see also Protective Order and Order for Protection) You have a right to live in a safe environment, free from the threat … Continued Announcements All Announcements Upcoming Events New online student training: Sex discrimination and gender-violence August 31, 2017 - December 31, 2017 University of Hawaiʻi President David Lassner shared a message on August 31 to all UH students. Aloha University of Hawaiʻi students, As a member of the … Continued Posted by Cu Ri Lee on UH News 1st gen Shidler alumna endows $100K scholarship to honor parents Native Hawaiians more at risk for gout, UH study reveals More News Title IX and the Office of Institutional Equity The University of Hawai‘i is committed to maintaining and promoting safe and respectful campus environments that are free from sex discrimination and gender-based violence. University Policies Cover Sex Discrimination; Sexual Harassment; Gender-based harassment, including harassment based on actual or perceived sex, gender, sexual orientation, gender identity, or gender expression; Sexual exploitation; Sexual assault; Domestic violence; Dating violence; and Stalking. Get Help & Support If you have any questions or concerns about sex discrimination or gender-based violence, you should contact your respective campus Title IX Coordinator. You can also contact a Confidential Resource. Previous Next Office of Institutional Equity 1960 East West Road Biomed A-210 Honolulu, Hawaiʻi 96822 Telephone (808) 956-8629 Email institutional.equity@hawaii.edu Site Map | Privacy Policy | Accessibility Policy Download Acrobat Reader TIX Login Office of the Vice President for Administration Capital Improvements Facilities Contracts Human Resources Procurement and Real Property Management Risk Management Sustainability UH News and Communications Use of this site implies consent with our Usage Policy The University of Hawaiʻi is an equal opportunity/affirmative action institution Back to top of page