Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Human Resources Retirement Retirement Medicare Social Security Working at SMU Working at SMU Staff Careers Faculty Careers Temporary Jobs Student Jobs Internal Applicant Get Involved Living In Dallas Benefits & Wellness Benefits & Wellness Health and Other Benefits Wellness Information Learning & Development Learning & Development Total Orientation Process for New Employees On-Demand Learning Professional Development Manager Development Workshops Manager Orientation Enrollment Instructions Cancel Enrollment or Switch Sessions Customized Learning Experiences Consultation FAQ for the LawRoom Training Tutorials Workshop Facilitators HR Training Room Linked-In Learning Courses Manager Lunch and Learn Series SMU Program for the Protection of Minors Continuing Education Credits/Units - Proof of Attendance Reference Library Training Summary Resources Resources New Employee Resources Faculty Resources Staff Resources Work-Life Resources Manager Resources Retiree Resources Safety at SMU SMU's Mission and Code of Ethics Forms Forms All HR Forms & Resources Benefits Compensation General HR Forms Exiting SMU Performance Review Employee Recognition Talent Acquisition and Management ☰ Human Resources Business Finance Human Resources COVID-19 Employee Testing Information COVID-19 Employee Testing Information SMU continues to provide access to convenient COVID-19 testing for employees and their families, including adjunct faculty and their families, with the following options. Blue = Off Campus Testing administered by health professional Yellow-at home testing self-administered My Labs Direct My Labs Direct provides drive-through PCR testing for employees and their families at various locations throughout the metroplex. Appointments may be scheduled Monday through Friday, 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. by calling 877-355-7978. Please be sure you inform the representative that you are an employee of SMU. No virtual visit is required prior to testing. The University covers 100% of the cost and no insurance paperwork is needed for those who have SMU health benefits. Virtual Care for Families Virtual Care for Families has locations around the DFW area. (Make sure to scroll down to Step 3 for testing locations.) Screening and testing costs are covered by SMU. In order to schedule a test, you must first book a virtual visit using this link. Enter "SMU - COVID-19 test" in the reason for the visit and click on the "self-pay" button. The closest location to campus is on the corner of Preston Road and Forest Lane. Other locations in Arlington, Frisco, Garland, McKinney and Plano may be convenient to your home or along your commute to and from work. They are open 7-days a week. Health Agency or Pharmacy Provider Testing is also available free of cost to you and your benefits-eligible dependents through your SMU benefits at pharmacies, health care providers and testing sites off campus. Additionally, the Department of Health and Human Services, State of Texas and Dallas County offer resources of where to find COVID-19 tests: HHS Resources Dallas County Sites State of Texas Sites CVS Pharmacy Walgreens Testing Kit Purchased at a Pharmacy - BCBSTX Reimbursements SMU’s health benefits provider, Blue Cross Blue Shield of Texas (BCBSTX), is providing coverage for at-home COVID-19 tests, as now required by the federal government. Here is what you need to know: • The over the counter (OTC) diagnostic tests must be FDA-authorized. • Costs are covered up to $12 per test from an in-network pharmacy or through a direct-to-consumer shipping program. (Benefit eligible members can order COVID-19 tests directly through a vendor partner, such as Walgreens and other major pharmacy chains.) • An extensive network of participating pharmacies (more than 65,000) is available under this BCBSTX coverage. • No prescription or health assessment from a provider is required. • Up to eight (8) tests are allowed per covered member, every 30 days. • Coverage is effective through the end of the federal public health emergency IMPORTANT: Some pharmacies may offer tests in the regular store shelves, not behind the counter where prescriptions are filled and where pharmacists are accustomed to processing insurance. To purchase the at-home test without having to file a reimbursement claim, check with your pharmacy and be sure to bring your BCBSTX card with you. Otherwise, if you purchase at the main checkout counter, you will need to save the receipt, and file a claim for reimbursement (form below). OTC tests purchased prior to January 15, 2022, are not in scope and will not be reimbursed. If you order your test online from an in-network pharmacy, you can file a claim by using the form below: Reimbursement Form At Home COVID-19 Tests Every home in the U.S. is eligible to order four free at-⁠home COVID-⁠19 tests. The tests are completely free. Orders will usually ship in 7-12 days. Order free at-home tests Apply Visit Schools Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share