Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Health Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Our Services Appointments Health Topics Events Forms and Guidelines Our Organization News See All Services What's Open Now Patient Resources Quarantine and Isolation Support Coping Tools Immunization Compliance Top Services Birth Control Education Individual Counseling Primary Care Register with Disability Services Sexual Assault: Get Support STI Testing Support Groups Travel Medicine Urgent Medical Concerns Workshops and Trainings Cost of Service Overview Make an Appointment Same Day Service Emergency and After-hours Support Alcohol Body Image Concerns Marijuana Disabilities Other Drugs HIV Insurance Men's Health Mental Health and Well-Being Anxiety Depression Stress Nutrition Physical Activity Relationships Overview Academic Relationships Friendships Roommates Sexual and Reproductive Health Sleep Transgender and Gender Expansive Health Violence Prevention Prevention Consent What Is Sexual Assault? Supporting a Survivor What Is Relationship Abuse? Stalking What Is Sexual Harassment? Bystander Intervention-Step UP! Women's Health See All Events Sexual Assault Awareness Month Columbia Health Flu Season Information Virtual Naloxone Training About Columbia Health Who We Are Who We Serve Confidentiality, Patient Rights, & Patient Responsibilities Operating Philosophy Video Library Your Feedback Staff Directory Health Units Alice! Health Promotion Counseling and Psychological Services Disability Services Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) Insurance Office Medical Services Sexual Violence Response Columbia Health You are here: Home All Services Couples Counseling Couples Counseling Couples counseling is available to couples in which each partner is a registered Columbia student and is enrolled in Columbia Health. Counseling and Psychological Services staff members are trained to address concerns and problems, such as depression, conflict resolution, communication, and more. As with individual counseling, in order to arrange for appropriate care as quickly as possible, we initially schedule a brief phone interview with each member of a couple. Based on this overview of treatment needs and goals, we will either offer further consultation and counseling with one of our couples specialists, or suggest a referral to an outside resource if such a referral would better serve the couple’s needs. Many students who attend Columbia and its affiliates are in relationships with a non-student (or student who is not enrolled in Columbia Health). We offer assistance to these couples by formulating a treatment plan that may include a referral to an appropriate resource off-campus. Expand all Collapse all Common Questions About Couples Counseling My partner just graduated from Columbia. Will we still be eligible for couples counseling? Couples counseling at Counseling and Psychological Services is available to couples in which both partners are currently enrolled in Columbia Health. If your partner is no longer enrolled in Columbia Health, a provider can assist you with a referral to an appropriate outside resource. How do I make an appointment with Counseling and Psychological Services? Call 212-854-2878 to schedule an appointment to speak to a counselor. Why is the first appointment by phone? Students requesting an appointment for couples counseling for the first time will be scheduled for a confidential phone screening with a counselor. The purpose of this conversation is to clarify and assess your needs and explore options for next steps. Do I need the Columbia Student Health Insurance Plan to access counseling services? No. But you do need to enroll in Columbia Health, which provides access to on-campus medical and mental health services. Columbia Health is also used to access off-campus services and resources. Other Resources NYC Well: Helping New Yorkers in Crisis ULifeline: Your online resource for college mental health Make an Appointment Closed Sorry, our offices are currently closed. If you are experiencing high levels of distress and are in need of immediate assistance, please call 212-854-2878, available 24/7. Open Now edit location Check out our office locations and hours Health Unit Counseling and Psychological Services Clinical Specialty Counseling Columbia Health Administration Wallach Hall, Suite 125, Mail Code 4202, 1116 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-2284 Contact Us [email protected] Internal Use Only Login to Access Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close