Skip Navigation menu search Sign-ons CyMail Outlook Canvas AccessPlus More Directory Maps Contact Us Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Directory Information menu Emergency Numbers Individuals How To How To Suppress My Info How To How do I suppress my information? Students may request to suppress their information from the ISU Directory Information or from Public Information releases through the Address Change link on the Student tab in AccessPlus. Additionally, students may choose to suppress their in-session telephone number and/or Iowa State email address, or they may choose to suppress all of their information, which means they will no longer appear in the ISU Directory Information or have their information released to outside organizations or persons. The student information that you choose to suppress will not appear in the search feature and will not be made available to outside organizations or persons. Once the request to suppress student information is submitted, the ISU Directory Information will update overnight, Monday-Friday only. If you have any questions about student information, contact the Office of the Registrar at registrar (at) iastate (dot) edu . How do I make changes to my directory information? ISU students Change directory information through AccessPlus. ISU employees Change directory information through Workday. If you are both a student and an employee, you must make the changes in both AccessPlus and Workday. How do I get or change my email address? The email address published in the directory is your official Iowa State email address. For most people this is your ISU Net-ID followed by @iastate.edu. Exceptions to this are nationally supported entities, such as Ames Laboratory and National Soil Tilth Laboratory, as well as Iowa State University Foundation. For these groups, the @ameslab.gov, @usda.gov, @ars.usda.gov or @foundation.iastate.edu addresses are listed. ISU students and non-hourly employees can register for an ISU Net-ID and email service with ASW. Instructions for changing your Net-ID and email address are available on the IT Portal page. For assistance, please contact the Solution Center. How do I link to an individual's directory entry using ISU Net-ID? Searching by email address is always an exact match and will only return results for that email. The shortest URL to accomplish that is: https://www.info.iastate.edu/individuals/search/Net-ID@iastate.edu How do I use a telephone feature? For dialing instructions, voice mail and international calls, read about Telephone Services on the IT Portal. Ames, Iowa 50011, (515) 294-4111, Contact Us. Copyright © 1995-2022, Iowa State University of Science and Technology. All rights reserved. Loading...