Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Accessibility Resources right arrow down arrow Student Resources right arrow down arrow Registration right arrow down arrow Online Application for Services Registration FAQ Communication Access Team right arrow down arrow CAT Resources Interpreter/CART/Captioning Request Form Semester Services Request Form Feedback Form Accommodation Form Purpose and Explanation Accessible Technology right arrow down arrow Alternative Format Request Policy and Procedure Alternative Format Request Form Service Animals and Assistance Animals right arrow down arrow Assistance Animal Student Request Form Service Animal and Assistance Animal Policy Housing Accommodation right arrow down arrow Student Housing Accommodation Request Form College-to-Career Partnership Remote Testing Accommodations FAQ COVID-19 Resources for Students Accommodation Form Request Faculty Resources right arrow down arrow Academic Accommodations and Faculty Responsibility COVID-19 Resources for Faculty Policies and Grievance Procedure Electronic Accessibility AR Staff Home » Campus Life » Accessibility Resources » Student Resources » Remote Testing Accommodations FAQ Set Navigation title in component Registration Online Application for Services Registration FAQ Communication Access Team CAT Resources Interpreter/CART/Captioning Request Form Semester Services Request Form Feedback Form Accommodation Form Purpose and Explanation Accessible Technology Alternative Format Request Policy and Procedure Alternative Format Request Form Service Animals and Assistance Animals Assistance Animal Student Request Form Service Animal and Assistance Animal Policy Housing Accommodation Student Housing Accommodation Request Form College-to-Career Partnership Remote Testing Accommodations FAQ COVID-19 Resources for Students Accommodation Form Request Remote Testing Accommodations FAQ Can I still use my testing accommodations in the virtual/online classroom setting? Yes, your testing accommodations can be requested and utilized in an online setting. Students are responsible for making their accommodation requests for each test, quiz, exam, final exam, etc. they wish to use accommodations on (find the example later on this page). How do I make a request to use my testing accommodations? Extended Time on Tests (Time & ½ or Double Time) Students should contact their faculty members directly to request their Extended Time on Tests accommodations. Faculty members will adjust times appropriately in Canvas, Blackboard and other testing platforms. To ensure that your accommodation is in place at the time of your test, it is highly recommended that you send your email communication 48-72 hours before the time of your test. Students must request their accommodations for each test they wish to use accommodations on. Email communication should include: The accommodation you are requesting for the upcoming test, quiz, exam, etc. What specific test you are requesting the accommodation for. The date of the test. Example Email: Dear Professor, I’m writing to request my accommodation of Extended Time on Tests: Time & ½ for the Chapter 5 Test on Wednesday, March 25. Thank you for your assistance. If you have any questions please contact me or Accessibility Resources, accessresources@uc.edu. Quiet Room or Individual Room Students can take their online exams in an environment that best meets their needs. You do not need to make a formal request for a distraction reduced environment to your faculty members. Reader Students who utilize a reader accommodation will be able to use Accessible Technology, such as text-to-speech tools or their computer’s built in screen reader, to facilitate a reader accommodation. Students can download Read & Write for free on Accessibility Resources' Accessible Technology page. Windows users can also utilize Narrator, while Mac users can use the Speech features. If Accessible Technology is not a viable option, students should contact their Accommodation Coordinator in Accessibility Resources to determine an appropriate plan of action. Remote Testing Accommodations FAQ Students who need a scribe accommodation can utilize dictation features built-in to both Mac Dictation and Windows Dictation. If Assistive Technology is not a viable option, students should contact their Accommodation Coordinator in Accessibility Resources to determine an appropriate plan of action. What should I do if I need additional assistance with my testing accommodations? Any student requiring assistance with their testing accommodations should contact their Accommodation Coordinator in Accessibility Resources. Your Accommodation Coordinator will work with you and faculty to determine the best course of action to provide your accommodation. Camilla Gilbert: camilla.gilbert@uc.edu Provides advocacy and direct accommodation support for students within: Arts and Sciences, Social Work, CECH (Criminal Justice, Education and Human Services), Adult Learning Center Whitney Saunders: whitney.saunders@uc.edu Provides advocacy and direct accommodation support for students within: Allied Health, Business, CCM, DAAP, CEAS, Nursing, Pharmacy, Housing, Parking and Assistance Animal accommodations Michael Southern: michael.southern@uc.edu Provides advocacy and direct accommodation support for students within: College of Law and College of Medicine Testing Services will be monitoring all testing related accommodations and questions from the following email address: testdel@ucmail.uc.edu Accessibility Resources and Testing Services staff are here to support students during the remainder of this semester, even if we are not physically on campus. Please reach out with questions or concerns so that we can make this period of transition a successful one. Accessibility Resources University of Cincinnati 210 University Pavilion PO Box 210213 Cincinnati, OH 45221-0213 Tel: (513) 556-6823 Fax: (513) 556-1383 Email: accessresources@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Accessibility Resources University of Cincinnati 210 University Pavilion PO Box 210213 Cincinnati, OH 45221-0213 Tel: (513) 556-6823 Fax: (513) 556-1383 Email: accessresources@uc.edu © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top