Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Housing and Residence Life Housing 101 Residence Halls Resident Resources Conference Housing International Students About Us Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Living on Campus Apply for Housing Housing Rates What to Bring Communities Meal Plans Immunization Form Accessibility Emotional Support Animals Housing Policies Take Action Apply for Housing FAQ Schedule a Tour Contact Get social with us! InstagramFacebooktwitter Home Housing and Residence Life Living on Campus Living on Campus You're finally off to college. Time to go out on your own and take on the real world. Live Large! Prove to the folks at home that you can do your own laundry and cook something besides ramen noodles. Life is good. But now you find yourself faced with your first real world decisions: Where are you going to live? Enter Housing and Residence Life on the campus of the University of Memphis. It's the real world formatted for college life. It's more affordable than living off campus, with a variety of floor plans to choose from. Plus, living on campus comes with a lot of built-in advantages. Housing and Residence Life at the University of Memphis lets you stay in charge of your life. Sure, there are a few rules and guidelines to follow. But living on campus is the fastest, easiest way to meet cool new friends. It's almost like having an instant social life. From the library to the pizza joint; everything you need is practically at your doorstep. Plus, when you live next to class, you can sleep in later than those who live off campus. You'll have 24-hour access to computers for writing term papers, e-mailing your mom and doing important research on the Internet. Plus our residence halls have high-speed Internet available for use on your own computer. It's a brave new world out there. Housing and Residence Life at the University of Memphis makes it a little easier for you to take it by storm. And, hey, if you still want to eat ramen noodles for dinner, nobody here is going to stop you. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 1/20/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.