Alert message This dialog contains an alert message for the Penn State community. For the latest COVID-19 news and information, visit Penn State's Coronavirus Information website. Continue to follow CDC-recommended health/safety precautions, contact your healthcare provider if you have questions or feel ill, and review information from state and national health authorities. Close Coronavirus Updates Skip to main content This is Penn State Mission and Values Equity and Inclusion Leadership History Facts and Rankings Our Impact Health Care Featured Impact: Beyond Limitations Academics Undergraduate Graduate & Professional Schools Online Degrees Global Education Academic Colleges Campus Locations Penn State among top 100 universities in the world in 2022 QS Rankings Admission Undergraduate Graduate Online Professional Schools Continuing Education Featured Impact: First To Inspire Tuition and Aid Research Athletics News Latest News Academics Our Research Campus Life Athletics Administration Arts and Entertainment College and Campus News Surviving in Place: Environmental archeology in Madagascar Hotline Give Apply More Full site navigation menu This dialog contains the full navigation menu for www.psu.edu. Search Term Hotline Give Apply This is Penn State Mission and Values Equity and Inclusion Leadership History Facts and Rankings Our Impact Health Care Academics Undergraduate Graduate & Professional Schools Online Degrees Global Education Academic Colleges Campus Locations Admission Undergraduate Graduate Online Professional Schools Continuing Education Tuition and Aid Research Athletics News Latest News Academics Our Research Campus Life Athletics Administration Arts and Entertainment Find Information For: Visitors Prospective Students Current Students Faculty and Staff Business and Industry Veterans and Military Alumni Media Helpful Links Find a Campus Maps Careers Directory Academic Calendar Connect With Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Close University Leadership Penn State is a leader in higher education and carries out its mission of teaching, research, and service with pride and focus on the future. Our leadership in administration, faculty, and staff make our mission come alive every day. We strive to celebrate diversity in all aspects of our educational and operational activities. Our strategic plans are designed to result in ongoing improvements that help prepare future generations of leaders. Our budget is an integral part of our strategic process. The Board of Trustees reviews and approves the budget of the University and guides general goals, policies, and procedures from a big-picture perspective. The President’s office ensures that all aspects of the University are running smoothly and promotes overall principles that students, faculty, and staff abide by for the long term. The University Faculty Senate represents the Penn State faculty with legislative authority on all matters regarding the University's educational interests. President's Council Members Neeli Bendapudi, President Nicholas P. Jones, Executive Vice President and Provost Kelly M. Austin, Vice President for Commonwealth Campuses and Executive Chancellor Anne (Sandy) Barbour, Vice President for Intercollegiate Athletics Kathleen Bieschke, Vice Provost for Faculty Affairs O. Richard Bundy III, Vice President for Development and Alumni Relations Michael J. Büsges, Interim Vice President for Information Technology/Chief Information Officer Stephen S. Dunham, Vice President and General Counsel Yvonne Gaudelius, Vice President and Dean for Undergraduate Education Frank T. Guadagnino, Vice President for Administration; Associate General Counsel; Secretary, Board of Trustees Shannon S. Harvey, Director and Associate Secretary, Board of Trustees Tracey D. Huston, Vice President for Outreach Lawrence H. Lokman, Vice President for Strategic Communications Stephen M. Massini, Chief Executive Officer, Penn State Health Zachery P. Moore, Vice President for Government and Community Relations Damon Sims, Vice President for Student Affairs William Sitzabee, Vice President for Facilities Management and Planning Michael Wade Smith, Senior Vice President and Chief of Staff Allan G. Sonsteby, Executive Director of the Applied Research Laboratory Sara Thorndike, Senior Vice President for Finance and Business/Treasurer Lora G. Weiss, Senior Vice President for Research Marcus A. Whitehurst, Vice Provost for Educational Equity Jennifer R. Wilkes, Interim Vice President for Human Resources and Chief Human Resources Officer Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Get News By Email // Discover News Explore News Careers Facts and Rankings Colleges Campuses Health Care Research Impact Resources Prospective Students Current Students International Students Business and Industry Veterans and Military Visitors Faculty and Staff Alumni Media Popular Links Maps Directory Libraries Academic Calendar LionPATH Stay Connected Emails / Headlines Emergency Notifications Penn State Go Strategic Communications Report Misconduct Police 201 Old Main, University Park, Pennsylvania 16802 814-865-4700 Contact Us Privacy Statement Non Discrimination Accessibility Equal Opportunity Legal Statements The Pennsylvania State University © 2022