Skip Navigation Texas A&M University at Galveston Find info for: Future Students Future Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Former Students Visitors Veterans University Catalog Phonebook Calendar A-Z List Search MENU About TAMUG Academics Admissions Campus Life Giving Research Search Future Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Administration Directions A Wave of Change HOWDY Portal Select Web or People Web People Search Menu Home About Academics Administration Admissions Campus Life Giving Research Directions A Wave of Change Phonebook Calendar Info For: Future Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Former Students Visitors Veterans Academics Degree Programs Academic Departments Academic Calendar Admissions Minors University Catalog Commencement Advising Financial Aid Honors Library Center for Academic Learning Support Faculty Resources Academic Dates and Forms Degree Programs Students at the Galveston campus of Texas A&M University will invariably tell you that the best thing about TAMUG is the small school environment – classes are small and students know their professors and classmates. TAMUG is an ocean-oriented campus offering academic degrees, research, continuing education and public service in sciences, engineering, business, transportation and liberal arts. Because TAMUG is a branch campus of Texas A&M University in College Station, students receive their degrees, and the Aggie Ring, from Texas A&M University. Texas A&M University at Galveston also includes the Texas A&M Maritime Academy, one of six state maritime training academies in the United States and the only one located on the Gulf of Mexico. Undergraduate Degree Programs Graduate Degree Programs Undergraduate Degree Programs Marine Biology - biological sciences with ocean emphasis Marine Fisheries – aquaculture and mariculture Marine Sciences - tracks in chemical, geological, physical marine sciences Coastal Environmental Science & Society Marine Engineering Technology – electro/mechanical engineering and ship engine operations Marine Transportation – ship operations taught at the Texas A&M Maritime Academy Maritime Business Administration – international maritime related business administration, trade and port operations Foundational Sciences – three minors are offered, in chemistry and mathematics. There are also courses offered in physics and statistics. The department specializes in preparing students for a successful future by giving them the solid scientific base required for most majors provided on campus. Oceans and One Health: tracks in medical, dental or veterinary school, as well as some allied health professions such as physician assistant, physical therapy or clinical laboratory science. Maritime Studies: Interdisciplinary degree addressing human and cultural aspects of coastal issues, such as recreation and tourism, energy, trade policy and administration, history and conservation, and the effects of rising sea levels on coastal communities. Students study past and present maritime cultural adaptations, the varied ways that humans use and impact coastal and maritime environments, and the literary expression of mankind’s experience with the sea. The curriculum leading to a degree in Maritime Studies provides students with the skills needed to compete strongly in a diverse marketplace and an opportunity to tailor the degree to fit their individual career goals. It is also an excellent springboard for the pursuit of a wide variety of graduate studies, including law school and public service. UNIVERSITY STUDIES, Concentration in Tourism & Coastal Community Development: This concentration transforms TAMUG students into a new class of professionals with the knowledge and skills to help coastal communities progress, while maintaining sound ecological and environmental practices. TCC majors graduate from TAMUG with the BA or BS degree, and with the capability to guide industry and communities toward a path that is both sustainable and economically beneficial. UNIVERSITY STUDIES, Concentration in Marine Environmental Law and Policy: Business law, admiralty law, environmental law, environmental ethics and politics of energy and the environment. Engineering at Galveston – The Texas A&M University College of Engineering has expanded its programs to the Galveston campus. The Engineering at Galveston program provides students an opportunity to begin their engineering studies on the Texas A&M Galveston campus as part of the college. The Engineering at Galveston program allows students the opportunity to learn about the different engineering majors, prior to seeking entry into a degree granting major at Texas A&M College Station or Ocean Engineering Program at Texas A&M Galveston. The ocean engineering undergraduate degree program (a joint program between the TAMU College of Engineering at Texas A&M University, College Station and Texas A&M University, Galveston) leads to a Bachelor of Science degree. The areas of study in the ocean engineering include fluid mechanics, structural mechanics, ocean wave mechanics, oceanography, geotechnical engineering, coastal engineering, environmental fluid mechanics, marine structures, naval architecture, diving and moored systems, underwater acoustics, laboratory measurements, and ocean engineering design. To learn more about Engineering at Galveston program, click here to learn more about Engineering at Galveston program. Minors - The right college minor will not only allow you to specialize your major, but it can also help you find a job after graduation. For more information about how and why to choose a minor, and for a list of TAMUG minors, click here to learn more about minors. Graduate Degree Programs Marine Biology - Masters (thesis and non-thesis) and Ph.D. Master of Marine Resources Management (MARM) Master of Maritime Administration and Logistics (MMAL) Ph.D. program in Marine and Coastal Management and Science (MCMS) Graduate Maritime Administration Certificate Students in any of TAMUG's graduate programs may also choose to join the Texas A&M Maritime Academy if they wish to work toward licensing as a Third Mate Unlimited Oceans and Unlimited Tonnage in the U.S. Merchant Marine. Other cooperative graduate degree programs, at both the master and doctorate levels, are in place with the departments of Wildlife and Fisheries Sciences, Oceanography and Biology at Texas A&M University in College Station. About Texas A&M ABOUT TAMUG Links TAMUG at a Glance History of TAMUG Admissions Admissions Links Office of Admissions Scholarships & Financial Aid Texas A&M Maritime Academy Marine Training & Safety Links TAMMA Links About TAMMA Apply to TAMMA Academic Resources Academic Resources Links Majors & Minors Jack K. Williams Library Faculty Resources Research at TAMUG Graduate Studies Center for Academic Learning Support Sea Camp & Outreach Sea Camp Links Sea Camp & Outreach Programs Field Trip Opportunities Administration Administration Links Vice President & Executive Team Office of Academic Affairs Administration & Auxiliary Services Information Technology Diversity at TAMUG Human Resources Make a Gift Title IX Emergency Preparedness Open Records TAMUG Facebook TAMUG Twitter TAMUG Instagram TAMUG LinkedIn TAMUG Youtube Mailing Address: P.O. Box 1675 Galveston, Texas 77553 Physical Address: 200 Seawolf Parkway Galveston, TX 77554 Shipping Address: 1001 Texas Clipper Road Galveston, TX 77554 Phone: 409.740.4400 Back to top Accessibility – Privacy – Legal Notices – Annual Security Report – Annual Fire Safety Report Campus Security Authority Form – Contact us – Contact Webmaster – Mental Health Resources – State of Texas – Texas Homeland Security Statewide Search – Texas Veterans Portal – Texas CREW – Risk, Fraud & Misconduct Hotline – Texas Veterans Commission © 2022 Texas A&M University at Galveston is a member of The Texas A&M University System