Login Register Password Reset Account Transfer Contact Analytics Data Classroom About Videos Demo The WRDS Difference Healthcare Research on WRDS Enabling Impactful Research The WRDS Team FAQs Contact WRDS Ways to Use WRDS Account Types News Conferences Best Paper Awards New Data Privacy Policy WRDS Privacy and GDPR Policy Accessibility Terms of Use About WRDS The Global Standard for Business Research Username Password Login Login Learn more 38 Countries 525 Subscribing Institutions 75,000 WRDS Users From the classroom to the boardroom, WRDS is more than just a data platform — data validation, flexible delivery options, simultaneous access to multiple data sources, research-based analytics, and dedicated client support provided by doctoral-level professionals. WRDS globally-accessed, efficient web-based service gives researchers access to accurate, vetted data and WRDS doctoral-level experts. 500+ institutions in 36+ countries – supporting 75,000+ researchers. 600+ datasets from more than 50 vendors across multiple disciplines are accessible to support users at all experience levels. WRDS democratizes data access so that all disciplines can easily search for concepts across the data repository. Data Vendors BoardEx Sustainalytics Ravenpack Preqin All Data Vendors Testimonials The Haslam College of Business has been on an outstanding research trajectory in recent years. Much of the research that we're doing are based on insights that have come through WRDS. It has allowed our faculty and students to explore a wide array of rich resources and data they never could before. Charles Noble Dean, Haslam College of Business, University of Tennessee Knoxville WRDS offers a “complete package” for academic and professional business research: Financial and markets data from the most reliable third-party sources; a convenient data access interface tailored to research applications; a PC-SAS link with sample programs that allows you to access and manipulate data directly from your personal computer; and a responsive technical support staff. Put simply, WRDS is the only single source solution for your business research needs. Paul Chaney, Professor Owen Graduate School of Management at Vanderbilt University Once again, you guys are on top of it. I really, really, really appreciate your quick response and I am grateful for the wonderful and prompt responses that I get to any question I ask. It is truly a pleasure to work with your team. Thanks again. Eduardo Tinoco Librarian, University of Southern California The beauty of the system is that wherever you go, whatever system you use, the data are accessible and appear in identical form. It reduces the time researchers spend extracting data and allows them to concentrate on analysis. Richard J. Herring Jacob Safra Professor of International Banking, The Wharton School of Business I wanted to express my pleasure with the WRDS system and support. It took me just 5 minutes to download data. I have requested assistance from the WRDS staff on several occasions, and have always received prompt, courteous, and knowledgeable assistance. Furthermore, I have found the WRDS sample programs to be extremely helpful. If only WRDS had been available sooner, my cv would be much longer. Judith A. Chevalier Professor of Economics and Finance, Yale School of Management WRDS is the gold standard for a research and data platform and has been indispensable for my research. WRDS has been an important contributor to the development of empirical research in academic finance over the last decade. The professional and technical staff at WRDS are always a few steps ahead of the needs of finance academics. Robin Greenwood Associate Professor, Harvard Business School, Harvard University It raises the performance bar - and expectations - for students and faculty alike. It takes the chore out of analysis and places added emphasis directly on critical thinking, which is what students should be doing. Robert W. Holthausen Nomura Securities Co. Professor of Accounting and Finance, The Wharton School Publication: Wired@Wharton The seamless access to Wharton's financial data sets has been a key component of my curriculum development. It has influenced my lecture style, which now combines a formal lecture with a directed recitation. This teaching technique allows the students to see the data unfold in real time. Dr. Michael Phelan Associate Professor of Statistics, The Wharton School Publication: The Wharton Research Data System, Information at your fingertips The comprehensive data and the user-friendly learning materials at WRDS have raised the productivity of academia tremendously. The earlier you learn how to take advantage of WRDS, the more productive and innovative you will be. Jianfeng Yu Jianshu Chair Professor of Finance, PBC School of Finance, Tsinghua University Previous Next Latest News & Updates More Updates S&P ESG data enables access to a deep range of environmental, social and governance factors April 25, 2022 Read More WRDS celebrates Women in Academia on International Women’s Day March 8, 2022 Read More Do stakeholders significantly shape firms' environmental policies? February 21, 2022 Read More Webinar: Explore Trucost ESG ― hosted by S&P Global January 24, 2022 Read More International Management Institute wins Best Business School Partnership Award January 24, 2022 Read More WRDS-SSRN Innovation Prize Awarded to The Hong Kong Polytechnic University Faculty of Business November 19, 2021 Read More Contact Us Wharton Research Data Services 3819 Chestnut Street – Suite 100 Philadelphia, PA 19104 Email wrds@wharton.upenn.edu Phone 877.GET.WRDS (877.438.9737) Fax 215.573.6073 Learn More About WRDS! × Close Wharton Research Data Services About WRDS WRDS FAQs WRDS News Our Team Ways to Use WRDS WRDS Account Types Terms of Use Account Preferences Info / Support Request Privacy Policy Sample Data Conference Calendar Impactful Research Unless otherwise noted, all material is © 1993-2022, The Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania. All rights reserved.