Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. UC News UC News right arrow down arrow UC News Search Topics right arrow down arrow UC Answers #UCtheGood In The News Arts & Culture Science & Tech International Athletics Health College Bound Impact right arrow down arrow #UCtheGood Insights Diversity Experience-Based Learning Next Lives Here Bicentennial COVID-19 Student Experience Colleges right arrow down arrow College of Allied Health Sciences College of Arts & Sciences College of Business Blue Ash College Clermont College College-Conservatory of Music College of Design, Architecture, Art, and Planning College of Education, Criminal Justice, & Human Services College of Engineering and Applied Science Graduate School College of Law College of Medicine College of Nursing College of Pharmacy Units right arrow down arrow Academic Health Center Admissions Alumni Association Board of Trustees Campus Services Equity and Inclusion Hoxworth Human Resources IT@UC Libraries Office of Innovation Office of Research President's Office Provost Public Safety Student Affairs UC Foundation Veteran's Affairs Continuing Education Media Contacts ‘College Tour’ spotlight: Camryn Morrow Amazon Prime series features University of Cincinnati in upcoming season By Administrator Email Email January 28, 2022 Share on facebook Share on Twitter Pin Story Print Story Like Camryn Morrow says she found her community at UC in the university’s identity-based centers, offices and student organizations. Camryn Morrow | Photo/Andrew Higley/UC Creative + Brand UC’s African American Cultural & Resource Center (AACRC) and Office of Ethnic Programs and Services are two special spaces for Camryn, a Darwin T. Turner Scholar majoring in human development and community engagement. “The pride I feel when I walk into these places and can say, ‘This is my home,’ is indescribable.” Camryn is one of 10 students and alumni featured in UC’s episode of “The College Tour,” an Amazon Prime series that features universities from across the country. Watch the episode. Camryn shares her experience shooting “The College Tour” episode and what being a Bearcat means to her. Describe being part of “The College Tour.” I was so excited to be a part of “The College Tour” and have the opportunity to showcase some of the aspects of UC that mean the most to me. When filming, I got to highlight spaces like the AACRC and Office of Ethnic Programs and Services, which have been vital spaces for me and so many students throughout my college journey, and I’m glad I got to share that in the episode. I also loved having the opportunity to share a little about my book club, Sister Outsiders, and to bring some of my friends along for the filming process, too. What do you want students to know about UC? Find your community! UC has so many ways to get involved and find your people on campus, whether through your major or student clubs and organizations. This is a time to explore and UC’s identity-based offices and cultural student organizations are a great place to start if you are looking for passionate and like-minded peers. Is there a special moment at UC that stands out to you? When I look back on my four years on campus, I can’t believe how far I have come and how fast it has gone. I am so thankful for my time in the African American Cultural and Resource Center and Office of Ethnic Programs and Services and for how much I have grown since I entered as a shy first-year student. My favorite memory by far has to be my induction as a Darwin T. Turner Scholar, which I am forever in gratitude for and caught me completely in shock. I was surrounded by the staff of these centers and my mentors, which was such a happy moment. Camryn Morrow | Photo/Andrew Higley/UC Creative + Brand What kinds of hands-on learning opportunities did you experience at UC? I am a part of the Human Development and Community Engagement program in the School of Education, which offers students the opportunity to tailor the program to their specific interests and gain hands-on and practical experience with nonprofit organizations. Throughout my time in the program, I have had the opportunity to intern at five nonprofit organizations” the Cincinnati Symphony Orchestra, the Grunin Foundation, the Wyoming Fine Arts Center, the Clifton Cultural Arts Center and Breakthrough Cincinnati. Most recently, I completed the Diversity in Arts Leadership Internship Program, hosted through Americans for the Arts, where I interned with the Grunin Foundation, an arts organization in New Jersey, to support my goal of becoming an arts administrator. Did you encounter any challenges on your road to becoming a Bearcat? How did you overcome them? As a graduating high school senior, I had no clue what I wanted to do or even where to go to college. When I arrived at UC, I saw this as a new chapter and a chance to start pursuing my passions. I was very excited to take classes that mattered to me, like courses in adolescence development and school environments, and to then have an opportunity to work with those students that I loved. This helped me find that excitement and that joy that I had missed in school when I was younger, and that is what has made me love UC and my program and involvements so much. What's next for you? After graduation in the spring of 2022, I plan to pursue graduate school before entering the arts and culture nonprofit sector. Learn more about UC’s episode of “The College Tour.” Tags Impact College bound Equity and Inclusion Experience-based Learning Student Affairs Student Experience Diversity Next Lives Here College of Education, Criminal Justice, & Human Services Arts & Culture Related Stories Local 12 News: ‘It’s changing my life’: Ten students awarded... May 30, 2022 Benya Coleman, a recent graduate of Hughes STEM High School, spoke with Local 12 News reporter Jenna Cisneros about her award of the Marian Spencer Scholarship to attend the University of Cincinnati this fall. KNX In Depth: Twitter cracks down on misinformation May 27, 2022 Social media expert Jeffrey Blevins featured guest on live radio show, KNX InDepth. The topic is Twitter and information regulation. Presidential medals honor the 'best of the best' May 26, 2022 The University of Cincinnati honors four undergraduates with the Presidential Leadership Medal of Excellence and two graduate students with the Presidential Medal of Graduate Student Excellence in the annual 2022 celebration at Cincinnati's Queen City Club. Debug Query for this University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45220 513-556-0000 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45220 513-556-0000 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top