Skip to main content Close search Search for people, topics, events, etc. Search Go to homepage Toggle menu Toggle search Close menu Events & Exhibitions Visit Upcoming Events Past Events Fellowship Fellows Become a Fellow Schlesinger Library About the Library Research Services Collections Visit the Library News & Ideas Opportunities For Students For Researchers For Educators Toggle search About Give Media Harvard and Slavery Opportunities For Students For Researchers For Educators About Give Media Harvard and Slavery Events & exhibitions Events & exhibitions event • Conferences & Symposia Fifty Years after The Feminine Mystique Tuesday, November 19, 2013 Knafel Center (formerly Radcliffe Gymnasium) 10 Garden Street Cambridge, MA 02138 Toggle information Close detail panel Photo by Kevin Grady Share Share this page on Facebook Share this page on Twitter Share this page on LinkedIn Copy Link Related Play video On Account of Sex (1920) It’s Complicated: 375 Years of Women at Harvard Radcliffe Day 2015 Two notable scholars will look back at Betty Friedan’s The Feminine Mystique and consider whether movement toward equality has persisted or stalled since the book was published in 1963. What has changed in roles at home and at work? How has law figured in the balance? Do we have new mystiques today? The papers of Betty Friedan, documenting her public and personal life—including her family, her career in journalism, and work as an activist—are among the holdings of the Arthur and Elizabeth Schlesinger Library on the History of Women in America at the Radcliffe Institute, available for researchers’ use. The extensive (and continually updated) records of the National Organization for Women, which Friedan cofounded and led during its formative years, are also at the library. An exhibit of selected items from the Friedan papers will be on view in the library during a reception following the speakers’ panel. The exhibit, It Changed My Life: The Feminine Mystique at Fifty, emphasizes the writing and reception of The Feminine Mystique, and it also honors the 50th anniversary of the 1963 Report of the President’s Commission on the Status of Women. Speakers Stephanie Coontz teaches at the Evergreen State College in Olympia, Washington, and serves as the director of research and public education at the Council on Contemporary Families, a nonprofit, nonpartisan association of family researchers and practitioners based at the University of Miami. Her most recent book is A Strange Stirring: The Feminine Mystique and American Women at the Dawn of the 1960s. Ariela Dubler, the George Welwood Murray Professor of Legal History at Columbia Law School, writes and teaches in the areas of constitutional law, family law, and legal history. She is currently writing a book, "The Parental Difficulty," about the ways that the law has contributed to our understandings of mothers’ and fathers’ roles at home and at work. Nancy F. Cott, the Pforzheimer Family Foundation Director of the Schlesinger Library and the Jonathan Trumbull Professor of History at Harvard, will introduce the event and the panelists. Event Video Play video Fifty Years after The Feminine Mystique Two notable scholars, Stephanie Coontz and Ariela Dubler, look back at Betty Friedan's The Feminine Mystique and consider whether movement toward equality has persisted or stalled since the book was published in 1963. Share: Share this page on Facebook Share this page on Twitter Share this page on LinkedIn More Events & Exhibitions See All Events Back to top B a c k t o t o p Get the latest Radcliffe news delivered to your inbox Enter your e-mail address Continue Radcliffe Institute for Advanced Study Harvard University 10 Garden Street Cambridge, MA 02138 Directions Give Now Contact Visit Careers Housing Meeting Spaces Site Map Digital Accessibility Accessibility Harvard University Policies Follow us on Facebook Follow us on Twitter Follow us onInstagram Subscribe to our RSS feed Visit our LinkedIn page Visit our YouTube channel © 2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College