Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Human Resources Human Resources Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links Office for Institutional Diversity Menu Main Nav Office for Institutional Diversity Contact Back Back Close About Overview Message from the AVP Diversity and Inclusion Statement Allies of Diversity AHANA Faculty, Advisors, & Mentors History OID Newsletter Contact Related Links Notice of Nondiscrimination Programs New Employees Thrive @ BC Overview Affinity Groups Self-Identification Forms Programs Overview Cultural Competence Engagement Modules (CCEM) Diversity and Inclusion Summit Living Out the Jesuit Mission Table Talk Diversity Series University Affiliates Program Voices of Diversity and Inclusion Forum Policies & Compliance Overview Discriminatory Harassment EEO and Affirmative Action Employee Grievance Procedures Federal & State Laws Hate Crimes and Bias-Related Incidents Protocol Notice of Nondiscrimination Reasonable Accommodation for People with Disabilities Title IX Boston College Related Links Self Identification Forms BC Employee Handbook BC Policies Events Contact Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Human Resources Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Living Out the Jesuit Mission Home Programs Living Out the Jesuit Mission Programs Cultural Competence Engagement Modules (CCEM) Diversity and Inclusion Summit Living Out the Jesuit Mission Table Talk Diversity Series University Affiliates Program Voices of Diversity and Inclusion Forum The Living out the Jesuit Mission program provides a welcoming space for employees of all backgrounds and faith traditions to share how they incorporate the Ignation tradition into their professional and personal lives. Diverse Perspectives Series Goals Focuses on how employees of various backgrounds (race, ethnicity, gender, ability, sexual orientation, etc.) and faith traditions (religion) incorporate the Jesuit tradition within their work at Boston College and into their personal lives. Members of the faculty, staff and administration will be invited to share how they experience BC’s mission, which is influenced by the Jesuit mission and the Ignatian vision, by responding to the following questions: To what extent have you incorporated and live out the BC mission in your work at the University? How do you to articulate the Jesuit mission as it relates to the mission of Boston College? How has the Ignatian vision enhanced your personal world view? Past Programs "A Woman's Experience Working at a Jesuit Institution" on February 7, 2017 involved a panel of Lisa Sowle Cahill, J. Donald Monan Professor of Theological Ethics; M. Shawn Copeland, Professor of Systematic Theology; and Sister Barbara Quinn, RSJC, Director of Spiritual Formation. Approximately 30 staff and faculty came to this event. To lay the foundation for future Diversity and the Ignatian Tradition conversations, Haub Vice President for Mission and Ministry Fr. Jack Butler, S.J. discussed the inherent connection between diversity, inclusion and the Ignatian tradition. The event took place on March 30, 2015. Back To Top Back To Top Office for Institutional Diversity 129 Lake Street, Room 211 Brighton Campus 617-552-2323 About Thrive @ BC Programs Policies & Compliance Events Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College