Skip to main content Close Search Tools 25Live Canvas Catalyst Directory IT Help Library MyUW Office365 Panopto Scout Workday Zoom Search Search Request info Apply Admissions Admissions Freshmen expand_more Freshman Admission Requirements add College Academic Distribution Requirements (CADRs) College-Level Work In High School Homeschooled Students Pathways To Promise Freshman FAQs International Freshmen add Community College Option Upcoming School Visits Transfer Students expand_more Direct Transfer Agreement (DTA) Guaranteed Admission Dual Enrollment Program International Transfer Students Transfer Admissions Requirements Transfer Credit Policies add Course Equivalency Guide Transfer FAQs Graduate Students Majors & Degrees expand_more Schools & Programs Tuition & Financial Aid expand_more Cost of Attendance Net Price Calculator The Husky Promise Tuition add Other Fees Using the GI Bill Visit Campus expand_more Campus Tours add Virtual Campus Tour Future Husky Events Group Visits Meet Your Advisor Request Information Apply Now expand_more How to apply: Freshman add English Language Proficiency Submitting Standardized Test Scores Submitting Transcripts Writing Your Personal Statement How to apply: Transfer add Achievements And Activities English Language Proficiency Submitting Standardized Test Scores Submitting Transcripts Writing Your Personal Statement How to apply: Graduate I applied. Now What? I was Admitted add Confirm Your Enrollment Parent FAQ Important Dates MyUW Map Tools Tuition & Financial Aid Your education is an investment of time and money. But the investment you make in education pays off throughout your life in many ways — by providing an opportunity to explore and discover your passions, form character and gain an appreciation for life, cultivate meaningful relationships and build career skills. An investment in your education contributes to your overall employability and long-term lifestyle. We believe finances should not be a barrier to getting a world-class education. Each year the University of Washington Tacoma awards financial aid to more than 70 percent of our students. But funding a college education takes careful planning and often requires tapping a variety of financial resources. The Office of Student Financial Aid can help you determine whether you qualify for aid, assist you in applying for aid and make sure you receive it. Scholarships All students that apply for freshman admission to the University of Washington Tacoma by January 15 are automatically considered for scholarships (March 15 for transfer students). You do not need to complete any additional forms, other than the Application for Admission. In addition, UW Tacoma offers a variety of other scholarships that do require a separate application. Need-Based Aid Many students need financial assistance to help pay for tuition and other educational expenses. The first step to apply for financial aid is to submit the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) as soon as possible after October 1. Use the institutional code for the University of Washington Tacoma: 003798. We strongly recommend filing the FAFSA by January 15, especially for students who want a timely notification of the financial aid award. A new FAFSA must be filed for each subsequent year. Loan and grant information is available on the Student Financial Aid website. Please note that Federal financial assistance is available only to U.S. citizens and permanent residents. The University does consider international students for merit scholarships. THE HUSKY PROMISE What is the Husky Promise? It's our guarantee to Washington state’s children that if you work hard, there’s a spot for you at the UW. Learn More Breadcrumb Home Admissions Tuition & Financial Aid Contact Admissions email uwtinfo@uw.edu phone_iphone 253-692-4742 ACADEMICS Academic advising Academic calendar Canvas Library Schools and programs Study Abroad Teaching and Learning Center CAMPUS Campus Safety Equity & Inclusion Financial Aid Housing Information Technology Student Life University Y Student Center ABOUT UW TACOMA Administration Admissions Institutional Research Jobs Parking & transportation Research UW Alerts UWNetID login UW Seattle | UW Bothell © 2022 University of Washington Tacoma 1900 Commerce Street, Tacoma, WA 98402-3100 Contact us | Terms of Use | Privacy Policy