Skip to main content MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links Explore diversity Learning About Difference Making Change, Transforming Lives World Changing Research University Diversity Officer Office of Minority Affairs & Diversity Graduate School/Office of Graduate Student Equity and Excellence (GSEE) UW Race & Equity Initiative Resources Administrators Alumni & community Current students Faculty & staff Future students Native Life & Tribal Relations Schools & colleges Diversity at UW Bothell Diversity at UW Tacoma Support diversity Diversity at the UW Menu Explore diversity Learning About Difference Making Change, Transforming Lives World Changing Research University Diversity Officer Office of Minority Affairs & Diversity Graduate School/Office of Graduate Student Equity and Excellence (GSEE) UW Race & Equity Initiative Resources Administrators Alumni & community Current students Faculty & staff Future students Native Life & Tribal Relations Schools & colleges Diversity at UW Bothell Diversity at UW Tacoma Support diversity Home Diversity at the UW Faculty & staff Faculty & staff Discover diversity-related resources for faculty and staff. Accessible Technology Services – Collaborates with faculty and staff to ensure the availability of assistive technology, consult on the development of accessible web site, software and learning spaces; and promote the use of accessible technology tools and practices in teaching, learning and research. Advance – Offers a variety of leadership and professional development workshops and events to address equity and promotion, strategic planning and best practices in academia. Disability services – Provides leadership to the university community in achieving employment and educational, programmatic and physical access for individuals with disabilities. Diversity council – Serves as the primary advisory committee to the UW President on matters of diversity and equity at all three UW campuses. Faculty & staff affinity groups – Build community and foster connections between diverse UW faculty and staff members. Faculty Council on Multicultural Affairs – Holds responsibility for all matters of policy relating to the interests of faculty of color. Faculty Council on Women in Academia – Holds responsibility for all matters of policy related to the interests of women. Handbook of Best Practices for Faculty Searches – Provides best practices for hiring and retaining a diverse and inclusive faculty across the three campuses. Network of Underrepresented Residents and Fellows (UWNURF) – Promotes cultural diversity in UW Medicine through community involvement, mentorship, professional networking and recruitment of underrepresented minorities. Office for Faculty Advancement – Ensures that the UW recruits, promotes and retains and excellent and diverse faculty. Samuel E. Kelly Distinguished Faculty Lecture – Acknowledges the work of distinguished faculty by spotlighting nationally recognized research focusing on diversity and social justice. Staff Diversity Hiring Toolkit – Provides best practices to increase outreach efforts and build an inclusive applicant pool for staff positions at the UW. MAKE A GIFT Your support for diversity related scholarships and programs at the UW is invaluable. Find more information on donations or make a gift University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms Newsletter © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA