Skip To Content Skip To Navigation Skip To Search Academics Admissions Research Global Faith & Service Offices & Initiatives Centers & Institutes Congregation of Holy Cross Campus Life About Visit About Visit Give Alumni Athletics University of Notre Dame Home Academics Admissions Research Global Faith & Service Campus Life About Visit About Visit Give Alumni Athletics Home Contact Search Menu Centers & Institutes Home › Faith & Service › Centers & Institutes Every center and institute at Notre Dame aligns with our Catholic identity in one way or another. The centers and institutes listed here have a pronounced and intentional purpose to explore questions of faith. Center for Philosophy of Religion The Center for Philosophy of Religion is focused on promoting work on topics in the philosophy of religion and philosophical theology, while encouraging the development and exploration of Christian and theistic philosophy. Center for Philosophy of Religion Center for Social Concerns The Center for Social Concerns provides students with worldwide community-based learning, research, and service that follow in the Catholic tradition of social service. Center for Social Concerns Center for the Study of Religion The Center for the Study of Religion and Society at Notre Dame is dedicated to advancing social scientific understanding of religion in society through scholarly research, training, and publications. Center for the Study of Religion de Nicola Center for Ethics and Culture The de Nicola Center for Ethics and Culture is the leading center for scholarly reflection within the Catholic intellectual and moral tradition. de Nicola Center for Ethics and Culture Cushwa Center for the Study of American Catholicism The Cushwa Center for the Study of American Catholicism is the leading center for the historical study of Roman Catholicism in the United States. Cushwa Center for the Study of American Catholicism McGrath Institute for Church Life The McGrath Institute for Church Life partners with Catholic dioceses, parishes and schools to form faithful Catholic leaders for service to the Church and the world and to address pastoral challenges with theological depth and rigor. McGrath Institute for Church Life Sacred Music at Notre Dame Sacred Music at Notre Dame is an interdisciplinary program that aims to lead the international conversation about the arts and the sacred. Sacred Music at Notre Dame Tantur Ecumenical Institute The Tantur Ecumenical Institute offers programs of continuing education and spiritual renewal for clergy and members of religious communities. The institute also serves as a welcoming place in the Holy Land for visitors from all over the world. Tantur Ecumenical Institute Offices & Initiatives Centers & Institutes Congregation of Holy Cross Quick Links Bookstore Employment Tour InsideND Academic Calendar University of Notre Dame Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn © 2022 University of Notre Dame Notre Dame, IN 46556 USA 41.703234 -86.238985 Phone: (574) 631-5000 Contact Search Mobile App News Events Visit Accessibility Emergency Closed Captioning Notice of Non-Discrimination Home Academics Admissions Research Global Faith & Service Campus Life About Visit