Skip to main content Information For: Current Students Alumni Harvard Undergraduates Educators Recruiters Media Apply Give to HGSE Search Apply for Degree Programs Apply for Professional Education Donate Give back to HGSE and support the next generation of passionate educators and innovative leaders. Keywords Close Menu Degree Programs Professional Education Faculty & Research Usable Knowledge Keywords About HGSE About the Dean Dean's Welcome Messages from the Dean Commentary and Media Dean's Office History of HGSE Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Our Impact Campus and Facilities Office Directory Virtual Tour Gutman Conference Center Reservation Request Form Capacities and Cost Floor Plan Catering Policies Audio Visual Directions, Parking, and Hotels Map of HGSE Directions to HGSE History of HGSE Buildings Faculty & Staff Directory Work at HGSE Title IX Information Doctoral Degree Programs Doctor of Education Leadership Doctor of Philosophy in Education Brochures Academic Calendar Academic Catalog Doctoral Viewbook Master's Degree Program Master's in Education Programs Education Leadership, Organizations, and Entrepreneurship Education Policy and Analysis Human Development and Education Learning Design, Innovation, and Technology Teaching and Teacher Leadership Concentrations Arts and Learning Early Childhood Global, International, and Comparative Education Higher Education Identity, Power, and Justice in Education Literacy and Languages A Personalized Approach Online Master's in Education Leadership Foundations Brochures Academic Catalog Academic Calendar Academic Year 2020-22 Programs Professional Education About Us Programs Early Childhood K-12 Higher Education Online Programs For Organizations Group and Team Enrollment Custom Programs Admissions Payment & Tuition Assistance Refunds & Withdrawals Policies and Accessibility Campus Experience On-Campus Program Health and Safety Policies FAQs Events Contact Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Centers, Projects and Initiatives Faculty Recruitment Faculty Experts Admissions Introduce Yourself Explore Find the Right Program Brochures Life at HGSE Connect Apply Refer a Candidate Frequently Asked Questions Financial Aid HGSE & Harvard University Consumer Information Tuition & Costs Applying for Aid Incoming Students Incoming International Students Continuing Students Scholarships, Fellowships & Grants Need-Based Grant Awards HGSE Fellowships Additional Fellowships External Fellowships Student Loans Student Work International Students International Applicant FAQ Funding Sources Students with Families Financial Aid Appeals Presentations & Publications Budgeting & Financial Literacy Budget Calculator Registrar News & Events Harvard Edcast Education Now Askwith Education Forum Upcoming Events Submit an Event Usable Knowledge Ed. Magazine Harvard Education Publishing Group Information for Media Education Now Usable Knowledge Usable Knowledge Harvard EdCast Ed. Magazine HGSE Centennial Community Learning Beyond the Classroom Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Organizations and Initiatives Community Events and Action Resources Teaching and Learning Gutman Library Services Alumni Services Collections Special Collections Request for Library Purchase Library Hours Websites for Educators About the Library Facilities & Equipment Contact Information Coronavirus Response Information Directory Calendar Alumni Network & Connect Get Involved Learn & Grow Benefits & Services my.harvard Student Handbook Introduction Welcome to HGSE Preface Commitment to Diversity Part 1: Enrollment Policies Academic Programs and Affiliations Registration and Enrollment Policies Tuition and Fees Financial Aid Student Health Insurance Grading Part 2: Student Supports Advising HGSE Supports University Supports Campus Safety and Security Part 3: Program Policies Academic Governance Doctor of Education (Ed.D.) Program Policies Doctor of Philosophy in Education (Ph.D.) Program Policies Doctor of Education Leadership (Ed.L.D.) Program Policies Master of Education (Ed.M.) Program Policies Part 4: Academic Integrity and Standards of Conduct Resolution on Rights and Responsibilities Academic Standards and Integrity Standards of Conduct in the Harvard Community Committee on Rights and Responsibilities Policies on Harassment and Discrimination Policy on Consensual Romantic Relationships Policy on Physical Violence Policy on Misrepresentation of Status Policy on Illicit Substances Policy on Hazing Policy on Threats Part 5: Copyright and Publishing Policies Copyright Disclosure Use of the Harvard Name Information For Current Students Alumni Harvard Undergraduates Educators Recruiters Media Connect with HGSE Facebook Twitter Linked In LinkedIn Symbols Created with Sketch. Instagram Coronavirus: HGSE Looks Forward HGSE’s top priority during the COVID pandemic has been the health and safety of community members, their families, and the public. This remains our top priority. As guided by the CDC and the University, our approach to safety includes required vaccination and booster and optional testing. Please find more information below about our specific policies and procedures. For additional questions about HGSE's safety plans and precautions, please, please contact hgse_reopening@gse.harvard.edu. HGSE's Community Compact HGSE’s Community Compact spells out our shared responsibilities for maintaining a healthy community. Read the compact. Widen Layout: wide HGSE's Latest Updates HGSE’s Revised Visitor Policy April 25, 2022 The University will cease to require regular surveillance testing, beginning on April 28 for non-residential and May 10 for residential community members. Testing will continue to be available on an optional basis, and anyone with symptoms or known exposure should continue to test. Read the full announcement from President Lawrence S. Bacow. University-Wide Testing Dashboard View the latest testing results on Harvard's COVID-19 testing dashboard. Important Policies and Procedures COVID-19 Vaccination and Booster are Required Harvard University requires COVID-19 vaccination for all community members who are working and studying on campus. Harvard also requires all community members to receive a booster shot by January 31, 2022, or within 30 days of their eligibility. See the step-by-step guidance to verify your booster through the HUHS Patient Portal. Vaccination and boosters are effective ways to protect yourself against COVID-19, and they severely decrease the likelihood of serious health outcomes requiring hospitalization. Learn more about Harvard's vaccination policies. Optional COVID Testing The University will cease to require regular surveillance testing. Testing will continue to be available on an optional basis, and anyone with symptoms or known exposure should test, and those who test positive should notify HUHS through Crimson Clear. The transition to optional testing will be phased in as follows: April 28 – Non-Residential: Students, faculty, staff, and researchers who do not live on campus will no longer be required to participate in regular COVID testing. May 10 – Residential: Students, faculty, staff, and researchers who live in campus-based residential housing will no longer be required to test for COVID regularly. Symptomatic testing remains important while COVID continues to circulate in the community. Although regular testing will no longer be mandatory, we encourage testing when circumstances warrant, using Harvard’s Color testing program or rapid antigen tests that are now widely available. For an overview of Harvard's testing process works, read the University's COVID-19 Testing Protocol Guidance. Optional Indoor Masking Effective March 14, with limited exceptions, face coverings on campus will be optional in all indoor spaces on Harvard’s campuses. If you feel the need to continue wearing a mask for your protection, you should do so. We should all respect those who continue to wear a mask. No one should be marginalized or made to feel unwelcome because they chose to wear a mask. Please accommodate the requests of those who ask you to wear a mask when in close proximity. Please take note of the following situations in which masks are still required: Indoor events with more than 250 people For individuals completing isolation or quarantine In classes where instructors have decided to require masks   Healthcare facilities Public transit, including University buses and shuttles Additional instances of required masking may arise. For that reason, we recommend that everyone continues to carry a mask for settings where masks are still required. Masks are highly effective in reducing transmission risk regardless of vaccine status. The University will continue to monitor COVID-19 conditions and will update masking requirements for the community or for targeted populations when necessary. Responding to Positive Test Results The University has updated its practices regarding contact tracing and reporting cases from non-Harvard testing, as well as isolation and quarantine protocols to align with the recently modified guidance from the CDC and Massachusetts Department of Public Health. Of note, infected individuals with no symptoms or resolving symptoms and no fever may end strict isolation after 5 full days (isolation ending on day 6) but must wear a mask at all times when leaving their homes or around others (this means no dining with others and no other mask-free activities) until after 10 full days (strict masking ending on day 11). Regarding quarantine for close contacts, vaccinated individuals who have not received their booster shots must now quarantine for five (5) days when they are exposed. University protocols will be modified to maintain compatibility with changing local, state, and national guidance. Read more about testing and tracing at Harvard. Healthy Habits As we all continue to cope with fatigue from COVID-19, please remember to be kind to and patient with each other, and take advantage of the health, mental health, and wellbeing support services the University has in place for our community members. HGSE is continuing to employ enhanced disinfectant measures throughout campus. All community members should abide by healthy habits proven to help prevent the spread of COVID-19. This includes washing your hands often, avoiding touching your eyes, nose, and mouth, coughing/sneezing into a tissue or your sleeve, and disinfecting frequently touched objects and surfaces. Read more about healthy habits that help curb the spread of COVID-19. HGSE’s Visitor Policy Beginning on Wednesday, March 30, HGSE faculty and staff may host a visitor(s), provided that the visitor attests that they are fully vaccinated and are not experiencing or displaying any known symptoms of COVID-19. Beginning on Monday, April 11, the campus will be open to all guests provided the visitor meets the same requirements and completes the attestation process. Read HGSE's Visitor Policy. HGSE’s Policy for Professional Education Participants All HGSE Professional Education participants are required to be fully vaccinated against COVID-19 to attend on-campus programs. Read more about accepted vaccinations, vaccine documentation, and other Professional Education COVID-19 health and safety policies. Course Auditors and Cross-Registrants HGSE is not permitting auditors in face-to-face courses, whether the person is a Harvard affiliate or not. This restriction helps to keep classroom spaces less dense and focus our monitoring efforts on students taking the course for a grade. HGSE will permit cross-registrants from around Harvard University depending on course availability. Additionally, we will permit cross-registrants from MIT and Tufts University, just as they are accepting our students into their courses. Cross-registered students will be subject to all the same protocols as an HGSE student. For HGSE students seeking to cross-register elsewhere: Contact the registrar’s offices of the other school to confirm policies for incoming cross-registration. Visit Harvard’s coronavirus website for detailed information about vaccination and boosters, testing, travel guidance, and other university policies and communication. Prior Communications HGSE’s Revised Visitor Policy March 29, 2022 As of March 14, Indoor Mask Use Optional in Most Cases March 7, 2022 Updated HGSE Guidance on Instructor Masking in Classrooms February 28, 2022 Reminders: Procedures for Reopening on January 24 January 21, 2022 Updated COVID Procedures for Reopening Campus on January 24 January 14, 2022 Spring Semester 2022: COVID Updates from Dean Bridget Long January 6, 2021 Updates on the Spring Semester and vaccine booster verification from President Larry Bacow January 4, 2021 Dean Bridget Long's announcement about the University's shift to remote status, for the first three weeks of January, in order to stem the spread of COVID-19 December 18, 2021 Procedure for HGSE Students Coming to Campus September 30, 2021, important updates for students coming to campus Important Overview of HGSE’s COVID-related Safety Measures and Policies August 24, 2021, summary of the procedures HGSE is following to protect the health and safety of the community Important Updates on the Reopening of Campus July 29, 2021, important updates on the campus reopening process and the necessary steps to return to campus safely New Information and Updates regarding Reopening Campus July 14, 2021, updates on the reopening survey and the review of campus buildings and spaces COVID Vaccination Verification June 11, 2021, a reminder to submit vaccine verification, the new HGSE Health and Safety Task Force, and the Community Compact Return to Campus Update May 18, 2021, outlining the current status of HGSE's reopening plans Widen Layout: wide Education and the Pandemic The pandemic has upended the field of education and the lives of students, educators, caregivers, and community leaders. HGSE has responded by offering an immersive series of broadcasts and useful resources. Explore our Education Now initiative to watch episodes on timely topics. See below to explore content on teaching, leading, and parenting Widen Layout: wide Teaching Amid Crisis Answering the Need for Substitute Teachers With local schools facing severe staffing shortages amid a pandemic surge, HGSE students step up to help. Education Now: Teaching and Learning with Compassion Finding empathy, battling compassion fatigue, and teaching amid uncertainty — a conversation exploring some of the challenges teachers are confronting in classrooms today. Make Outdoor Learning Your Plan A The pandemic moved classes outdoors. We should keep them there. Leading Amid Crisis Askwith Education Forum: Planning for an Equitable Recovery A panel explores new research on the impact of remote and hybrid learning and discusses federal, state, and district strategies to lift student learning and support social-emotional needs. Stressed Superintendents in a Time of COVID What district leaders need after a few tough years. Harvard EdCast: The COVID Catch-up Challenge Professor Tom Kane shares what research tells us about planning catch-up efforts in response to pandemic learning loss. Parenting Amid Crisis But None of My Friends Are Doing It! Navigating peer pressure to take off the mask in school. Education Now: Hope and Resilience in Childhood A discussion of concrete ways to support children and adults in developing their capacities to weather the challenges brought on by the pandemic. Harvard EdCast: The Negative Effects of Remote Learning on Children's Wellbeing How a focus on social-emotional learning can better help children — in school and at home — as we cope with recent challenges and begin to emerge from the pandemic. Widen Layout: wide Sign up for our newsletters to get the latest from the Harvard Graduate School of Education. Sign Up Now Artboard 1 13 Appian Way | Cambridge, MA 02138 Centennial Contact Us Directory Directions Harvard University ©2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College Linked In Symbols Created with Sketch. Youtube RSS Podcast HGSE Publishing Policies & Disclaimers Digital Accessibility Policy Privacy Policy Trademark Notice