Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. UC News UC News right arrow down arrow UC News Search Topics right arrow down arrow UC Answers #UCtheGood In The News Arts & Culture Science & Tech International Athletics Health College Bound Impact right arrow down arrow #UCtheGood Insights Diversity Experience-Based Learning Next Lives Here Bicentennial COVID-19 Student Experience Colleges right arrow down arrow College of Allied Health Sciences College of Arts & Sciences College of Business Blue Ash College Clermont College College-Conservatory of Music College of Design, Architecture, Art, and Planning College of Education, Criminal Justice, & Human Services College of Engineering and Applied Science Graduate School College of Law College of Medicine College of Nursing College of Pharmacy Units right arrow down arrow Academic Health Center Admissions Alumni Association Board of Trustees Campus Services Equity and Inclusion Hoxworth Human Resources IT@UC Libraries Office of Innovation Office of Research President's Office Provost Public Safety Student Affairs UC Foundation Veteran's Affairs Continuing Education Media Contacts Featured News President Pinto celebrates talented UC community during State of... April 15, 2022 Faculty, staff and students from UC gathered online and inside Probasco Auditorium for President Neville G. Pinto's April 14 State of the University Address. UC President Neville Pinto's statement in support of Ukraine and... March 1, 2022 University of Cincinnati President Neville Pinto's statement on Russia's invasion of Ukraine. The Power of Vision: 5 Years of Momentum April 28, 2022 The last five years rank among UC’s best. Take a look at some of our recent accomplishments and proudest moments since President G. Pinto began his term as UC’s 30th President. Query for this Latest News Keyword topics Select topics Answers Arts & Culture Athletics Bicentennial College bound COVID-19 Diversity Entrepreneurship Experience-based Learning Faculty Staff Health Impact In The News Insights International Must Read Next Lives Here Science & Tech Student Experience Thought Leadership colleges Select colleges College of Arts and Sciences Blue Ash College College of Allied Health Sciences College-Conservatory of Music College of Engineering and Applied Science College of Education, Criminal Justice, & Human Services Clermont College Lindner College of Business College of Design, Architecture, Art, and Planning Graduate School College of Law College of Medicine College of Nursing Online College of Pharmacy Clear All Filters {{facet.display}} remove {{facet.display}} remove {{facet.display}} remove {{facet.display}} remove Presidential medals honor the 'best of the best' May 26, 2022 The University of Cincinnati honors four undergraduates with the Presidential Leadership Medal of Excellence and two graduate students with the Presidential Medal of Graduate Student Excellence in the annual 2022 celebration at Cincinnati's Queen City Club. UC names chief digital officer May 19, 2022 UC President Neville Pinto announces hiring of Bharath Prabhakaran to guide the University of Cincinnati’s digital transformation. Record number of UC graduates celebrate commencement April 30, 2022 UC recognizes a record-number of graduates at its spring 2022 commencement Friday and Saturday at Fifth Third Arena. The Power of Vision: 5 Years of Momentum April 28, 2022 The last five years rank among UC’s best. Take a look at some of our recent accomplishments and proudest moments since President G. Pinto began his term as UC’s 30th President. UC Foundation names Outstanding Philanthropic Volunteer Award... April 26, 2022 The University of Cincinnati Foundation recognized its Outstanding Philanthropic Volunteer Award honorees at the George Rieveschl Recognition Dinner in April 2022. This was the first time in two years the event has been held. UC to celebrate record-breaking class at spring commencement April 25, 2022 The University of Cincinnati will recognize a record 7,080 graduates at its spring commencement during four ceremonies on Friday and Saturday at Fifth Third Arena. UC to award honorary degree to 'technology trailblazer' April 22, 2022 UC will confer a Doctor of Commercial Science honoris causa to Lori A. Beer, global chief information officer for JPMorgan Chase & Co. President Pinto celebrates talented UC community during State of... April 15, 2022 Faculty, staff and students from UC gathered online and inside Probasco Auditorium for President Neville G. Pinto's April 14 State of the University Address. UC student wins prestigious Truman Scholarship April 14, 2022 Adam Elzarka is the second University of Cincinnati student to win the prestigious Harry S. Truman Scholarship, in addition to other nationally competitive awards. Cincinnati cited as a model for inclusive economic growth April 7, 2022 Cincinnati was one of five American cities the Brookings Institution cited as examples as to how communities can “rewire” economic systems and generate inclusive growth. State of the University Address Set for April 14 April 5, 2022 Join Pre﻿sident Neville Pinto's State of the University Address at Probasco Auditorium April 14. Alumnus found friendship and kidney donor at UC April 1, 2022 While the University of Cincinnati’s student body had its collegiate experience disrupted by the COVID-19 pandemic, it was not the first time Mohamed Emlemdi, BUS ’21, had his education interrupted. Confronting crisis: Leaders discuss lessons learned April 1, 2022 Preparation, access to data and expertise and an approach that focuses on individuals has helped three leaders in Ohio who have confronted crises including the COVID-19 pandemic, opioid epidemic and unemployment among a vulnerable population. UC names new director of public safety and chief of police March 30, 2022 President Neville G. Pinto announces hiring of Eliot Isaac as UC's next leader of public safety at the University of Cincinnati. UC celebrates grand opening of Student Wellness Center March 24, 2022 The University of Cincinnati’s new and expanded Student Wellness Center space, which opened to students last fall, celebrated its grand opening earlier this month. The team, who work to empower students to make informed decisions regarding their health and wellness through evidence-based education, inclusive resources, and non-judgmental support, have seen an almost immediate impact. 96% of visitors said their overall well-being was improved after visiting the space. 75% of visitors indicated their visit made them feel less lonely. Load More Debug Query for this University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45220 513-556-0000 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45220 513-556-0000 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top