Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Alumni Association Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Alumni Clubs Alumni Community Benefits CAA Arts Access Career Resources Events Get Involved News Columbia Alumni Association You are here: Home Get Involved Get Involved Expand all Collapse all Give Back Columbia is at the forefront of addressing world issues involving social justice, climate response, precision medicine, and more. By turning knowledge into action, The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. "The Columbia Commitment is more than a commitment to the University," Columbia President Lee C. Bollinger said at the Campaign's 2017 launch. "It is a renewal of our bonds with the world and our shared future." Learn more about the Columbia Commitment. If you want to give back to Columbia with your expertise, time, or thoughts, the CAA welcomes you as a volunteer, providing the best opportunities to leverage your participation for the greater Columbia community. Expand all Collapse all Volunteer Alumni Voices Columbia Alumni Voices is a feedback panel of dedicated alumni from all decades, ages, degrees, and parts of the world. More than 3,000 of you have signed up to share your opinions on a regular basis to help shape a range of Columbia offerings. Make your voice heard. Columbia Social Ambassadors As a Columbia social media ambassador, you can share the stories that matter most to you and reflect what you value most about your University -- and learn something along the way. Become an ambassador now. Join an Alumni Club From San Francisco to Shanghai, become part of the CAA worldwide network of more than 365,000 Columbians by joining one of the 100-plus Global Clubs around the world. Become a member, attend events, volunteer, or join the club board or leadership committee. Find a club near you. Athletics From Varsity C, an organization dedicated to supporting Columbia Athletics through advice, counsel, and volunteer activity, to season ticket opportunities, there are many ways you get involved with the Lions after graduation. Hire Columbians Interested in hiring top talent and making a difference for fellow Columbians? As an alum, you know the value of the Columbia degree and the benefits gained from valuable work experiences. Post an internship, full-time job opportunity, or share your professional experience and advice for a student via the "Hire Columbians" campaign, CAA LinkedIn group, or Online Alumni Community. She Opened the Door Initiative The She Opened the Door initiative, which began with a historic conference in New York City in 2018, aims to enlighten, educate, elevate, and to empower Columbia women across the University. Visit the She Opened the Door landing page for everything you need to know, including event upcoming details, exclusive video clips, and how to get involved. Senate Established as a means of giving the Columbia community a voice in University operations, the Senate is Columbia’s policy-making body. Presided over by the President, the Senate meets monthly during the academic year to discuss issues and vote on resolutions. Alumni elect two Senators who serve for two-year terms and have representatives on several committees. Learn more about the Senate and its committees. Every two years, the CAA Nominating Committee meets to nominate candidates for the position of University Senator. Any alumnus may request to be considered for nomination and may also be nominated by petition. University Senators are typically alumni who have served in a variety of alumni leadership positions prior to their election. Volunteer Columbia VolunteerColumbia is a place to post and find volunteer opportunities, grow membership, integrate your programs, and support the strategy of the CAA's Volunteer Development Committee. Whether you're looking at a one-time project or ongoing opportunities, use your time, passion, skills, and willingness to serve the University. Volunteer with Your School Across Columbia's 16 Schools, there are many ways to get involved. Visit your School's alumni page and learn about mentoring, community service, and other programs that are made possible by alumni volunteers. Expand all Collapse all Columbia Alumni Association CAA Mission and Vision The Columbia Alumni Association's (CAA) mission is to cultivate a uniquely Columbia environment in which diverse, impactful opportunities inspire students and alumni to engage, exchange, and experience the lifelong benefits of our University community. The CAA's vision statement is: Build. Belong. Bond. We are Columbia. We are the CAA. CAA Bylaws Read the full list of the Columbia Alumni Association Bylaws here. CAA 2023 Strategic Plan View the full five-year plan here. CAA Board The CAA Board is the governing body of the CAA and seeks to keep alumni connected to the University and its Schools. A number of trustees serve on the board, with the current Co-chairs being Michelle Estilo Kaiser ’87CC, ’92VPS, ’97PH and Mary Kuo ’92CC, Co-Chair. There is representation from each of the Schools on the Board, and there are term limits and a rotation process to guarantee a good cross-section of alumni leaders at all times. Meet the CAA Board. CAA Co-chairs Michelle Estilo Kaiser '87CC, '92PH, '97VPS graduated from Columbia College's first fully coeducational class, following her older sister Karen '85BC. She returned to Columbia University for graduate school, earning an MPH in Epidemiology in 1992 and an MD in 1997, before completing her training in internal medicine at the Hospital of the University of Pennsylvania and New York-Presbyterian/Weill-Cornell Medical Center. In 2007, she re-engaged with Columbia, serving on her 20th College reunion committee. She joined the Dean’s Alumnae Task Force in 2010, volunteered as an Alumni Representative Committee interviewer and mentor, is a member of the Alumnae Legacy Circle, and has served on the Boards of Columbia College Women (CCW) and the Columbia College Alumni Association, as Co-Chair of CCW Mentoring and Vice President, State of the College. Estilo Kaiser believes in the ideal of "One Columbia," because of her positive experiences across campuses. She participated in the CAA 2023 Task Force and is currently a member of the CAA Board. She served on the Columbia University Senate as an Alumni Senator from 2018-2021. She is co-chair of the Alumni Relations Committee and also serves on the External Relations, Budget, and Campus Planning Committees. Mary Kuo '92CC graduated from Columbia College with a BA in Economics. She was a member of the Varsity Cross Country and Track and was the recipient of Columbia’s Marion R. Philips Watch Award in 1992. Mary has served as a core CAA Singapore volunteer for over a decade, and has led and co-organized programs for both students and alumni in Singapore and globally. CAA has provided a platform to help bring alumni together, no matter where they live in the world, to build and maintain a Columbia community whose ethos is to support, act as resources for each other and their communities, and to create a positive impact globally. Most recently, in the earliest days of the COVID-19 pandemic in 2020, Mary, together with alumni in Asia and NYC, helped organize the mass distribution of desperately-needed PPE to alumni healthcare workers in NYC and at NYP-Columbia. She has also worked with alumni to organize events to raise funds for international charities. In 2018, Mary co-chaired the inaugural Singapore Ivy Ball, which brought together Ivy League alumni based in Singapore, to benefit vulnerable communities in India, Nepal, and Bhutan. CAA Committees Committees provide the infrastructure to support CAA alumni leaders and clubs with the resources needed to engage with Columbians around the world. There are committees that address Columbia Alumni Leaders Weekend planning, associations and clubs, digital marketing, programming, honors and prizes, recent alumni, and student relations. Expand all Collapse all Awards CAA Alumni Medalists Alumni Medalists are recognized for building Columbia's community—whether regionally, online, in specific Schools, or in cross-campus initiatives. Recipients are honored at University Commencement and at the Alumni Medalists Gala during Columbia Alumni Leaders Weekend. Learn more about the 2021 Alumni Medalists through their bios. Looking for more information on the Medalists? You can: See a list of all Medalists since 1933 Watch inspiring videos featuring Medalists from 2009-2019 Submit a Medal Nomination Fill out a nomination form online. You will be asked to provide information about the positions your candidate has held, when the positions were held, references, and a brief explanation of the nomination. The Campbell Award In 2016, the Columbia University Trustees and the CAA established The Campbell Award, which is presented to a graduating student at each School who shows exceptional leadership and Columbia spirit as exemplified by the late Bill Campbell '62CC, '64TC, Chair Emeritus, University Trustee and CAA co-founder. Meet the 2021 recipients. Columbia Alumni Center 622 West 113th Street, Mail Code 4525 · New York, NY 10025 Phone 212-851-7800 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close