COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Master's of Business Administration Section Menu MBA Home Application Process Tuition and Financial Aid Frequently Asked Questions MBA Curriculum MBA Concentrations MBA Information Sessions Graduate Certificates in Business The Berlin Experience Doing Business in Asia Student Forms and Resources Faculty and Research MBA Alumni: Update Contact Info Contact Us Stop Video Ready to start your MBA? In-person and online options available!Apply Now As Kansas’ oldest MBA program, Wichita State holds a rich history and tradition in graduate studies in business. Attend an Information Session to learn more About the Program As the region's only AACSB-accredited institution, Wichita State offers the highest standard of excellence in graduate business education. Our students will find the challenge and support necessary to achieve their fullest potential. Admission Wichita State's MBA program is comprised of diverse students, from fields in engineering and health care to liberal arts and education. A background in business is not required. We utilize a holistic admissions process, considering student transcripts with a GPA of 2.75 or higher, a resume and a personal statement regarding your interest in the MBA program. Apply now Tuition and Fees Wichita State's MBA program does not charge out-of-state tuition rates, making it an affordable option for residents and non-residents. The tuition and fees will vary depending on how many semesters you take to graduate and how many credit hours you will need to complete in the program. Scholarships and Fellowships are available for those who qualify. Learn more about tuition and fees Timeframe The MBA program can be taken as a full or part-time student. The program can be completed in as little as 12-24 months. Class Structure In-person / Hybrid Most of the MBA classes are offered as eight-week structured courses. This structure requires the student to attend the class once a week and also complete work online. The hybrid structure combines the advantages of in-class learning and collaboration with flexibility of online instruction. In-person classes meet during the following times from Monday through Thursday: 5:35 to 6:50 p.m. 7:05 to 9:45 p.m. Beginning July 2022, all classes will be taught in Woolsey Hall. Online Most of the Online MBA classes are offered in the eight-week online format. The structure offers the flexibility of online learning and allows students to complete the program in a manageable timeframe. Coursework WSU's Master of Business Administration is a traditional, management-based program, offering coursework in accounting, business law, economics, management, management information systems, finance and marketing. Prerequisites and prep courses may be required for students without a business background. Students can choose to specialize their MBA by selecting one of 6 concentration areas. Students can also elect to earn graduate certificates while in the program. MBA Curriculum MBA Concentrations Graduate Certificates in Business Accreditation Wichita State is fully accredited by the AACSB in Business and Accounting, making the institution part of the 1% of business schools who have achieved this premier accreditation worldwide. Unleash your potential A graduate degree in business from Wichita State's Barton School will help you take the next step in your career—while opening doors to new possibilities. Choose from a general track or the following concentrations: business data management, finance, health care administration, human resource management, marketing, and supply chain management. Learn more Interested in learning more? Attend an MBA information session. Register here Contact us Site Map MBA Home Application Process Tuition and Financial Aid Frequently Asked Questions MBA Curriculum MBA Concentrations MBA Information Sessions Graduate Certificates in Business The Berlin Experience Doing Business in Asia Student Forms and Resources Faculty and Research MBA Alumni: Update Contact Info Contact Us 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©