Skip to main content FSU >> FSU LIBRARIES Top Right Search Box Search Our Website... * OneSearch | My Account Florida State University Libraries Search & Find Advanced Search Find a Database Journal Search Special Collections Search DigiNole Search Services & Research All Services Subject Librarians Distance Learning Digital Research & Scholarship Special Collections & Archives Government Information About the Libraries Libraries Overview Member Libraries Departments Accessibility @ FSU Libraries Diversity & Inclusion Giving to the Libraries Facts & Figures Strategic Plan Advancement Board Materials & Borrowing Borrowing Materials Library Express Delivery Interlibrary Loan Materials Purchase Request Help & Support Get Help Library Hours Maps & Directions Visitor Information COVID Guidelines Home >> About the Libraries >> Accessibility at FSU Libraries Accessibility at FSU Libraries FSU Libraries works to provide an inclusive and accessible experience for all library users, regardless of ability. We offer a suite of services and equipment to support research and academic pursuits for students, faculty, and staff. To request more information, or for additional support, please send us an email (lib-accessibility@fsu.edu). Using the Libraries To create the most inclusive environment, we incorporate universal design principles into our work whenever possible and compensate with accommodations when necessary. We offer support for retrieving materials, as well as for using our physical spaces and technologies. For more information, please consult our Using the Libraries page. Research Support For conducting research, you have several avenues at your disposal: Subject Librarians: Experts in research and instruction. Consult our list of Subject Librarians and request a consultation. Research Guides: Subject-specific instructional guides on the best ways to conduct research. Consult our full list of Research Guides and select the one that best suites your needs. Digital Research & Scholarship: This office supports research with instruction and training; open access publishing; and help with various softwares and technologies. Learn more about them on the Digital Research & Scholarship homepage. Hathitrust Digital Library The Hathitrust Digital Library is a service created to provide access to copyrighted material across member institutions. Through Hathitrust's Accessible Text Request Service, FSU Libraries is able to provide materials to students with print disabilities. Please ask a support specialist at the Office of Accessibility Services (for students) or Human Resources (for faculty/staff) to send us an email (lib-accessibility@fsu.edu). Once we have confirmed your status, a member of our team will reach go over the terms of the service and provide you the requested materials. Additional Campus Resources Office of Accessibility Services The Office of Accessibility Services provides accommodations for all students at FSU and work to create an inclusive, accessible environment. If you are a student, you can apply for accommodations. Human Resources Human Resources provides reasonable accommodations to FSU faculty and staff. They work to ensure that workers with disabilities have the same access and rights as those who are not disabled. They offer a Reasonable Accommodation Request Form. Office of Distance Learning The Office of Distance Learning provides support to instructors for the development of quality, accessible, online content. They work to support students with technology-based learning. They offer a page on Quality Course Design and offer workshops for improving course content. About The Florida State University Libraries The mission of the University Libraries is to support and enhance the learning, teaching, research, and service activities of the Florida State University... READ MORE > Library Hours Maps and Directions Our Libraries Staff Directory Subject Librarians All Forms Library News Library Departments Library Events Library Services Employment Visiting the Libraries Giving to the Libraries Policies About the Libraries FAQ Government Information Staff Intranet Content Editor Login Internal Knowledge Base © Florida State University Libraries 116 Honors Way Tallahassee, FL 32306 Website Suggestions Privacy Principles Copyright Policy Contact Us (850) 644-2706 Search Articles, Books and More... * Connect with us!