COVID-19 UH Updates skip to Main Content Home About For Media UH Home Twitter Facebook Instagram Flickr RSS Youtube Academic Research People Community Athletics Administrative By Campus dropdown menu column 1 Hawaiʻi Hilo Honolulu Kapiʻolani Kauaʻi column 2 Leeward Mānoa Maui West Oʻahu Windward Submit 1st gen Shidler alumna endows $100K scholarship to honor parents UH News » People » 1st gen Shidler alumna… May 30, 2022 UH News From left, UH Foundation CEO and UH VP for Advancement Tim Dolan, Dao Pham, Hy So Duong, Cindy Doan, Shidler alumna Linh Pham, Shidler College Dean Vance Roley (Photo credit: Scott Nishi) A new scholarship for full-time undergraduate business students has been created at the University of Hawaiʻi at Mānoa’s Shidler College of Business. The UH Foundation announced that Shidler alumna Linh Pham, BBA ‘00, and her husband Dao Pham have contributed $100,000 to establish the Cindy Doan and Hy So Duong Endowed Scholarship. Cindy Doan and Hy So Duong in front of their small gift shop business at Duke’s Lane in Waikīkī in the 1980s. (Photo courtesy: Linh Pham) The gift was officially commemorated at a signing ceremony on May 26. Named in honor of Linh Pham’s parents, preference is given to individuals who are the first in their family to attend college. “My parents’ bravery, love and sacrifices gave me the opportunity to pursue a higher education, which is something that was never available to them while they were in Vietnam,” said Linh Pham. “Despite the many challenges they faced—including 15-hour-plus workdays, and not speaking English—my parents worked relentlessly to provide for our family and future. From a young age, my parents instilled in me the importance of hard work, self-sufficiency and grit. As a Shidler alumna, it is a truly humbling experience to honor my parents by giving back and providing students the same opportunity they have to me.” Linh Pham’s parents, Cindy Doan and Hy So Duong, arrived in Hawaiʻi in 1980 from a refugee camp in Vietnam. With nothing more than some clothing in a bag, the couple worked to learn English and eventually saved enough to start a small gift shop business at Duke’s Lane in Waikīkī. Their hard work and perseverance allowed them to fulfill their American dream and provide their children with the opportunity to pursue a higher education. Hy So Duong, Cindy Doan and Linh Pham (Photo credit: Scott Nishi) “It is truly inspiring to see how the story of this family has come full circle,” said Shidler College Dean Vance Roley. “We commend Cindy Doan and Hy So Duong for their tireless work to send their children to college. As we can see from their family’s journey, education can make a great impact on one’s life and we are extremely grateful that Linh and her parents are committed to helping to educate the next generation of students.” Linh Pham earned her bachelor’s in finance from Shidler College. She and Dao Pham reside in Texas with their three children. Dao owns his own dental practice, which Linh manages. For more information on how to support the Shidler College of Business, contact Kristi Bates, executive director of development at (808) 956-3597 or email Kristi.bates@uhfoundation.org. This gift supports UH Mānoa’s goal of Enhancing Student Success (PDF), one of four goals identified in the 2015–25 Strategic Plan (PDF), updated in December 2020. Related Posts: Northwestern Mutual Hawaiʻi creates $50,000 scholarship at… $850K estate gift to support UH Mānoa TIM School Visitor industry leader Vieira donates $1M to Shidler… businessManoa Enhancing Student SuccessscholarshipShidler College of BusinessUH FoundationUH Manoa Share This Twitter Facebook LinkedIn Email Mānoa Links Admissions Academics Research Athletics Alumni Events Calendar U H Manoa's Twitter U H Manoa's Facebook U H Manoa's Instagram U H Manoa's Linkedin U H Manoa's Flickr U H Manoa's YouTube Most Popular 1st gen Shidler alumna endows $100K scholarship to honor parents Hurricane season ‘22 could see few cyclones, forecasters say Army ROTC Warrior battalion competes with world’s best Featured Video Congratulations spring 2022 UH grads! previous post: Mānoa choreographer earns national recognition, ignites Indigenous connections Watch the latest news of the University of Hawaiʻi View News Videos 2444 Dole Street Honolulu, HI 96822 An equal opportunity/ affirmative action institution Use of this site implies consent with our Usage Policy copyright © 2022 University of Hawaiʻi Twitter Facebook Instagram Flickr YouTube RSS Contact UH If required, information contained on this website can be made available in an alternative format upon request. Get Adobe Acrobat Reader Calendar Directory Emergency Information MyUH Work at UH By Categorydropdown menu Academic Research People Community Athletics Administrative Videos By Campusdropdown menu Hawaiʻi Hilo Honolulu Kapiʻolani Kauaʻi Leeward Mānoa Maui West Oʻahu Windward Back To Top Search Submit