Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Health Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Our Services Appointments Health Topics Events Forms and Guidelines Our Organization News See All Services What's Open Now Patient Resources Quarantine and Isolation Support Coping Tools Immunization Compliance Top Services Birth Control Education Individual Counseling Primary Care Register with Disability Services Sexual Assault: Get Support STI Testing Support Groups Travel Medicine Urgent Medical Concerns Workshops and Trainings Cost of Service Overview Make an Appointment Same Day Service Emergency and After-hours Support Alcohol Body Image Concerns Marijuana Disabilities Other Drugs HIV Insurance Men's Health Mental Health and Well-Being Anxiety Depression Stress Nutrition Physical Activity Relationships Overview Academic Relationships Friendships Roommates Sexual and Reproductive Health Sleep Transgender and Gender Expansive Health Violence Prevention Prevention Consent What Is Sexual Assault? Supporting a Survivor What Is Relationship Abuse? Stalking What Is Sexual Harassment? Bystander Intervention-Step UP! Women's Health See All Events Sexual Assault Awareness Month Columbia Health Flu Season Information Virtual Naloxone Training About Columbia Health Who We Are Who We Serve Confidentiality, Patient Rights, & Patient Responsibilities Operating Philosophy Video Library Your Feedback Staff Directory Health Units Alice! Health Promotion Counseling and Psychological Services Disability Services Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) Insurance Office Medical Services Sexual Violence Response Columbia Health You are here: Home Health Topics Violence Prevention Consent Consent What is sexual consent? Consent is permission for something to happen or agreement to do something. There are several critical components of sexual consent: Consent is an active process of willingly, knowingly, and freely choosing to participate in sex of any kind with another person(s). There is a shared responsibility for everyone among those who want to engage in any kind of sexual interaction. Consent requires voluntary, sober, enthusiastic, creative, informed, mutual, honest, and verbal agreement. Consent is ongoing and must be asked for every step of the way. If you want to move to the next level of sexual intimacy, just ask. Consent can be withdrawn at any time, and consenting to one sexual activity does not automatically mean consenting to another sexual activity. When there is an invitation of sex of any kind, and consent is mutually given or affirmed, the answer on everyone’s part is an enthusiastic, resounding “Yes.” Consent can be given using words or actions—as long as those words or actions clearly communicate willingness to engage in the sexual contact or activity. It is important not to make assumptions. If there is confusion or ambiguity, participants in sexual activity need to stop and talk about each person’s willingness to continue. Fundamentally, consent requires communication. In sexual relationships, it is about communicating your own interest, listening to your partner’s interest, and moving ahead with sexual activity only if you both agree. What is not consent? Manipulated or coerced sexual activity is not consensual. Silence or lack of resistance does not demonstrate consent. A person who is incapacitated by alcohol or drug use, or for any other reason, cannot consent. How do I know if someone is incapacitated and cannot consent? Common warning signs that a person may be incapacitated or approaching incapacitation as a result of alcohol or drug use include slurred or incomprehensible speech, vomiting, or unsteady gait. Alcohol and drugs can lower inhibitions and create confusion over whether consent is freely and affirmatively given. Keep in mind: The impact of alcohol and other drugs varies from person to person. Read More About Consent Columbia University: Sexual Respect Columbia Gender-Based Misconduct Policy Read the New York State Law definition of consent. Watch a video about consent. Driver’s Ed for the Sexual Superhighway: Navigating Consent Learn more about the Quick Escape button. The entire Columbia Health team, photographed in Lerner Hall. Click the image to see a larger version. Columbia Health Alice! Health Promotion Disability Services Counseling and Psychological Services Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) Insurance and Immunization Compliance Offices Medical Services Sexual Violence Response All Columbia Health offices are closed on University Holidays. Annual Report Columbia Health Annual Report Stay Connected Receive important news and event info from Columbia Health Columbia Health Events Join us for workshops, panel discussions, skill-building opportunities, and other events! Accessibility Accommodations Columbia Health makes every effort to accommodate individuals with disabilities. If you require disability accommodations to attend an event sponsored by Columbia Health, or by the University, contact Disability Services at 212-854-2388 at least 10 days in advance of the event. 212-854-2284 [email protected] Columbia Health Administration Wallach Hall, Suite 125, Mail Code 4202, 1116 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-2284 Contact Us [email protected] Internal Use Only Login to Access Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close