Skip to main content iastate.edu Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons Iowa State University Graduation & Commencement Menu Toggle Search Toggle Search Quick Links Archives Registrar Bachelors Application for Graduation Undergraduate Graduation Checklist Academic Attire Diplomas Masters and Doctoral Application for Graduation Masters and Doctoral Graduation Checklist Academic Attire Masters Hood Colors Graduate College Website Degree Deadlines and Dates Diplomas Vet Med Application for Graduation Graduation To Do List Diplomas Spring 2022 Commencement Bachelors Morning Undergraduate Commencement Ceremony Afternoon Undergraduate Commencement Ceremony Evening Undergraduate Commencement Ceremony Academic Attire Afternoon Undergraduate Commencement Speaker Morning Undergraduate Commencement Speaker Masters Spring 2022 Graduate Commencement Ceremony Academic Attire Graduate College Speaker Doctoral Spring 2022 Graduate Commencement Ceremony Academic Attire Presenting Professors Convocation & Reception Information Video Live Stream Future Commencement Dates Parking and Bus Route Information FAQs 1 streamers 2 Happy Grad 3 I did it cap 4 streamersf16 5 streamers 6 capf16 7 Selfie Spring 2022 Graduate College: Thursday, May 12, 7:00 p.m. in Hilton Coliseum The ceremony will last approximately 2 hours Link to livestream: https://youtu.be/FaNUdXtIKXQ We are pleased to announce a record number of graduates will be participating in the Spring 2022 University Commencement Ceremonies. To ensure everyone who wants to celebrate your accomplishments and attend in-person is able to do so, we have added a third commencement ceremony on Saturday, May 14, in Hilton Coliseum. Morning Undergraduate 1: Saturday, May 14, 9:00 a.m. in Hilton Coliseum Ivy College of Business College of Liberal Arts and Sciences The ceremony will last approximately 2.5 hours Link to livestream: https://youtu.be/gXwYMn8ANS0 Afternoon Undergraduate 2: Saturday, May 14, 2:30 p.m. in Hilton Coliseum College of Agriculture and Life Sciences College of Engineering The ceremony will last approximately 2.5 hours Link to livestream: https://youtu.be/ASdUHu_25pY Evening Undergraduate 3: Saturday, May 14, 6:30 p.m. in Hilton Coliseum College of Design College of Human Sciences The ceremony will last approximately 1.5 hours Link to livestream: https://youtu.be/yNtMcC07dEM Why we’re moving to 3 ceremonies Iowa State University is proud to be a student-centric research university, and we made this decision to provide you the opportunity to invite as many guests as you wish to cheer you on as you cross the stage. Had we offered only two ceremonies, as was the original plan and with a record number of students participating, it would have been necessary for each student to limit the number of guests joining them in Hilton Coliseum. And once we had reached capacity, guests would have been redirected to overflow locations where the ceremony would have been viewed livestream. We understand these changes may affect your plans and those of family and friends, and we appreciate your understanding. ** Please Note: There is no tailgating allowed at the commencement ceremonies.** Important Links: Spring 2022 Commencement Program Please Note: The Spring 2022 Commencement Program only includes spring 2022 graduates. All summer 2022 graduates will be listed in the Fall 2022 Commencement Program. Candidates listed in the Spring 2022 program reflect information received by the Office of the Registrar as of April 13th. If you submitted an application after this date, you will not be listed in the program.** Veterinary Medicine Commencement Ceremony Livestream Important Reminder: Students / Candidates will have their photograph taken at the ceremony. Photographers will use a flash when taking photos, please reach out to us at graduation@iastate.edu or 515-294-1840, if you have any questions or concerns about the use of a flash during your photograph. Office of the Registrar Graduation and Commencement Graduation & Commencement 214 ENROLLMENT SERVICES CENTER 2433 UNION DR AMES, IA 50011-2042 graduation@iastate.edu 515-294-1840 phone YouTube Twitter Facebook Copyright © 1995-2022 Iowa State University of Science and Technology All rights reserved Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility Consumer information