Skip to main content Explore Brown University Search Brown Show/Hide powered by Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Center for Biomedical Engineering Center for Biomedical Engineering Search form Search About Facilities Centers + Initiatives CBME Mission Contact Us People Primary Faculty & Staff Committees Affiliated Faculty Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Research Academics BME Courses Undergraduate Program Graduate Program News Events About Facilities Centers + Initiatives CBME Mission Contact Us People Primary Faculty & Staff Committees Affiliated Faculty Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Research Academics BME Courses Undergraduate Program Graduate Program PhD Program Admission Requirements Apply Now Program Overview ScM Programs Admission Requirements 5th Year Apply Now Financing Program Overviews Request Information Careers BMEB Resources News Events Academics Biomedical engineering is a dynamic and growing field based upon the application of the tools of engineering to the subject matter of biology and medicine. At Brown, BME spans from basic science to immersion in the clinic, from head (neuroengineering) to toe (orthopedics), and from molecules through cells and tissues to whole organisms. Undergraduate Program About the Biomedical Engineering Concentration Biomedical engineering is a dynamic and growing field based upon the application of the tools of engineering to the subject matter of biology and medicine. The undergraduate program in biomedical engineering is an independent concentration structured as a joint program between the Division of Biology and Medicine and the Division of Engineering. In this sense, the program has a different structure and course requirements than the tracks in other engineering disciplines. The program is managed under the umbrella of the Center for Biomedical Engineering. Students thus have access to the strong teaching and research programs of both Divisions as well as to a number of courses and research-programs existing at the interface between the two Divisions as well as Brown’s affiliated hospitals. Biomedical engineering at Brown is a unique and distinctive interdisciplinary vocation. Students must master much of the essential materials of two disciplines and be comfortable in two worlds, which utilize diverse tools in different ways to produce exciting results. Although considerable effort is required, the subject is truly fascinating and most students react to the field and its rigors and challenges with enthusiasm. More about our Undergraduate Program Graduate Program The biomedical engineering program at Brown provides cutting-edge, interdisciplinary, graduate-level education at the interface of engineering, biology, and medicine. The program features an interdisciplinary approach in four, complementary research areas: I) Mechanobiology, II) Regenerative Engineering, III) Neuroengineering, and IV) Biosensors and Bioplatforms. Research in these areas is advancing the understanding of fundamental problems in engineering, biology, and medicine, while developing new therapies to improve the quality of life for people with medical problems. The program is distinguished by its quantitative rigor and strong collaborative connections among academic science, clinical medicine, and industry. Graduate students take engineering, biology, and medical school courses, gain valuable clinical experience at nearby teaching hospitals associated with Brown's Warren Alpert Medical School, and engage in stimulating internships at companies commercializing biomedical technologies. These opportunities, coupled with an emphasis on dissertation research, give graduate students both the intellectual and the practical skills required for developing today's emerging science into useful biomedical technologies and therapies. More about our Graduate Program BME Courses Areas of Depth in the Biomedical Engineering Curriculum In addition to its emphasis on the fundamentals of life sciences, engineering, mathematics and chemistry, the courses and curriculum for biomedical engineering has four synergistic areas of depth that align with the teaching and research interests of the BME faculty. Below are some of the courses offered in those areas. New courses are being developed all the time, particularly the higher level graduate courses as well as special topics courses, so consult the most recent course catalog to find other courses offered by Engineering, Physics, Chemistry, Computer Science and Biology & Medicine in these exciting areas. Explore BME Courses Contact Center for Biomedical Engineering Brown University Box A-2 Arnold Lab 91 Waterman Street, Suite 211 Providence, RI 02912 +1-401-863-6778 [email protected] Quicklinks Apply Now Research Faculty Academics Give to CBME Giving to Brown Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us © 2016 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U Google+ LinkedIn SnapChat