Skip to Content Menu Audiences Clemson Home Faculty/Staff Resources Resources A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps Phonebook Apply Now Make a Gift Prospective Students Current Students Research About Partner News About SCIENCE The College of Science offers a range of Bachelor of Science and Bachelor of Arts degrees, as well as Master of Science and Ph.D. degrees in physical, mathematical and life sciences. Our academic programs are designed to develop students’ knowledge about the inner workings of both the physical and mathematical universes. Science aims to explain the behavior of interacting subatomic particles, reacting molecules, evolving cells and organisms, rotating galaxies, and even space and time themselves. All of this intersecting with elegant mathematical constructs that both aid in explaining our universe and reveal a beautiful and complex mathematical world of its own. Biological Sciences The applications of biology affect the health and well being of individuals in their societies and the continuation of earth as a balanced ecosystem. Clemson’s biological sciences department aims to produce informed citizens who contribute not only to the scientific community but also to the ongoing dialogue concerning the many ethical, social and political issues that have biological context or consequences. Biological Sciences: B.A., B.S., M.S., Ph.D. Environmental Toxicology: M.S., Ph.D. Microbiology: B.S., M.S., Ph.D. Online M.S. for Science Educators Chemistry Chemistry is an integral part of modern life and forms the basis for advances in nearly all areas of science and technology. The goal of Clemson’s chemistry department has been and continues to be nationally recognized among peers as an outstanding department that responds to the educational, technological and economic needs of South Carolina, the southeastern United States and the nation. Chemistry: B.A. B.S., M.S., Ph.D. Genetics and Biochemistry The Department of Genetics and Biochemistry at Clemson offers the advantages of both a large major research university and the personal attention, and collegial environment of a small private institution; a recipe for personal development and future success. Biochemistry: B.S. Genetics: B.S., Ph.D. Biochemistry and Molecular Biology: Ph.D. Mathematical and Statistical Sciences From modern economic development to environmental concerns, from advanced medical technology to computerized communication systems, mathematics touches nearly every facet of our world. At Clemson, you can experience the power of mathematics in the context of the exciting and dynamic science that it really is. Mathematical science is a science in search of pattern, form and structure, whose operating sphere is one of numbers, algorithms, ideas and models. Mathematical Sciences: B.A., B.S., M.S., Ph.D. Physics and Astronomy Physics, the most fundamental of the natural sciences, forms the basis of study upon which the other branches of science are founded. At Clemson, theorists and experimentalists explore, test, and discover phenomena that provide evidence for novel and unified theories based on these physical laws. Our physics and astronomy department is internationally recognized for its experimental, computational and theoretical work in astronomical, atmospheric, biological, condensed matter and fundamental physics. Physics: B.A., B.S., M.S., Ph.D. General Inquiries College of Science 118 Long Hall Clemson, SC 29634 ✉ science@clemson.edu ☏ 864-656-3015 RESOURCES Organizational chart To learn more about the organizational structure of the College of Science, view or download our organizational chart (PDF). College Profile Learn more about SCIENCE: View our report. About Home Alumni Contact Us Dean Faculty Excellence Faculty Openings Faculty/Staff Resources Leadership Team ScienceForward Departments Biological Sciences Chemistry Genetics and Biochemistry School of Mathematical and Statistical Sciences Physics and Astronomy Centers and Institutes Clemson Center for Human Genetics Clemson Eukaryotic Pathogens Innovation Center Center for Excellence in Math and Science Education Life Sciences Outreach Center Statistics and Mathematics Consulting Center Give to the College Like Us on Facebook Copyright © 2019 Clemson University College of Science | 118 Long Hall, Clemson, SC 29634 864-656-3015 | Email Us