Search | Directories | Reference Tools UW Home > Discover UW > Student Guide UW Bothell Course Descriptions UW Tacoma Course Descriptions Glossary INTERDISCIPLINARY GRADUATE PROGRAMS MOLECULAR AND CELLULAR BIOLOGY Detailed course offerings (Time Schedule) are available for Spring Quarter 2022 Summer Quarter 2022 Autumn Quarter 2022 MCB 508 Teaching College Science: Theory, Methods and Practice (2) B. Wiggins Covers the theory and methods of high-level student-centered instruction for diverse college students. Covers active learning and mentored teaching, evaluation design and implementation, fostering of instructor-student relationships, course design and foundational principles of the learning sciences. Students will later apply this material as an Instructor of Record of their own course in an undergraduate department at UW. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: MCB 508 MCB 509 Teaching College Science: Classroom Experience (2) Ben Wiggins Practical opportunity for students interested in high-level teaching methods for diverse populations of students. Students will apply teaching skills as Instructor of Record of their own course in an undergraduate department at UW. Prerequisite: MCB 508. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: MCB 509 MCB 511 Cell Cycle Control (3) Breeden, Roberts, Edgar Studies recent advances in understanding cell-cycle control, arising from genetics and biochemical studies of fission and budding yeast, marine invertebrates, Drosophila, amphibians, and cultured cells. Addresses the biochemical processes and molecular interactions and the rate-limiting events in the cell cycle, and the coupling of those events to physiological signals. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: MCB 511 MCB 512 Scientific Speaking Seminar (1.5) Biggins, Peichel Teaches how to effectively give a scientific seminar about research. Offered: jointly with CONJ 512; W. View course details in MyPlan: MCB 512 MCB 513 Development Journal Seminar (1, max. 12) Moens, Soriano, Swalla Examines current literature about specific topics in developmental biology. The seminar chooses current monthly topics and the group meets weekly to discuss published research papers. Topics may include: germ cell specification; cell migration and morphogenesis; axis formation; somitogenesis and stem cells. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: MCB 513 MCB 514 Molecular and Cellular Biology Literature Review (2) Raible Emphasizes critical evaluation of the original literature orally and in writing. Open only to first-year students in the Molecular and Cellular Biology program. View course details in MyPlan: MCB 514 MCB 515 Molecular and Cellular Biology Literature Review (2) Emerman Emphasizes critical evaluation of the original literature orally and in writing. Open only to first-year students in the Molecular and Cellular Biology Program. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: MCB 515 MCB 516 Molecular and Cellular Biology Literature Review (2) Emerman Emphasizes critical evaluation of the original literature orally and in writing. Open only to first-year students in the Molecular and Cellular Biology Program. Offered: S. View course details in MyPlan: MCB 516 MCB 517 Topics in Molecular and Cellular Biology (1-5, max. 40) Advanced in-depth coverage of specific areas of molecular and cellular biology of current interest. Lectures by University of Washington faculty and invited speakers involved in research in this area. A basic knowledge of principles of molecular and cellular biology assumed. View course details in MyPlan: MCB 517 MCB 519 Topics in Cancer (1, max. 6) Examination of ways to integrate basic, clinical, and public health sciences to increase understanding of human biology and disease. Seminars in introduction to cancer research as viewed by basic, clinical, and public health sciences, origins of cancer, cancer prevention, cancer progression, and therapies for cancer. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: MCB 519 MCB 520 Tutorial in Molecular and Cellular Biology (1-2, max. 40) M. EMERMAN Special topics reading and discussion. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: MCB 520 MCB 522 Development I: The Developmental Basis of Human Disease (3) Moens Uses recent discoveries in human genetics to guide student learning about animal development. Explores the normal developmental function of genes that have been identified as causal in human developmental disorders such as skeletal dysmorphologies, ciliopathies, autism, and cancer. Offered: A, odd years. View course details in MyPlan: MCB 522 MCB 529 Cell Migration (1.5) Cooper, Moens Explores mechanisms of cell migration in vivo and in cell culture. Discusses the cell biology of different forms of cell migration, the extracellular cues that direct migration, and how these cues are integrated by the migrating cell. Offered: jointly with CONJ 529; W. View course details in MyPlan: MCB 529 MCB 532 Human Pathogenic Viruses (3) Emerman Replication, regulation, and pathogenesis of several groups of human viruses, including human immunodeficiency virus and papillomaviruses. Emphasis on the unique aspects of the viral-like cycles as they relate to effects on infected cells and organisms. Guest lecturers focus on viral immunology, measles. herpes simplex virus, and HHV-8. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: MCB 532 MCB 533 Evolutionary Genetics and Genomics (3) Malik, Peichel Introduces classic concepts and approaches in evolutionary genetics. Familiarizes students with genomic approaches, tools and resources, and demonstrates how evolutionary approaches and modern genomic tools are brought to bear on important biological questions. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: MCB 533 MCB 536 Tools for Computational Biology (3) Arvind Subramaniam Introduces computational research methods to graduate students in biomedical science and related disciplines. Provides a survey of the most common tools in the field. Students should have foundational knowledge in reproducible computational science, and can continue learning relevant tools to suit specific research interests. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: MCB 536 MCB 539 Biological Basis of Neoplasia (3) Kemp, Zarbl Introduces the major themes in research in the biology of neoplastic change. Covers principle molecular mechanisms responsible for tumor initiation and progression, with a specific emphasis on intracellular signaling, DNA repair, cell cycle checkpoints, and loss of normal tissue homeostatis. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: MCB 539 MCB 540 Nucleic Acid Enzymes (1.5) Stoddard Surveys a wide variety of enzymatic process that control the structure and modification of DNA and RNA, with particular focus on structure, function and mechanism. Unifying features of major reaction types (such as phosphoryl transfers and base modifications) constitute core material. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: MCB 540 MCB 543 Logic Constructs and Methodologies of Biological Research (3) Explores the logic and methods of general scientific practice, form historical, logical, and practical points of view. Covers philosophical and methodological matters upon which there is consensus, and cutting issues of ongoing controversy. Includes both theoretical and practical application of scientific method. View course details in MyPlan: MCB 543 MCB 560 Biotechnology Externship (2-12, max. 12) Supervised research in a biotechnology company. Prerequisite: permission of instructor and doctoral candidacy. Instructors: Moon Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: MCB 560 MCB 580 Teaching Practicum in Molecular and Cellular Biology (2, max. 4) Supervised training in the teaching of molecular and cellular biology. Prerequisite: permission of instructor. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: MCB 580 MCB 599 Research in Molecular and Cellular Biology (*, max. 40) The student rotates through one research laboratory involved in the Molecular and Cellular Biology Program per quarter. Open only to first-year students in the Molecular and Cellular Biology Program. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: MCB 599 MCB 600 Independent Study or Research (*-) View course details in MyPlan: MCB 600 MCB 700 Master's Thesis (*-) Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: MCB 700 MCB 800 Doctoral Dissertation (*-) View course details in MyPlan: MCB 800 Office of the University Registrar registrar@uw.edu Modified: May 30, 2022