Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site SEHD Home SEHD Home SEHD News Department of Educational and Psychological Studies Department of Kinesiology and Sport Sciences Department of Teaching and Learning About Us History Mission Accreditation Diversity Degrees Master's Programs Doctoral Programs Bachelor's Programs Online Programs Certificates Minors Degrees by Department Admission Undergraduate Graduate Financial Contact Us People Administration Faculty Staff Students Undergraduate Graduate International Students Organizations Job & Internship Openings Well-Being Our Work Research Centers Projects Institutes Outreach Resources Happenings News Events Publications Social Media Friends & Giving GIVE TO SEHD Alumni & Volunteers Community Partners About Us Degrees Admission People Students Our Work Happenings Friends & Giving Search About Us History Mission Accreditation Diversity Degrees Master's Programs Doctoral Programs Bachelor's Programs Online Programs Certificates Minors Degrees by Department Admission Undergraduate Graduate Financial Contact Us People Administration Faculty Staff Students Undergraduate Graduate International Students Organizations Job & Internship Openings Well-Being Our Work Research Centers Projects Institutes Outreach Resources Happenings News Events Publications Social Media Friends & Giving GIVE TO SEHD Alumni & Volunteers Community Partners SEHD Home SEHD Home SEHD News Department of Educational and Psychological Studies Department of Kinesiology and Sport Sciences Department of Teaching and Learning Alumni Give Community Partners About Us Listening Exercise Programs Communications History Contact Us Home Friends & Giving Give To SHED AAA fa You should be re-directed to another page momentarily. If not, please visit site://ACAD-ED-edu.miami.edu/people/administration/development-office/index. Give To SHED GET STARTED 1 Request Info 2 Visit 3 Apply GET STARTED 1 Request Info 2 Visit 3 Apply Giving to the School of Education and Human Development Private philanthropy has been and continues to be essential in helping the School of Education and Human Development (SEHD) spark transformation through education. Without support from alumni, parents, families, and the community our success is not possible. We appreciate the generosity from donors and hope to grow our philanthropic community to continue the good work our faculty and students continue to do. Priorities of the SEHD: Scholarships Scholarships are a top priority for the SEHD and necessary to become truly competitive and fulfill the University of Miami’s goal of providing access to qualified students, regardless of financial need. Greatest Needs Greatest needs of the School of Education and Human Development allows for Dean Kohn-Wood to support important initiatives or other support that directly benefit SEHD undergraduate and graduate students and faculty. Give to Departments in SEHD to offer important opportunities to students Educational and Psychological Studies We generate knowledge and prepare reflective leaders, researchers, methodologists, and practitioners to improve psychological, educational, and community well-being. Intellectual stimulation and cooperation characterize the academic culture within the Department of Educational and Psychological Studies. Faculty and students create a community of scholars in which respect and professionalism are common goals. From this solid base of mutual support, students are encouraged to take risks to maximize learning. To learn more about the diverse projects our community of scholars are involved with, click here. Kinesiology and Sport Sciences Students in the Athletic Training program receive an outstanding clinical and academic background while having wonderful opportunities to work closely with our Division 1 Varsity Athletics program in the emergency care, treatment, and rehabilitation of athletic injuries. Students in the exercise physiology program receive a sound scientific education with opportunities for applied physiological research and hands-on clinical experiences. The sport administration program prepares students for administrative careers in both amateur and professional sport industries. To learn more about the projects our next generation leaders and esteemed faculty are working on, click here. Teaching and Learning We prepare the next generation of teachers, teacher educators, researchers, and practitioners to improve education for all students. The Department of Teaching and Learning is committed to improving the education of all students, providing high quality teacher education to pre-service teachers, and offering professional learning opportunities for in-service teachers. To learn more about the special projects our next generation of specialists and researchers are working on, click here. Ways to Give Gift of Cash The simplest and easiest way to give to the School of Education and Human Development (SEHD) is to write a check or to use your credit to make a gift on UM’s secure online giving site. Major cash gifts may be made as a pledge to be paid over a specified period. For more information about making a major gift, please call Angie Gonzalez-Kurver at (305) 284-5038. Give by Phone: To make a gift over the phone, please call the School’s Office of Development and Alumni Relations at 305-284-5038. Outside business hours, please leave your name and contact information, and we will return your call the next business day. Give by Check: If you wish to send a contribution via check, please make the check payable to the “University of Miami School of Education and Human Development” and mail it to: UM School of Education and Human Development Development Office PO BOX 025388 Coral Gables, Florida 33146 Give by Credit Card: If you wish to send a contribution via credit card, please Click Here Securities A gift of securities to the SEHD can be made in the form of shares of corporate stock or mutual funds, stock options, bonds, or other types of securities. With a gift of securities, you may enjoy tax savings. For further information about making a gift of securities, call Angie Gonzalez-Kurver 305-284-5038. Real and Personal Property A residence or other real property may be given as an outright gift to the SEHD, or individuals may prefer to give their home for the benefit of the SEHD and retain the right to occupy the property for life. Personal property such as paintings, library books, or musical instruments can also make useful gifts. Bequest Planned gifts to the SEHD are commitments you make to the university that will benefit the School at a future date. Planned gifts may include a provision in your will or trust, a charitable remainder trust, a charitable gift annuity, or life insurance. Planned gifts may also provide lifetime income to the college while also affording specific tax advantages to the donor. Learn more about how you can make a planned gift or bequest to the SEHD and provide significant support by us at (305) 284-5038 or check our gift planning resources. Charitable Gift Annuity Your gift to the School can do double-duty by providing the school with much-needed funds while also allowing you to hold an interest in that gift. For example, you can set up a charitable trust that provides you with income from that trust either for life or for a specified number of years. For further information about setting up a charitable trust, call Angie Gonzalez-Kurver at (305) 284-5038. Alumni Relations Tell us what you're up to, your accomplishments, or accolades by submitting your class note and you may be featured in the SEHD Perspective Magazine or social media. Submit your class note here Update your Information UM Alumni Benefits Parent and Family Relations Welcome SEHD Parents and Families SEHD families are an important part of our community. Below you will find important links to services that will help support your student throughout their time at UM SEHD. We strive to partner with parents and families to enhance the student experience as they embark on their academic journey, as well as to strengthen your connection to the UM community. Please consider us as a resource for your questions or concerns. Should you have questions do not hesitate to contact us at 305-284-5038. Academic Calendar UM Campus Map Important Numbers in Case of Emergency Student Health Services Contact the Office of Development and Alumni Relations Angie Gonzalez-Kurver Director of Development and Alumni Relations 305-284-5038 ajgonzalez@miami.edu University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 School of Education and Human Development 5202 University Drive Merrick Bldg. Rm. 312 Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-3711 305-284-3711 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices