Skip to Navigation Skip to UConn Search Skip to Content Our websites may use cookies to personalize and enhance your experience. By continuing without changing your cookie settings, you agree to this collection. For more information, please see our University Websites Privacy Notice. UConn University of Connecticut school of School of Law LAW Search University of Connecticut Search UConn Search University Communications Search UConn Search UConn A to Z Index UConn A to Z Index Site A-Z UConn A-Z Click to open menu Skip to content Home Admissions Academics Careers Library Student Life Faculty Alumni About Search this SiteSearch in https://law.uconn.edu/>Search Support Through Community Students benefit from small classes, caring faculty and a culture of collaboration at UConn Law. Success Through Practice The clinics, field placements and practical courses at UConn Law prepare graduates for great careers. Strength Through Diversity At UConn Law we create excellence with a commitment to diversity, equity and belonging. At the UConn School of Law we offer support through a caring community, excellence through diversity and success through dynamic teaching and practical experience. Apply to the JD Program Apply to the LLM Program Explore & Learn More Fostering Diversity UConn Law supports diversity, equity and inclusion. Serving the Community UConn Law is committed to community service. Celebrating a Century UConn Law is celebrating our history. COVID-19 Update: In-person classes have resumed. LEARN MORE Recent News UConn Law Work on Hate Crimes Already Getting Results Continue Reading Golf Tournament Aims to Open Doors Continue Reading UConn Law Commencement Celebrates Class of 2022 Continue Reading Read more news Upcoming Events Jun 11 A Centennial Celebration: From Justice To Jubilation6:00pm × A Centennial Celebration: From Justice To Jubilation Saturday, June 11th, 2022 06:00 PM - 10:00 PM Other CT Convention Center UConn Law Centennial Celebration: From Justice to Jubilation RSVP at http://law.uconn.edu/gala Contact Information: deborah.king@uconn.edu More All events Faculty Scholarship Kiel Brennan-Marquez Posted on August 11, 2021February 1, 2022 by Leblanc, Jeanne Kiel Brennan Marquez publishes Algorithmic Decision-Making When Humans Disagree on Ends with Vincent Chiao in the New Criminal Law Review. This entry was posted in Faculty Scholarship. More faculty scholarship Upcoming Events Jun 11 A Centennial Celebration: From Justice To Jubilation6:00pm × A Centennial Celebration: From Justice To Jubilation Saturday, June 11th, 2022 06:00 PM - 10:00 PM Other CT Convention Center UConn Law Centennial Celebration: From Justice to Jubilation RSVP at http://law.uconn.edu/gala Contact Information: deborah.king@uconn.edu More All events Faculty Scholarship Julia Simon-Kerr Posted on September 3, 2021February 1, 2022 by Sullivan, Molly Julia Simon-Kerr publishes Credibility in an Age of Algorithms in Rutgers Law Review. This entry was posted in Faculty Scholarship. More faculty scholarship June 11: Centennial Gala Learn more | RSVP Faculty Scholarship Mathilde Cohen Posted on September 3, 2021February 1, 2022 by Sullivan, Molly Mathilde Cohen publishes The Right to Express Milk in the Yale Journal of Law and Feminism. This entry was posted in Faculty Scholarship. More faculty scholarship GIVE APPLY NEWSLETTER About Events Leadership Maps & Directions Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Directories & Portals Staff Directory Faculty Directory Current Student Portal Faculty / Staff Portal Communications Newsroom Media Inquiries COVID-19 Information Report Website Issues UCONN University of Connecticut School of Law 55 Elizabeth Street Hartford, Connecticut 06105 Maps & Directions Phone +1 (860) 570-5000 Email law.admissions@uconn.edu Safety & Security Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) HEOA Consumer Information Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Twitter © University of Connecticut Disclaimers, Privacy & Copyright Accessibility Webmaster Login A-Z Index