Skip to content Clemson University Begin With Clemson Stories Home Emily Martin Hoang Nam Huynh Roy Jones Marena Fleming Joe Mari Maja Clemson University Home Academics Research About Clemson Degree Programs Clemson University Academics Research About Clemson Degree Programs Menu Close Begin with Freedom Begin with Service Begin with Collaboration Begin With Clemson Every Tiger brings a unique trait with them to Clemson. Learn how the gifts and interests of our people, paired with the top-tier academic resources on our campus, work together to create one of the most productive public research universities in the nation. Begin With Collaboration Joe Mari Maja Collaborative projects have taken Joe Maja on a journey around the world. See how he landed in South Carolina and how his partnerships bring global engineering leaders to work on agricultural applications in our state. Read Joe's Story Watch Joe’s Story Begin with collaboration × Explore their Journeys Begin With Community Emily Martin After experiencing the healing impact of her Clemson community, she embarked on a research career to improve public health through disease prevention. Read Emily's Story Begin With Determination Roy Jones Learn how one man's work ethic created pathways for hundreds of educators to make a difference in Title I schools nationwide. Read Roy's Story Clemson at a Glance Carnegie R1 Research Institution Clemson is classified as one of the nation’s most active research institutions, according to the Carnegie Classification of Institutions of Higher Education. $762million Research Proposal Submission Value in FY2021 16:1 Student-to- Faculty Ratio 2020 enrollment 27,341 Undergraduate: 21,653 Graduate: 5,688 BEGIN WITH FREEDOM Watch Marena's Story xxx × Watch All of Their Stories Begin With Freedom Marena Fleming With a strong pre-veterinary program guiding her academic journey, Marena was free to explore her interests on campus. She began training service dogs and found her path forward. Read Marena's Story Start Your Journey Whether it’s exploring your interests, accepting a challenge or finding the mentors you need to move forward, Clemson offers a place to take the next step in your journey. Apply to Clemson Stay Connected With Clemson Want to stay connected with Clemson? Request emails, follow us on social media or see the latest in news. Other Stories Begin With Service Hoang Nam Huynh Social Media Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube REQUEST ADMISSIONS INFORMATION Copyright © 2022 Clemson University | Clemson, South Carolina 29634