Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Apply Visit Give bc.edu Students Employers Alumni Search BC.edu Links BC Law Alumni Menu Main Nav BC Law Alumni Donate Back Back Close Get Involved Overview Councils and Committees Alumni Board Black Alumni Network Reunion Committee Law Day Committee Boston Gold Committee Alumni Chapters Chapter Leaders Volunteer Opportunities 1L Mentoring Judge Advocacy Competitions Attend Events Overview Law Day Support BC Law Overview Financial Aid Faculty Excellence Public Service Law School Fund Giving Societies Gift Planning The Impact of Your Gift Connect Overview Alumni Directory BC Law Magazine BC Law Impact Blog Career Services Contact Us Donate Close Directory A to Z Listing Search BC Law Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give bc.edu Students Employers Alumni BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Rosengart '87 Lectures at BC Law Britney Spears's attorney focuses not on his client's fame but on using the law to improve people's lives. Read More Featured Stories Commencement 2022 MA Chief Justice Kimberly S. Budd was keynote speaker at the Law School's 89th Commencement exercises. McCoy Tapped as Consumer Group Fellow Financial services law organization elects BC Law professor to membership. Good Works Pay Off Eleven new graduates rewarded for public service achievements. More from BC Law Magazine Get Involved engagement Get Involved Learn more about the Alumni Association and how to stay involved. Networking Attend Events Celebrate and deepen the unique bond you share with fellow graduates. Leadership Support BC Law Your gift enhances our tradition of educating tomorrow's leaders. The Power of Your Gift “During my time here at BC Law, I've participated in a few of the wide-ranging practical experiences offered by our outstanding faculty. These hands-on experiences have been instrumental in helping me to discover my legal calling. Perhaps more importantly, my scholarship has given me the freedom to follow my dreams and aspirations, free from financial pressures.” –Stephen LaBrecque ’17 Dean’s Scholar “Your donations help students travel for national moot court competitions, obtain critical hands-on experience with real-world cases through our clinics, pursue public interest summer jobs, and host important conferences on cutting-edge themes. Your investment in our faculty enables them to attain even greater success by traveling nationally and internationally in support of their research agendas.” –R. Michael Cassidy Professor and Rappaport Center Faculty Director “There was a sense in the air when we were all [at BC Law] from ’65 to ’68 that human rights and civil rights get a priority. A sense that, as much as lawyers are devoted in so many fields of their work, doing this work is particularly important. The school set that tradition and it still does.” –Walt Kelly ’68 Labor and civil rights lawyer who represented exonerated rapist and convicted murderer Steven Avery, the subject of the hit Netflix series Making a Murderer “As a faculty member, I see firsthand the impact your gift will have on the lives of our students. Here they dive deeply into the law, surrounded by equally passionate scholars and guided by a shared commitment to justice. They become leaders not only in their communities but in the world—and the Law School Fund makes it happen.” –Judith A. McMorrow Professor Alumni Back To Top Back To Top Cadigan Alumni Center 140 Commonwealth Ave. Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 617-552-3935 617-552-4345 (Career Services) About BC Law Admission Academics & Faculty Centers Careers Student Life Contact Consumer Information (ABA Standard 509 Disclosures) BC Forward: University updates on 2021-22 academic year apply now JD Program LLM Program Connect Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube LinkedIn Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College