Skip to main content Skip to site menu Skip to Brown menu Skip to site search Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Enter search keyword About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Loan Office Repay your Loans Avoiding Default Loan Office Avoiding Default What is Default? To default means you failed to make payments on your student loan as scheduled according to the terms of your promissory note. Consequences of Default A hold will be placed on all Brown University transcripts until the loan is brought current Your student loan debt will increase because of the late fees, additional interest, court costs, collection fees, attorney’s fees, and any other costs associated with the collection process. The status of your loan account is reported to all of the major credit bureaus every month. A past due or defaulted status will negatively impact your credit history for up to 7 years You will lose eligibility for additional federal student aid Your employer (at the request of the federal government) can withhold money from your pay and send the money to the government. This process is called wage garnishment Avoiding Default Call the Loan Office and your federal servicer. If you're already past due, the hardest part is making that call! We are here to help you evaluate your options for managing repayment. Contact us at (401) 863-3296 or [email protected] Getting Out of Default Deferment/Forbearance If you've been having financial difficulty, we may be able to reduce the amount that is past due. The loan programs offer different options to postpone repayment through deferment and forbearance. We may be able to find a solution to help you bring your loan current. Consolidation You also have an option for getting out of default through loan consolidation. Loan consolidation allows you to pay off the outstanding combined balance(s) for one or more federal student loans to create a new single loan. Home About Before You Borrow Leaving Brown & Exit Counseling Repay your Loans Grace Period Repay Your Federal Direct Loans Repay Your Federal Perkins and Brown University Institutional Loans Understanding Interest Loan Consolidation Avoiding Default Deferment & Forbearance Cancellation & Forgiveness Tax Information Medical School Loan Borrowers 1098-E Student Loan Interest - Tax Information Employee Programs News Code of Conduct Print this Page Share this Page Loan Office Brown University Box 1950 Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401-863-3296 Fax 401-863-7518 [email protected] Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory Related Bursar's Office Cashier's Office Financial Services Financial Aid Undergraduate Graduate Medical