Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Skip to primary site search Google Tag Manager For Faculty and Staff For Alumni For Students For Potential Students Biomed A-Z People Directory Department of Ecology, Evolution and Organismal Biology Show/Hide Home About Us Anatomical Gift Program EEB Internal Intranet Facilities Herbarium Plant Environmental Center People Graduate Education Curriculum How to Apply Resources About Providence Undergraduate Education News Graduate Education The Graduate Program in Ecology, Evolution, and Organismal Biology is intended for highly qualified students who plan to pursue a career that includes research in the fields of ecology and environmental science, organismal biology, and/or evolutionary biology. Students work closely with a faculty member in the department to make a significant contribution to scholarship and research in their field, and to develop an individualized training program involving coursework and collaborative study. Students seeking a Ph.D. degree in Ecology, Evolution, and Organismal Biology at Brown choose an EEOB faculty advisor within their area of specialization. Students benefit from the wide range of interests of faculty members within the department, as well as from interactions with members of other programs and departments within the University, especially the graduate programs in Molecular and Cell Biology, Biochemistry, Physiology, Neuroscience, Applied Mathematics, Earth and Environmental Sciences, Engineering, and Computer Science. Independent research begins early in the graduate program, which is designed to prepare students for careers in higher education and research in either academic or non-academic settings. Each student develops a flexible course of preparation individually arranged to meet his or her specific needs. In addition to course work, students receive much of their training through seminars and colloquia. Seminars each semester address topics of particular interest to current graduate students, and weekly colloquia in each of the graduate programs on campus give students contact with visiting scientists from a wide variety of disciplines. Admission to graduate study is usually open only to candidates for the Ph.D. degree. Brown undergraduates may apply to complete a 5th year masters degree, as described in the 5th Year Masters Guidelines. Training partnerships Brown Center for Computational Molecular Biology (CCMB): Several EEB faculty members are Ph.D. trainers the graduate program in Computational Biology administered by the Brown Center for Computational Molecular Biology (CCMB), a world-class center for research and scholarship in this new discipline. Molecular Biology, Cell Biology and Biochemistry Graduate Program (MCBGP): Several EEB faculty members are Ph.D. trainers in the Molecular and Cell Biology and Biochemistry Graduate Program (MCBGP) administered by the MCB Department. The Brown Program in Biomedical Engineering: Several EEB faculty members also train Masters and Ph.D. students through the Program in Biomedical Engineering, which is a collaboration between the Division of Biology and the School of Engineering. Related Files Handbook for Ph.D. Students Open Masters Program Guidelines 5th Year Master's Program Handbook Graduate Education Curriculum How to Apply Resources About Providence Brown Biology and Medicine Search Brown Show/Hide Learn More About Warren Alpert Medical School Program in Biology Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty and Staff Potential Students Alumni The Department of Ecology, Evolution, and Organismal Biology The Department of Ecology, Evolution, and Organismal Biology Brown University Box G-W 80 Waterman Street Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-2100 Fax: 401-863-2166 Twitter Twitter Giving to Brown Division of Biology and Medicine Brown University Box G-A1, Providence, RI 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-3330 Maps / Contact Us © 2022 Brown University Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram LinkedIn SnapChat