Skip to main content MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links Events UWAA Members Join or renew Reasons to be a member Class of 2022 offer Member benefits Member account Get the app UW Impact Travel COVID-19 Updates Upcoming Tours Traveling with us Traveler Testimonials Tour Operators Resources & FAQs Travel insurance Communities U.S. Huskies International Huskies UW campuses, colleges & schools Common Ground Always Learning Multicultural Alumni Partnership Reunions UW Husky Landing Future Alumni Dinners with the Pack Huskies@Work Student Alumni Ambassadors Student Career Trek Services Career UW NetID Email & online tools Transcripts BECU GEICO Update your information UW Husky Landing Welcome to UW Husky Landing, the powerful professional networking tool for the UW community. Whether you’re looking for your first job out of college or a seasoned professional looking to build your network, there’s a place here for you. UW Husky Landing is open to all alumni, students and friends. Ready to jump right in? Sign up and start building your network! GET CONNECTED Expand your Husky network based on career, industry and interests. Take a quick matching quiz to find people you can connect with—less scrolling, more finding! Seek professional advice from industry insiders. Alumni volunteers and other professionals have already signed up to help. They are waiting to hear from you. Already an industry insider? Lend your voice to the conversation! Participate in group discussions with fellow Huskies. Find out what it’s really like to live in an area or work in an industry from people who actually know, or share what you love about your job. Find a mentor or become one to someone else. Meet your future mentor or pay it forward to the next generation. You control how often you connect and how many connections you build. Explore professional development resources. Sharpen your skills, research potential employers and find new things to discover through the UW Husky Landing portal. Join our Husky career community! Sign Up Now Bothell alumni: If you are a Bothell grad, start here to create your profile in the Bothell hub. You can use the drop down menu in the upper left corner of the screen to toggle between the UW Bothell hub and the general UW hub. Tacoma alumni: If you are a Tacoma grad, start here to create your profile in the Tacoma hub. You can use the drop down menu in the upper left corner of the screen to toggle between the UW Tacoma hub and the general UW hub. Home Communities U.S. Huskies International Huskies Living Internationally After Graduation? UW campuses, colleges & schools Common Ground Multicultural Alumni Partnership Reunions UW Husky Landing UW Alumni Facebook UW Alumni Twitter UW Alumni Instagram UW Alumni LinkedIn CONTACT UWAA: 206-543-0540 uwalumni@uw.edu About UWAA Join University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA