Harvard Health Publishing Harvard Health Publishing Search Search Close Shopping Cart Customer Service Content Licensing About Us Login Open mobile menu Menu Free HealthBeat Signup Shop Subscriptions Special Health Reports Online Courses Pay Subscription Bill Common Conditions Staying Healthy Resources Blog COVID-19 Updates Close menu Close Main Content Common Conditions Staying Healthy Resources Blog Helpful Links Customer Service Content Licensing About Us Login Free Healthbeat Signup Subscriptions Special Health Reports Online Courses Pay Subscription Bill Recent Blog Articles Considering pregnancy and have lupus? Plan ahead Some men whose prostate cancer progresses can safely delay treatment Heart-healthy habits for children and teens lengthen lives Monkeypox: An unfamiliar virus spreading fast — sound familiar? Diabetes: Does a long-term study reinforce or change approaches to prevention? War anxiety: How to cope Can we prevent depression in older adults by treating insomnia? Want to try veganism? Here's how to get started Vitamin B6 flies under the radar: Are you getting enough? The formula shortage is hurting families: What parents should know and do / Stephanie Collier, MD, MPH Contributor Dr. Stephanie Collier is the director of education in the division of geriatric psychiatry at McLean Hospital; consulting psychiatrist for the population health management team at Newton-Wellesley Hospital; and instructor in psychiatry at Harvard Medical School. Her professional interests include the interface of medicine and psychiatry, the treatment of mental illnesses in the primary care setting, and the optimization of training and supervision of non-specialist clinicians to deliver mental health interventions in resource-limited settings. Posts by Stephanie Collier, MD, MPH Staying Healthy War anxiety: How to cope Staying Healthy Sex, drugs, and depression: What your doctor needs to know Mind & Mood Is a mobile app as good as a therapist? Women's Health Postpartum anxiety is invisible, but common and treatable Mind & Mood How can you manage anxiety during pregnancy? COVID-19 Could COVID-19 infection be responsible for your depressed mood or anxiety? Stephanie Collier, MD, MPH How can you help a loved one suffering from loneliness? Mental Health Should we screen all adolescent girls and women for anxiety? Stephanie Collier, MD, MPH What should you do during a psychiatric medication shortage? Stephanie Collier, MD, MPH Collaborative care: Treating mental illnesses in primary care Stephanie Collier, MD, MPH Struggling with attention and organization as you age? It could be ADHD, not dementia Stephanie Collier, MD, MPH What works best for treating depression and anxiety in dementia? Stephanie Collier, MD, MPH What’s the best way to manage agitation related to dementia? Result 1 - 13 of 13 Footer Harvard Health Publishing Facebook Twitter Linkedin YouTube My Account Customer Service Log in Order Now Online Learning Courses Digital Subscriptions Special Health Reports Print Subscriptions More About Us Permissions Content Licensing Topics © 2022 by The President and Fellows of Harvard College Do not sell my personal information | Privacy Policy Scroll To Top Close Thanks for visiting. Don't miss your FREE gift. The Best Diets for Cognitive Fitness, is yours absolutely FREE when you sign up to receive Health Alerts from Harvard Medical School Sign up to get tips for living a healthy lifestyle, with ways to fight inflammation and improve cognitive health, plus the latest advances in preventative medicine, diet and exercise, pain relief, blood pressure and cholesterol management, and more. I want to get healthier Close Health Alerts from Harvard Medical School Get helpful tips and guidance for everything from fighting inflammation to finding the best diets for weight loss...from exercises to build a stronger core to advice on treating cataracts. PLUS, the latest news on medical advances and breakthroughs from Harvard Medical School experts. BONUS! Sign up now and get a FREE copy of the Best Diets for Cognitive Fitness I want to get healthier Close Stay on top of latest health news from Harvard Medical School. Plus, get a FREE copy of the Best Diets for Cognitive Fitness. Sign me up