Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu Division of Information Technology Main Navigation About IT Services Show Extended Students Faculty / Staff CEDA Software Show Extended Students Faculty / Staff Events & Projects IT Strategic Plan Senate Information Technology Committee The Senate Information Technology Committee is a Standing Committee of the Academic Senate and works to formulate, review and recommend all policies and procedures. The committee also examines academic and administrative information technology issues and promotes on and off-site technology for instruction, learning, research and campus operation. Purpose Allocation of IT Resources Access and Utilization Privacy and Security of Information Systems Information Technology–Related Product and Service Acquisition Procedures Curricular Uses of Information Technology Receiving, sharing and promoting information among all members of the university community concerning the appropriate uses of information technology Acting as an advisory body on information technology to the Academic Senate as well as to other members of the university community. Members Nikolas Nikolaidis, Biological Science Phoolendra Mishra, Civil and Environmental Engineering Charles Grieb, Art (Chair) Jim Collison, Communications Nancy Fitch, History (Senator) Nimer Alrushiedat, ISDS Moon Joo Kim, Library – Administration Sharon Seidman, Child & Adolescent Studies Loretta Donovan, Elementary & Biling Education Karyl Ketchum, Women's Studies Mildred Garcia, President Designee: Amir Dabirian, VP–IT (Senator) Anil Puri, Interim Provost/VPAA Designee: Steve Walk, Interim AVP for South County Operations and Initiatives Danny Kim, VP–Admin & Finance/CFO Designee: Welson Badal, Admin & Finance – IT Designee: John Carroll, IT-Ctr for Academic Tech Berenecea Johnson-Eanes, VP Student Affairs Designee: Elahe Amani, Dir-Tech Svcs, SA Sandeep Chopra, Director IT, UEE Erica Bowers, Interim Director of FDC Shelli Wynants, Interim Director Online Ed & Training Emily Bonney, Liberal Studies This site is maintained by Division of Information Technology. Last Published 4/5/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact helpdesk@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.10 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.