Skip to main content Events Office Main navigation Plan an Event Departmental Events Student Events External Events Filming at UCLA Commercial/External Filming Student Filming UCLA Departmental Filming Engagement and Wedding Photography UCLA Lake Arrowhead Lodge Filming Locations Attend an Event Event Calendar Event Tickets Directions Parking Events Online (EOL) Events Online FAQ Events Online Policies and Guidelines Sustainable Events Drone Procedures Open Search Search the site: UCLA events and film shoots are subject to Los Angeles County Health Department and UCLA's COVID-19 health and safety protocols. For campus updates please visit UCLA's COVID-19 website. UCLA Events Office Your source for event planning and film production Student Events The UCLA Events Office schedules and manages student extracurricular activities in classrooms and campus quads. Learn more about scheduling and planning your student meetings or events with the UCLA Events Office. Departmental Events We are the central campus resource for UCLA departments organizing their events on the UCLA campus. Learn more about how the UCLA Events Office can assist in scheduling and planning your UCLA departmental event. External Events The UCLA Events Office hosts external campus events of all sizes, from large public festivals to single classroom rentals and everything in-between. Learn more about hosting your external event on the UCLA campus. Filming & Photography We are the University’s location coordinating and film permitting unit for feature films, commercials, stills, and any other digital media broadcast. Learn more about filming and photography at UCLA, the University's drone procedures, and view campus filming locations. 555 Westwood Plaza, Suite 106 Los Angeles, CA 90095 (310) 825-8989 events@ucla.edu © 2022 Regents of University of California Emergency Accessibility Privacy & Terms of Use Follow on Facebook Follow on Twitter Follow on Instagram Follow on Snapchat Follow on LinkedIn Follow on YouTube