Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Special Education (Pre-K to 12) Major You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Special Education (Pre-K to 12) Major Special Education (Pre-K to 12) Major Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Special Education (Pre-K to 12) Major Develop impactful instructional strategies for working with students who have mild to severe disabilities and English language learners with the Bachelor of Science in Education in Special Education (Pre-K to 12) in Temple University’s College of Education and Human Development. This 123-credit undergraduate degree emphasizes effective special education teaching skills and effective practices so students are prepared for certification as educators in prekindergarten or kindergarten through grade 12 classrooms. The Special Education program in the College of Education and Human Development equips teachers with a deep understanding of the sociocultural context of education, high-impact instructional practices and empirically supported, preventative approaches to providing equitable education to children with disabilities. The program is grounded in the college and the university’s mission by advocating inclusive practices in schools and society, emphasizing preventative approaches to support improved teaching and learning, promoting evidence-based practice and effective implementation in the classroom, and recognizing and improving the impact of sociocultural factors on the education of children with disabilities. Program Outcomes Graduates of the Bachelor of Science in Education in Special Education (Pre-K to 12) program develop experience in assessing learning and behavior through a variety of modalities, and using data to inform instructional practices and individualized interventions; identifying, adapting and using evidence-based instructional and behavioral strategies to advance learning of individuals with exceptionalities; identifying professional organizations and pedagogical resources to use in learning, and participating in and contributing to the professional teaching community; summarizing major theories about development and learning across the lifespan and defining how they apply to teaching practice; and summarizing the organizational structure of schools and the broader political and social contexts of schooling as related to learners, including the legal and ethical framework within which special education operates. Pennsylvania Department of Education Certification The Special Education (Pre-K to 12) Major program adheres to recent changes in the Pennsylvania Department of Education special education certification requirement. Effective January 2021, students may obtain a certification in special education without first being certified in another area. The Special Education (Pre-K to 12) Major prepares students to complete the tests required for certification as special education teachers. Field Experience Over the course of several semesters and prior to student teaching, Special Education (Pre-K to 12) Major students participate in fieldwork opportunities and develop insight into practices that meet the needs of all learners. As required by the Pennsylvania Department of Education Bureau of Special Education, special education students must complete fieldwork in addition to a 12-week, full-time student teaching assignment to earn their degree. Learn more about the field experience opportunities available to you during your time in the Special Education (Pre-K to 12) Major program. Classes & Curriculum Classes you are likely to take include Classroom Management and Positive Behavior Support, Effective Instructional Strategies for Students with Disabilities, and Family and Interdisciplinary Collaboration in Special Education. Learn more about Bachelor of Science in Education in Special Education (Pre-K to 12) courses. Teacher Certification This program prepares you to successfully complete state certification exams, allowing you to apply for a Pennsylvania Instructional I Teaching Certificate. Learn more about certification. Related Graduate Degrees Applied Behavior Analysis MSEd Early Childhood and Special Education MEd Education PhD Special Education MEd Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages MSEd Related Graduate Certificates Autism Endorsement Disability Studies English as a Second Language English Language Teaching Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, the Bachelor of Science in Education offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. Learn more about our tuition and fees. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $16,488.00 per year Out-of-state: $29,712.00 per year Our Academic Advisors Advisors will guide you in navigating the curriculum and selecting the appropriate coursework to achieve your academic and professional goals. College of Education and Human Development students are encouraged to see an academic advisor every semester. Program Contact Jason Travers, associate professor, is the faculty program coordinator for the Special Education (Pre-K to 12) Major. Email: jason.travers@temple.edu Enrollment Management Questions? For more information about this program, the College of Education and Human Development, how to apply for admission, and your application status, contact Enrollment Management. Enrollment Management Phone: 215-204-8011 Email: educate@temple.edu Student Clubs & Organizations Participating in student groups provides peer support and future professional contacts. It also presents opportunities to give back to the community, either locally or globally. Explore the opportunities available through organizations such as Be The Change, an organization that provides education and healthcare services to communities in North Philadelphia and overseas; Black Diamonds Union, which works to celebrate and disseminate education about black culture at Temple University and in Philadelphia’s wider urban community; College of Education Student Council, a group that provides students with leadership opportunities and a chance to effect change; Grandma’s Kids, a kindergarten through grade five after-school program that focuses on homework, as well as academic, emotional and social support; Jumpstart, a national early education organization that trains students to work with preschool children in low-income neighborhoods; Kappa Delta Pi Honor Society, which promotes academic excellence and a network for those who are committed to teaching; The Petey Greene Program at Temple University, an organization that supports prisoner education by training volunteers to provide weekly tutoring sessions to inmates in four correctional facilities in Philadelphia; Temple University - Students Teaching Underrepresented Developing Youth (TU-STUDY), a group that assists children and adults in the greater Philadelphia area with advising, tutoring and other kinds of support in overcoming learning challenges; Temple Student Pennsylvania State Education Association, which increases esteem for educational professions among teacher candidates, constructively affects the process of teacher education and represents students regarding these issues; and Tree House Books, a literacy center near Temple’s Main Campus where students can engage in literacy service work. Search for additional College of Education and Human Development and education-related student organizations. Accreditation The Special Education (Pre-K to 12) Major program is approved as a teacher certification program by the Pennsylvania Department of Education. ED-SPPK-BSED Additional Program Information Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Special Education (Pre-K to 12) Major Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community.