Skip to main content Close search Search for people, topics, events, etc. Search Go to homepage Toggle menu Toggle search Close menu Events & Exhibitions Visit Upcoming Events Past Events Fellowship Fellows Become a Fellow Schlesinger Library About the Library Research Services Collections Visit the Library News & Ideas Opportunities For Students For Researchers For Educators Toggle search About Give Media Harvard and Slavery Opportunities For Students For Researchers For Educators About Give Media Harvard and Slavery Events & exhibitions Events & exhibitions exhibition It’s Complicated: 375 Years of Women at Harvard Spring 2012 Schlesinger Library 3 James Street Cambridge, MA 02138 Share Share this page on Facebook Share this page on Twitter Share this page on LinkedIn Copy Link Related Play video It’s Complicated: 375 Years of Women at Harvard A Woman's Place at the Harvard Observatory Radcliffe College Archives The Radcliffe College Archives at the Schlesinger Library on the History of Women in America are a uniquely valuable resource for the study of women in higher education, the Harvard-Radcliffe relationship, and the lives of the many remarkable women affiliated with Radcliffe College. The archives chronicle Radcliffe College from its beginning as the Harvard Annex in 1879 through its transition to the Radcliffe Institute for Advanced Study in 1999. The Library's resources about Radcliffe College were used to create this exploration of the complicated story of women at Harvard University, and an evolution toward equality. Leading Change Arthur Gilman was a proponent of women’s education, both as a founder of the Gilman School for Girls in Cambridge and as founding executive secretary and later regent of Radcliffe College. In 1878, Gilman proposed a plan to offer the same courses to women that Harvard offered to male undergraduates—taught by the same faculty members. This plan was approved by Harvard President Charles Eliot, and in January 1879 a committee of “seven lady managers” was appointed to steward this proposition. Among the earliest leaders of the effort to educate women at Harvard, Elizabeth Cary Agassiz served as chair of the “seven lady managers.” Agassiz persuaded 44 professors to teach women in an organization that came to be called the Harvard Annex. In 1882 this enterprise was so successful that it became the Society for the Collegiate Instruction of Women, and in 1894 it became Radcliffe College. Agassiz was president of Radcliffe College from 1894 to 1899 and served as honorary president until 1903. Le Baron Russell Briggs was one of the first Harvard professors who agreed to teach at the newly organized program for the collegiate instruction of women by Harvard professors. He became the second president of Radcliffe College, serving in a part-time capacity while also dean of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences at Harvard from 1902 to 1925. During his tenure, the campus grew considerably and yet he remained skeptical of the wisdom of coeducation. While stating in 1922, “I believe that ultimately Radcliffe will become a women’s college in Harvard,” Briggs indicated that he preferred “a friendly plan of dependence and interdependence with no thought of undergraduate coeducation.” As President of Radcliffe College in 1943, Wilbur Kitchener Jordan implemented the Radcliffe-Harvard agreement that opened the door to joint instruction of Radcliffe and Harvard students. He participated in the Committee for the Higher Education of Women (1944–1945), which established a general education curriculum for Harvard and Radcliffe. Jordan accepted the Maud Wood Park collection of suffrage material that became the nucleus of the Schlesinger Library on the History of Women in America. Known to the Radcliffe community as “Polly,” Mary Ingraham Bunting was president of Radcliffe College from 1960 to 1972. Bunting initiated fellowships for women whose education had been interrupted, allowing them to return to study in all fields, including the arts. This program was known as the Radcliffe Institute. During her presidency, Radcliffe students began receiving the Harvard degree, and the Radcliffe diploma was eliminated. Bunting also implemented the agreement that provided for co-residential houses where male and female students were allowed to live together. Drew Gilpin Faust was the founding dean of the Radcliffe Institute for Advanced Study, a position she served from January 2001 to October 2007. Faust led the transformation of Radcliffe from a college into a wide-ranging institute for scholarly and creative enterprise. Drew Gilpin Faust is currently the 28th President of Harvard University. View details View details View details View details View details View details 01 / 06 Slide left Slide right 01 / 06 Slide left Slide right Close modal window Details Close detail panel Arthur Gilman. Courtesy of Schlesinger Library Details Close detail panel Elizabeth Cary Agassiz. Courtesy of Schlesinger Library Details Close detail panel Le Baron Russell Briggs. Courtesy of Schlesinger Library Details Close detail panel Wilbur Kitchener Jordan. Courtesy of Schlesinger Library Details Close detail panel Mary Ingraham Bunting. Courtesy of Schlesinger Library Details Close detail panel Drew Gilpin Faust portrait by Stephen Coit. Courtesy of Harvard Art Museums First Among Faculty Without a faculty of its own, Radcliffe students were always taught by Harvard professors. Until the mid-20th century, those professors were all men. In 1948 Helen Maud Cam, a distinguished authority on English constitutional history and fellow of Girton College, University of Cambridge, England, became the first woman tenured at Harvard, thus ending “a 312 year masculine reign.” Cam was also the first woman to hold the Samuel Zemurray Jr. and Doris Zemurray Stone-Radcliffe Professorship, created in the Faculty of Arts and Sciences for a distinguished woman scholar. The next two women to hold this chair were Cora A. DuBois (professor of anthropology) and Cecilia Payne-Gaposchkin (professor of astronomy), who was also the first woman tenured from within Harvard. The graduate school with the earliest women faculty is the Harvard School of Public Health. In 1919 Alice Hamilton became Harvard's first woman professor when she was appointed Assistant Professor of Industrial Medicine, Harvard Medical School (after 1928, Harvard School of Public Health). In 1957, after retiring as Chief of the Children’s Bureau, pediatrician Martha May Eliot became Professor of Maternal and Child Health at the Harvard School of Public Health. View details View details View details View details View details View details 01 / 06 Slide left Slide right 01 / 06 Slide left Slide right Close modal window Details Close detail panel Helen Maud Cam, first woman tenured at Harvard. Courtesy of Schlesinger Library Details Close detail panel Cora A. DuBois, first woman with tenure in the Departments of Anthropology and Social Relations. Courtesy of Harvard University Archives Details Close detail panel Cecilia Payne-Gaposchkin, Radcliffe PhD 1925, first woman tenured from within Harvard. Courtesy of Schlesinger Library Details Close detail panel Group portrait outdoors of the Harvard Public Health Club, Harvard School of Public Health, Class of 1925. Courtesy of Schlesinger Library Details Close detail panel Alice Hamilton, MD, first woman appointed to a faculty rank. Courtesy of Schlesinger Library Details Close detail panel Martha May Eliot, Radcliffe AB 1913, Professor of Maternal and Child Health at the Harvard School of Public Health. Courtesy of Schlesinger Library Radcliffe: A Plan, a Society, a College In the post-Civil War period, momentum grew for Harvard to educate women. In the early 1870s a series of University lectures were opened to women who eagerly enrolled, but the series was short lived. Also at the time, following a request from the Women’s Education Association, Harvard faculty began to create and grade the exams given to women. In 1878 three Harvard professors, James B. Greenough, William W. Goodwin, and Francis J. Child, agreed to provide private instruction in Latin, Greek, and English to Abby Leach, a student from Brockton, Massachusetts. The same year Arthur Gilman, founder of the Gilman School, proposed a plan to Greenough whereby a small group of women would be given separate instruction by Harvard professors in the same courses as those offered by Harvard College. Greenough agreed, as he was favorably impressed by his experience teaching Abby Leach. To realize his plan, Gilman needed approval from Harvard President Charles Eliot. A committee of “seven lady managers” (Elizabeth Cary Agassiz, Mary H. Cooke, Stella Scott Gilman, Mary B. Greenough, Ellen Hooper Gurney, Alice Mary Longfellow, and Lilian Horsford) was formed to oversee the plan’s launch. With one exception, the members were the wives or daughters of Harvard professors. In February 1879, with President Eliot’s approval, the committee wrote individually to select Harvard faculty, asking whether they would be willing to teach; the first acceptance came from Professor of Mathematics William Byerly, who would become both a member of the governing board of Radcliffe and chairman of the Academic Board. The enterprise was announced as the plan for the “Private Collegiate Instruction for Women” in Cambridge and was soon to become known as the Harvard Annex. In 1882 the Annex was incorporated as the Society for the Collegiate Instruction of Women. In 1894 Radcliffe College was chartered and took its name from the Lady Ann Mowlson (née Radcliffe), the first woman to give scholarship money to Harvard. View details View details View details View details View details View details View details 01 / 07 Slide left Slide right 01 / 07 Slide left Slide right Close modal window Details Close detail panel Resolution to appoint a committee to consider coeducation at Harvard, 1872. Courtesy of Harvard University Archives Details Close detail panel Abby Leach, undated. Courtesy of Schlesinger Library Details Close detail panel February 17, 1879 letter from Professor W.E. Byerly to Arthur Gilman. Courtesy of Schlesinger Library Details Close detail panel 1882 Certificate of Incorporation of the Society for the Collegiate Instruction of Women. Courtesy of Schlesinger Library Details Close detail panel Students of 1883, Society for the Collegiate Instruction of Women. Courtesy of Schlesinger Library Details Close detail panel 1894 Act to change the name of the Society for the Collegiate Instruction of Women and to extend its powers. Courtesy of Schlesinger Library 1894 Act to change the name of the Society for the Collegiate Instruction of Women and to extend its powers. Courtesy of Schlesinger Library Details Close detail panel Library in Fay House, 1890s. Schlesinger Library Degrees of Change: A Radcliffe Education Equals a Harvard Education Graduates of the Society for the Collegiate Instruction of Women were awarded certificates signed only by officials of the Society. The document certified that the “course of study [was] equivalent in amount and quality to that for which the degree of Bachelor of Arts is conferred in Harvard College and [that the student] has passed in a satisfactory manner examinations on that course, corresponding to the College examinations. When Radcliffe College received its charter in 1894, it was “authorized to confer on women all honors and degrees as fully as any university or college in this Commonwealth is now so empowered respecting men or women: provided, however, that no degree shall be conferred by the said Radcliffe College except with the approval of the President and Fellows of Harvard College, given on satisfactory evidence of such qualification as is accepted for the same degree when conferred by Harvard University.” Beginning in 1894, the Radcliffe degree was signed by the presidents of Harvard College and Radcliffe College. The value of the bachelor’s degree is evident in the Radcliffe College annual reports, where it is noted that some of the students who received earlier certificates exchanged them for an AB degree from Radcliffe. In 1963 Radcliffe graduates were awarded Harvard degrees for the first time. Of note, the degree was still signed by both presidents of Harvard and of Radcliffe. View details View details View details View details View details View details View details 01 / 07 Slide left Slide right 01 / 07 Slide left Slide right Close modal window Details Close detail panel 1883 Certificate awarded by the Society for the Collegiate Instruction of Women to Grace Rebecca Canfield, certifying completion of a course of study equivalent to the degree of Bachelor of Arts in Harvard College. Courtesy of Schlesinger Library Details Close detail panel 1885 Certificate awarded by the Society for the Collegiate Instruction of Women to Maude Adele Lawson for five courses of study 1884-1885. Courtesy of Schlesinger Library Details Close detail panel 1896 Master's degree awarded by Radcliffe College to Jennie Frances Conant. Courtesy of Schlesinger Library Details Close detail panel 1897 Bachelor's degree awarded by Radcliffe College to Emma Buttrick Noyes. Courtesy of Schlesinger Library Details Close detail panel Emma Buttrick Noyes, class of 1897. Courtesy of Schlesinger Library Details Close detail panel Alberta Virginia Scott, Class of 1898, first African American graduate of Radcliffe College. Courtesy of Schlesinger Library Details Close detail panel Sample Harvard degree for a woman undergraduate, 1963. Courtesy of Harvard University Archives It Is Complicated: The Radcliffe-Harvard Relationship Mary Whiton Calkins (Smith AB 1885) was the first woman to qualify for the PhD at Harvard. She was invited to study as a guest in the philosophy department and enrolled in courses at Harvard as a Radcliffe student (1885–1886, 1890–1891). Although in 1895 the philosophy department voted that Calkins had satisfied all requirements for the degree, neither Radcliffe nor Harvard awarded doctoral degrees to women at the time. In 1902, when it was decided that Radcliffe rather than Harvard should offer her the PhD, Calkins declined to accept it. The early 1930s were a tumultuous time in the Harvard-Radcliffe relationship. Harvard President A. Lawrence Lowell considered Radcliffe a burden on Harvard’s resources and intended to sever Radcliffe from Harvard. He began refusing to sign Radcliffe diplomas. Radcliffe President Ada Comstock rose to the challenge years later in an address to the Radcliffe Alumnae Association, she reflected: “Mr. Lowell was a resourceful and determined man; and the struggle, for those four years, was pretty nearly incessant and at times gave us all great anxiety. In the long run I think that struggle did us good. It gave us champions and friends whom we otherwise might have lacked.” In 1943, because of the exigencies of war, an agreement was reached for joint instruction. Ada Comstock described this contractual arrangement as “the most significant event since [Radcliffe’s] charter was granted by the legislature in 1894.” Referred to as joint instruction, not coeducation, the agreement provides that Radcliffe undergraduates are allowed in Harvard’s classrooms and that Harvard take full responsibility…..tuition over to Harvard.” Brought about by the exigencies of the war, Ada Comstock described this contractual arrangement as “the most significant event since [Radcliffe’s] charter was granted by the legislature in 1894.” Referred to as joint instruction, not coeducation, the agreement provides that Radcliffe undergraduates are allowed in Harvard’s classrooms and that Harvard take full responsibility for educational policy. Radcliffe, for its part, would no longer pay individual professors to teach, but instead turn a major portion of tuition over to Harvard. Achieving an equal access admissions policy for men and women was a highlight of the early 1970s Radcliffe-Harvard relationship. With a then ratio of four men to one woman, in 1972 Harvard allowed “that the number of women admitted would be increased by 150 each year for four years until a ratio of 2.5:1 was reached.” In 1973 Harvard President Derek Bok and Radcliffe President Matina Horner charged a committee chaired by Karl Strauch to study and make recommendations concerning admissions, the needs of coeducation, and administrative arrangements. In 1975 quotas were abolished and the Harvard and Radcliffe admissions offices were merged. In 1999 Radcliffe officially merged with Harvard, thereby creating the Radcliffe Institute for Advanced Study. Drew Gilpin Faust was the Institute’s first dean. View details View details View details View details View details View details View details View details View details View details View details View details 01 / 12 Slide left Slide right 01 / 12 Slide left Slide right Close modal window Details Close detail panel 1895 Dissertation acceptance statement for Mary Whiton Calkins' doctoral thesis, signed by Josiah Royce, G.H. Palmer, Hugo Munsterberg, William James, Paul Hanus, and George Santayana. Courtesy of Harvard University Archives Details Close detail panel William James (left) and Josiah Royce (right) outdoors, seated on a stone wall. ca. 1910? Courtesy of Harvard University Archives Details Close detail panel January 20, 1931 letter from Dr. Alfred M. Tozzer to Dr. Thomas Barbour, page 1. Courtesy of Harvard University Archives Details Close detail panel January 20, 1931 letter from Dr. Alfred M. Tozzer to Dr. Thomas Barbour, page 2. Courtesy of Harvard University Archives Details Close detail panel January 20, 1931 letter from Dr. Alfred M. Tozzer to Dr. Thomas Barbour, page 3. Courtesy of Harvard University Archives Details Close detail panel February 13, 1931 Letter from President A. Lawrence Lowell to attorney Charles P. Curtis, Jr. Courtesy of Harvard University Archives Details Close detail panel April 16, 1943 Agreement between President and Fellows of Harvard College and Trustees of Radcliffe College, page 1. Courtesy of Schlesinger Library Details Close detail panel April 16, 1943 Agreement between President and Fellows of Harvard College and Trustees of Radcliffe College, page 2. Courtesy of Schlesinger Library Details Close detail panel "Harvard to Direct Radcliffe Studies" The New York Times, April 18, 1943. Courtesy of Schlesinger Library Details Close detail panel Protest for equal access for women, Commencement 1971. Courtesy of Schlesinger Library Details Close detail panel Certificate of admission to Harvard and Radcliffe Colleges. Courtesy of Schlesinger Library Certificate of admission to Harvard and Radcliffe Colleges. Courtesy of Schlesinger Library Details Close detail panel President and Fellows of Harvard College: A Proclamation Expressing Gratitude to Radcliffe College and Its Board of Trustees. Courtesy of Schlesinger Library President and Fellows of Harvard College: A Proclamation Expressing Gratitude to Radcliffe College and Its Board of Trustees. Courtesy of Schlesinger Library Inclusion/Exclusion From the inception of Radcliffe College until its integration with Harvard University, women sought the privileges and resources that were available to male students. Women were denied access to laboratories, libraries, financial aid, and to the lectern. But from an early date (1899), women were appointed to responsible positions in the observatory and encouraged to pursue other employment “opportunities” at the University. Mrs. Williamina Paton Fleming was hired as a clerical worker for the astronomy department, but soon moved up to the position of Curator of Astronomical Photographs. She cataloged more than 10,000 stars and is credited with discovering 9 gaseous nebulae, over 310 stars, and 10 novae. She supervised women hired to do mathematical classifications who became known as “the human computers.” Henrietta Swan Leavitt, class of 1892, was one of the “human computers.” Her formulation of “period-luminosity relationship” enabled the discoveries of Edwin Hubbell and other modern astronomers. Annie Jump Cannon, a Wellesley Graduate employed at the Harvard Observatory, received an honorary degree from Oxford and was the first woman to be elected an officer of the American Astronomical Society. She obtained a regular Harvard appointment as William C. Bond Astronomer shortly before her retirement. She coined the phrase, “Oh Be A Fine Girl—Kiss Me,” a mnemonic to help astronomers remember the spectral classification of stars. In 1975 women athletes were allowed for the first time to take varsity letters for sports participation—in rowing, lacrosse, tennis, field hockey, and basketball. View details View details View details View details View details View details View details View details 01 / 08 Slide left Slide right 01 / 08 Slide left Slide right Close modal window Details Close detail panel Correspondence between Harvard President Lowell and Radcliffe President Briggs about women students' access to Hygiene 1 in Lawrence Hall, September 8, 1910. Courtesy of Harvard University Archives Details Close detail panel Correspondence between Harvard President A. Lawrence Lowell and Henry Lee Higginson, a Harvard overseer, regarding a request to allow Mrs. Emmeline Pankhurst, British activist for woman suffrage, to lecture at Harvard, 1911. Courtesy of Harvard University Archives Details Close detail panel A Harvard Crimson article about the decision to deny Radcliffe women access to Lamont Library describes the perils of allowing women into Lamont. The spokesperson for the Harvard Undergraduate Council, however, does not think there is serious risk in allowing men into the Radcliffe Library, January 1966. Courtesy of Schlesinger Library Details Close detail panel Mrs. Williamina Paton Fleming, Curator of Astronomical Photographs, ca. 1888-1911. Courtesy of Schlesinger Library Details Close detail panel Annie J. Cannon and Henrietta Leavitt. Courtesy of Schlesinger Library Details Close detail panel Harvard Observatory staff, 1918. Courtesy of Harvard-University Archives Details Close detail panel Boston Herald American, June 6, 1975. Courtesy of Harvard University Archives Details Close detail panel Radcliffe Rowing Team, ca. 1970-1979. Courtesy of Schlesinger Library Women at Harvard, 1643– Women were “at Harvard” before they were “of Harvard.” From the very beginning, women played many roles, such as providing social support on the domestic front or providing financial assistance through philanthropy. Others were employed across the campus in food preparation, maintenance, and clerical positions. View details View details View details View details View details View details View details 01 / 07 Slide left Slide right 01 / 07 Slide left Slide right Close modal window Details Close detail panel Bequest of Lady Mowlson, Ann Radcliffe, "to be used for the maintenance of some poor scholar." Lady Mowlson donated 100 pounds to establish Harvard's first endowed scholarship, May 9, 1643. Courtesy of Harvard University Archives Details Close detail panel Reference to women was banned from oratory on commencement day as the board of overseers considered such references "exceptionable and improper." The overseers further recommended that the president inspect the orations from time to time to prevent such indecencies and improprieties in the future. Overseers record, 1760. Courtesy of Harvard University Archives Details Close detail panel By 1890 women were allowed to participate in summer school chemistry to prepare for teaching in secondary schools. Courtesy of Harvard University Archives Details Close detail panel Women were also allowed into summer school classes in physical education. Courtesy of Harvard University Archives Details Close detail panel Photograph of the Harvard Library staff, 1893. Courtesy of Harvard University Archives Details Close detail panel Answer to Mr. Quinn who seeks employment in the "steno pool," 1908. Courtesy of Harvard University Archives Details Close detail panel Harvard Alumni Bulletin, March 1957. Courtesy of Harvard University Archives Protesting Inequity By letter dated July 29, 1864, three female Harvard College Library catalogers petitioned for an increase in salary stating that “The sum paid per hour, at a rate fixed several years since, was even then altogether disproportioned to the nature and extent of the qualifications required, and much less than that paid in other Libraries for similar labor.” Their petition is seconded in an amendment to the letter (not shown) written by Ezra Abbott, assistant librarian and superintendent of the Cataloguing Department. The last page of the letter contains explanatory notes written by "Mr. Hill" (possibly Thomas Hill, President of Harvard) on September 12, [1866?]. The petitioners wanted the merger of the Society with Harvard, not a separate college for women. After a nearly decade-long evasion of the state’s minimum wage law, in late 1929 Harvard fired cleaning women rather than comply with the law and provide a two cent per hour wage increase. In the mid-1970s the Women’s Center declared its support for many issues, including “the addition of courses dealing with women’s heritage, literature, sociology, etc. to the curricula.” View details View details View details View details View details View details View details View details 01 / 08 Slide left Slide right 01 / 08 Slide left Slide right Close modal window Details Close detail panel (Petition) To the Honorable, the President and Fellows of Harvard College, 1864-1866?/ (from) Matilda Freeman Dana, Mary Bates Merriam, Ellen Maria Sawyer. Courtesy of Harvard University Archives Details Close detail panel Petition form for the alumnae of the Harvard Annex/Society for Collegiate Instruction of Women against the granting of a charter for Radcliffe College in 1894. Courtesy of Schlesinger Library Details Close detail panel Annex Alumnae Angry, newspaper clipping, January 1894. Courtesy of Schlesinger Library Details Close detail panel What Harvard Teaches leaflet regarding the Widener Library scrubwomen case, produced by the Harvard University Socialist Club, 1930. Graphic of President Lowell and worker on cover. Courtesy of Harvard University Archives Details Close detail panel Newsletter, Radcliffe-Harvard Women's Center, 1976. Courtesy of Harvard University Archives Details Close detail panel Demonstration by Harvard Union of Clerical and Technical Workers for daycare programs, September 4, 1987. Courtesy of Harvard University Archives Details Close detail panel Poster calling for boycott of classes on April 17, 1990 "in protest of the inaction of FAS on the issue of Minority and Women faculty recruitment." Courtesy of Harvard University Archives Details Close detail panel The Committee for the Equality of Women at Harvard brochure, 1995. Courtesy of Harvard University Archives Graduate Education and Professional Schools Harvard Annex and Radcliffe Graduate School 1890: AM certificate awarded by Radcliffe to Fannie Holman. 1902: First PhDs awarded by Radcliffe to Lucy Allen Paton and Ethel Dench Puffer. 1934: Radcliffe Graduate School established as a separate entity. 1963: Radcliffe Graduate School merges with Harvard Graduate School after having awarded 750 PhD and more than 3,000 AM degrees. Harvard Graduate School of Education 1920: From its inception, the Harvard Graduate School of Education plans to admit women. Harvard Law School 1909: Inez Milholland applies to Harvard Law School and is declined acceptance. 1943: Pauli Murray applies to Harvard Law School and is declined acceptance. 1947: Following the appointment of the first female Law Professor, Miss Soia Mentshikoff, Pauli Murray once more requests admission to Harvard Law and is declined acceptance. 1950: Fourteen women join a class of 520 men at Harvard Law School. Professor Barton Leach institutes "Ladies Day," a single class each month when women students are invited to speak. Harvard Business School 1937: Five women at Radcliffe College begin what Harvard Business School professor Fritz Roethlisberger called “the first daring experiment in ‘practical education’ for women,” a one-year, certificate-earning personnel program. 1956: Radcliffe’s business education certificate program evolves to become the Harvard-Radcliffe Program in Business Administration (HRPBA). 1963" In April 1963, the first woman accepts admission to the MBA class that would graduate in 1965. Harvard Medical School 1920s: Radcliffe is asked to create a program to train women physicians because of a shortage of doctors; however, President Lowell will not sign degrees. Program is aborted. 1945: World War II influences the Medical School’s decision to admit women. Harvard School of Public Health 1935–1942: Dean of Harvard School of Public Health, Cecil Drinker, begins to admit women to the School. Harvard Divinity School 1955: Women are admitted to Harvard Divinity and Appleton Chapel is opened to women. View details View details View details View details View details View details View details View details 01 / 08 Slide left Slide right 01 / 08 Slide left Slide right Close modal window Details Close detail panel Lorna M. Hodgkinson received an AM in 1921 and an EdD degree in 1922. Courtesy of Harvard University Archives Details Close detail panel Inez Milholland, ca. 1908-1912. Courtesy of Schlesinger Library Details Close detail panel Henry Lee Higginson expresses his support for Inez Milholland's application to Harvard Law School, 1909. Courtesy of Harvard University Archives Details Close detail panel Pauli Murray, ca. 1944-1945. Courtesy of Schlesinger Library Details Close detail panel Letter from E.M. Morgan, Acting Dean of Harvard Law School, to Pauli Murray declining her appeal of the decision not to admit her. Courtesy of Schlesinger Library Letter from E.M. Morgan, Acting Dean of Harvard Law School, to Pauli Murray declining her appeal of the decision not to admit her. Courtesy of Schlesinger Library Details Close detail panel Letter from Dean Erwin Griswold to Pauli Murray, affirming Harvard Law School's policy against admitting women, 1947. Courtesy of Schlesinger Library Letter from Dean Erwin Griswold to Pauli Murray, affirming Harvard Law School's policy against admitting women, 1947. Courtesy of Schlesinger Library Details Close detail panel Management Training Program, Human Relations class, ca. 1954. Courtesy of Schlesinger Library Details Close detail panel University News Office press release, 1955, announcing that Appleton Chapel is open to women undergraduates. Courtesy of Harvard University Archives Share: Share this page on Facebook Share this page on Twitter Share this page on LinkedIn More Events & Exhibitions See All Events Back to top B a c k t o t o p Get the latest Radcliffe news delivered to your inbox Enter your e-mail address Continue Radcliffe Institute for Advanced Study Harvard University 10 Garden Street Cambridge, MA 02138 Directions Give Now Contact Visit Careers Housing Meeting Spaces Site Map Digital Accessibility Accessibility Harvard University Policies Follow us on Facebook Follow us on Twitter Follow us onInstagram Subscribe to our RSS feed Visit our LinkedIn page Visit our YouTube channel © 2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College