Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Equity, Civil Rights, and Title IX Menu About Us Equity Office Staff Robyn Driskell, Ph.D. Laura Johnson, Ph.D. Carolyn Hughes Shirl Brown Christina Jeong Michael Noble Tracey Tevis Elysa Bucci Melissa Morie Josh Stephens Candace Huskey Mito Diaz-Espinoza, Ph.D Civil Rights Sexual and Interpersonal Misconduct/Title IX Reporting Report Civil Rights Concern Report Sexual and Interpersonal Misconduct/Title IX Concern Baylor>Equity, Civil Rights, and Title IX>About Us>Equity Office Staff>Mito Diaz-Espinoza, Ph.D Mito Diaz-Espinoza, Ph.D Case Coordinator Dr. Diaz-Espinoza became a Case Coordinator in the office of Equity, Civil Rights, and Title IX in January of 2021. He has served in various roles in higher education including, admissions, advising, diversity programs, leadership, and working with first-generation college students. As a Case Coordinator, Mito meets with Baylor students and community members to discuss their rights, options, and resources through the Equity, Civil Rights, and Title IX Office. He facilitates intake administration, resolution processes, personal and academic accommodations, and provides support to those involved with the process. Prior to this role, Dr. Diaz-Espinoza served in the Academy for Leadership Development and Student Success Initiatives offices at Baylor University. Mito also served as a Title IX Hearing Panelist for the University for two years before joining the Equity Office. Dr. Diaz-Espinoza has a Bachelor’s of Arts in History from Texas A&M University, a Master’s of Science in Higher Education and Student Affairs from Baylor University, and a Ph.D. in Higher Education Administration from the University of Tennessee Knoxville with his dissertation focused on first-generation Latino men and their motivation to pursue higher education. He is also involved in various other initiatives at Baylor and the Greater Waco area. Recent trainings attended: Campus Restorative Justice Across Student Affairs 2021 View Training Materials for Title IX Personnel About Us Equity Office Staff Robyn Driskell, Ph.D. Laura Johnson, Ph.D. Carolyn Hughes Shirl Brown Christina Jeong Michael Noble Tracey Tevis Elysa Bucci Melissa Morie Josh Stephens Candace Huskey Mito Diaz-Espinoza, Ph.D Equity Office Robinson Tower, Suite 285 One Bear Place #97011 Waco, TX 76798 (254) 710-7100 Climate Survey Diversity & Inclusion Faculty Development and Diversity General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 About Us Equity Office Staff Robyn Driskell, Ph.D. Laura Johnson, Ph.D. Carolyn Hughes Shirl Brown Christina Jeong Michael Noble Tracey Tevis Elysa Bucci Melissa Morie Josh Stephens Candace Huskey Mito Diaz-Espinoza, Ph.D Civil Rights Sexual and Interpersonal Misconduct/Title IX Reporting Report Civil Rights Concern Report Sexual and Interpersonal Misconduct/Title IX Concern