Skip to main content MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links Financial Aid Home Getting started Eligibility How need is determined Expected family contribution Net price calculator Student budgets Husky Promise Applying for aid Key dates and deadlines Application process Award process Maintain eligibility Summer quarter Types of aid Scholarships Grants Work Study Loans Childcare Assistance Program Veterans Benefits Emergency aid Emergency Food Assistance Other assistance Receiving aid Disbursement Appeals and special circumstances Request changes to your award Satisfactory academic progress Forms & resources Forms Consumer Information Glossary of Terms for Award Notifications Loan repayment Tax benefits Withdrawal and refund Financial aid code of conduct Money management Emergency Relief Fund Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund III Washington Emergency Relief Grant Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund II CARES Act FAQs Processing and Response Timelines Contact us My Financial Aid Other assistance Menu Financial Aid Home Getting started Eligibility How need is determined Expected family contribution Net price calculator Student budgets Husky Promise Applying for aid Key dates and deadlines Application process Award process Maintain eligibility Summer quarter Types of aid Scholarships Grants Work Study Loans Childcare Assistance Program Veterans Benefits Emergency aid Emergency Food Assistance Other assistance Receiving aid Disbursement Appeals and special circumstances Request changes to your award Satisfactory academic progress Forms & resources Forms Consumer Information Glossary of Terms for Award Notifications Loan repayment Tax benefits Withdrawal and refund Financial aid code of conduct Money management Emergency Relief Fund Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund III Washington Emergency Relief Grant Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund II CARES Act FAQs Processing and Response Timelines Contact us My Financial Aid Home Student Financial Aid Types of aid Other assistance Types of aid Home Types of aid Scholarships Undergraduate Scholarships Grants Undergraduate grants Graduate and professional grants TEACH Grant Work Study Loans Completing paperwork for loans Federal loans Student loans program chart Parent (PLUS) loans Private loans Short-term loans Childcare Assistance Program Application Process Finding Childcare Providers Forms and Resources Veterans Benefits Other assistance Food stamps – SNAP For more than 40 years, SNAP has served as the foundation of America’s national nutrition safety net. It is the first line of defense against hunger and is a powerful tool for improving nutrition among low-income people. Benefits come to the household via electronic debit cards, known as Electronic Benefit Transfer (EBT) cards which can be used in more than 246,000 approved retail stores nationwide to purchase food. To get SNAP benefits, households must meet certain tests, including resource and income tests: Resources Income Deductions Employment Requirements Special Rules for Elderly or Disabled Immigrant Eligibility For more details about eligibility see this page. During the public health emergency, a temporary federal rule change provides expanded eligibility to college students enrolled at least half time. Students that have a $0 expected family contribution (EFC) as determined by the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA), or students that have a Work Study Award as part of their financial aid, can now become eligible for Basic Food. Step 1: If you have a $0 EFC and/or a current Work Study Award go to the Financial Aid Status tab on your MyUW and use the Print Award Letter function, or If you do not have a current work study award, and would like apply for SNAP benefits, please contact the Work Study Office to discuss whether you meet the criteria work study eligibility. Step 2: Use these resources to help you apply for Basic Food (SNAP): General Information: https://www.dshs.wa.gov/esa/community-services-offices/basic-food https://www.dshs.wa.gov/food-cash-medical/ Apply online: https://www.washingtonconnection.org/home/ Apply by phone: 1-877-501-2233 WA 2-1-1 2-1-1 is a free confidential community service and your one-stop connection to the local services you need, from utility assistance, food, housing, health, child care, after school programs, elder care, crisis intervention and much more. Dial the three digit number 2-1-1 on your phone or Find Help here. If you are outside of Washington or have a problem dialing the number 2-1-1, please dial 1-877-211-9274. University district food bank For 32 years, the University District Food Bank has helped prevent hunger in northeast Seattle neighborhoods. The food bank operates a walk-in food bank offering food, toiletries, baby formula, diapers and pet food to area residents. Affordable housing Housing Search NW provides a free website where you can search available housing options in King County, Washington. YWCA The YWCA of King and Snohomish counties offers a variety of programs to assist individuals and families overcome poverty, homelessness, violence and discrimination. Services include emergency shelter, affordable housing, economic empowerment, domestic violence support, youth programs, health care access, and much more. Community health centers The City of Seattle funds Seattle’s community health centers. These centers help assure better access to health care for people living in Seattle. The centers offer primary medical and dental care to those who would not otherwise get it. Seattle milk fund Seattle Milk Fund empowers parents toward higher education opportunities by funding child care grants and providing family support. Their goal is for parents to realize their higher education potential, which can create a brighter and more stable financial future for their families. Hopelink Hopelink is a community action agency that has served homeless and low-income families, children, seniors and people with disabilities. The agency has five multi-purpose service centers, and five housing sites throughout north and east King County. The service centers are equipped with food banks, and a staff of specialists offering various support programs, such as family development, adult education, employment training, home heating assistance and more. Home Types of aid Scholarships Undergraduate Scholarships Grants Undergraduate grants Graduate and professional grants TEACH Grant Work Study Loans Completing paperwork for loans Federal loans Student loans program chart Parent (PLUS) loans Private loans Short-term loans Childcare Assistance Program Application Process Finding Childcare Providers Forms and Resources Veterans Benefits Other assistance Resources Applying for Financial Aid Parent Plus Loan New Borrowers of Federal Student Loans Contact us Send us a message Visit Contact us for office location, directions and mailing address. Federal School Code Our Title IV federal school code is 003798. This code is used for Seattle, Bothell and Tacoma campuses. About us Our mission is to provide educational access and opportunity for all students. We promote participation in higher education by providing programs of assistance to help bridge the gap between the cost of attending the University and the family’s own resources. We believe students from all economic backgrounds should have the opportunity to attend the University of Washington. Finances should not be a barrier to getting a world-class education. University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms Newsletter © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA