Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Fraternity and Sorority Life Interfraternity Council Interfraternity Council IFC Recruitment Multicultural Greek Council Multicultural Greek Council MGC Intake National Pan-Hellenic Council National Pan-Hellenic Council NPHC Intake Panhellenic Council Panhellenic Council Panhellenic Recruitment Parent and Families ☰ Supporting Your Student Student Affairs Fraternity and Sorority Life Parent and Families Parent and Families Joining a fraternity and sorority is an exciting part of an undergraduate experience. We understand that any new commitment can create a range of questions, emotions, or the need for additional resources. The Office of Fraternity & Sorority Life provides guidance and support to council and chapter leadership, and works closely with campus partners and inter/national organizations to provide a well-rounded experience. If our office can assist in your student’s fraternity or sorority experience, please do not hesitate to contact us. Campus Resources and Support Caring Community Connections: A program that provides support to students who are experiencing challenges by identifying and linking them to appropriate resources. SMU Counseling Services: Offers students a broad range of outpatient services while providing a confidential space. Chapter Costs Most chapters provide payment plans and scholarships to assist in covering membership costs. Students should reach out to organizations they are interested in find more detailed cost information. Below are cost ranges for each council: Interfraternity Council: $900-2400 per semester Multicultural Greek Council: $200-$600 per semester National Pan-Hellenic Council: $300-$1500 new member fee plus local dues each semester (average is around $200) Panhellenic Council: &1800-$3600 per semester Chapter Housing Panhellenic Council: All eight of our Panhellenic organizations are housed. These properties are owned and operated by the individual housing corporations of the organizations. Questions regarding cost and sign up should be directed to the individual organization. Interfraternity Council: Nine IFC organizations are currently housed. Eight houses are owned and operated by SMU, and one (Sigma Chi) is privately owned and functions like the Panhellenic facilities. Our National Pan-Hellenic Council chapters do not currently have official housing on campus. Need Information on PANHELLENIC I AND II HOUSES? Panhellenic I and II Houses are independently managed by the housing corporations of two national sorority chapters who are not currently operating at SMU. Alpha Delta Pi and Zeta Tau Alpha house corporations lease out their houses to affiliated sorority women through their own independent processes. The office of Fraternity and Sorority Life has no immediate knowledge of any fees, deadlines, or processes required for residence in Panhellenic I and II. Below is the direct contact information for the Panhellenic I and II House Director. Any questions, comments or concerns should be directed to these women. It should also be stated that there is no timetable for the return of these chapters to our campus. When/if those chapters do return, they will return to the housing space currently managed by these housing corporations and the respective Panhellenic I/II house will cease to exist. Panhellenic I (Zeta Tau Alpha): Not currently in use. Panhellenic II (Alpha Delta Pi): Karen Herleman | 214-691-7403 | SMUPanhouse2@gmail.com New Member Education & SMU’s Hazing Policy The first step of membership is participating in a new member education process. This time serves as an orientation to the organization where new members learn about the history and traditions of the local chapter and inter/national organization, as well as get to know the current members. All of our fraternities and sororities at SMU are limited to six weeks for new member education, starting when bids or offers of membership are extended; many will have shorter processes. Our students’ safety and well-being are our top priorities and we ensure all participants know that hazing is not permitted or tolerated. Hazing is a violation of Texas law and the SMU Student Code of Conduct. Additionally, hazing is also a violation of the inter/national policies for each of our fraternities and sororities, as well as their governing national councils. Individual students or organizations who are found to have engaged in hazing may be subject to fines and charged with a criminal offense, as well as face disciplinary action from the University. A complete definition of hazing as well as all of SMU’s policies can be found here. Anyone who has knowledge of hazing activity can report it to the Office of Student Conduct & Community Standards by clicking here or to the SMU Police Department or both. Information about hazing may also be reported anonymously through the SMU Police Department’s Silent Witness Program by calling 214-SMU-2TIP or online. If you believe hazing or any other illegal activity is taking place in your student’s organization, please utilize the form above or contact us at 214-768-4400, the Office of Student Conduct & Community Standards (SCCS) 214-768-4400 or the Office of the Dean of Students at 214-768-4563. The more information you provide about the alleged activities, the more effective SMU’s response can be. Anonymous calls are accepted, but without the name of a chapter and/or specific allegations, a case becomes increasingly difficult to investigate. Additional resources can also be found at HazingPrevention.org. Apply Visit School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share