Skip to main content Skip to site menu Skip to Brown menu Skip to site search Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Enter search keyword About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Office of the Chaplains and Religious Life About the Office of the Chaplains and Religious Life Office of the Chaplains and Religious Life About the Office of the Chaplains and Religious Life Living, studying, and working within a rigorous academic community prompt and require responses to a host of profound questions. The Office of the Chaplains and Religious Life (OCRL) seeks to create spaces and opportunities within the immediate environs of the University and in its larger circles where such questions can be voiced and explored openly, whether these concerns originate within religious, philosophical, ethical, or spiritual practice. The chaplains' work is rooted in the care of the whole person—body, soul and spirit. As such, a core mission of every chaplain is to make available pastoral care and advisement for any member of the Brown community—students, staff, faculty, and alumni; solve problems; ease discomfort; and function as an advocate for faculty, staff, students and alumni/ae. This can happen through individual counsel, interventions in emergencies (both academic and personal), programming on critical spiritual themes or concerns, and presiding at key life rituals. The latter includes everything from weekly services to weddings/unions, baptism/blessing of children, and memorial or funeral rites. The composite of the chaplains' work in this area includes care for many hundreds of community members. Another key part of the chaplains' mission is to increase religious literacy within the Brown community. Thus, OCRL is guided by the same core principles as articulated in Liberal Learning at Brown— "to remain open—to people ideas, and experiences that may be entirely new. By cultivating such openness, you will learn to make the most of the freedom you have, and to chart the broadest possible intellectual journey." Furthermore, the office supports religious diversity and promotes more nuanced knowledge of and acquaintance with religious practice and topics. It dives deeply into the complexity of religious identity through interfaith dialogue, multifaith collaborations, and other service beyond the Van Wickle Gates. Home About A Word from the Chaplain of the University History Mission People News & Events Religious Communities and Services Programs & Projects Places: To Pray, to Gather, to Meet Resources on Campus Print this Page Share this Page Office of the Chaplains and Religious Life Brown University Box 1931 Page Robinson Building (formerly J. Walter Wilson), Room 410 69 Brown Street Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401-863-2344 Fax 401-863-9359 [email protected] Calendar Sep 6 All Day Opening Convocation at 4:00 p.m.EDT Sep 7 All Day Classes of the first semester begin. Oct 10 All Day Indigenous Peoples’ Day. No University exercises. Nov 8 All Day United States Election Day. No University exercises. Nov 23 All Day Thanksgiving recess beginning Wednesday at noon EST. View full calendar > Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory