Skip to content Enter search text All the UW Current site Search scope All the UW Current site MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links Menu Home My Husky is a . . . Transfer student International student Out-of-state student First-generation student First-year student Sophomore/Junior Graduating student Resources Parent & Family Guide Student Life Academics Health & Safety Living & Dining Finances Transportation Move In Resources Talk with your Husky Husky Huddle-up podcast Forms, releases, and accounts Common Questions Events All events UW Family Weekend Connect Support Parents & Families Parent & Family Guide Get involved, stay involved Your involvement in your student’s life takes on a new dimension when college begins. The 2022–23 Parent & Family Guide is here to help you navigate this different and exciting stage in your relationship. The best way to learn about your student’s college experience is directly from them. Being informed can help make these conversations more meaningful for you both. From academic tutoring to personal health and safety, you can find detailed information about the wide variety of resources that are available to help ensure students’ well-being and success. You’ll also find important university policies and a directory of campus resources. Keep scrolling to explore topics in the Parent & Family Guide, or download a PDF in one of four languages. Talk with your Husky Eager to get the conversation started with your student but not sure how? Visit Talk With Your Husky for a list of suggested topics and questions. English Spanish | Español Chinese | 中文 Korean | 한글 Student life UW clubs and organizations Giving back to the community Cheering on UW sports teams Study abroad and Greek Life Learn more Academics Remote learning needs General and specialized advising Tutoring and writing centers First-year interest groups (FIGs) Career and internship support Learn more Health & safety On-campus clinic Mental health counseling LiveWell support program UW Alert notification system Learn more Living & dining Undergraduate housing options Campus dining locations Adding funds to the UW Husky card Residential life community Learn more Finances Paying for housing and food Due dates and methods for paying tuition Student employment options Financial forms and deadlines Learn more Transportation Tips for accessing public transportation Using the U-PASS to get around Commuter & Transfer Commons Nighttime transportation safety Learn more University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA