Jump to main content Facebook Twitter Instagram User menu News & Announcements Register & Purchase About Us Search form Search Main menu Home Facilities & Operations Facility Hours Locations Dillon Gym Poe/Pardee Fields West Windsor Fields Jadwin Gym DeNunzio Pool Baker Rink Facility Use Policies Member Services Membership Pricing Access and Information Membership FAQ Dillon Gym User FAQ Fitness & Wellness Group Fitness Yoga Yoga Lecture Series Group Fitness Class Descriptions Instructors and Staff Instructional Programs Stephens Fitness Center Orientations Wellness Programs Fitness Events Princeton to 50k Point Challenge Res College Step Challenge Personal Training Ask the Experts Informal Recreation Anytime Fitness and Wellness Resources Exercise is Medicine - On Campus Health and Wellness Learning Center Sport Clubs Club Descriptions Dates and Deadlines Important Information Forms Emergency Action Plans Quick Reference Guides Sport Club Handbook Home and Away Competitions Intramurals & Events Intramural Sports Leagues Intramurals Registration Intramural FAQs Rules Special Events 5K Runs Tiger Trot for Hunger: 5k Run/Walk Unified Sports Summer Day Camp General Info Registration & Pricing Counselor In Training Program Camp Counselors Employment Code of Conduct 2022 Weekly Schedules Camp FAQs Aquatics Swim Lessons Youth Swim Lessons Adult Swim Lessons Private Swim Lessons Certification Classes Aquatics Staff Recreational Swimming About Us Office of Campus Recreation Employment Opportunities Committee on Campus Recreation Internship Opportunities Main menu: sub-menu items Facility Hours Locations Dillon Gym Poe/Pardee Fields West Windsor Fields Jadwin Gym DeNunzio Pool Baker Rink Facility Use Policies Member Services Dillon Gym User FAQ Dillon Gym The Herbert Lowell Dillon Gymnasium opened in 1947 on the site of the former gymnasium that was destroyed by fire. Once home to all varsity athletics, Dillon is now mainly used as the headquarters for the Campus Recreation program. In addition to Stephens Fitness Center and Dillon Pool, Dillon includes many other activity areas along with various administrative and varsity athletic coach’s offices. It is also the home venue for men's and women's varsity volleyball and wrestling matches. Men's and Women's Locker Rooms Almost 9,000 sq. ft. of general locker room space is available on the A-level of Dillon Gym. Gender-Inclusive Areas Six gender-inclusive restrooms are located on the A-level of Dillon Gym. Four in the south corridor and two in the north corridor. These rooms are available to those of need on a first-come-first-serve basis. Both accessible and ADA rooms are available. Stephens Fitness Center & Cardio Annex The fitness center is a bi-level facility, approximately 8,000 square feet in size. It contains cardiovascular and selectorized equipment, as well as free weights. The Cardio Annex provides approximately 1,600 square feet of additional cardio space. Dillon Pool CLOSED effective May 25 until further notice. The Dillon Pool is 25 yards long and consists of 6 lanes with an additional wading pool for shallow water use. Its primary function is as a site for recreational swimming. The pool is kept at an average temperature of 82 degrees. Main Gym Floor Dillon Gym's main floor consists of 4 multi-use courts. Pending availability, this space can be used for basketball and other forms of informal recreation. Group Fitness Room This 3,200 square foot activity room with wood flooring serves as a site for numerous group fitness and instructional programming offerings. Multi-Purpose Room A 2,500 square foot activity room with wood flooring that serves as a site for numerous instructional programming offerings and martial arts classes, as well as Sport Club and other student activity group practices. Dance Studio (Cycling Studio) This 1,280 square foot activity room, with wood floor and mirrored walls, serves as a site for all of Campus Recreation's cycling classes. Team Rooms Three approximately 400 square foot team rooms are centrally located on the A-level of Dillon. Two are exclusively for men’s and women’s varsity volleyball programs. A third room serves as a team room for varsity wrestling, sports clubs and as a multi-purpose meeting space. Each room is equipped with 70” TV and a large white board. Athletic Training/Physical Therapy Room A 1440 square foot Athletic Medicine space is located within the renovated Dillon A-level. Entrance to the treatment area is off the west corridor (between the men’s and women’s general locker rooms). Modalities include warm whirlpool, small cold whirlpool, ice machine, hydrocollator, ultrasound/e-stim unit, taping/bracing area, bikes, UBE, emergency equipment (crutches, AED, etc.). The athletic trainers in Dillon Gym serve a wide-range of members of the University community, including the men’s and women’s varsity volleyball teams. Finding Dillon Gym 103 Dillon Gym Princeton, NJ 08544 609.258.1647 Parking Having trouble finding our locations on campus? Campus Maps Parking Information Secondary menu Subscribe to Campus Rec ListServ Event Requests Equipment Requests 103 Dillon Gym, Princeton University, Princeton, NJ 08544 PH: 609.258.1647 · FX: 609.258.2490 rec@princeton.edu @PUCampusRec Subscribe © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University