Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Business Graduate Programs Menu Business Home MBA Full-Time MBA EMBA Dallas Online MBA Specialized Master's Degrees Master of Accountancy & Master of Tax Master of Information Systems Master of Science in Business Analytics Master of Science in Economics Army-Baylor Programs Admissions Admissions Contact About Army-Baylor Program Overview Program Philosophy Competency Based Education Student Outcomes Army-Baylor Program History Residency Program Residency Sites Residency Manual Preceptor Training Curriculum MHA Curriculum MHA/MBA Curriculum ECL MHA Curriculum ECL MHA/MBA Curriculum Faculty Directory Teresa S. Hinnerichs Michael Whiddon Allen Solenberg Lorena A. Bailey Bruce W. Barnes III Kimberly Decker Mike Frankel Austin Haag Mark Nikont Dan M. Wood Jose Mauricio Jimenez Garrett W. Larson Steve Schwab A. David Mangelsdorff Karin Waugh Zucker Staff Directory Rene L. Pryor Jennifer F. Russell Faculty Awards and Research Previous Recipients Faculty Research Student Awards Previous Recipients Army-Baylor News Army-Baylor Alumni Army-Baylor Alumni Network Join the Army-Baylor Alumni Network Update your Army-Baylor Alumni Network Contact Information Give to the Army Baylor Alumni Network Army-Baylor Events Doctoral Programs Entrepreneurship PhD Information Systems PhD Health Services Research PhD Admissions Baylor>Business Graduate Programs>News>Army-Baylor News: Army-Baylor Mar 30 2022 Army-Baylor Social Reception at ACHE Chicago ARMY-BAYLOR ALUMNI ACHE RECEPTION Wednesday, March 30 | 6-8 p.m. We are excited to see Army-Baylor alumni in Chicago for the annual ACHE Congress on Healthcare Leadership Conference. For those of you traveling to attend, we want to invite you to join us for a social reception on Wednesday, March 30 at McCormick & Schmick's in Chicago! Business casual/evening attire is suggested. Hors d' oeuvres will be served. Feb 11 2022 Faculty and Students attend ACHE Central Texas Symposium on Telemedicine and Innovation Senior faculty and students of Army-Baylor MHA program attended the ACHE Central Texas Symposium in Waco, TX. Oct 29 2021 Army-Baylor Faculty Visit Hankamer School of Business Jun 25 2021 Army-Baylor University Graduate Program hosted the opening and closing ceremony for the outgoing class of 2020-2022 and incoming class of 2021-2022 May 24 2021 MAJ Andrew Galdi, Army-Baylor Class of 2021, is the recipient of the 2020 TSG Physician Assistant Recognition Award. Apr 14 2021 Program Director, LTC Teresa Hinnerichs briefs Army-Baylor Alumni on a new proposed competency model On April 14th, as part of Alumni Week, Army-Baylor hosted our annual meeting, virtually. Check out the Slideshow! Mar 24 2021 Army-Baylor wins the 2021 Higher Education Network Award at ACHE Congress Mar 5 2021 Congratulations to class of 2022 CPT Meghan Bryant’s recent publication in the The Medical Journal’s spring 2021 issue! COVID-19: An Army Brigade Approach to Tracking, Management, and Treatment of Soldiers, US Army 18th Military Police Brigade ABSTRACT As SARS-CoV-2 spread throughout the world military units had to develop ways of combatting risk to ensure force health protection and deployability of their soldiers. Medical functions were impacted and solutions need-ed to be found in order to incorporate these items as functioning medical platforms. In the following article, we address one unit’s individual response to the difficulties faced as a Military Police Brigade in Europe. Lessons learned from the initial wave of COVID-19 across medical operations, medical readiness, virtual health, and behavioral health initiatives can be utilized for better planning and response in the future. Oct 26 2019 Students Participate in the Paint the Parkway Pink 5K Event Students from class of 2021 participated in the Paint the Parkway Pink 5K event in San Antonio, TX on 26 Oct 2019. Fifteen students participated in the event to support and contribute to the fight against breast cancer. Oct 7 2019 Army Baylor Residents Win 2019 Rambler 120 Team Challenge Two Army Baylor Bears, CPT Khalid Rodriguez and MAJ Darin Bingham, along with two other team members, win the 2019 Rambler 120 Team Challenge. Oct 2 2019 Dr. Larry Johnson, Army Baylor Professor, receives the Meritorious Civilian Service Award Army Baylor Professor, Larry Johnson, PhD, was presented with the Meritorious Civilian Service Award for exceptional service as Professor of Management for the Army Baylor Graduate Program in Health and Business Administration. Sep 13 2019 Students Attend STC-ACHE Symposium Students from Class of 2021 attended the South Texas Chapter - American College of Healthcare Executives Student and Early Careerist Symposium. May 17 2019 COL (R) Jon VanValkenburg, PhD, Visits Army-Baylor Program The Army-Baylor MHA/MBA program welcomed a surprise visit from COL (R) Jon VanValkenburg, PhD. COL VanValkenburg helped start the program when it was the Medical Field Service School in the 1950's. Apr 19 2019 Army-Baylor Resident Competes in Boston Marathon Captain Peter Yusckat, Air Force MSC and Baylor Bear class of 2019, competes in the 123rd Boston Marathon. Apr 12 2019 Army Baylor Class of 2020 Welcomes Brigadier General Bagby Brigadier General Shan K. Bagby visits students from class of 2020 as the featured Leadership in Action guest speaker. Apr 5 2019 Army-Baylor Faculty Member Publishes International Business Research COL Tanya A. Peacock co-authored a paper with Dr. Amanda Budde-Sung (University of Sydney) entitled, "Can’t take the heat? Climate and foreign subsidiary locations." Mar 17 2019 Baylor Bears Participate in the 77th Annual Bataan Death March Baylor Bears participated in the 77th Annual Bataan Death March at White Sands Missile Range, New Mexico. The Bears conducted a grueling 26.2-mile march to honor U.S. and Filipino Soldiers that were surrendered to Japanese forces after months of battling in extreme-climate conditions during World War II. Jan 28 2019 Baylor Bears volunteer at the Animal Defense League Shelter of San Antonio Baylor Bears were in action this past Saturday, January 26, 2019, at the Animal Defense League (ADL) Shelter of San Antonio Texas, assisting with site clean-up. Are you looking for more News? All NewsArchives General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Hankamer School of Business About the Business School Directory Events News Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 Business Home MBA Full-Time MBA EMBA Dallas Online MBA Specialized Master's Degrees Master of Accountancy & Master of Tax Master of Information Systems Master of Science in Business Analytics Master of Science in Economics Army-Baylor Programs Admissions Admissions Contact About Army-Baylor Program Overview Program Philosophy Competency Based Education Student Outcomes Army-Baylor Program History Residency Program Residency Sites Residency Manual Preceptor Training Curriculum MHA Curriculum MHA/MBA Curriculum ECL MHA Curriculum ECL MHA/MBA Curriculum Faculty Directory Teresa S. Hinnerichs Michael Whiddon Allen Solenberg Lorena A. Bailey Bruce W. Barnes III Kimberly Decker Mike Frankel Austin Haag Mark Nikont Dan M. Wood Jose Mauricio Jimenez Garrett W. Larson Steve Schwab A. David Mangelsdorff Karin Waugh Zucker Staff Directory Rene L. Pryor Jennifer F. Russell Faculty Awards and Research Previous Recipients Faculty Research Student Awards Previous Recipients Army-Baylor News Army-Baylor Alumni Army-Baylor Alumni Network Join the Army-Baylor Alumni Network Update your Army-Baylor Alumni Network Contact Information Give to the Army Baylor Alumni Network Army-Baylor Events Doctoral Programs Entrepreneurship PhD Information Systems PhD Health Services Research PhD Admissions