Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu College of Professional & Liberal Studies Areas of Study Online Resources Community Engagement Connect Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Take the next step in your career The College of Professional & Liberal Studies at the University of Memphis is pleased to offer a Doctor of Liberal Studies (DLS) degree. Soar with Commercial Aviation! In partnership with Crew Training International (CTI) Professional Flight Training, the College of Professional & Liberal Studies is proud to offer Commercial Aviation. Degrees designed with you in mind Choose from over 20+ undergrad concentrations or create an individual program just for you! PreviousNext Take Action Find the program that's right for you Become a part of CPLS Advising Appointments Contact Us Follow Us Online Facebooktwitter Nationally Ranked # 2 BestValueSchools.org Top Master’s in Training and Development View All Rankings Home College of Professional & Liberal Studies Discover the uniqueness of our degrees We are known as innovators of new programs, a catalyst for interdisciplinary and multidisciplinary efforts throughout the campus, and a facilitator for the community to interact with the University. As a leader in innovation and personalized learning, the College of Professional and Liberal Studies provides access to quality educational programs and services for a diverse community of learners who seek change through increased knowledge and skill. Flexible and specialized curriculum offers each student a more customized degree program. Earn a degree in multiple settings – online, face to face or hybrid – and even utilize professional work experience towards college credit. With nearly five decades of storied history, formerly known as "University College," and strong community bonds, we invite you to join us on our continued journey and find a degree as unique as you. Find the program that's right for you > Students pursuing degrees in the College of Professional & Liberal Studies have access to several supportive programs that provide new and alternative options to satisfy degree requirements. These programs offer assistance by reducing costs and accelerating degree completion. Experiential Learning Credit Both undergraduate and graduate students an opportunity to request Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) for experiences that include worksite training, professional organization certification, military training, community volunteerism, and unique life. Finish Line Finish Line assists students who previously attended the University of Memphis and have completed 90 or more credit hours, but have regrettably had to abandon their dreams of completing a college degree. Academic advisors work with students to evaluate previously earned credit, identify all possible routes to graduation, and explore low-cost course completion strategies. LiFE: Learning inspired by FedEx Through a unique partnership between our UofM Global department and FedEx, eligible FedEx employees can complete a higher education degree program with courses suited to prior education, 24/7 tutoring, and potentially no out-of-pocket costs (students must meet eligibility requirements and be in good academic standing). Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 4/12/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.