Menu Close Menu Skip to content Information For: Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Friends & Supporters A to Z index Search for: Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health Email People Departments Calendar Careers my.harvard Giving About Faculty & Research Admissions & Aid Academics Executive/Continuing Ed News Program in Health Care Financing Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health > Program in Health Care Financing Program in Health Care Financing Menu Search for: Home People Projects Publications Program in Health Care Financing About The Program The Program in Health Care Financing seeks to develop a systematic framework for the evaluation of health systems, as well as perform interdisciplinary research focusing on the relationship between economic development and health. The Program has a small core staff and operates through collaborations with investigators elsewhere at Harvard and at other sites throughout the world. The Director of the Program is William C. Hsiao, the K.T. Li Professor of Economics at the Harvard School of Public Health. A renown economist with decades of international experience in designing and implementing national health system reforms, Professor Hsiao is also a very appreciated teacher and mentor. He has advised many doctoral students at the school and is the recipient of multiple teaching awards. His research is focused on payment methods for hospitals and physicians in the context of national health insurance programs. Examples of his work include development of the Resource-Based Relative Value Scale, and leadership of an ongoing social experiment in China, funded by the Gates Foundation with the goal of reforming rural health care in that country. The latter project involves the design and introduction of universal health insurance, integration of the currently fragmented health care delivery system, and reform of the payment system to remunerate providers based on capitation and performance. More information about Professor Hsiao’s current research can be found on the Projects page. Winnie Chi-Man Yip is an associate Professor who directs an inter-disciplinary study to examine the dynamic social, cultural, psychological and economic determinants of health and well-being in rural China. News from the School Congratulations graduates! Probing disease disparities Saving a daughter, starting a career Tackling disparities and stigma around obesity, mental health Information For: Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Friends & Supporters About Key Facts Renaming the School Office of the Dean Location and Facilities Administrative Offices Contact Us Faculty and Research Faculty and Researcher Directory Academic Departments, Divisions and Centers International Research Postdoctoral Research Fellows Office of Faculty Affairs Faculty Searches Office of Diversity and Inclusion Admissions & Aid Why Harvard Chan Degree Programs Non-Degree Programs Financial Aid Student Experience Career Advancement Apply Academics Academic Departments Divisions Research Centers Flagship Initiatives International Research Research Administration and Support Degree Programs Fellowships and Residencies Summer Programs Continuing Professional Education Interdisciplinary Concentrations Academic Calendar Harvard Chan Viewbook Executive/Continuing Ed Program Offerings Custom Programs Request Information News and Resources About ECPE Contact News Featured News Press Releases Student Stories In the News Newsletters HPH Magazine Why Public Health? Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health 677 Huntington Avenue Boston, MA 02115 +1 (617) 495‑1000 Twitter Facebook YouTube LinkedIn Instagram iTunes Harvard Chan Home Contact Us Harvard University Home Make a Gift Privacy Policy Report Copyright Violation Accessibility Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College