× Please sign in You need to log in to use the bookmarking feature. Sign In Harvard Business School Sign in to Baker Library Baker Library | Bloomberg Center Search Find Services Ask Browse Databases Collections & Archives Guides Exhibits Find Books, Articles & More More Places HOLLIS Catalog Harvard Library Working Knowledge Service Type Research Curriculum Research Data Program See all... Service Audience Faculty Doctoral Students MBA Students Alumni Executive Education Staff Visiting Researchers Ask Us Ask a Question Fast Answers Policies Staff Directory How Do I... Request HBS Cases Plan A Visit Manage My Data Get Teaching Support Baker Library Databases Ask Us Special Collections Fast Answers All Services Hours Plan Your Visit Exhibits Hollis Working Knowledge HBS Home About Academic Programs Alumni Faculty & Research Baker Library Campaign Harvard Business Review Initiatives News Recruit Map / Directions Search Search Search Home Services Baker Library Services Research Data Research Data Utilize data in your research most effectively! Baker Library's expert data specialists can help you to plan, find and vet sources, organize and analyze, and share and archive your data. We will make sure to get you the right data, save you time, add value, and increase your research impact. Bookmark This Research Data /services/baker-library-services/research-data 99 52512 Research Data /services/baker-library-services/research-data 99 52512 Add My Librarian Item Filters Service Type Research Curriculum Research Data Program Publications Archives & Records Management Information Management Service Audience Faculty Doctoral Students MBA Students Alumni Executive Education Program Participants Staff Visiting Researchers Browse All Services Archiving Faculty Research /services/archiving-faculty-research Donate your research to the HBS Archives. 67 34944 Archiving Faculty Research /services/archiving-faculty-research Donate your research to the HBS Archives. 67 34944 Add My Librarian Item Archiving Faculty Research Donate your research to the HBS Archives. Buying and Licensing Data /services/buying-and-licensing-data If the data you need requires a Data Use Agreement, or a purchase out of your research budget, we will facilitate that process. 67 34942 Buying and Licensing Data /services/buying-and-licensing-data If the data you need requires a Data Use Agreement, or a purchase out of your research budget, we will facilitate that process. 67 34942 Add My Librarian Item Buying and Licensing Data If the data you need requires a Data Use Agreement, or a purchase out of your research budget, we will facilitate that process. Data Creation & Data Collection /services/data-creation-data-collection Baker Library's deep expertise with the licensed and publically available databases, as well as print collections, enables us to efficiently and effectively download, scrape, merge, and clean data from disparate sources 67 34945 Data Creation & Data Collection /services/data-creation-data-collection Baker Library's deep expertise with the licensed and publically available databases, as well as print collections, enables us to efficiently and effectively download, scrape, merge, and clean data from disparate sources 67 34945 Add My Librarian Item Data Creation & Data Collection Baker Library's deep expertise with the licensed and publically available databases, as well as print collections, enables us to efficiently and effectively download, scrape, merge, and clean data from disparate sources Data Deposit Service /services/data-deposit-service Baker Library staff can help faculty to share their data. 67 49242 Data Deposit Service /services/data-deposit-service Baker Library staff can help faculty to share their data. 67 49242 Add My Librarian Item Data Deposit Service Baker Library staff can help faculty to share their data. Data Wrangling & Analysis /services/data-wrangling-analysis Baker Research Services provides an array of data services including downloading, scraping, merging, and cleaning data from disparate sources from licensed and publicly available data sources, and the preparation of data for analysis. The team, comprised of data scientists, researchers, business information specialists, and librarians also offers a variety of analytical and data visualization services to support faculty research projects and publications using Baker collections and licensed and publicly available data sources. 67 34943 Data Wrangling & Analysis /services/data-wrangling-analysis Baker Research Services provides an array of data services including downloading, scraping, merging, and cleaning data from disparate sources from licensed and publicly available data sources, and the preparation of data for analysis. The team, comprised of data scientists, researchers, business information specialists, and librarians also offers a variety of analytical and data visualization services to support faculty research projects and publications using Baker collections and licensed and publicly available data sources. 67 34943 Add My Librarian Item Data Wrangling & Analysis Baker Research Services provides an array of data services including downloading, scraping, merging, and cleaning data from disparate sources from licensed and publicly available data sources, and the preparation of data for analysis. The team, comprised of data scientists, researchers, business information specialists, and librarians also offers a variety of analytical and data visualization services to support faculty research projects and publications using Baker collections and licensed and publicly available data sources. Finding Data /services/finding-data Baker Library can help you find the best source for your needs, whether it is something freely available, available at Harvard, needs to be purchased, or needs to be created from scratch. 67 49756 Finding Data /services/finding-data Baker Library can help you find the best source for your needs, whether it is something freely available, available at Harvard, needs to be purchased, or needs to be created from scratch. 67 49756 Add My Librarian Item Finding Data Baker Library can help you find the best source for your needs, whether it is something freely available, available at Harvard, needs to be purchased, or needs to be created from scratch. Research Data Program /services/research-data-program Baker Library's expert data specialists have deep experience with business, economic and social science data and databases, and we can help you with everything from finding and vetting sources, to analyzing your data, to archiving and storage. We will make sure to get you the right data, add value to the data, and save you time. 67 34941 Research Data Program /services/research-data-program Baker Library's expert data specialists have deep experience with business, economic and social science data and databases, and we can help you with everything from finding and vetting sources, to analyzing your data, to archiving and storage. We will make sure to get you the right data, add value to the data, and save you time. 67 34941 Add My Librarian Item Research Data Program Baker Library's expert data specialists have deep experience with business, economic and social science data and databases, and we can help you with everything from finding and vetting sources, to analyzing your data, to archiving and storage. We will make sure to get you the right data, add value to the data, and save you time. Back to top Today's HoursAll Hours Connect with Baker Map & Contacts Know Before You Go Library Spaces Staff Directory About the Library B4B Product Catalog Books@Baker Annual Reports Harvard Business School Baker Library | Bloomberg Center Soldiers Field Boston, MA 02163 Phone: 1.617.495.6040 Email: infoservices@hbs.edu Maps and Directions Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram iTunes All Social Media Jobs Trademarks Site Map Harvard University Policies Digital Accessibility Copyright © 2022 President & Fellows of Harvard College.