Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Crews School of Accountancy Welcome Programs Faculty Research Admissions & Current Students FCBE Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Admissions Apply to Our Undergraduate Program Apply to Our Graduate Program Financial Assistance Networking & Career Development Take Action Networking & Career Development Financial Assistance Contact Us Return to FCBE Follow Us Online Facebooktwitter Home Crews School of Accountancy Admissions Accountancy Networking & Career Development Networking & Career Development Beta Alpha Psi As the premier professional accounting and business information honors organization, Beta Alpha Psi recognizes academic excellence and complements members' formal education by providing interaction between students, faculty, and professionals, as well as fostering lifelong growth, service and ethical conduct. The accounting honors organization is Beta Alpha Psi. Our local Beta Alpha Psi chapter has been deemed a "superior chapter" for 14 straight years. Click here to learn more about our local BAP chapter. Internships Many Memphis-area CPA firms and corporations seek our students for internships. Internships provide (a) relevant experience, (b) course credit, (c) financial remuneration, and (d) a "foot in the door" toward a career. Learn about the possibilities at the college Internship Office. Professional Organizations Several professional organizations with local chapters have reduced-fee student memberships, and joining is an excellent way to establish relationships with potential employers and future colleagues. Organizations with local chapters include: The Institute of Internal Auditors Tennessee Society of CPAs Professional Development Program Through the support of Avron B. Fogelman, a Professional Development Program has been implemented to help students develop a competitive edge in today's dynamic workplace. These programs are designed to complete the academic program that students earn in the classroom and help them make the transition into the business world. Particularly useful for accounting students is Accounting Careers of Tomorrow. We highly recommend you take advantage. Visit: memphis.edu/professional Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 2/23/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.