Search | Directories | Reference Tools UW Home > Discover UW > Student Guide UW Bothell Course Descriptions UW Tacoma Course Descriptions Glossary SCHOOL OF MEDICINE NEUROLOGICAL SURGERY Detailed course offerings (Time Schedule) are available for Spring Quarter 2022 Summer Quarter 2022 Autumn Quarter 2022 NEUR S 498 Undergraduate Thesis (*, max. 35) D' Ambrosio, Ellenbogen, Hevner, Horner, MacDonald, Mourad, Morrison, Ojemann, Ramirez Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: NEUR S 498 NEUR S 499 Undergraduate Research (*, max. 35) Investigation of special problems as an intimate member of the research team in the neurological surgery laboratories. Research to lead to a thesis, if desired. List of projects available on request. Prerequisite: permission of instructor. Instructors: D' Ambrosio, Ellenbogen, Ferreira, Hevner, Horner, MacDonald, Mourad, Morrison, Ojemann, Ramirez, Rostomily, Silber Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: NEUR S 499 NEUR S 505 P-Preceptorship in Academic Neurosurgery (1, max. 12) Opportunity for first- and second-year medical students to observe the research, teaching, and patient-care activities of academic neurosurgery. Prerequisite: permission of instructor. Instructors: Chestnut, Ellenbogen, Ferreira, Hofstetter, Kim, Lee, Ojemann, Rostomily, Sekar, Silbergeld, Zhang Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: NEUR S 505 NEUR S 655 P-Clinical Neurosurgery Clerkship- Spokane WA (1-8, max. 8) Provides the medical student with exposure to common neurologic and neurosurgical problems such as trauma, hydrocephalus, stroke, back pain, bleeds in the head, and tumors. Satisfies the requirement of the Neurology clerkship requirement. For third- and fourth-year medical students. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: NEUR S 655 NEUR S 665 P-Clinical Neurosurgery Clerkship (8) Ellenbogen, Lee Provides the medical student with exposure to common neurologic and neurosurgical problems such as trauma, hydrocephalus, stroke, back pain, bleeds in the head, and tumors. Satisfies the requirement of the Neurology clerkship requirement. For third- and fourth-year medical students. View course details in MyPlan: NEUR S 665 NEUR S 680 P-Neurological Surgery Clerkship (*, max. 8) Student serves clinical clerkship as an intimate member of the staff, participating in inpatient and outpatient care, both preoperative and postoperative, involving neurological surgery patients. University of Washington Medical Center or a University-affiliated hospital may be selected, subject to approval of the department. (Four weeks). Prerequisite: HUBIO 563. Instructors: Ellenbogen, Lee Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: NEUR S 680 NEUR S 697 P-Neurological Surgery Special Electives (*, max. 24) By specific arrangement, for qualified students, special clerkship, externship, or research opportunities made available at institutions other than the University of Washington. Prospective students obtain from the dean's office a special assignment form at least one month before preregistration. Prerequisite: permission of instructor. Instructors: Ellenbogen Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: NEUR S 697 NEUR S 699 P-WWAMI Neurological Surgery Special Electives (*, max. 24) By special arrangement for qualified students, special clerkships or externships may be available at institutions other than the University of Washington located within the WWAMI region. Prerequisite: permission of department. Instructors: Ellenbogen View course details in MyPlan: NEUR S 699 Office of the University Registrar registrar@uw.edu Modified: May 30, 2022