Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Stormwater Management Certificate (Graduate) You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Stormwater Management Certificate (Graduate) Apply Request More Info Stormwater Management Certificate (Graduate) Our Faculty Graduate Certificate in Stormwater Management The Graduate Certificate in Stormwater Management in the College of Engineering helps you develop the graduate-level expertise to address the effects associated with stormwater management without enrolling in a graduate degree program. Increased stormwater runoff, causing flooding and erosion in urban stream ecosystems, is a growing environmental issue. You’ll study the effects of urban runoff on stream channels in this certificate program and learn best practices to prevent the degradation of ecosystems. Who might be interested? This certificate is an excellent fit for professionals or graduates with undergraduate engineering degrees or educational or professional backgrounds in environmental science, geomorphology, hydrology or stormwater management. This program is an excellent fit for those with professional experience in civil or environmental engineering, stormwater management, or land development. Though the certificate is designed for applicants with an undergraduate engineering degree, those with a strong background in hydrology or environmental science may also be considered. Credit Requirements To earn this certificate, you must complete four courses (12 credits), including two required courses: Environmental Hydrology or Engineering Hydrology and Urban Streams and Stormwater Management. Up to nine credits may be applied to Temple’s Master of Science in Environmental Engineering program. Curriculum This curriculum is designed to give you a solid foundation in understanding the scale of ecological degradation caused by stormwater runoff as well as in following best practices for managing its effects. In addition to your two core courses, you can study Contaminant Dynamics in Urban Streams, Chemical Principles of Environmental Systems, Environmental Biotechnology, Environmental Organic Chemistry and Physical Principles of Environmental Systems. Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Graduate Certificate offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $1,184.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,546.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Admission Requirements This program accepts students to begin each fall. This certificate is geared toward those with an undergraduate degree in engineering. Applicants with strong backgrounds in hydrology or environmental science may also be considered. For additional information, contact Admissions and Graduate Student Services at gradengr@temple.edu. Applications may also be emailed to that address. You also may mail your application to Admissions and Graduate Student Services College of Engineering Temple University 1947 N. 12th St. Philadelphia, PA 19122 Application Components Complete and submit the following materials. You do not have to submit GRE scores. Application form: Complete the graduate certificate program application form and include information about your current employer. Transcripts: Submit official transcripts of all credit-bearing courses you’ve taken at colleges and universities. Statement of Goals: In one to two pages, describe your relevant technical experiences and career goals. Résumé: Include a current résumé or a CV with your application. Please note: International students may not be eligible to apply for a student visa based on admission to this certificate program. EN-STWM-GRAD Additional Program Information Visit College Site Go back to AcademicsMore in Stormwater Management Certificate (Graduate) Our Faculty Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info