Refine Your Search/Search Our Site About & Contact Subjects & Series Catalogs eBooks News Order Rights Permissions Support the Press Cart: [0] Resources for: Authors Booksellers & Librarians Educators Journalists Readers Josephine Baker and the Rainbow Tribe Matthew Pratt Guterl Add to Cart Product Details HARDCOVER $40.00 • £32.95 • €36.00 ISBN 9780674047556 Publication Date: 04/14/2014 Trade 288 pages 5-1/2 x 8-1/4 inches 30 halftones Belknap Press World Related Subjects BIOGRAPHY & AUTOBIOGRAPHY: Entertainment & Performing Arts HISTORY: Modern: 20th Century About This Book About the Author(s) Reviews Table of Contents Creating a sensation with her risqué nightclub act and strolls down the Champs Elysées, pet cheetah in tow, Josephine Baker lives on in popular memory as the banana-skirted siren of Jazz Age Paris. In Josephine Baker and the Rainbow Tribe, Matthew Pratt Guterl brings out a little known side of the celebrated personality, showing how her ambitions of later years were even more daring and subversive than the youthful exploits that made her the first African American superstar. Her performing days numbered, Baker settled down in a sixteenth-century chateau she named Les Milandes, in the south of France. Then, in 1953, she did something completely unexpected and, in the context of racially sensitive times, outrageous. Adopting twelve children from around the globe, she transformed her estate into a theme park, complete with rides, hotels, a collective farm, and singing and dancing. The main attraction was her Rainbow Tribe, the family of the future, which showcased children of all skin colors, nations, and religions living together in harmony. Les Milandes attracted an adoring public eager to spend money on a utopian vision, and to worship at the feet of Josephine, mother of the world. Alerting readers to some of the contradictions at the heart of the Rainbow Tribe project—its undertow of child exploitation and megalomania in particular—Guterl concludes that Baker was a serious and determined activist who believed she could make a positive difference by creating a family out of the troublesome material of race. Related Links At the Telegraph, read Matthew Pratt Guterl’s précis on this “story of an extraordinary 20th-century experiment” Read Slate’s take on Josephine Baker’s attempt “to prove that racial harmony was possible” Read Guterl’s discussions of Josephine Baker with St. Louis Magazine and the St. Louis Post-Dispatch Visit Matthew Pratt Guterl’s website Buy Elsewhere Bookshop.org » Amazon » Barnes & Noble » Find at a Library »Cite This Book » About HUP eBooks About Exam Copies Recent News Vivek Chibber, author of The Class Matrix: Social Theory after the Cultural Turn, spoke with The Nation about the future of Marxist thought. The End of Astronauts coauthors Donald Goldsmith and Sir Martin Rees made the case to Science Friday’s Ira Flatow that the cost of human space travel largely outweighs its benefits. Alessio Terzi, author of Growth for Good: Reshaping Capitalism to Save Humanity from Climate Catastrophe, argued in Foreign Policy that the energy crisis catalyzed by Russia’s attack on Ukraine does not necessarily undermine the world’s overall green transition—as long as governments remain firm in their commitments to long-term climate targets. Indentured Students author Elizabeth Tandy Shermer spoke with Public Books about the “private pain, public disinvestment” of student debt. Black lives matter. Black voices matter. A statement from HUP » From Our Blog Five Reasons Why You Should Read Thomas Piketty’s A Brief History of Equality In his surprising and powerful new work, A Brief History of Equality, Thomas Piketty reminds us that the grand sweep of history gives us reasons to be optimistic. Over the centuries, he shows, we have been moving toward greater equality. We asked him about his impassioned new book: why he wrote it, how it’s optimistic, and what we need to do to continue making progress on creating an equitable world. … Subscribe to E-News Dumbarton Oaks Medieval Library I Tatti Renaissance Library Loeb Classical Library Murty Classical Library of India About & Contact | Awards | Catalogs | Conference Exhibits | eBooks | Exam Copies | News | Order | Rights | Permissions | Search | Shopping Cart | Subjects & Series Resources for: Authors | Booksellers & Librarians | Educators | Journalists | Readers Harvard University Press offices are located at 79 Garden Street, Cambridge, MA 02138 USA & 8 Coldbath Square, London EC1R 5HL UK © 2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College | HUP Privacy Policy • HU Additional EEA Privacy Disclosures A Message from HUP about COVID-19 (April 2020)