Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links Campus Safety Menu Main Nav Campus Safety Contact Back Back Close About Overview FAQ BC Police Department Overview About Meet Our Team In Memory FAQ News Accreditation Contact Community Relations & Crime Prevention Community Resource Officer (CRO) R.A.D. Programs Crime Prevention Education Compliments or Complaints Services Emergency Management Overview Potential Hazards Communication How to Prepare What to Do in an Emergency Students with Disabilities Environmental Health & Safety Overview Laboratory Safety Occupational Health & Safety Programs Indoor Environmental Quality Fire Safety Contact Documents Overview Crime Alerts Annual Campus Security & Fire Safety Report Business Continuity Emergency Plans and Publications Contact Close Directory A to Z Listing Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close About Home BC Police Department About About Meet Our Team In Memory FAQ News Accreditation Contact About Us Our department is comprised of 87 professionally trained police officers, security officers, communications officers, and support staff, which make up the departments four (4) major bureaus: Bureau of Operations and Patrol Services Bureau of Investigative Services Bureau of Administrative and Technical Services Bureau of Business Services Our police officers are granted police authority from the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, which allows them the same authority and powers as local or state police in or upon the lands and structures owned, used, or occupied by the University. Additionally, Boston College police officers have deputy sheriff powers for use in off-campus situations. Our security officers, and gate attendants while not sworn police officers, do have authority as officials of the University and are empowered to enforce its rules and regulations. Mission The Boston College Police Department works together with our community to create a safe and secure campus environment that encourages mutual respect, caring for others and responsible behavior. The department’s policies, practices and services are aligned with the University’s Jesuit traditions to search for truth in every discipline, foster the desire to learn, and live justly together. We serve our community by providing professional police and public safety services 24 hours a day, every day of the year and recognize our role to exercise good judgment and discretion in the enforcement of laws, policies and community expectations. As a service-oriented team, our greatest asset is our personnel, and our greatest strength is our partnership with the University. This partnership is the foundation for maintaining a community that fosters rigorous intellectual, spiritual, ethical and personal formation of its students so they are prepared for citizenship, service and leadership in a global society. Vision Our vision is to exemplify the best practices and professional standards in our field and to be recognized by our community and our profession as a leader among university public safety organizations. We will model ethical behavior and work in partnership with all members of the University community to maintain a campus environment that is conducive to teaching, learning and personal growth. Values Ethics: We emulate the highest standards of professionalism. Accountability: We take responsibility for our actions. Goal-oriented: We serve our community with purpose and commitment. Loyalty: We are loyal to our oath of office and to our obligations to others. Empathy: We demonstrate our concern for others and treat them with dignity and respect. Service: We exist to help our community achieve its goals. "Our officers are committed to establishing and maintaining positive and professional relationships with our community." Back To Top Back To Top Boston College Police Department Maloney Hall 617-552-4444 About BC Police Department Emergency Preparedness Environmental Health & Safety Documents To report a campus emergency: Call BC Police @ 617-552-4444 In case of fire call 911 Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College