Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Events Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Schedule a Visit SMU Tour Follow Us Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us Twitter Follow Us YouTube Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content English Why Study Here? Undergraduate Programs Undergraduate Programs Major Minor Current Course Offerings Distinction Program Creative Writing Writing and Reasoning Program The Teacher Preparation Program in English Preparation for Graduate Study in English Literature Student Forms Student Resources Writing and Reasoning Program Writing and Reasoning Program Faculty Courses Helpful links Policies Contact Us Graduate Programs Graduate Programs Learn More Graduate School Resources Apply Ph.D. in English Graduate Alumni Forms Graduate Handbook FAQ's People Research Research Faculty Research Areas Research Facilities About About Contact Us Lectures and Events Alumni Connection Give ☰ SMU Department of English Departments English Undergraduate Programs Undergraduate Programs The B.A. in English offers a rich intellectual experience through the study of American, British, and other literature written in English. The course of study engages with contemporary modes of literary inquiry in order to arrive at an understanding of how language, culture, and society work. At the same time, it emphasizes the aesthetic, emotional, and intellectual pleasures of imaginative writing. The degree is appropriate for students who wish to obtain a broad liberal education as a foundation for careers or further study, and is especially recommended as preprofessional training for fields such as law, administration, and business that require high proficiency in written and oral communication and in analytical thinking. English Major Creative Writing Specialization English Minor Click here to declare English as your first major Click here to add English as a second major To declare the English minor, go to your student homepage in my.SMU and click the eMinor declaration tab Undergraduate Programs Major Minor Current Course Offerings Distinction Program Creative Writing Writing and Reasoning Program The Teacher Preparation Program in English Preparation for Graduate Study in English Literature Student Forms Student Resources Apply Visit Academics Undergraduate Degrees Graduate Degrees Minors and Programs Research Centers and Institutes Connect Administrative Directory Department Directory Alumni Make a Gift Dedman College of Humanities & Sciences P.O. Box 750235 | Dallas, Texas | 75275-0233 214-768-2440 © Southern Methodist University Legal Disclosures facebook twitter youtube