By continuing to use this site, you agree to the use of cookies in accordance with our privacy policy. Dismiss Stay Safe The official source of public health information for Syracuse University. Skip to Content Open menu About Admissions Academics Life Athletics More Search the University Open search Popular searches Close menu Home About Toggle dropdown Leadership Vision & Mission Consumer Information Facts & Figures Plan Your Visit Campus Map History News Partnerships Work at Syracuse Social Media Bookstore Brand Help & Contacts Admissions Toggle dropdown Undergraduate Graduate Online Part-Time Cost & Aid Request Information Visit & Tour Apply Academics Toggle dropdown Schools & Colleges Undergraduate Majors & Minors Graduate Degrees Online Programs Syracuse University Global Study Abroad Opportunities & Support Calendars Departments Research Centers & Institutes Libraries, Collections & Galleries Academic Administration Life Toggle dropdown Accessibility & Diversity Campus Highlights Events Calendar Services & Support Meals & Dining Housing Groups & Activities Recreation & Facilities For Students For Veterans & Military For Faculty & Staff For Parents & Families A-Z Index Sitemap Login Athletics Men’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Football Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Track and Field Women’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Field Hockey Ice Hockey Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Softball Tennis Track and Field Volleyball Athletics Dept. Toggle dropdown Facilities Staff Directory Academic Honors Community Service Spirit Program Varsity Club Sports Medicine Championships Fan Zone Toggle dropdown Dome Schedule Seating Information Orange All Access Otto’s Kids Club Game Photos Promotions Orange Club Schedules News Alumni About Toggle dropdown Notable Alumni Alumni Association Awards News Events and Clubs Toggle dropdown Orange Central Northeast Midwest South West World/Affinity Regions Toggle dropdown Atlanta Boston Chicago Los Angeles Middle East New York San Francisco Washington, DC Services Toggle dropdown Career Network Generation Orange Directory Profile Class Notes Giving Contact Contact Visit Apply Coronavirus Updates Forever Orange Home About University Ombuds Our Mission More from this Section About Us Our Services FAQs Our Mission The Office of the University Ombuds launched in February 2018 in response to recommendations from the University Senate Committee on Women’s Concerns and the Chancellor’s Workgroup on Diversity and Inclusion. It provides University staff, faculty and graduate students a place to go outside of formal institutional channels, such as Human Resources, the Office of Equal Opportunity Inclusion and Resolution Services, the Office of University Counsel or Risk Management, to address work-related concerns or questions openly and without fear of retaliation or judgment. Four Core Principles Confidentiality All communications and inquiries are confidential to the extent permitted by law. The office will not disclose identities of visitors to the office or the contents of conversations. Independence The ombuds operates independently of existing administrative structures and processes and is free of any interference or influence from the University or University administrators. Impartiality and Neutrality Ombuds staff are neutral, impartial, third-party resources for University employees and graduate students. They do not take sides for or against any individual, cause or position. Informality The office provides informal assistance only. It cannot initiate formal investigations, proceedings or disciplinary processes, nor can it adjudicate cases or change/set aside any rule, policy or administrative decision. It is designed to complement—rather than duplicate—existing grievance procedures. The ombuds provides reports to University leadership on general trends and patterns of complaints without breaching confidentiality so that problems can more effectively be prevented from escalating or recurring. Undergraduate Students Undergraduate students are encouraged to continue to avail themselves of the various existing informal and formal processes and services at the University (e.g., the Office of Student Assistance, the Counseling Center, Hendricks Chapel, Health Services, the Office of Equal Opportunity, Inclusion and Resolution Services) to address and resolve issues that might otherwise be handled by the ombuds for employees or graduate students. Contact Us 111 Waverly Ave., Suite 001 315.443.1087 Email the Ombuds If you email, please include only your meeting request; do not include any confidential information in your email. Details about your particular concern will be discussed during your confidential appointment. Pages in this Section About Us Neal Powless G’08 serves the campus community as a neutral, independent, informal and confidential resource for faculty, staff and graduate students who are seeking assistance to answer questions and resolve concerns. Our Services The Office of the University Ombuds provides a venue for complaints, conflicts or concerns that visitors do not wish to address through other official University channels. University Ombuds FAQs Popular Toggle dropdown Academic Calendar Campus Map Careers Libraries Majors and Minors Visit and Tour A-Z Toggle dropdown Academic Departments Schools and Colleges Sitemap Search Contact Toggle dropdown Admissions Financial Aid Emergency Contacts Human Resources Make a Gift Login Toggle dropdown MySlice Blackboard SUMail Syracuse University 900 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, NY 13244 Phone: +1.315.443.1870 Follow S.U. on Instagram Like S.U. on Facebook Follow S.U. on Twitter Follow S.U. on LinkedIn Follow S.U. on Tiktok Subscribe to S.U. on YouTube © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy