Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Events Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Schedule a Visit SMU Tour Follow Us Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us Twitter Follow Us YouTube Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Earth Sciences Why Study Here? Undergraduate Programs Undergraduate Programs Earth Sciences Majors Minors Courses Financial Aid and Scholarships Graduate Programs Graduate Programs Learn More Graduate School Resources Apply Master’s Degree Tuition Fellowship Masters Programs Ph.D. Program Financial Support, Fellowships, Grants, and Awards Theses and Dissertations People Research Research Research Areas Programs Labs and Facilities SMU Geothermal Lab About About Contact Us News Events and Seminars Alumni Connection Give ☰ Roy M. Huffington Department of Earth Sciences Academics Departments Earth Sciences Faculty Directory Majors/Minors Graduate Programs Research Welcome Earth Sciences serves as a core discipline in Dedman College and helps students understand some of the most pressing issues of our day including climate change, natural resources, and hazards. The study of the Earth places the consequences of our activities such as pollution, land use, resource exploitation, and population growth into the greater framework of Earth history and planetary evolution. SMU offers a B.A. and B.S. in Earth Sciences and minors in Geology and Environmental Earth Sciences. The department offers the following graduate programs, Applied Geophysics, M.S., Geology, M.S., Geophysics, M.S., Geology, Ph.D. and Geophysics, Ph.D. Events and Seminars Read More Recent News Read More Labs and Facilities Read More Contact the Department of Earth Sciences Heroy Hall P.O. Box 750395 | Dallas, Texas | 75275-0395 214-768-2750 Want to be an earth sciences major? News More news Earth Sciences Why Study Here? Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs People Research About Give Apply Visit Academics Undergraduate Degrees Graduate Degrees Minors and Programs Research Centers and Institutes Connect Administrative Directory Department Directory Alumni Make a Gift Dedman College of Humanities & Sciences P.O. Box 750235 | Dallas, Texas | 75275-0233 214-768-2440 © Southern Methodist University Legal Disclosures facebook twitter youtube