Search | Directories | Reference Tools UW Home > Discover UW > Student Guide UW Bothell Course Descriptions UW Tacoma Course Descriptions Glossary COLLEGE OF THE ENVIRONMENT SCHOOL OF OCEANOGRAPHY OCEANOGRAPHY Detailed course offerings (Time Schedule) are available for Spring Quarter 2022 Summer Quarter 2022 Autumn Quarter 2022 OCEAN 100 Explore Oceanography at UW (1) Explores the research and experiences of the Oceanography school's faculty, graduate students, and undergraduate students. Intended for freshmen, new transfer students, and other considering oceanography as a major. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: OCEAN 100 OCEAN 101 Oceanography of the Pacific Northwest (5) NW Mikelle Nuwer Introduces the fundamental principles of oceanography by focusing on the waters that surround us - the Washington coast and Puget Sound. Investigates the geologic history of the Pacific Northwest, and the physics, chemistry, and biology of coastal waters using case studies. Intended for nonmajors. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: OCEAN 101 OCEAN 102 The Changing Oceans (5) I&S/NW Mikelle Nuwer Explores case studies on how the ocean drives our planet's climate system and how humans have altered marine and coastal environments. Students consider societal factors affecting progress in marine science, changing popular attitudes toward the oceans, and key current policy implications of marine science. Offered: WS. View course details in MyPlan: OCEAN 102 OCEAN 115 Astrobiology: Life in the Universe (5) NW David C. Catling, Roger Buick, Victoria S Meadows, Woodruff T Sullivan Introduction to the new science of astrobiology, study of the origin and evolution of life on Earth, and the search for microbial and intelligent life elsewhere in the Universe. Designed for non-science, liberal arts majors. Offered: jointly with ASTBIO 115/ASTR 115/BIOL 114/ESS 115. View course details in MyPlan: OCEAN 115 OCEAN 121 Deep Sea Exploration: Submarine Volcanoes and Novel Life Forms (2) NW Debbie Kelley Examines the dynamic marine processes that shape the planet and cutting-edge oceanographic technologies used to explore the deepest oceans. Includes imagery of rarely seen submarine volcanic eruptions, hot springs, and novel life forms highlighting the interconnected geological-biological processes creating the most extreme environments on Earth. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: OCEAN 121 OCEAN 161 Introduction to Environmental Monitoring and Technology (5) NW Sasha K. Seroy Introduces a range of environmental monitoring technologies in the context of their scientific application and case studies spanning ocean, atmosphere, and land examples. Includes hands-on experience with sensors and working with data from various technologies and monitoring techniques. Integrates knowledge across environmental science, technology, and engineering. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: OCEAN 161 OCEAN 200 Introduction to Oceanography (3) NW Focuses on importance of ocean processes for the functioning of our planet. Interdisciplinary case studies are used to examine relationships and interactions at macro-, meso-, and microscales in the ocean. Case studies build upon previous topics and examines human influence on these systems. Intended for science majors. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: OCEAN 200 OCEAN 201 Introduction to Oceanography Lab (2) NW Provides opportunities to experiment with oceanographic concepts through laboratory and field experiences. Students apply the scientific method of inquiry as it applies to the study of geology, physics, chemistry, and biology of the ocean. Emphasizes topics that explore current challenges faced by the ocean and its ecosystem. Co-requisite: OCEAN 200. I Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: OCEAN 201 OCEAN 210 Integrative Oceans (4) NW Presents fundamentals of ocean science through regional case studies that illustrate the relationship between interdependent physical, chemical, biological, and geological process. Students apply tools from these scientific disciplines to understand major changes predicted for future oceanic environments. Prerequisite: either OCEAN 200, or OCEAN 250/BIOL 250/FISH 250. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: OCEAN 210 OCEAN 215 Methods of Oceanographic Data Analysis (4) Stephen C Riser Statistics, graphical representations, and analysis methods for oceanographic datasets using the PYTHON programming language. Prerequisite: MATH 125. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: OCEAN 215 OCEAN 220 Introduction to Field Oceanography (3) NW Design and conduct a field study in oceanography. Focuses on active learning, deployment of instruments, data collection, interpretation, and presentation. Required field trip during spring break. Prerequisite: OCEAN 200 and OCEAN 215 Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: OCEAN 220 OCEAN 230 Rivers and Beaches (3/5) NW Introduction to Earth surface environments, the processes that shape them, how humans affect them and are affected by them. Field trips examine mountains, rivers, deltas/estuaries, beaches, and environments beyond. Focuses on linkages between these environments to illustrate coupling between landscapes and seascapes. Offered: jointly with ESS 230. View course details in MyPlan: OCEAN 230 OCEAN 235 Arctic Change (2/3) I&S/NW Rebecca A. Woodgate Investigates the Arctic system of ocean, ice, atmosphere, and sea-floor; how human interact with it, and what the future of the Arctic means to the world. Includes sea-ice loss, climate impacts, and Arctic resource exploitation. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: OCEAN 235 OCEAN 240 Special Topics in Oceanography (1-5, max. 9) NW Selected topics of contemporary interest in oceanography such as hydrothermal vents, planetary volcanism, biogeochemical cycling, the ecology of Puget Sound, and the ocean's role in climate. View course details in MyPlan: OCEAN 240 OCEAN 250 Marine Biology (3/5) NW Lecture-laboratory course in marine biology focusing on physical, biological, and social aspects of the marine environment. Topics include oceanography, ecology, physiology, behavior, conservation, fisheries, exploration, and activism. Weekend field trip. Honors section research project. Offered: jointly with BIOL 250/FISH 250; AS. View course details in MyPlan: OCEAN 250 OCEAN 261 Introduction to Ocean Technology (2) NW Introduces ocean science and technology in observational ocean science. Covers the basics of underwater sensor design, power, and data communication, and introduces the design and build process and the operational scope of the ERIS cabled observatory. Offered: S. View course details in MyPlan: OCEAN 261 OCEAN 270 Aquatic Ecophysiology (5) NW Focuses on fundamental physiology, with an emphasis on processes relevant to living in a variety of aquatic environments. Includes a broad survey of taxa, from prokaryotes to mammals, and a variety of aquatic habitats. Prerequisite: BIOL 200. Offered: jointly with FISH 270/MARBIO 270. View course details in MyPlan: OCEAN 270 OCEAN 285 Physics Across Oceanography: Fluid Mechanics and Waves (3) NW Susan L Hautala In the context of oceanography applications, explores fluid mechanics, waves, light, acoustics, and heat transfer. Prerequisite: either MATH 125 or Q SCI 292, which may be taken concurrently; either PHYS 114 or PHYS 121; recommended: OCEAN 210 concurrently. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: OCEAN 285 OCEAN 286 Physics Across Oceanography: Fluid Mechanics and Waves Laboratory (2) NW Susan L Hautala Laboratory and tutorial further exploring the oceanography applications of fluid mechanics, waves, light, acoustics, and heat transfer. Prerequisite: OCEAN 285, which must be taken concurrently; either MATH 125 or Q SCI 292, either of which may be taken concurrently; either PHYS 114 or PHYS 121. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: OCEAN 286 OCEAN 295 Chemistry of Marine Organic Carbon (5) NW Explores the movement of organic carbon through the global carbon cycle, in the context of earth sciences and marine biogeochemical cycles. Prerequisite: either CHEM 152 or CHEM 120. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: OCEAN 295 OCEAN 300 Exploring Opportunities in Marine Science (1) Explores academic, research, and career opportunities in the field of marine science and helps prepare students for graduation. Intended for junior and transfer students studying marine science. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: jointly with FISH 300/MARBIO 300; W. View course details in MyPlan: OCEAN 300 OCEAN 310 Marine Geology and Geochemistry (5) NW Evan A Solomon This course focuses on marine geologic processes including the formation and evolution of the ocean crust; marine sedimentation and diagenesis; subduction zone dynamics; the role of marine geology in seawater composition and sustaining the deep biosphere; and the relationship between marine geological processes and climate. Prerequisite: OCEAN 200; and either ESS 211 or ESS 212; and OCEAN 285, which may be taken concurrently. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: OCEAN 310 OCEAN 320 Coastal Oceanography (5) NW The formation of, and processes within, coastal ocean systems emphasizing the geological evolution of coastal and estuarine environments and the physical dynamics within them, including waves, currents, river plumes, and sedimentary processes. Influences of physical processes on marine chemical cycling and biological productivity in the coastal ocean. Prerequisite: OCEAN 285; ESS 210. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: OCEAN 320 OCEAN 330 Marine Biogeochemical Cycles (5) NW Gabrielle Rocap, Alexander C Gagnon Covers the distribution of life and chemical elements in the ocean; the relationship between them; and the physical processes affecting these patterns. Emphasizes how marine organisms and the structure of marine ecosystems influence the fate of carbon and other elements in the ocean. Prerequisite: OCEAN 210; BIOL 200; and either OCEAN 295, CHEM 220, CHEM 223, or CHEM 237. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: OCEAN 330 OCEAN 340 Interdisciplinary Topics in Oceanography (1-5) NW Special topics of an interdisciplinary nature setting ocean into a broader context. View course details in MyPlan: OCEAN 340 OCEAN 351 Foundations of Ocean Sensors (3) NW, QSR Experiential learning giving students foundational knowledge of methods used to observe key quantities that characterize marine environments. Includes theory and application of sensor design and construction principles, in the context of inferences and hypothesis-testing about key physical, biological, chemical, and geological dynamics in the oceans. Prerequisite: OCEAN 215; OCEAN 285. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: OCEAN 351 OCEAN 355 From Big Bang to the Blue Planet (3) NW Explores the origin and evolution of the Earth, ocean, atmosphere, and life, with an emphasis on climate as the integrator of changes in the biosphere, cryosphere, hydrosphere, atmosphere, and lithosphere. Prerequisite: either CHEM 120 or CHEM 142; either PHYS 114 or PHYS 121; either BIOL 161, or BIOL 180. View course details in MyPlan: OCEAN 355 OCEAN 361 Ocean Technology I: Introduction to Underwater Observational Sensor Design and Build (2) NW Combines ocean science and technology in a design and build course utilizing the ERIS cabled observatory at the UW Oceanography dock. Students apply the basics of sensor design, power, and data communication to individual underwater observatory projects. Prerequisite: OCEAN 261, which may be taken concurrently. Offered: S. View course details in MyPlan: OCEAN 361 OCEAN 370 Marine Evolutionary Biology (5) NW Emphasizes geobiological patterns of marine evolutionary biology environment; processes of evolution; marine prokaryote and eukaryote diversity; and applications of evolutionary principles to ocean change, and conservation and management of marine biodiversity. Prerequisite: either FISH 270/OCEAN 270/MARBIO 270 or BIOL 220. Offered: jointly with FISH 370/MARBIO 370; Sp. View course details in MyPlan: OCEAN 370 OCEAN 401 Special Topics in Chemical Oceanography (3) NW Randie Bundy View course details in MyPlan: OCEAN 401 OCEAN 409 Marine Pollution (3) I&S/NW Randie Bundy Explores anthropogenic impacts on the oceans and marine organisms. Examines how scientific understanding informs environmental management, thereby linking science and society. Students develop a detailed understanding of the major categories of anthropogenic pollutants on marine systems,how they impact the environment, their sources, and fates. Prerequisite: OCEAN 101, OCEAN 102, OCEAN 200, OCEAN 250/BIOL 250/FISH 250, or permission of instructor Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: OCEAN 409 OCEAN 410 Marine Geology and Geophysics (4) NW William Wilcock Explores the geological and geophysical processes that form and shape the ocean basins and continental margins. Prerequisite: either OCEAN 310 or ESS 211 Offered: jointly with ESS 410; A. View course details in MyPlan: OCEAN 410 OCEAN 411 Special Topics in Marine Geology and Geophysics (3) NW View course details in MyPlan: OCEAN 411 OCEAN 412 Seismic Exploration (3) NW E. Roland Saenger Introduction to theory and practice of seismic exploration. Application of refraction and reflection techniques to geologic investigations, tectonics and mineral exploration. Practice in the interpretation of subsurface structure. Prerequisite: ESS 311 or ESS 314, or OCEAN 285 and OCEAN 310. Offered: jointly with ESS 467; Sp. View course details in MyPlan: OCEAN 412 OCEAN 421 Special Topics in Physical Oceanography (3) NW View course details in MyPlan: OCEAN 421 OCEAN 423 Ocean Circulation and Climate (3) NW Quantitative treatment of ocean basin to global scale ocean circulation systems and their interaction with climate variability. Prerequisite: MATH 125; and PHYS 123 or OCEAN 285. View course details in MyPlan: OCEAN 423 OCEAN 431 Special Topics in Biological Oceanography (3) NW Reviews current research. Topics include global change effects on marine organisms, marine pathogens and emerging diseases, introduced species, marine viruses, astrobiology, hydrothermal vents, symbiosis, animal physiology, larval forms and dispersal, biogeography, and environmental ethics. View course details in MyPlan: OCEAN 431 OCEAN 432 Microbes in a Changing Ocean (3) NW Robert Morris Covers the major groups of marine bacteria and archaea, and their viruses, and the range of activities and interactions that enable microbes to thrive in a changing ocean. Prerequisite: OCEAN 330; recommended: introductory college-level coursework in all three of, or advanced college-level coursework in two of, biology, oceanography, or microbiology. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: OCEAN 432 OCEAN 443 Undergraduate Thesis: Proposal (3) NW Work closely with faculty mentors to conceptualize and write a proposal for independent thesis research. Prerequisite: OCEAN 220, OCEAN 310, OCEAN 320, or OCEAN 330 Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: OCEAN 443 OCEAN 444 Undergraduate Thesis: Research (2) Work closely with faculty mentors to conduct thesis research as designed in OCEAN 443 in a field, laboratory, or other guided research setting. Prerequisite: OCEAN 443. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: OCEAN 444 OCEAN 445 Undergraduate Thesis: Data Analysis and Writing (3) NW Analyze results from senior thesis experiments and present results in a series of drafts and a final paper. Results are presented at a two-day long public research symposium and on the students; individual websites. Prerequisite: OCEAN 444. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: OCEAN 445 OCEAN 450 Climatic Extremes (4) NW Course examines Earth history for extreme climatic conditions to predict future climate changes. Numerical climate models use PC-based computer programs to identify processes and feedbacks that control climate. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: OCEAN 450 OCEAN 452 Marine Geospatial Information Science (3) NW Introduces the use of Geographic Information Systems (GIS), seafloor mapping, hydrographic surveying, and spatial analysis in ocean science. Emphasizes sampling and analysis of spatially-referenced data about the coastal and marine environments, integrating these technologies in an applied research setting. Offered: jointly with FISH 452; A. View course details in MyPlan: OCEAN 452 OCEAN 454 Hydrothermal Systems: An Interdisciplinary View (3) NW Provides a general, interdisciplinary overview of seafloor hydrothermal systems including important geological, chemical, and biological processes. Topics include tectonic and volcanic controls on hydrothermal systems, water/rock reactions, phase separation, temporal variability, fluxes to the deep sea, micro- and macro biology. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: OCEAN 454 OCEAN 461 Advanced Ocean Technology - Project Design and Management (2) NW Project management practicum in the design, build, operations, and management of observational ocean science technology. Students oversee and mentor ongoing design and build projects, with attention to design criteria and deployment timelines. Prerequisite: OCEAN 361. Offered: S. View course details in MyPlan: OCEAN 461 OCEAN 475 Current Research in Climate Science Seminar (3, max. 6) Weekly lectures focusing on a particular aspect of climate from invited speakers, complemented by class discussion, readings, and final paper. Promotes interdisciplinary understanding of climate concepts. Prerequisite: either ESS 201, ATM S 211, or ATM S 321. Offered: jointly with ATM S 475/ESS 475; A. View course details in MyPlan: OCEAN 475 OCEAN 477 Seminar in Marine Biology (3) NW Reviews current research in marine biology. Emphasizes critical readings and discussion of primary literature. Prerequisite: FISH 250, OCEAN 250, or BIOL 250; Q SCI 381, STAT 220, or STAT 311. Offered: jointly with BIOL 477/FISH 477; W. View course details in MyPlan: OCEAN 477 OCEAN 479 Research in Marine Biology (1-15, max. 15) Individual research on topics in marine biology. Research projects supervised by an individual faculty member. Projects may include laboratory work, fieldwork, and literature surveys. Prerequisite: BIOL 250/FISH 250/OCEAN 250; Q SCI 381. Offered: jointly with BIOL 479/FISH 479/MARBIO 479; AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: OCEAN 479 OCEAN 480 Global Ocean - Human Culture (3) I&S/NW John R Delaney Theme and project-based exploration of the role of the ocean basins in human history, poetry, music and the arts related to the seas, the evolution of ships, development of trade routes, modern marine commerce and communications, living and non-living resources, hazards, projection of sea power, entertainment and recreation, ocean science-modulation of climate, exploration of exotic submarine hydrothermal systems, and oceans beyond earth. Prerequisite: permission of instructor; recommended: Capability to conduct upper-division academic inquiry into selected themes, including an ability to conceive of, and implement an engaging project that will be presented and graded at the end of the class. Well established writing ability. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: OCEAN 480 OCEAN 481 Puget Sound and Estuarine Oceanography (3) NW Explores fundamental physical-biological processes in estuarine systems, using Puget Sound as a primary example. Topics include effects of circulation and mixing on residence time, nutrients, phytoplankton, zooplankton, and fish. Also covers hypoxia, the estuarine turbidity maximum, the intertidal zone, harmful algal blooms, and effects of climate change. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: OCEAN 481 OCEAN 482 The Changing Arctic Ocean (3) NW Investigates the interacting physical, chemical, and biological components of the Arctic ocean-ice-atmosphere system, including the most recent scientific advances. Considers the impacts of Arctic Change on Arctic and global climate, marine organisms and ecosystems, native communities, and future exploitation of an ice-free summer ocean. Prerequisite: OCEAN 200 or OCEAN 210 and BIOL 180, BIOL 200 or BIOL 220. Offered: Sp, even years. View course details in MyPlan: OCEAN 482 OCEAN 492 Friday Harbor Apprenticeship (9/15) NW Intensive, full-time research training experience where teams of students work on focused research problems guided by a group of faculty, postdoctoral, and graduate student mentors. Research questions vary. View course details in MyPlan: OCEAN 492 OCEAN 494 Field Experiences in Marine Science (1-15, max. 30) NW For participants in oceanography field work. Specific content varies and is individually evaluated. Credit does not apply to major requirements without approval. View course details in MyPlan: OCEAN 494 OCEAN 496 Study Abroad: Oceanography (1-15, max. 30) NW For participants in UW study abroad program. Specific content varies and is individually evaluated. Credit does not apply to major requirements without approval. View course details in MyPlan: OCEAN 496 OCEAN 497 Advanced Special Topics in Oceanography (1-15, max. 15) View course details in MyPlan: OCEAN 497 OCEAN 499 Undergraduate Research (1-15, max. 24) Individual research supervised by a faculty member. May involve laboratory work, fieldwork, or literature surveys. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: OCEAN 499 OCEAN 500 Proposal Writing and Professional Development Seminar for Entering Graduate Students (1/2, max. 3) Gabrielle Rocap Seminar for entering graduate students in the School of Oceanography. Topics include development of a research proposal suitable for submission to the National Science Foundation Graduate Research Fellowship Program competition, oral communication skills, peer review, time and stress management, communication with advisors and committee members, and post-graduate career planning. Prerequisite: permission of instructor. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: OCEAN 500 OCEAN 502 Marine Geospatial Information Science (3) Introduces the use of Geographic Information Systems (GIS), seafloor mapping, hydrographic surveying, and spatial analysis in ocean science. Emphasizes sampling and analysis of spatially-referenced data about the coastal and marine environments, integrating these technologies in an applied research setting. Offered: jointly with FISH 502; A. View course details in MyPlan: OCEAN 502 OCEAN 504 Seismic Exploration (3) E. Roland Saenger Introduction to theory and practice of seismic exploration. Application of refraction and reflection techniques to geologic investigations, tectonics and mineral exploration. Practice in the interpretation of subsurface structure. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: OCEAN 504 OCEAN 506 Interdisciplinary Seminar in Oceanography (1-3, max. 12) Lectures, discussions, and work on selected problems of an interdisciplinary nature. Prerequisite: permission of instructor. View course details in MyPlan: OCEAN 506 OCEAN 507 Puget Sound and Estuarine Oceanography (3) Keister, MacCready Explores fundamental physical-biological processes in estuarine systems, using Puget Sound as a primary example. Topics include effects of circulation and mixing on residence time, nutrients, phytoplankton, zooplankton, and fish. Also covers hypoxia, the estuarine turbidity maximum, the intertidal zone, harmful algal blooms, and effects of climate change. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: OCEAN 507 OCEAN 508 The Changing Arctic Ocean (3) Deming, Woodgate Investigates the interacting physical, chemical, and biological components of the Arctic ocean-ice-atmosphere system, including the most recent advances and considering the impacts of Arctic Change on Arctic and global climate, marine organisms and ecosystems, native communities, and future exploitation of an ice-free summer ocean. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: OCEAN 508 OCEAN 509 Seminar (1, max. 30) Introduction to current research topics for beginning graduate students. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: OCEAN 509 OCEAN 510 Physics of Ocean Circulation (3) Structure of ocean basins; physical properties of seawater and the equation of state; heat, salt, fresh water budgets; tidal potential; Coriolis effect and geostrophic balance; major current systems and water masses; mixing, stirring in the ocean; simple waves; modern experimental methods in physical oceanography. Prerequisite: permission of instructor. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: OCEAN 510 OCEAN 511 Introduction to Fluid Dynamics (4) Eulerian equations for mass-motion; Navier-Stokes equation for viscous fluids, stress-strain relations; Kelvin's theorem, vortex dynamics; potential flows, flows with high-low Reynolds numbers; boundary layers, surface gravity waves; sound waves, and linear instability theory. Prerequisite: either a course in partial differential equations or permission of instructor. Offered: jointly with AMATH 505/ATM S 505; A. View course details in MyPlan: OCEAN 511 OCEAN 512 Geophysical Fluid Dynamics I (4) Dynamics of rotating stratified fluid flow in the atmosphere/ocean and laboratory analogues. Equations of state, compressibility, Boussinesq approximation. Geostrophic balance, Rossby number. Poincare, Kelvin, Rossby waves, geostrophic adjustment. Ekman layers. Continuously stratified dynamics: Inertia-gravity waves, potential vorticity, quasigeostrophy. Prerequisite: OCEAN 511 or ATM S 505/AMATH 505. Offered: jointly with ATM S 509; W. View course details in MyPlan: OCEAN 512 OCEAN 513 Geophysical Fluid Dynamics II (3) Theories, models of large-scale dynamics of oceans, atmospheres. Potential vorticity, Q principles; Rossby waves, ray tracing, Green's function, setup of general circulation; atmospheric "channels" versus ocean "basins"; wave-mean flow interaction, mountain drag, internal momentum flux; "Lagrangian" motion of particles, tracers; cascades, eddy flux of heat, moisture, Q. Prerequisite: OCEAN 512. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: OCEAN 513 OCEAN 514 Waves (3) Application of marine hydrodynamics principles to wave motion in oceans. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: OCEAN 514 OCEAN 515 Ocean Circulation: Observations (3) Modern large- and mesoscale ocean observations, interpreted in terms of contemporary circulation theories. Spectrum of temporal variability; eddies and eddy fluxes; ventilation; advection and diffusion in the abyss; transports of heat and salt; climatic scale of variability; modern methods for determining circulation. Prerequisite: OCEAN 510 or permission of instructor. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: OCEAN 515 OCEAN 517 Methods and Measurements in Physical Oceanography (3) Principal instruments and experimental methods of physical oceanography. Devices and systems that measure pressure, temperature, electrical conductivity, sea state, and velocity. Prerequisite: permission of instructor. View course details in MyPlan: OCEAN 517 OCEAN 518 Scientific Writing and Graphics (2) Waddington, Warren Covers principles of scientific writing; methods of ensuring clarity in writing for scientific journals and research proposals; principles of graph construction; and authorship, peer review, and citations. For graduate students in Earth-science related fields. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: jointly with ATM S 519/ESS 519; Sp, odd years. View course details in MyPlan: OCEAN 518 OCEAN 520 Marine Chemistry (3) Processes controlling the chemical composition of seawater. Chemical distributions in the ocean, marine physical chemistry, chemical equilibrium, and concepts of mass balance. Mechanisms and models used to explain distributions of stable and radioactive isotopes, gases, trace metals, and biochemicals in the world's oceans. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: OCEAN 520 OCEAN 521 Aquatic Chemistry (3) Alexander C Gagnon Application of physical chemistry and thermodynamics to processes that control chemical composition of natural waters. Equilibrium approach. Acid/base chemistry, the carbonate system, dissolution and precipitation, metal ions in solution, oxidation-reduction chemistry, silicate mineral reactions. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: OCEAN 521 OCEAN 522 Marine Organic Geochemistry (3) Sources, reactions, and fates of organic molecules in the marine environment along with the stable isotope geochemistry of marine organic substances. Prerequisite: CHEM 237 and CHEM 239 or permission of instructor. View course details in MyPlan: OCEAN 522 OCEAN 523 Geochemical Cycles (4) Descriptive, quantitative aspects of earth as biogeochemical system. Study of equilibria, transport processes, chemical kinetics, biological processes; their application to carbon, sulfur, nitrogen, phosphorus, other elemental cycles. Stability of biogeochemical systems; nature of human perturbations of their dynamics. Prerequisite: permission of instructor. Offered: jointly with ATM S 508/CHEM 523. View course details in MyPlan: OCEAN 523 OCEAN 529 Seminar on Chemical Oceanography (*, max. 30) Lectures, discussions, and readings on selected problems of current interest. Prerequisite: permission of instructor. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: OCEAN 529 OCEAN 530 Marine Bacteria, Archaea, and Viruses (3) Explores the role of marine microorganisms in transformations of dissolved and particulate organic matter. Covers the functional and phylogenetic diversity of bacteria, archaea, and viruses in the marine environment; the fate of organic carbon in the microbial loop; and the interrelationship of the carbon cycle with other biogeochemical cycles. Prerequisite: permission of instructor. Offered: W, odd years. View course details in MyPlan: OCEAN 530 OCEAN 531 Marine Phytoplankton and Biogeochemistry (3) Covers phytoplankton in the marine environment: evolution, ecology, primary productivity, and physiology, emphasizing their role in the global carbon cycle; spatial and temporal distributions of phytoplankton and how these patterns may change as ocean conditions change; and methods for determining distributions and rates in different ocean ecosystems. Prerequisite: permission of instructor. Offered: W, even years. View course details in MyPlan: OCEAN 531 OCEAN 532 Marine Zooplankton Ecology (3) Examines the roll of zooplankton in ecosystems and biogeochemical cycles. Covers the distribution and abundance of zooplankton in space and time; small-scale distributions; morphology and behavior; population dynamic, energetics, and secondary production; trophic structure and dynamics; biogeography; impacts of climate change; and models of populations and food chains. View course details in MyPlan: OCEAN 532 OCEAN 533 Marine Benthic Ecology (3) Analyzes marine communities associated with the porous boundaries of the ocean, from sedimented seafloor and hydrothermal vents to sea ice (inverted benthos); emphasizing nutrition to these communities, including sinking organic aggregates, themselves porous habitats, and the role of symbiosis. Prerequisite: permission of instructor. Offered: W, even years. View course details in MyPlan: OCEAN 533 OCEAN 535 Biological Oceanography (3) Examines major patterns and processes in upper ocean pelagic ecosystems, emphasizing quantitative analysis of mechanisms controlling production and abundances of organisms, from plankton to fish. Introduces interdisciplinary study of effects of anthrogenically induced changes in climate and ocean chemistry on organisms, ecosystem processes, and biogeochemical cycles. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: OCEAN 535 OCEAN 539 Seminar in Biological Oceanography (*, max. 30) Lectures, discussions, and work on selected problems of current interest. Prerequisite: permission of instructor. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: OCEAN 539 OCEAN 540 Marine Geology and Geophysics Processes (3) Nittrouer, Solomon Synthesis of processes that form ocean basins and fill them with sediment, including: plate tectonics and the creation, evolution, and subduction of ocean crust; accumulation of terrestrial, biogenic, and authigenic sediments; and the history of paleoceanographic events recorded in the seafloor. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: OCEAN 540 OCEAN 541 Marine Sedimentary Processes (3) Andrea S Ogston Investigates fundamental process of marine sedimentation, including equations characterizing boundary-shear flows, initiation of grain motion, bedload and suspended-load transport, and sediment accumulation. Applies concepts to sediment dispersal in rivers, deltas, estuaries, beaches, continental shelves, slopes, and rises, with emphasis on the relationships between active processes and resulting deposits. View course details in MyPlan: OCEAN 541 OCEAN 544 Subseafloor Hydrogeology and Geochemistry (3) Soloman Introduces the occurrence, composition, and movement of groundwater in the ocean crust and its role in a wide range of geologic and biogeochemical processes. Includes basic theories of groundwater motion, heat transport, solute transport, and hydromechanics with applications to diverse subseafloor environments ranging from mid-ocean ridges to subduction zones. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: OCEAN 544 OCEAN 545 Oceanic Lithosphere (3) William Wilcock Basic principles of elasticity, fluid flow, and heat transport with specific applications to the formation and evolution of the oceanic lithosphere. Includes deformation of the earth, flow in porous media, heat transport, and marine seismological and potential field techniques. Prerequisite: OCEAN 540. Offered: jointly with ESS 568. View course details in MyPlan: OCEAN 545 OCEAN 546 Continental-Margin Sedimentation (3) Charles Nittrouer Detailed evaluation of recent studies into processes forming strata on continental margins, including the diverse time scales ranging from sediment transport to sequence stratigraphy. Highlights the linkages with physical oceanographic processes, the fates of geochemical components, and the relationship to biological communities. Offered: jointly with ESS 546. View course details in MyPlan: OCEAN 546 OCEAN 549 Seminar in Geological and Geophysical Oceanography (*, max. 30) Lectures, discussions, and field and laboratory work on selected problems of current interest. Prerequisite: permission of instructor. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: OCEAN 549 OCEAN 550 Geochemistry and Geophysics of Melt Generation (3) Mantle flow beneath mid-ocean ridges and hotspots, major element systematics, constraints from trace elements and isotopes on melting and mantle reservoirs, melt extraction, and crustal thickness and axial topography. Prerequisite: OCEAN 544 or permission of instructor. View course details in MyPlan: OCEAN 550 OCEAN 552 Seminar in Geophysics and Geological Data Analysis (1) Practical geophysical data analysis, map projections, gridding multibeam bathymetry processing, gravity and magnetic anomalies, downward continuation, magnetic inversion, seismic refraction and reflection, and microearthquake locations. Prerequisite: permission of instructor. View course details in MyPlan: OCEAN 552 OCEAN 554 Paleoclimate Proxies (3) Alexander, Sachs Provides a critical evaluation of the most commonly applied paleoclimate proxies from the ocean, land, and ice sheets. Offered: jointly with ATM S 554/ESS 554. View course details in MyPlan: OCEAN 554 OCEAN 558 Climate Modeling (3) Principles of Earth system modeling. Emphasis on atmosphere, ocean sea ice, and land-surface components. Climate forcing. Appropriate use of models. Topics of current interest including carbon cycle, atmosphere chemistry, and biogeochemistry. Prerequisite: either ATM S 587/OCEAN 587/ESS 587, ATM S 504 or ATM S 505. Instructors: Bitz, Thompson Offered: jointly with ATM S 559/ESS 559. View course details in MyPlan: OCEAN 558 OCEAN 559 Advanced Seminar on Mid-Ocean Ridge Processes (*, max. 9) Lectures, discussions, and practical work on selected topics of current interest in mid-ocean ridge research. Prerequisite: permission of instructor. View course details in MyPlan: OCEAN 559 OCEAN 560 Atmosphere/Ocean Interactions (3) Observations and theory of phenomena of the coupled atmosphere-ocean system. El Nino/Southern Oscillation; decadal tropical variability; atmospheric teleconnections; midlatitude atmosphere-ocean variability. Overview of essential ocean and atmospheric dynamics, where appropriate. Prerequisite: OCEAN 512/ATM S 509 Offered: jointly with ATM S 560. View course details in MyPlan: OCEAN 560 OCEAN 569 Topics in Physical Oceanography (1-4, max. 30) Lecture series on topics of major importance in physical oceanography. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: OCEAN 569 OCEAN 570 Marine Microbial Interactions (1-3, max. 9) View course details in MyPlan: OCEAN 570 OCEAN 572 Marine Protist Ecology (1-3, max. 9) Examines the phagotrophic (protozoa) and mixotrophic (both photosynthetic and phagotropic) protists, including: interactions with predators and prey; and adaptations to changing environments, evolutionary, and ecological implications of mixotrophy. Prerequisite: OCEAN 532 or permission of instructor. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: OCEAN 572 OCEAN 578 Advanced Topics in Biological Oceanography (*, max. 18) Specialized research areas. Topic varies each year. Offered at Friday Harbor Laboratories. Prerequisite: permission of director of Friday Harbor Laboratories. Offered: S. View course details in MyPlan: OCEAN 578 OCEAN 580 Aquatic Kinetics (3) Reaction rates and mass transport in water. Theories of chemical kinetics; experimental results from: CO2 hydrolysis, Fe, Mn, and H2S oxidation, stable isotope fractionation, mineral dissolution; homogeneous, heterogeneous, microbial catalysis; reaction and transport at air-water, sediment-water, and O2/H2S interfaces. Prerequisite: permission of instructor. View course details in MyPlan: OCEAN 580 OCEAN 583 Isotope Biogeochemistry (3) The use of stable isotopes to study biogeochemical cycles in the oceans and atmosphere; specifically carbon, nitrogen, and sulfur cycles. Isotopic effects during photosynthesis, respiration, organic matter degradation. CaCO3 dissolution, methanogenesis, nitrification/denitrification, and sulfate reduction. Prerequisite: permission of instructor. View course details in MyPlan: OCEAN 583 OCEAN 584 Ocean Tracers and Mixing (3) The applications of tracers to studies of ocean circulation and ventilation. Processes within the ocean for which tracers have provided important information include gas exchange, mixed layer dynamics, thermocline ventilation, deep water formation and spreading, and mixing. Knowledge of partial differential equations suggested. View course details in MyPlan: OCEAN 584 OCEAN 586 Current Research in Climate Change (2, max. 20) Weekly lectures focusing on a particular aspect of climate (topic to change each year) from invited speakers (both UW and outside), plus one or two keynote speakers, followed by class discussion. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: jointly with ATM S 586/ESS 586. View course details in MyPlan: OCEAN 586 OCEAN 587 Fundamentals of Climate Change (3) Examines Earth's climate system; distribution of temperature, precipitation, wind ice, salinity, and ocean currents; fundamental processes determining Earth's climate; energy and constituent transport mechanisms; climate sensitivity; natural climate variability on interannual to decadal time scales; global climate models; predicting future climate. Offered: jointly with ATM S 587/ESS 587. View course details in MyPlan: OCEAN 587 OCEAN 588 The Global Carbon Cycle and Climate (3) Emerson Oceanic and terrestrial biogeochemical processes controlling atmospheric CO2 and other greenhouse gases. Records of past changes in the earth's carbon cycle from geological, oceanographic, and terrestrial archives. Anthropogenic perturbations to cycles. Develop simple box models, discuss results of complex models. Offered: jointly with ATM S 588/ESS 588; W. View course details in MyPlan: OCEAN 588 OCEAN 589 Paleoclimatology: Data, Modeling, and Theory (3) Evidence for past changes in land and sea surface temperature, in precipitation and atmospheric dynamics, and in ocean circulation: both long and interannual timescales. Paleoclimate modeling and theory. Time series analysis and climate noise. Rapid climate change. Statistical reconstruction of interannual variability. Offered: jointly with ATM S 589/ESS 589. View course details in MyPlan: OCEAN 589 OCEAN 590 Advanced Topics in Oceanography (9-18, max. 18) Advanced topics examining specialized and interdisciplinary areas of oceanographic research. Offered at Friday Harbor Laboratories. Prerequisite: permission of Director of Friday Harbor Laboratories. Offered: S. View course details in MyPlan: OCEAN 590 OCEAN 593 Climate Science Seminar (1) Mote Focuses on how to communicate climate science to many different audiences through careful construction of figures and through written and oral communication. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: jointly with ATM S 593/ESS 593; W. View course details in MyPlan: OCEAN 593 OCEAN 596 Climate Science Capstone Project ([1-5]-, max. 5) Mote Climate capstone directed by a mentor, may be a group effort, and may encompass curriculum development, internships, workshop organization, etc., capturing interdisciplinary aspects of climate science and effective communication of climate science. Offered: jointly with ATM S 596/ESS 596; AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: OCEAN 596 OCEAN 600 Independent Study or Research (*-) Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: OCEAN 600 OCEAN 700 Master's Thesis (*-) Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: OCEAN 700 OCEAN 800 Doctoral Dissertation (*-) Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: OCEAN 800 Office of the University Registrar registrar@uw.edu Modified: May 30, 2022