Last Revised: 4/13/00 The Yale Center for Laser Diagnostics The Yale Center for Laser Diagnostics focuses on developing new laser-based diagnostic techniques and on the use of lasers as a diagnostic probe. Researchers from the Departments of Applied Physics, Electrical Engineering, and Mechanical Engineering apply their expertise in laser physics, spectroscopy, surface science, detector technology, and signal processing to developing laser techniques for studies in turbulence and combustion, laser spectroscopy of molecules adsorbed on metal surfaces as well as for optical scattering from microparticles, liquid and solid surfaces, and bulk matter. Research support has come from the Army Research Office, Air Force Office of Scientific Research, National Science Foundation, Department of Energy, NASA, Office of Naval Research, United Technologies Research Center, Gas Research Institute, Union Carbide Corporation, Perkin-Elmer Corporation, Ford Motor Company, Sanders Associates, Texaco, and Battelle. Research Areas Chemisorption Compound Semiconductor Crystal Growth and Materials Properties Digital Signal Processing Droplet/Spray Characterization Laser Imaging for Temperature, Species, and Velocity Distributions in Flames Laser Spectroscopy Nonlinear Optics and Quantum Electronics Numerical Computation and Combustion Modeling Photoic Material Synthesis and Device Physics Sensor Data Analysis, Surface Analysis Surface Defects Surface Physics Trace Species Detection Research Faculty, overview Richard K. Chang AP Alessandro Gomez ME Victor E. Henrich AP Roman Kuc EE Marshall B. Long ME Mitchell D. Smooke ME Research Facilities Numerous laboratories are associated with the Center for Laser Diagnostics. They are equipped with instrumentation for planar laser-induced fluorescence, Raman spectroscopy, absorption and emission spectroscopy, nonlinear optical spectroscopy, and digital particle image velocimetry. Laser sources are available in wavelengths from the infrared to the VUV and with temporal coverage from continuous wave to pico-second capabilities. Some sources include excimer, Q-switched and mode-locked Nd:YAG (fundamental plus second, third, and fourth harmonics), argon-ion, laser-pumped dye lasers, flashlamp-pumped dye lasers, and an optical parametric oscillator. Computational facilities include IBM RS6000's (Model 580 and 590), a Stardent GS2500, and a wide variety of workstations. Facilities also include a bulk crystal growth laboratory, a metalorganic chemical vapor deposition laboratory, a microfabrication cleanroom, a nanostructure fabrication laboratory, and an optical characterization laboratory. Educational Activities Courses related to laser diagnostics are offered at the undergraduate and graduate levels and cover optical properties of semiconductors, photonic devices and integrated circuits, applied numerical methods, nonlinear optics and quantum electronics, electromagnetic waves and devices, solid state physics, combustion, and applied digital signal processing. New developments in the field are regularly discussed at seminars and research group meetings. For more information about the Center for Laser Diagnostics, contact: Prof. Marshall B. Long, Director Center for Laser Diagnostics, Yale University P.O. Box 208286 New Haven, CT 06520-8286 USA E-mail: marshall.long@yale.edu Phone: 1 (203) 432-4229 Fax: 1 (203) 432-6775 WWW: http://www.eng.yale.edu/research/laser/index.html For information about other research in the departments of Applied Physics, Chemical Engineering, Electrical Engineering, or Mechanical Engineering, please visit the School of Engineering & Applied Science Home Page. School of Engineering & Applied Science Homepage Yale University Homepage Engineering Webmaster Last Change: 10/15/01