Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Learning Commons Learning Commons right arrow down arrow Schedule a Service Programs and Policies right arrow down arrow Academic Coaching right arrow down arrow Meet the Academic Coaches Academic Writing Center right arrow down arrow Meet the Tutors Graduate Tutoring Learning Assistants Learning Communities right arrow down arrow Peer Leader Program Current Peer Leaders Current Peer Leader Coordinators Math & Science Support Center Peer Facilitation right arrow down arrow Current Peer Facilitators Current Peer Facilitator Coordinators Peer Tutoring Success Skills Workshops right arrow down arrow Step by Step Guide to Register Success Skills Workshop Policies Success Skills Workshop Topics Supplemental Instruction right arrow down arrow SI Schedule Supplemental Review Sessions (MATH 1096) Learning Resources right arrow down arrow Note-Taking and Test Strategies right arrow down arrow The Cornell Method for Note-Taking Reading for Main Ideas vs. Details SQ4R: Getting the Most from Your Textbooks PLAN: An Active Reading Strategy How to Ace Your Finals Learning Styles and Study Habits right arrow down arrow Strategies for Aural Learners Strategies for Kinesthetic Learners Strategies for Visual Learners Writing Resources Business Writing Materials right arrow down arrow Resume Writing Tips Cover Letter Tips Memo Writing Tips First-Year Students right arrow down arrow First Semester Checklist Achieve Your Goal GPA Technology Skills Anxiety, Attitude, and Stress right arrow down arrow Managing Stress New Concentration Ideas Look at Your Classes to Find Your Passion Defining Your Career Goals Math Minute right arrow down arrow Math Minute - Algebra Math Minute - Calculus Online Learning Strategies Student Employment right arrow down arrow Academic Coaching Positions Academic Writing Center Positions Front Desk Assistant Positions Learning Assistant Positions Learning Community Peer Leader Positions Peer Facilitator Positions Peer Tutoring Positions Success Skills Workshop Positions Supplemental Instruction Leader Positions SRS Leader & MASS Tutor Positions Professional Staff Home » Campus Life » Learning Commons » Learning Resources » Business Writing Materials » Cover Letter Tips Set Navigation title in component Note-Taking and Test Strategies The Cornell Method for Note-Taking Reading for Main Ideas vs. Details SQ4R: Getting the Most from Your Textbooks PLAN: An Active Reading Strategy How to Ace Your Finals Learning Styles and Study Habits Strategies for Aural Learners Strategies for Kinesthetic Learners Strategies for Visual Learners Writing Resources Business Writing Materials Resume Writing Tips Cover Letter Tips Memo Writing Tips First-Year Students First Semester Checklist Achieve Your Goal GPA Technology Skills Anxiety, Attitude, and Stress Managing Stress New Concentration Ideas Look at Your Classes to Find Your Passion Defining Your Career Goals Math Minute Math Minute - Algebra Math Minute - Calculus Online Learning Strategies Cover Letter Tips Remember that all cover letters need to be specifically tailored for each position to which you apply. In addition, they should complement your resume, not just restate it. Read the tips below to learn what information you need to include and how to format a great cover letter. After reviewing this, remember that our Academic Writing Center staff can help you to develop a killer cover letter for any position! Cover Letter Formatting Tips A cover letter should be single spaced, with 1-.75” margins. There should be a blank line between paragraphs. Use a professional font (Times New Roman, Arial, Cambria, etc.), font size 11 or 12, and black text color. In the upper left corner, list your name and address, the date the letter is being sent, and then the employer/job contact's name and address. If the job description mentions a specific person to address the application to, make sure to include it here with an “Attn” line. Use a respectful saluation, such as "Dear", and valediction, such as "Sincerely". After the valediction, leave space for your signature and then type your full name. If you’re submitting the cover letter in print, remember to sign the letter. Either way, repeat your name in print below the signature. Cover Letter Rhetoric Tips In the Opening Paragraph right arrow down arrow State your reason for writing by stating the title of the position you’re applying for and mentioning how you heard of the organization or of the position. If you've already talked to the person to whom you are sending the letter or if you have a connection to the company or organization, include that here. “Connection” can mean either a connection to the company itself, prior knowledge of one or more employees at the company, or interest in/experience with what the company does. In the Middle Paragraph(s) right arrow down arrow Demonstrate that you’re the right person for the job. Do this by honing in on words or ideas used in the job description and/or found in the company’s mission statement, motto, and/or work and connecting them to your experience. This shows that you’ve researched the job and makes your claims that you can do it well plausible. Making smooth links between your experience, this job, and your career goals is a good way to recommend yourself. It shows you understand the job and are prepared for it, and that you’ll actually take the job and stick with it if they make you an offer. Consider formatting your body paragraphs so that each paragraph focuses on one experience or skill you have that suits you for the job. This will help you focus on specific details and skills to keep you from talking vaguely. This can be a particularly useful approach if your experience doesn’t qualify you for the job “on paper,” but when you explain it, actually does prepare you for it. In the Closing Paragraph right arrow down arrow Restate your interest in the job, repeating the position’s exact name. Express your interest in an interview (though not a specific time or day) and offer to provide additional material, if appropriate. State that you will follow up with a phone call or email after 10-14 days (and be sure to if you haven't heard back by then). Learning Commons 2510B French Hall West 513-556-3244 Fax: 513-556-0823 learningcommons@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Learning Commons 2510B French Hall West 513-556-3244 Fax: 513-556-0823 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top