Skip to main content Menu Resources Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply or Give Apply Now Make a Gift Division of Research Research Funding Clemson University has been increasingly successful in securing competitive funding to support research and scholarship. Annual competitive research awards have increased 36 percent the past seven years to $106 million in fiscal year 2019. Annual proposal submissions were $594 million in fiscal year 2019, a high point for the last seven years. Total R&D expenditures were $219 million in FY2019, up 44 percent since 2013. Among many other services offered, the Division of Research can help identify funding opportunities, craft competitive proposals and submit proposals to funding agencies. Visit the respective office below to get started. NEED TO KNOW Clemson University faculty and staff must complete annual Conflict of Interest training and submit an annual disclosure. Non-disclosure, material transfer and data-use agreements may offer significant benefits for faculty applying for grants. Office of Research Development Click here The Division’s Office of Research Development supports faculty efforts to obtain competitive research funding and advance their careers. Check for funding opportunities View professional development programs Join an interdisciplinary research collaborative Office of Sponsored Programs Click here The Division’s Office of Sponsored Programs serves as the university’s central pre-award office, helping faculty navigate the proposal submission process. Contact your OSP Support Center to apply for funding Complete the required Sponsored Programs Certification Get started with your proposal Grants and Contracts Administration Click here The Grants and Contracts Administration assists Principal Investigators (PIs), department staff, and administrators with post-award financial and administrative matters related to sponsored projects. View the essential tools Request no-cost extensions, changes in scope, etc. View payroll on sponsored projects Home Leadership R-Initiatives Research Funding Industry Collaboration Core Facilities Regulatory Research Policies Contact Us Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram