<form runat="server"></form>
<WebPartPages:SPWebPartManager runat="server"/>
 Skip to Main Content HBS Home About Academic Programs Alumni Faculty & Research Baker Library Giving Harvard Business Review Initiatives News Recruit Map / Directions Managing the Future of Work Newsletter Partners About the Project Research Faculty & Researchers Media Coverage Podcast …→ Harvard Business School→ Managing The Future of Work→ Managing the challenges posed by the changing nature of workManaging the challenges posed by the changing nature of work    Multiple forces of change – demographics, technology, automation, globalization – are coming together at an unprecedented pace and scale. How can leaders prepare their organization and create the workforce of the future? Featured Report Building From the Bottom Up What business can do to strengthen the bottom line by investing in front-line workers. By: Joseph B. Fuller & Manjari Raman Investing in essential front-line employees – by providing mentorship, training, and career pathways – is critical if America’s workers and companies are to prosper. Podcast Wholesale upskilling: Walmart’s workforce value proposition 26 MAY 2022 | MANAGING THE FUTURE OF WORK Businesses are getting strategic about skills building, focusing on what they and their employees need to reach their respective goals. As the largest private employer in the U.S., Walmart is looking to influence the direction of education and training, from basic skills through post-secondary credentials. Joe Fuller welcomes Lorraine Stomski, Walmart's Senior Vice President of Enterprise Leadership and Learning. Businesses are getting strategic about skills building, focusing on what they and their employees need to reach their respective goals. As the largest private employer in the U.S., Walmart is looking to influence the direction of education and training, from basic skills through post-secondary credentials. Joe Fuller welcomes Lorraine Stomski, Walmart's Senior Vice President of Enterprise Leadership and Learning. Featured Research The Emerging Degree Reset By: Joseph B. Fuller, Christina Langer, Julia Nitschke, Layla O’kane, Matt Sigelman, Bledi Taska 9 Feb 2022 | The Burning Glass Institute Employers are resetting degree requirements in a wide range of roles, dropping the requirement for a bachelor’s degree in many middle-skill and even some higher- skill roles. This reverses a trend toward degree inflation in job postings going back to the Great Recession. And while the Covid-19 pandemic accelerated this process, this reset began before the crisis and is likely to continue after it. The Gift of Global Talent: How Migration Shapes Business, Economy & Society By: William R. Kerr 27 May 2020 The global race for talent is on, with countries and businesses competing for the best and brightest. William R. Kerr combines insights and lessons from business, government, and individual decision making to explore the data and ideas that should drive the next wave of immigration policy and business practice. Research Topics Building the organization of the future Engaging with the ecosystem Reports Hidden Workers: Untapped Talent By: Joseph B. Fuller, Manjari Raman, Eva Sage-Gavin, & Kristen Hines Building the On-Demand Workforce By: Joseph B. Fuller, Manjari Raman, James Palano, Allison Bailey, Nithya Vaduganathan, Elizabeth Kaufman, Renée Laverdière, & Sibley Lovett Future Positive By: Joseph B. Fuller, Judith K. Wallenstein, Manjari Raman & Alice de Chalendar The Caring Company By: Joseph B. Fuller & Manjari Raman Faculty Lynda M. Applegate Prithwiraj Choudhury Shane Greenstein Daniel P. Gross Nien-he Hsieh Karen G. Mills Frank Nagle J.S. Nelson Jan W. Rivkin Willy C. Shih Christopher T. Stanton Sandra J. Sucher Mitchell B. Weiss Cases Vodafone: Managing Advanced Technologies and Artificial Intelligence By: William R. Kerr & Emer Moloney 19 FEB 2018 Vodafone was operating in the fast-moving telecommunications market where innovation and scale were key. Faced with an onslaught of technological advances-big data, automation and artificial intelligence-CEO Vittorio Colao reflected on how he should change the organization to incorporate these advancements to improve the way the functions work, how to incorporate machine learning and artificial intelligence that de facto improve productivity and slash costs and what can he could do to give back to society and make sure that new opportunities were created for the new generation. →More on Vodafone Transformation at ING (A): Agile By: William R. Kerr, Federica Gabrieli, & Emer Moloney 15 JAN 2018 In December 2017, Vincent van den Boogert, CEO of ING in the Netherlands, was reflecting upon the company's "agile" transformation, a reorganization of work which had been critical to respond to and exceed rapidly changing customer expectations. Launched in 2015 at the head office, agile had spread to the rest of the Dutch organization, from client services to the branch network, and permeated the overall company culture. It was now time to rollout the transformation to other units of the ING Group, but some questions remained: could agile be as successful in other countries as it had been in the Netherlands? How fast should ING roll out the transformation? How could they build on the experience acquired so far to improve their methodology? →More on ING Hot Chicken Takeover By: William R. Kerr, Manjari Raman, & Olivia Hull 27 FEB 2019 By December 2018, entrepreneur Joe DeLoss's fried chicken company, Hot Chicken Takeover, has opened three restaurants in Columbus, Ohio using an unconventional employment model that helps people with criminal records get back on their feet. DeLoss is proud of the supportive employment environment he has cultivated, but wonders how to scale it beyond Columbus. →More on Hot Chicken Takeover The Golden Triangle: Back in Business (A) By: Joseph B. Fuller, William R. Kerr, Manjari Raman, & Donald Maruyama 08 FEB 2018 The Golden Triangle Region (GTR) is a three-county area in rural Mississippi that suffered a steep decline as manufacturing companies faced pressures from automation and overseas competition. Between the mid 1980s and late 1990s, several textile, toy, and tubing factories that accounted for a substantial share of local employment closed and forced GTR residents to make a difficult choice - leave their homes and communities behind for better employment opportunities elsewhere or stay and face a lower quality of life. GTR LINK, the local economic development agency, brought in a new leader in Joe Max Higgins, Jr in order to stem the flight of businesses from the region and offer locals the hope that they could stay and still enjoy a better tomorrow. →More on The Golden Triangle Video Embed Digital Transformation at ING Netherlands By: William R. Kerr By: William R. Kerr 21 OCT 2019 Vincent van den Boogert, CEO of ING Netherlands, discusses ING’s digital transformation efforts Vincent van den Boogert, CEO of ING Netherlands, discusses ING’s digital transformation efforts Media Coverage The Digital Mindset: What It Really Takes to Thrive in the Age of Data, Algorithms, and AI By: Tsedal Neeley 10 May 2022 Does Your Org Chart Reflect Your Community? Five Ways to Diversify Talent Now 14 Mar 2022 | Quartz With Job Vacancies High, Employers Seek Out Workers They Might Have Previously Passed Over Re: Joseph Fuller & Manjari Raman 13 Feb 2022 | Boston Globe Videos 11 Dec 2018 Re: William R. Kerr William Kerr on Potential Changes to the H1-B Visa Program William Kerr on Potential Changes to the H1-B Visa ProgramWilliam Kerr on Potential Changes to the H1-B Visa Program 11 Dec 2018 Re: William R. Kerr 04 Dec 2018 Re: Joseph Fuller Skills Gap Solution? Disrupt the system Skills Gap Solution? Disrupt the systemSkills Gap Solution? Disrupt the system 04 Dec 2018 Re: Joseph Fuller Sign up for our Newsletter Sign Up ǁ Managing the Future of Work Manjari Raman Program Director & Senior Researcher Harvard Business School Boston, MA 02163 Phone: 1.617.495.6288 Email: mraman+hbs.edu →Map & Directions →More Contact Information Make a Gift Site Map Jobs Harvard University Trademarks Policies Digital Accessibility Copyright © President & Fellows of Harvard College