Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Creative Writing MFA You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Creative Writing MFA Apply Request More Info Creative Writing MFA Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Master of Fine Arts in Creative Writing Become an experienced fiction writer or poet with the Master of Fine Arts in Creative Writing in the College of Liberal Arts at Temple University. Develop your individual voice and techniques, define your aesthetics, and gain the critical skills needed to realize your creative vision. The 33-credit Creative Writing MFA provides you with essential resources to hone your craft, including small writing workshops; courses ranging from special topics to craft; one-on-one manuscript tutorials; and graduate seminars in the arts, humanities and literature. Students in the MFA Program in Creative Writing graduate with a fully formed manuscript of publishable quality, written under the guidance of the department’s accomplished faculty members and visiting authors. Through this master's degree program, you’ll also learn how to prepare your work for submission to literary journals, publishers and agents. Graduates have been published by numerous trade and small presses, and their works have earned prestigious grants, prizes and residencies. In addition to launching your literary career, earning your MFA leads to work in several professional areas, including advertising, arts administration, book and magazine editing, grant writing, journalism, public relations and teaching. Visiting Writers Program Benefit from the insights and guidance of distinguished, internationally renowned authors. Each year, the Visiting Writers Program invites a novelist (fall semester) and poet (spring semester) to work with MFA students during extended department visits. Over the course of several days, these guests read student manuscripts; meet with students for individual consultations; attend workshops; and give readings of their work. In recent years, the Visiting Writers Program has hosted the following authors. Jennifer Haigh Alexander Chee Robert Coover Anita Desai Brian Evenson C. S. Giscombe Jaimy Gordon Bhanu Kapil Jonathan Lethem Carole Maso Alice Notley Anne Waldman Our Community The College of Liberal Arts at Temple comprises many disciplines and research areas. Now more than ever, an interdisciplinary liberal arts education is invaluable for your future pursuits. It offers the opportunity to further push your drive to create real change in the world, here at Temple and beyond. In this graduate program, you’ll work closely with diverse faculty members who are highly esteemed in their field and with a curious, passionate community of peers. Program Format & Curriculum The 33-credit Master of Fine Arts in Creative Writing may be completed full time or part time. The program comprises four writing workshops, one-on-one tutorials, craft and special topics courses, two graduate courses in the arts, humanities or literature, and one elective. Courses include the following. Craft in Creative Writing Early American Literature Early British Literature Composition Research Methods History of Critical Theory Special Topics in Creative Writing Translation Study Students are also required to complete a master’s project of fiction (at least 100 pages) or poetry (at least 50 pages) during their fourth term. Learn more about courses and requirements in the creative writing MFA. Related Graduate Degrees English PhD Master of Journalism* Media and Communication PhD* *Klein College of Media and Communication Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Master of Fine Arts offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $966.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,329.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Program Contact With questions regarding the Creative Writing MFA, contact the following staff members. Tara Lemma is the MFA program coordinator. Phone: 215-204-1796 Email: mfaapplications@temple.edu Don Lee is the MFA program director. Phone: 215-204-1796 Email: donlee@temple.edu LaTasha Goodman is the manager of administration within the College of Liberal Arts. Email: lgoodman@temple.edu Phone: 215-204-8516 The following staff members lead the English Department. Roland Williams is chair of the English Department. Phone: 215-204-7516 Email: rolandw@temple.edu Miles Orvell is the director of graduate studies in the English Department. Phone: 215-204-1796 Email: orvell@temple.edu Student Clubs & Organizations Supplement your Creative Writing MFA coursework and enhance your graduate education experience through student clubs and organizations. You’ll meet and network with other students, become involved with the community, and build invaluable skills to help you realize your personal and professional goals. The following clubs and organizations are available to Creative Writing MFA students. The Graduate English Association is open to all graduate students in the English Department. The group makes recommendations to the faculty on departmental issues and enriches the graduate experience with developmental workshops and social events. The Journal of Modern Literature features scholarly research covering literature in the 20th century and beyond. Two English Department professors serve as editors for the journal, while several other faculty members hold roles on its advisory staff. TINGE Magazine is an online literary journal that is published twice each year. Edited by graduate students of the Master of Fine Arts in Creative Writing program, submissions to TINGE are open to all students. Learn more about Temple’s student clubs and organizations. Study Away Temple’s study away programs offer you the opportunity to spend an academic year, semester or summer abroad. Complete coursework, participate in internships or collaborate in research while immersing yourself in the culture, history and people of your host city. Enrich your experience in the English Department by immersing yourself in the Rome Seminar in Art and Culture at Temple University’s Rome campus, the Villa Caproni. This six-credit seminar explores the human sciences as well as current trends of thought in postmodern culture. The seminar combines classwork, field trips and guest lectures. The city of Rome is used extensively as a resource. Learn more about your options for studying away. Accreditation Temple University’s departments and programs are accredited by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education. LA-CRWR-MFA Additional Program Information Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Creative Writing MFA Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info