Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Sexual Harassment Policies Get Help Get Help Medical care Confidential help Academic and campus help Help for faculty and staff How faculty and staff can help students Report Report Report to police Report to SMU Report anonymously Report retaliation Protective orders Learn More Learn More SMU Title IX Sexual Harassment Policy Sexual assault and consent Definitions and examples Campus security Message from President Turner SMU Task Force Get involved Get involved Education and prevention Awareness tips Request a presentation Resources ☰ Sexual Harassment Learn More Campus security Campus security SMU Police officers are sworn police officers, licensed by the Texas Commission on Law Enforcement Officer Standards and Education, who have the responsibility and duty to enforce campus regulations and all local, state and federal laws. SMU Police patrol campus 24 hours a day, seven days a week. The department coordinates actions with neighboring agencies and criminal investigations with the Dallas County District Attorney’s Office. Emergency blue-light phones across campus connect directly to SMU Police. SMU Police provide crime prevention education and self-defense training; 214-768-3333. SMU urges students to call for a safety escort. SMU Safety Escort by Tapride offers free rides on campus from 7 p.m. to 3 a.m. during the fall and spring terms when classes are in session; download the app. Learn more online here. SMU Police are also available to provide secure rides on campus; call 214-768-3388. Crime reports SMU Police maintain a daily crime log, which is available online at smu.edu/police and to the public for review during business hours, at the dispatch window at Patterson Hall, 3128 Dyer Street. SMU’s Annual Security and Fire Safety Report, posted online at smu.edu/cleryreport, includes reported crimes for the previous three years. Learn More SMU Title IX Sexual Harassment Policy Sexual assault and consent Definitions and examples Campus security Message from President Turner SMU Task Force Resources In case of emergency or for criminal reporting, please call SMU Police, 214-768-3333, or pick up a blue-light phone on campus. Confidential Resources SMU Counseling Services 214-768-2277 SMU Chaplain’s Office 214-768-4502 Additional SMU resources SMU Title IX Coordinator (for internal grievance information and reporting) 214-768-3601 Office of Student Advocacy & Support 214-768-4512 Anonymous reporting 214-768-2TIP (2847) Community resources Dallas Area Rape Crisis Center (DARCC) 972-641-7273 Texas Health Presbyterian Hospital Sexual Assault Nurse Examiner (SANE) Program 214-345-6203 Learn more about resources. Apply Visit School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share