Skip to Main Content Brown University News from Brown Site Navigation Featured Events For Journalists Search Menu Topics News and Events Date July 8, 2021 2021-07-08 Media Contact Brian E. Clark [email protected] 401-863-1638 All News Share Facebook Twitter Linkedin Email Brown’s on-campus students, employees achieve 90% COVID-19 vaccination Near-universal vaccination among community members on campus is enabling reduced mask requirements, removal of vaccinated individuals from routine COVID-19 testing and expanded in-person operations. PROVIDENCE, R.I. [Brown University] — As public health conditions continue to improve across much of the nation, the Brown University community reached a major milestone on Wednesday, July 7 — students, faculty and staff currently engaged in on-campus, in-person activity achieved a 90% overall COVID-19 vaccination rate. Russell C. Carey, executive vice president for planning and policy and co-chair of Brown’s vaccine working group, shared the news in a letter to the campus community. “This marks a tremendous milestone in the University’s response to the pandemic, and I want to thank all community members who received a vaccine and uploaded your vaccination card for your diligence in complying with this requirement,” Carey wrote. “You are not only helping to protect community health, but also playing an essential role in enabling Brown to return to more traditional in-person operations.” Reaching the 90% mark followed a months-long campaign to encourage vaccination, establishment of a requirement that all students and employees (unless exempted on medical or religious grounds) receive a COVID-19 vaccine for the 2021-22 year, and a series of on-campus vaccination clinics. Undergraduate student Hiilei Dikilato receives her COVID-19 vaccine during an on-campus vaccination clinic held in May. Photos by Nick Dentamaro/Brown University Carey detailed a set of immediate policy changes enabled by the milestone. Vaccinated members of the Brown community are no longer required to wear masks indoors or outdoors, other than for a small number of exceptions such as visits to University Health Services and travel on Brown shuttles. And over the coming days, the University will begin to remove vaccinated community members from the routine COVID-19 testing program that has been essential since its August 2020 launch in preventing spread of the virus on campus. Other activities, including in-person dining and increased access to recreational athletic facilities, will begin to increase over the remaining weeks of the Summer 2021 term, and elimination of restrictions regarding events and campus visitors will begin in mid-August. Based on discussions with public health and medical experts, Brown aims to achieve near-universal levels — 90% or greater — of vaccination against COVID-19 among all University community members to enable a return to near normal operations for Fall 2021. Among the total population of students, including those not currently on campus (who are required to receive a vaccination by Aug. 1), the overall vaccination rate is 77.2%. Among all Brown employees, including those who continue to work remotely, the overall vaccination rate is 87.9%. “There is no question that COVID-19 vaccination is extremely effective,” Carey said. “We continue to see little to no COVID-19 positivity on the Brown campus, and we can attribute that in large part to vaccination levels.” Despite the fact that the vaccine is required and compliance is mandatory, he said, the commitment of Brown community members to achieving near-universal vaccination is commendable: “The fact that people have done it is terrific for Brown, terrific for their individual health and really enables us to continue on a path back to more normal operations.” Tags COVID-19 Health and Wellness Related news: News and Events $25 million gift from Shoman family advances Brown’s goal for need-blind international admission June 1, 2022 The largest gift for international financial aid in University history, from alumni Aysha and Omar Shoman, will expand Brown’s ability to educate the most exceptional international students from all socioeconomic groups. Read Article Open details for $25 million gift from Shoman family advances Brown’s goal for need-blind international admission News and Events Brown Corporation approves base budget for Fiscal Year 2023 June 1, 2022 The $1.5 billion base budget includes deep investments in student financial aid and support for faculty and staff, balancing continued advancement in academic excellence with a focus on long-term financial sustainability. Read Article Open details for Brown Corporation approves base budget for Fiscal Year 2023 News and Events Brown Corporation elects two new fellows, eight trustees June 1, 2022 Brown’s governing body elected each new member based on their commitment to the University and its mission of education and research. Read Article Open details for Brown Corporation elects two new fellows, eight trustees Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Snapchat Twitter YouTube Social Media Directory © Brown University Brown University For You Current Students Faculty Staff Parents & Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Featured Events For Journalists Topics Arts and Humanities Environment Health and Medicine News and Events Science and Technology Social Sciences Student Life University Initiatives Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events For You Give to Brown All of Brown.edu People News Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Brown’s on-campus students, employees achieve 90% COVID-19 vaccination Open details for Brown’s on-campus students, employees achieve 90% COVID-19 vaccination Bookmark this Page