Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Epidemiology MPH You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Epidemiology MPH Apply Request More Info Epidemiology MPH Accreditation Admissions Departmental Research Fieldwork & Internships Online Program Option Required Courses Scholarships & Financial Aid Master of Public Health in Epidemiology The Master of Public Health in Epidemiology in Temple’s College of Public Health prepares students for practice- and research-oriented careers in epidemiology. Students learn to use rigorous epidemiologic methods and appropriate analyses to answer pressing research questions related to the public’s health. The master’s degree program will prepare you as a public health professional with expertise in study design and appropriate data analyses that can be used to accurately quantify and assess population-based, health-related outcomes; application of modern statistical computing software, such as SAS and R, and statistical methods for large and complex data sets in public health; data management of health-related cross-sectional, experimental, longitudinal and survey data; and real-world problem solving through experiential training. Epidemiology is considered the foundational science of public health—it allows us to identify and understand the descriptive characteristics, determinants and risk factors that influence the public’s health. Students in the Epidemiology MPH examine complex global and local challenges related to chronic and infectious diseases; train to understand determinants of, and methodological issues in, cancer and social epidemiology; and apply their knowledge and skills to develop projects that seek to answer timely research questions in community settings. Our graduates are prepared to work in a wide range of settings. Students who select electives in advanced epidemiologic methods and biostatistics are also well-prepared for doctoral programs in epidemiology. What sets apart our Epidemiology MPH? Collaborative, interdisciplinary education: The degree program has a 5-to-1 student-to-faculty ratio, providing students with opportunities to engage with diverse faculty. Our location in the College of Public Health prepares students for interdisciplinary research and practice. Renowned professors: Our faculty includes experts who focus on behavioral and chronic disease epidemiology, cancer prevention and control, social determinants, and water-related diseases. They have practical experience working in interdisciplinary teams in a wide variety of settings, including community-based entities; federal, state and local government agencies; health systems and clinical practices; and international nongovernmental organizations. Real-world experience: You will gain hands-on experience working on projects with local or state agencies, private companies, or nonprofit organizations—making you competitive and prepared to launch your career after graduation. Program Format Students take core courses that explore the fundamentals of public health, as well as courses that focus on specific topics in epidemiology, such as behavioral epidemiology; chronic disease epidemiology; data management and coding of health-related data; infectious disease epidemiology and HIV/AIDS; methodological issues and strategies for chronic disease prevention; multivariable regression of general and generalized linear models; and social, behavioral and biological determinants of cancer and current methods in cancer epidemiology. You will also complete two fieldwork courses and take electives in order to build topical expertise. Students can complete the Epidemiology MPH in person or online. The program offers a flexible, 42-credit curriculum. Students choose from one of three formats. Full time, on campus: Complete the program in two years. Part time, on campus: Complete the program in four years. Part time, online: Complete the program in three years. See a full list of program courses. Epidemiology MPH vs. Epidemiology MS The Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics offers both an MPH and an MS in Epidemiology. While the two degrees have many similarities, they are distinct from each other in the following ways. Coursework: The MPH includes core courses in the fundamentals of public health, covering biostatistics, environmental health, epidemiology, health policy, and social and behavioral sciences. The MS, in contrast, includes core courses that focus primarily on epidemiology. Culminating experience: Students in the MPH program complete two semesters of community-based fieldwork and a final master’s project. Students in the MS program complete two semesters of independent research, including a final thesis project. Competencies: The MPH meets all competencies set forth by the Council on Education for Public Health (CEPH). The MS meets many (but not all) CEPH competencies. Depending on the specific electives that you choose in either program, you may gain many of the same skills and be prepared for many of the same careers after graduation, regardless of which program you choose. Our Advisors The College of Public Health offers extensive, personalized advising services to students in each department. For questions regarding the program or admissions requirements, contact the program advisor. Theresa White Senior Graduate Advisor Phone: 215-204-5105 Email: theresawhite@temple.edu Aimee Palumbo Graduate Program Director Phone: 215-204-4023 Email: aimee.palumbo@temple.edu Related Graduate Degrees The College of Public Health also offers the research-intensive MS in Epidemiology, which focuses more heavily on research and prepares students for doctoral programs in epidemiology, such as the College of Public Health’s PhD in Epidemiology. We also offer five other MPH programs. MPH in Applied Biostatistics MPH in Environmental Health MPH in Health Policy and Management MPH in Nutrition MPH in Social and Behavioral Sciences Related graduate certificates include Public Health Preparedness and Response and Maternal and Child Health. A Certificate in Global Health is also available to all MPH students, who can complete this certificate by using their three MPH elective courses for global health classes. Student Organizations You can engage with peers and find leadership opportunities in student-led clubs and organizations in the College of Public Health. Learn more about student clubs and organizations. Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Master of Public Health offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2018–2019 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $1,020.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,398.00 per credit Online tuition: $975 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. HP-EPID-MPH Additional Program Information Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Epidemiology MPH Accreditation Admissions Departmental Research Fieldwork & Internships Online Program Option Required Courses Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info