In This Issue Artifact: Under Pressure Artists come to UCF’s Flying Horse Editions for serious printing power. On Campus: Fall 2016 View photos from Move-in Day and Convocation to Fan Fest and Bid Day. A Latina with Drive Cyndia Morales Muñiz ’13EdD went from being the first in her family to graduate from college to being named a Top Latino Leader. Off the Court UCF head basketball coaches on their passion for the game and mentoring student-athletes. Neighborhood by Neighborhood Harris Rosen revitalized Tangelo Park. Now he’s doing the same thing in Parramore. Why I Gave Back Glenn Hubbard on the impact UCF professors had on his career and why he’s returning the favor. Room with a Worldview Global UCF makes the transition to UCF and the U.S. easier for international students. Reptile Refuge UCF to build a permanent sea turtle conservation research facility in Brevard County. Helpers and Healers Read stories from the people who responded after the incident at Pulse nightclub. Igniting UCF’s Future UCF has launched the most ambitious fundraising campaign in the university’s history. Writing to Heal A UCF professor and her students are helping others heal through creative writing. The Best Photos of 2016 Pegasus shares the 33 photos that showcase UCF’s year in review. First Frost Relive the first win of the season and Scott Frost’s first victory as head coach at UCF. Fall 2016 New Kid on the Cell Block Amanda Stephen ’08 is the newest inmate on Netflix’s Orange Is the New Black. The Place Maker Six ways to build a better community according to Jennifer Marvel ’12. Close Back Forward Pegasus The Magazine of the University of Central Florida In This Issue Archives Writing to Heal Whether it’s breaking the stigma of mental illness or overcoming childhood hardships, a UCF professor and her students are helping others heal through creative writing. Like "Writing to Heal" on Facebook Tweet "Writing to Heal" on Twitter Fall 2016 | By Paige Wilson If you could write a letter to your younger self, what would you say? Ryan Skaryd ’15 used this writing prompt to change his students’ view of mental illness. Through a UCF Literary Arts Partnership with Wraparound Orange, an Orange County agency that supports families with youths with mental health issues, the 23-year-old creative writing graduate student spent 12 weeks this summer teaching students ages 18 to 25 the craft of storytelling. “Mental illness is a chronic illness that doesn’t end … There is no cure for mental illness, but there is treatment. And we can’t wait until it’s too late to start treating.” Terry Ann Thaxton ’93 ’95MA That age is a crucial time to help students deal with major life transitions, which can trigger mental illness, says Terry Ann Thaxton ’93 ’95MA, a creative writing professor who has been organizing similar literary partnerships since 2003. “Mental illness is a chronic illness that doesn’t end,” Thaxton says. “There is no cure for mental illness, but there is treatment. And we can’t wait until it’s too late to start treating.” The topic is personal for Thaxton. She was raised with a brother who is intellectually disabled and has a 36-year-old son who lives with Asperger’s syndrome, major depressive disorder and severe anxiety. Thaxton knew Skaryd was well-equipped to teach these summer classes because of his professionalism and his willingness to discuss his own struggles, including being a caregiver for a family member. Skaryd’s secret for reaching students is simple: honesty. “A lot of my reading examples are people who are brutally honest about their mental health journey, whether that’s with obsessive compulsive disorder or [something] as simple as anxiety [about school],” Skaryd says. One of his students initially wanted to write about a family member, but by the end of the summer session, she turned in a diary-style piece exploring her own mental health instead. “She tracked down her thoughts about depression and self-image in a really relative tone,” Skaryd says. “[These students] can write freely and fearlessly without being judged about anything that they go through,” he continues. “Because at the end of the day, other people are going through the same thing, if not very similar.” “Once I say what I’ve written about and what I’ve experienced, it really changes the dynamic, and the students will share more in their writing … They’ll read more out loud [and] they’ll be more honest.” Kristi DiLallo ’13 Thaxton’s influence extends to former facilitator Kristi DiLallo ’13 as well, who is using creative writing to help young women in Rikers Island prison. Through a program with the Center for Justice at Columbia University, where she recently earned an MFA, DiLallo is teaching inmates to have open conversations about perseverance. DiLallo is no stranger to the prison system. At the age of 6, she stepped into a jail to visit her incarcerated parents. (Her mother remains in prison.) This used to be a source of shame for her, but now she’s using her story to help others tell theirs. Her students tend to underestimate DiLallo at ﬁrst — suggesting that she’s privileged and unable to relate. But she’s found that transparency is key in getting through to them. “Once I say what I’ve written about and what I’ve experienced, it really changes the dynamic, and the students will share more in their writing,” DiLallo says. “They’ll read more out loud [and] they’ll be more honest.” As a teenager, DiLallo used her own life as inspiration for fiction, but never shared her writing until her first teaching position through UCF’s Literary Arts Partnership program. During her junior year, she partnered with Orange County Academy in Bithlo, Florida. More than half the class had at least one incarcerated parent, but the students didn’t know DiLallo’s story. After a helpful nudge from Thaxton, DiLallo gained the courage to read her story to the students, who responded with tears and hugs. “It was such an amazing moment for me when I realized that teaching is so important, and telling my story is important, and so is getting these kids to tell theirs,” says DiLallo. “And if this is how I have to do it then I’ll totally go in on the first day and tell people that this is my story, and that it’s time for you to write yours.” Illustration by Kirk Wallace More UCF Stories New Kid on the Cell Block Amanda Stephen ’08 is the newest inmate on Netflix’s Orange Is the New Black. Igniting UCF’s Future UCF has launched the most ambitious fundraising campaign in the university’s history. Artifact: Under Pressure Artists come to UCF’s Flying Horse Editions for serious printing power. The Place Maker Six ways to build a better community according to Jennifer Marvel ’12. Helpers and Healers Read stories from the people who responded after the incident at Pulse nightclub. Why I Gave Back Glenn Hubbard on the impact UCF professors had on his career and why he’s returning the favor. The Best Photos of 2016 Pegasus shares the 33 photos that showcase UCF’s year in review. Off the Court UCF head basketball coaches on their passion for the game and mentoring student-athletes. Reptile Refuge UCF to build a permanent sea turtle conservation research facility in Brevard County. A Latina with Drive Cyndia Morales Muñiz ’13EdD went from being the first in her family to graduate from college to being named a Top Latino Leader. Neighborhood by Neighborhood Harris Rosen revitalized Tangelo Park. Now he’s doing the same thing in Parramore. Room with a Worldview Global UCF makes the transition to UCF and the U.S. easier for international students. On Campus: Fall 2016 View photos from Move-in Day and Convocation to Fan Fest and Bid Day. First Frost Relive the first win of the season and Scott Frost’s first victory as head coach at UCF. Fall 2016 Neighborhood by Neighborhood Harris Rosen revitalized Tangelo Park. Now he’s doing the same thing in Parramore. Artifact: Under Pressure Artists come to UCF’s Flying Horse Editions for serious printing power. A Latina with Drive Cyndia Morales Muñiz ’13EdD went from being the first in her family to graduate from college to being named a Top Latino Leader. New Kid on the Cell Block Amanda Stephen ’08 is the newest inmate on Netflix’s Orange Is the New Black. Room with a Worldview Global UCF makes the transition to UCF and the U.S. easier for international students. On Campus: Fall 2016 View photos from Move-in Day and Convocation to Fan Fest and Bid Day. The Best Photos of 2016 Pegasus shares the 33 photos that showcase UCF’s year in review. First Frost Relive the first win of the season and Scott Frost’s first victory as head coach at UCF. Fall 2016 Why I Gave Back Glenn Hubbard on the impact UCF professors had on his career and why he’s returning the favor. Off the Court UCF head basketball coaches on their passion for the game and mentoring student-athletes. Writing to Heal A UCF professor and her students are helping others heal through creative writing. The Place Maker Six ways to build a better community according to Jennifer Marvel ’12. Helpers and Healers Read stories from the people who responded after the incident at Pulse nightclub. Reptile Refuge UCF to build a permanent sea turtle conservation research facility in Brevard County. Igniting UCF’s Future UCF has launched the most ambitious fundraising campaign in the university’s history. Back Forward Follow UCF on Facebook Follow UCF on Twitter Follow UCF on YouTube Pegasus Magazine Suggest a Story Tell Us What You Think Update Your Address © University of Central Florida 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, FL 32816