Skip to site alert. Skip to content Irving Institute for Clinical and Translational Research Newsletter News Events Videos People Search About Us About Us Resources and Cores Message from the Director History Initiatives and Committees News Events Videos Contact Cite the Grant Subscribe to our Mailing List Initiatives and Committees Implementation Science COVID-19 Research Initiative Diversity, Equity and Inclusion (DEI) Committee Opioid Crisis Response Learning Health System Initiative Services and Programs Our Impact Our Impact A Model for Collaboration Testimonials Publications People Impact Stories Narratives of Discovery People Irving Scholars Mentor of the Year Award Pilot Awardees Scholars, Trainees, and Fellows Join a Study Join a Study What is Health Research? Research Registries and Studies Community Health Resources The Lancet Features Our Narratives of Discovery Series December 4, 2021 The Irving Institute for Clinical and Translational Research is proud to announce the publication of our narrative medicine partnership with Dr. Rita Charon. The collaborative series, Narratives of Discovery, currently holds four indepth interviews with leading life scientists. The first three articles, and the overall project, are featured in The Lancet: Knowing, Seeing, and Telling in Medicine "Today, we are witnessing a new permeability between the arts and the sciences. Scientists are urged to promote transformative creativity in their trainees. Nobelists credit surprise and the imagination for their insights. The health professions have incorporated the humanities, social sciences, and arts into their curricula to teach relational, cultural, and creative dimensions of health care. Whether artists or scientists, investigators strike out from what is known to brave the unknown in acts of creative discovery. The salient divides may come to be understood not as the ones that separate artists from scientists but rather as the ones that separate creative thinkers from formulaic thinkers and those who can tolerate doubt from those who cannot." "Think of artists and scientists as users of three modes of discovery: knowing, seeing, and telling." Continue reading the full article here Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian ColumbiaDoctors About Us Services and Programs Our Impact Join a Study Contact Columbia University 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us YouTube LinkedIn Twitter Facebook Back to top