Skip to main content SMU Explore SMU Academics Undergraduate Admission Student Affairs About News Athletics Events Calendar Bush Center Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Apply to SMUGIVE NOW Giving Ways to Give Your gifts at work Give now Menu Search SMU Giving Resources Office of Donor Relations Office of Donor Relations Resources Why support SMU Ways to Give Frequently Asked Questions Contact us Office of Donor Relations Our Two Favorite Words Are Thank You. About the Office of Donor Relations & Stewardship We believe in the power of gratitude. We foster deeper relationships by demonstrating appreciation for the difference our donors make every single day. Our goal is to proactively and intentionally remind our donors, big and small, that they are essential to the SMU family. Our donors can count on us for timely acknowledgments, accurate reporting, and appropriate recognition. For general questions about your gift, recognition or stewardship, contact us at donorrelations@smu.edu or 214-768-4071. Paying Tribute SMU’s proud tradition of honoring those who impact the lives of others dates back to our founding. Our first building, the iconic Dallas Hall, was named to recognize the significant efforts of the citizens of Dallas who provided initial funding for the University in the heart of this thriving city. This tradition remains alive today. You can celebrate the lives and moments that most impacted your life with a gift to SMU in their honor or memory. Learn more Frequently Asked Questions How can I give to SMU today? There are many ways to give to SMU! SMU can receive gifts via our website, phone, mail, or wire. For information on these and other ways to give, please click HERE. If these options do not meet your needs or you need additional help, please contact gifts@smu.edu. How can I give a gift in honor of memory of someone? Gifts in memory, honor, or celebration are collectively referred to as “Tribute Gifts.” For more information on making tribute gifts, please visit the Donor Relations tribute page HERE. What are SMU’s biggest giving needs? In September 2021, the University embarked on our next big step through SMU Ignited: Boldly Shaping Tomorrow –our multiyear, $1.5 billion campaign to propel us in our mission to empower students, enrich teaching and research, and enhance our campus and community. Click HERE to learn more about the priorities of SMU Ignited: Boldly Shaping Tomorrow. How can I learn more about endowments at SMU or my endowment report? To learn more about endowments at SMU or for assistance understanding your endowment report, please contact Donor Relations or visit Endowment FAQs HERE. Does SMU having Giving Societies? SMU has 3 public giving societies: the Hilltop Society, President’s Associates, and the Dallas Hall Society (for planned gift donors). For more information, click HERE. Does the Office of Donor Relations and Stewardship recognize gifts to The Mustangs Athletic Fund or other various athletic opportunities, like the purchase of Skybox leases? The Office of Donor Relations and Stewardship recognizes gifts that have a charitable component. Eligible gifts at various levels receive acknowledgment postcards, letters, or other specialized stewardship. Skybox leases and the base Mustang Athletic Fund have Fair Market Value (FMV) and may not be considered charitable contributions. Donors who make payments to these will be sent a receipt with any Fair Market Value of the goods they have received in exchange for the payment deducted from their charitable amount. Eligible gifts made through Donor Advised Funds (DAFs) receive acknowledgments but are receipted directly to the DAF administrator and not the donor themselves. SMU is not able to provide receipts to donors who give through DAFs. All other contributions to SMU, including those above that have FMV, are receipted by the Office of Gift Processing. To contact Gift Processing to make a gift, ask for a new receipt, or more, please email gifts@smu.edu or contact Donor Relations. Endowments The SMU Endowment was established in 1914 with a gift of $111,540 from the General Education Board of The Methodist Church. The Endowment now represents over $2 billion in assets that are invested in a diversified portfolio designed to ensure current support as well as growth for the future. Investment in the SMU Endowment provides long-term funding to enhance student quality, faculty and academic excellence, and the campus experience. Annual income from the Endowment provides vital support for the University. To impact the lives of students tomorrow, consider a gift to the SMU Endowment today. Learn more Endowments FAQs What is an endowment fund? An endowment fund is a fund created to provide support for SMU in perpetuity. The amount donated, also known as the principal or corpus, is not spent. It is invested and only the earnings from the investments of the endowment principal are available for spending. The original gift continues to grow and produce higher income over time. Who manages the overall SMU endowment? Under the direction of the Southern Methodist University Investment Committee of the Board of Trustees, the Investments Office manages the $2 billion endowment, including minerals and other Planned Giving Assets of the University. What is SMU’s spending policy? The current policy has been in effect since the fiscal year 2005 and is based on a model used by Yale University. The spending formula includes both an inflation component that places an emphasis on stable budget support and a market value component that responds to changes in portfolio valuations. The latter includes the current spending percentage of 4.5 percent, approved by the SMU Board of Trustees, applied to a four-quarter average of trailing market value. SMU has three primary goals with regard to its spending policy: maintain the endowment’s real purchasing power, minimize the year-to-year volatility to aid in budget planning, and support the University’s educational goals by releasing a substantial and sustainable flow of funds to the operating budget. What is SMU’s fiscal year? SMU’s fiscal year is June 1 through May 31 What percentage of the University’s operating budget is funded by the endowment income? Only 15% of the University’s operating budget is funded by income from the endowment. What is the difference between Book Value and Market Value? Book Value is the initial amount of the gift that established an endowment, plus any additional gifts or deposits (reinvested income). Market Value is the total of the Book Value plus net market appreciation/depreciation valued at the end of a given time period. How do I establish an endowment fund? Generally, new funds are established when a donor and the University enter into an endowment agreement. Occasionally, endowment funds are established through a bequest, annuity, or trust. Please contact the Office of Donor Relations and Stewardship for more information or if you are interested in establishing a new endowed fund. If SMU’s endowment is so big, why does tuition increase every year? Most of SMU’s endowment is restricted and can only be used for specific purposes set forth by the donor(s). What type of gift provides the most impact to SMU in perpetuity? Unrestricted gifts to SMU’s endowment have the greatest impact on the University. Do I have to create a new fund? How can I give to an already established fund, and how do I find out which fund provides income for the need I want to support? Often, new donors will give to endowments previously established by others. To find out which fund provides income for a desired purpose, please contact the Office of Donor Relations. Learn more. How Can We Help You Today? Rachel Kimball Director of Donor Relations & Stewardship Ask me about: General Questions, Strategic Planning, University-Wide Stewardship, Policies/Guidelines rkimball@smu.edu Ryan Garrett Stewardship Communications Manager Ask me about: Acknowledgments, Impact Reporting, Communications, Thankview rmgarrett@smu.edu Carey Garrett Assistant Director of Donor Relations – Stewardship Ask me about: Mustang Award, Recognition Societies, Custom Stewardship, Event Commemoration, Special Projects ckgarrett@smu.edu Jill Rogers Assistant Director of Donor Relations – Naming Opportunities and Recognition Ask me about: Tributes, Plaques, Naming Opportunities, Donor Lists jillr@smu.edu Tessa Schreiner Assistant Director of Donor Relations – Scholarship Stewardship Ask me about: Scholarships and Scholarship Spending Compliance tschreiner@smu.edu Ashley Park Assistant Director of Donor Relations – Endowment Manager Ask me about: Endowment Funds, Endowment Reporting, Spending Compliance ajpark@smu.edu Carrie Marquis Donor Relations Specialist Ask me about: General Questions cmarquis@smu.edu Jordan Hardin Fund Stewardship Coordinator Ask me about: Endowments, Reporting and Donor Spending Compliance jhardin@smu.edu Ways to giveGive now Back to top Schools and areas Scholarships Endowed faculty positions Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Athletics Libraries Student Affairs Cox School renovation and expansion Hughes-Trigg renovation Owen Arts Center transformation Ways to Give Endowment giving Current-use giving Capital giving Planned giving University-wide initiatives School and unit giving Contact Us Office of the Vice President for Development and External Affairs Principal and Major Gifts School and Project Development Athletics © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 Give now SMU Ignited: Boldly Shaping Tomorrow Impact Your gifts at work Annual Report Alumni Giving Parent Giving Student Giving Faculty and Staff Giving Recognition Giving Societies SMU Ignited Gifts Donor Spotlights Resources Why support SMU Ways to Give Frequently Asked Questions Contact us Office of Donor Relations Give now Menu Search Search Submit Popular Searches Current Students Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission Faculty & Staff Majors & Minors Alumni COVID-19 Information (Mustang Strong) Did you know? SMU's singular approach to integrating rigorous learning with hands-on experience will prepare you to achieve your educational goals and expand your world in ways you never imagined. Ours is a community of people forging their own paths. We'd like to help you shape yours. Plan your visit Menu Search