Skip to content marquette.edu // Search // Contacts // A-Z Index Marquette UniversityHealth Professional Programs Health Professional Programs Admissions Applying to Marquette Ready to apply? The links below will direct you to the online application pages for each college, school or special academic program. ADMISSIONS FOR Undergraduate programs Graduate programs Graduate business Dentistry Law SPECIAL ACADEMIC PROGRAMS Study abroad Study in Washington, D.C. Special academic programs International students Transfer students Summer studies Visit Marquette Marquette University, an urban university located in Milwaukee, Wis., provides daily visits to prospective students. Visit Marquette. Watch students tell their stories What's it like to live, study and play at Marquette University? Nobody knows better than those doing just that. Watch students tell their stories in My Marquette. Academics Academics at Marquette Marquette is routinely listed among the country's top universities, renowned for academic rigor, innovation and the achievements of its community of scholars. Colleges and schools Klingler College of Arts and Sciences College of Business Administration Diederich College of Communication School of Dentistry College of Education Opus College of Engineering Graduate School Graduate School of Management College of Health Sciences Law School College of Nursing Rankings Marquette ranks 84th in the 2020 edition of America's Best Colleges, released by U.S. News & World Report. View more rankings. Enhance your experience Whether it's through studying abroad, community service or student organizations, Marquette students take advantage of numerous programs to add to their experience. About About Marquette Marquette is a Catholic and Jesuit university located in Milwaukee, Wis., that offers more than 80 majors in its nationally and internationally recognized colleges and schools. About Marquette Tuition & costs Catholic & Jesuit Diversity at Marquette Our mission Our history Student demographics Academics Colleges & schools Majors & programs How we measure the student experience Assessment Accreditation Rankings & recognition Marquette en Español Acerca de Marquette Beyond the classroom Community Engagement Corporate Engagement Land Acknowledgment COVID-19 COVID-19 Information Libraries The libraries at Marquette The libraries at Marquette are a place where people, technology, and the printed word come together in a vibrant atmosphere that advances learning and discovery. Raynor Memorial Libraries Raynor Memorial Libraries website Library hours Raynor Memorial information desk: (414) 288-7556 Law Library Ray & Kay Eckstein Law Library website Current semester hours Building hours Student services Law information desk: (414) 288-7031 Collections and archives The Department of Special Collections and University Archives features university treasures, including the J.R.R. Tolkien Collection. University Archives Learn about the collections Search the collections Digitized collections Research Research at Marquette Research at Marquette has a strong sense of purpose and action, whether through the extension of knowledge beyond existing boundaries, the development of solutions to the world’s most pressing problems or the search for answers to life’s deepest questions. Learn more Grants, awards & presentations Books by Marquette faculty Discover research at Marquette Centers & institutes Faculty awards Office of Research & Innovation Office of Research & Sponsored Programs Marquette experts DISCOVER Marquette research Every spring, DISCOVER: Marquette University Research and Scholarship showcases some of the most interesting research happening on and off campus. Check out our interactive 2019 Discover Magazine Accessible PDF See past issues Athletics Athletics at Marquette The university's 16 varsity sports teams play in the BIG EAST Conference. Join us as we proudly say: We are Marquette! Teams Men's basketball Women's basketball Cross country Men's golf Men's lacrosse Women's lacrosse Men's soccer Women's soccer Men's tennis Women's tennis Track & field Women's volleyball Tickets The Ticket Office conducts ticketing for seven Golden Eagles' varsity sports: men’s and women’s basketball, men’s and women’s lacrosse, men’s and women’s soccer and women’s volleyball. Spirit Shop The Spirit Shop features the most popular brands of attire for Marquette fans. Shop on campus or online. Alumni Marquette alumni Ring out ahoya with fellow alumni through the Marquette University Alumni Association, an organization of nearly 110,000 members worldwide. Learn more About MUAA Class notes and news Clubs & chapters Events & reunions Alumni Newsletter Networking Join the CIRCLES business networking program Connect with the MUAA group on LinkedIn Marquette Magazine Marquette Magazine is the university's official quarterly alumni publication. View latest issue. Giving Help to enrich and expand student opportunities, support our teacher-scholars, foster innovation and transform our campus. Give online today and rise with us! Explore Marquette's professional programs in the health care field Marquette University features nationally recognized and ranked professional programs in health care. Athletic Training You know the hurdles that athletes have to overcome — the hard work and dedication required for being the best in their sport. Athletic trainers are the hands-on practitioners at the sidelines, keeping those athletes in the game. Dentistry Whether it's providing maintenance in our early years, braces in our adolescent years, or treatment for gum disease or teeth extractions in our senior years, successful dentists are capable and compassionate practitioners. Exercise and Rehabilitation Science Marquette’s exercise and rehabilitation science program is a clinical research program based in the College of Health Sciences’ highly competitive Department of Physical Therapy. Nursing National demand for professional nurses in all areas is far outpacing the number of practicing nurses. From emergency rooms to walk-in clinics, nurses' contributions to patient care have never been more important — or necessary. Occupational Therapy The Ignatian ideals of concern for the physical, emotional and spiritual development of the individual underpin the occupational therapy learning experience at Marquette. The curriculum bridges biomedical, public health and sociocultural perspectives. Physical Therapy A basketball player with a torn ACL. A grandparent with arthritis. A child with a birth defect. The road to recovery for these people goes through physical therapists, who work with clients to restore function, improve mobility, stretch the bounds of physical limitation and relieve their pain. Physician Assistant Studies Physician assistants fill the gap between the demand for medical care and the shortage of primary- and specialty-care physicians in rural and urban communities. Licensed to practice medicine under a doctor's supervision, PAs provide a broad range of diagnostic and therapeutic services. Speech-Language Pathology A child with delayed language development. A teen who stutters. A mother coping with severe hearing impairment. A grandfather fighting to regain speech after a stroke. All rely upon the care and expertise of speech-language pathologists to identify, evaluate and treat their communication disorders. Transfusion Medicine Blood transfusions save lives during childbirth, surgery and disasters, which create a constant need for safe blood. Marquette's transfusion medicine program is a collaboration with Versiti Blood Center of Wisconsin. Visit Marquette Marquette provides daily visits to prospective students. To schedule a visit, contact the admissions office for your respective program: Undergraduate students Graduate students Dental students Learn about Marquette problem with this webpage? Report an accessibility problem To report another problem, please contact webrequests@marquette.edu. PROBLEM WITH THIS WEBPAGE? Report an accessibility problem To report another problem, please contact webrequests@marquette.edu. Location Marquette University 1250 W. Wisconsin Ave. Milwaukee, WI 53233 Phone: (800) 222-6544 Key Resources español Employment Campus map Contact us Search marquette.edu COVID-19 Information eMarq CheckMarq D2L MyJob MARQUETTE A to Z ABCDEFGHIJKLM NOPQRSTUVWXYZ Privacy Policy Legal Disclaimer Non-Discrimination Policy Accessible Technology © 2022 Marquette University ©