Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu Division of Student Affairs Dean of Students Main Navigation About Us Show Extended About Us Meet Our Staff Mission and Values Contact Us Student Services Tell Us Your Issue Basic Needs Services Request Dean's Certification Faculty & Staff Services Academic Integrity Violation Referral Student Conduct Referral Student in Distress Referral Care Services Student Conduct Tuffy's Basic Needs Services Clery Act COVID-19 Resources Dean's Certification Required Notices Virtual Workshops Services and Eligibility Frequently Asked Questions Submit a Request COVID-19 Resources Other Resources Programs and Events Partnerships Donate Contact Us GIVE Tuffy's Basic Needs Services Tuffy’s Basic Needs Services Center identifies and serves students who are experiencing an unforeseen hardship, emergency, crisis, or catastrophic life event. The resources offered by this comprehensive endeavor are designed to promote wellness and enable students to complete their education at California State University, Fullerton. Established in 2017, this is a campus-wide initiative that is coordinated by the CSUF Dean of Students Office and supports The California State University Basic Needs Initiative . Tuffy's Basic Needs Services Center, which holds many of the donated products, is located in McCarthy Hall 143. Hours of Operation: Monday through Friday, 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. goals To provide CSUF students with support via food, short-term housing, hygiene products, clothing and emergency grant funds. To provide students with ongoing guidance and assistance through both on-campus resources and off-campus community social services. This site is maintained by Dean of Students. Last Published 4/12/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact deanofstudents@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.10 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.