COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Health and Wellness Section Menu Student Life Arts and Culture Campus Recreation Dining Diversity Explore Wichita Health and Wellness Activities and Traditions Housing and Residence Life Rhatigan Student Center Student Engagement, Advocacy and Leadership Student Government Association Student Advocate Student Conduct Graduate Student Council Wichita State offers a network of programs and support to help Shockers succeed—and thrive—during every step of their WSU careers, including Campus Recreation, Counseling and Prevention, Disability Services and Student Health. YMCA memberships available to all fee-paying students All Greater Wichita YMCA locations — including the the Steve Clark YMCA and Student Wellness Center at WSU — have partnered with Wichita State to offer new benefits to fee-paying Wichita State students. Students receive a single adult membership to all 10 YMCA locations included as part of their student activity fee. The Y membership is effective as long as students are enrolled and paying student fees at WSU. To get started, all students need to do is bring their Shocker ID to any Wichita-area YMCA front desk. Learn more Health and Wellness at WSU Student Health Services See a nurse or doctor right on campus—and have access to resources such as health and wellness education, nutrition counseling, annual exams and limited pharmacy services. Counseling and Prevention Counseling and Prevention Services (CAPS) supports student mental wellness by providing affordable counseling services, prevention education and outreach to the WSU community. Urgent Care Center Wichita State will be home to the new Wesley Healthcare Urgent Care Center (UCC), thanks to a $3 million partnership between Wesley Healthcare and the Greater Wichita YMCA. The urgent care center opens in 2020 and will be located inside the new campus YMCA. Campus Recreation On-campus recreation is a great way to get moving, meet people, and unwind after class. Campus rec offers several competitive sport options, including intramural athletics and club sports, aquatics and an Esports hub. YMCA and Wellness Center Home to both Student Health Services and Counseling and Prevention Services, this facility also offers access to basketball and volleyball courts, cardio and weight equipment, fitness classes and drop-in daycare. Disability Services Disability Services provides individuals with learning, mental or physical disabilities an equal opportunity to attain their academic and personal goals to the fullest of their abilities. New Student Wellness Center open on campus As of January 2020, students have access to physical and mental health services all in one place. Located in the new Steve Clark YMCA building, Student Health Services and Counseling and Prevention Services will now share an office known as the Student Wellness Center. Read full story Watch video 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©