Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Campus Recreation Campus Recreation right arrow down arrow Hours & Schedules right arrow down arrow Campus Recreation Center (CRC) Fitness Center at CARE/Crawley Aquatics Fitness Classes Intramurals Climbing Wall Severe Weather Policy COVID-19 Operations right arrow down arrow Fitness Floor Map Virtual Resources Visit right arrow down arrow Getting Started right arrow down arrow Fitness Floor Orientation Equipment Tutorials Parking Facility Hours Terms & Conditions Lockers & Towels Pro Shop FAQ Things To Do right arrow down arrow Fitness Classes right arrow down arrow Online Fitness Fitness Programs & Special Events 30 Minute Workout Area Personal Training Trainings & Certifications Aquatics Climbing right arrow down arrow Policies & Waiver Intramural Sports right arrow down arrow Intramural Sports Rules right arrow down arrow Intramural Sports Handbook 3-on-3 Basketball 5-on-5 Basketball 7-on-7 Football 7-on-7 Soccer 11-on-11 Soccer 4-on-4 Volleyball 6-on-6 Volleyball Dodgeball Futsal Kickball Pickleball Softball Spikeball Tennis Ultimate Wallyball FAQ Racquetball REC Kids Camp right arrow down arrow Parent/Guardian Guide Team Building Pickleball Membership right arrow down arrow Rates & Discounts Fitness Floor Orientation Terms & Conditions Facilities & Rentals right arrow down arrow Facility Rentals Birthday Parties Process Rates Policies Reservation Jobs right arrow down arrow Staff Directory Student Employment Home » Campus Life » Campus Recreation » Facilities & Rentals » Facility Rentals Set Navigation title in component Facility Rentals Birthday Parties Process Rates Policies Reservation Facility Rentals CRC Rental Options Cincinnati's Campus Recreation Center is a state-of-the-art fitness and recreation facility. With over 200,000 square feet of recreation space, including a gymnasium space of over 38,000 square feet, the CRC can host a variety of events ranging from intimate lectures to basketball tournaments. Let us help you plan your next event! Facility Reservation Request Aquatic Reservation Request Climbing Wall This is a great adventure for children 5 and up to adults of all ages! Trained staff members secure each individual in a harness before they attempt to climb the 40’ or 28’ foot wall configurations. Do you have some partygoers a little nervous about heights? No problem, the bouldering wall offers the opportunity to climb laterally as well as vertically in a ten foot high area. Helmets are recommended for all climbers (required for anyone under 17 years old) and available upon request at no extra charge. Learn more about Rules & Regulations more about climbing Gymnasium While full-court basketball games may be a norm, we’re ready for anything with 6 courts lined for basketball or volleyball. From sports fanatics to family reunions, we’re ready to put the FUN in your next function!  Groups may choose to bring in outside inflatables or other items into the gymnasium, but must contact the Assistant Director for Facility Operations before finalizing outside arrangements. Additional staffing fees may be required for larger events. Multi-Purpose Rooms Need a practice space for your next dance performance? We have multi-purpose rooms with hardwood floors and full-length mirrors in both the Campus Recreation Center and the Fitness Center at CARE/Crawley. Rental of multi-purpose rooms does not include the use of fitness equipment, sound systems, or Campus Recreation instructors. Leisure Pool Our leisure pool has it all. Our 84 degree pool provides a family friendly environment. With a zero depth entry and 3'8" greatest depth this aquatic area is perfect for children (and adults) of all ages to enjoy the water. This space also features a water wall, bubble couch, vortex, and current channel. Pool rentals as take place while the space is open to our members. Learn more about Rules & Regulations more about aquatics Lap Pool Our competition Lap Pool boasts 23- 25 yard lanes in short course configuration and 8-50 meter lanes in long course. Diving boards are available to diving teams under the direct supervision of a diving coach. Racquet Courts Try your hand at a game of squash, handball, or even wallyball in one of our 3 racquet courts. Wallyball equipment is included with any rental upon request. Racquetball racquets and racquetballs are available for purchase at the Member Services Desk. Breezeway Tabling The Breezeway is an excellent location to promote your group's events, work on recruitment, or share and grow your brand.    Ready to reserve your space?  Please submit a facility reservation request. Campus Recreation Center | 2820 Bearcat Way | Cincinnati OH 45221 | 513-556-0604 Fitness Center at Care Crawley | 3230 Eden Avenue | Cincinnati OH 45267 | 513-558-0604 campusrec@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Campus Recreation Center | 2820 Bearcat Way | Cincinnati OH 45221 | 513-556-0604 Fitness Center at Care Crawley | 3230 Eden Avenue | Cincinnati OH 45267 | 513-558-0604 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top