Skip to main content Go to site search Go to primary navigation Go to resources navigation Penn COVID-19 Response » Penn Home Toggle Site Navigation Toggle Site Search Academics More Academics Undergraduate Graduate Schools Global Initiatives Interdisciplinary Online Learning Off-campus Learning Libraries Admissions & Aid Athletics Research & Innovation More Research & Innovation Research Enterprise Research News Life at Penn More Life at Penn Arts & Culture Community Involvement More Community Involvement Penn & Philadelphia Diversity Groups & Organizations Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Safety & Security More Safety & Security Emergency Contacts Emergency Preparedness Spirituality & Religion About More About Introduction to Penn History Facts News, Media, & Communication Services Sustainability FAQ Penn’s Interim President, Wendell Pritchett Trustees & Administration Policies Toggle Site Search Resources Current Students Faculty & Staff Parents Alumni Visitors A-Z Directory Webmail Services Give to Penn Search Search Close Breadcrumb Home / Life at Penn / Spirituality & Religion Spirituality & Religion The many spiritual and religious organizations on campus provide a wealth of opportunities to practice faith and fellowship within supportive, welcoming communities. Office of the Chaplain & SPARC – The Spiritual & Religious Life Center SPARC provides space for regular prayer, scripture study, and meditation sessions for individuals and groups. Spaces can be reserved or used on a drop-in basis. There is always space set aside for meditation and prayer (including daily Muslim prayer space) and students can come by to hangout, study, or take a nap. Chaplains are always nearby to offer support or space to talk. The Office of the Chaplain | SPARC 3417 Spruce Street 240 Houston Hall Philadelphia, PA 19104 (215) 898.8456 Student Religious Organizations Below is a partial list of student religious organizations. Visit the Office of the Chaplain Student Organizations page for a complete list. The Christian Association The Christian Association at Penn is an ecumenical resource that advocates for cultural diversity, interfaith education, and peacemaking. Christian Union Martus Christian Union Martus provides students at Penn with access to in-depth Bible study, Christian leadership training, fellowship, and support. Hillel at the University of Pennsylvania Penn Hillel is a welcoming campus Jewish community where students celebrate Jewish life, explore Jewish ideas, and build community. Hindu Jain Association Penn HJA was started in the fall of 1999 as a University-wide organization with a goal to create an awareness of the Hindu and Jain faiths on campus. Lubavitch House at Penn Founded in 1980 by Rabbi Menachem and Chava Schmidt, the Chabad Lubavitch House at Penn is a Chabad on Campus organization, offering deep insights into the heritage of the Jewish people. Muslim Life Program at the University of Pennsylvania The Muslim Life Program provides sustainable institutional support for Muslims on campus. Under the leadership of a full-time Muslim Chaplain, the Muslim Life Program seeks to create a welcoming environment for students and community members that provides opportunities for intellectually and spiritually engaging with Islam. Muslim Students Association The Penn Muslim Students Association seeks to strengthen the Muslim community at Penn and the greater Philadelphia area and create meaningful relationships with other student groups on campus through interfaith initiatives. New Spirit of Penn Gospel Choir As a group focused on ministry, the New Spirit of Penn Gospel Choir celebrates and shares their faith through musical performances at and around the University. Penn Catholic Service Association The Penn Catholic Student Association was formed to provide a University-sponsored forum for Catholic community service and dialogue on faith and social justice. Penn Newman Catholic Center The Newman Center participates in the mission of the universal Roman Catholic Church at Penn and in West Philadelphia. Penn Cru Penn Cru is a Christ-centered organization dedicated to Bible study and nurturing a supportive faith-based community. PRISM Interfaith Group PRISM is a student interfaith group dedicated to advancing knowledge about religious life and promoting interaction among the various religious groups on campus. Explore Life at Penn Arts & Culture Community Involvement Diversity Groups & Organizations Health & Wellness Housing & Dining Penn & Philadelphia Safety & Security Spirituality & Religion Philadelphia, PA 19104 Telephone: (215) 898-5000 Contact Us Maps Parking Navigate Alumni Athletics Diversity Health Care Libraries Online Learning Penn Global Penn's Heritage As America’s first university, Penn has a history that dates back to 1740 and shares many ties with the colonial city of Philadelphia and the birth of our nation. Our History Disclaimer Emergency Services Nondiscrimination Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement Back To Top