Skip to main content Toggle Tools navigation Toggle Site Navigation Toggle Search University of Cincinnati UC Home Visit UC Support UC Directories UC Tools Canopy & Blackboard Catalyst OneStop Student Email Faculty / Staff Email Shuttle Tracker UCFileSpace UC Flex/ESS IT Help UC VPN Concur Success Factors Enter a search term to search UC pages or the directory. Search String University of Cincinnati Trustees Kim Heiman Phil D. Collins J. Phillip Holloman Michelle "Shelly" A. Gillis Monica Turner Ronald D. Brown Gregory Hartmann Jill T. McGruder Jack Cohen Andrew Wessel Committees Academic and Student Affairs Health Affairs Finance and Administration Master Planning and Facilities Subcommittee Compensation Subcommittee Audit & Risk Management Governance & Internal Affairs Government Relations Investment Meeting Dates University Rules Administration Business & Finance Personnel Students Academic Property Auxiliary Board Minutes Honorary Degrees Honorary Degrees - Criteria & Process Committee on University Honors Honorary Degrees - Criteria & Process Committee on University Honors Honorary Degrees Statement of Purpose The Honorary Degree The awarding of honorary degrees should be regarded as a method by which the university expresses its ideals and recognizes outstanding achievements. It provides appropriate recognition by the university for attainment of extraordinary distinction, and serves to exemplify the highest purposes and ideals of the university in its recipients. The honorary degree, therefore, represents the highest award given by the university. Call for Nominations The Honors Committee is pleased to accept nominations at any time. The nomination process involves a two-step process that includes a Preliminary Nomination followed by a Formal Nomination. Learn more about criteria and the process. Board of Trustees University Pavilion, Room 614 - 2618 McMicken Circle PO Box 210062 Cincinnati OH 45221-0062 Phone: 513-556-3233 | Fax: 513-556-5269 Alerts Clery and HEOA Notice Notice of Non-Discrimination eAccessibility Concern Privacy Statement Copyright Information © 2018 University of Cincinnati This website offers many PDF files for download, which require Adobe Reader to view.