Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Senior Administration About Baylor Menu Campus The Vibrant Baylor Campus Then & Now Traditions School Song Fight Song Baylor Bucket List The Immortal Message The McLane Carillon Virtual Tour Campus Map Directions to Baylor Connect Social Media Baylor Magazine Baylor Proud Baylor Alumni Connect Wear the Gear Facts & Figures Overview Awards & Rankings Ask Baylor Financial Highlights Heritage History Baylor Presidents Founders & Founders Day The Naming of Baylor Baylor Campus: Then & Now Historical Timeline List of Timeline Events Prominent Bears Commission on Historic Campus Representations Leadership Office of the President Senior Administration Administrative Departments Values & Vision Give Light Core Convictions Mission Top-Tier Academics Research Apply Christian Commitment Celebrating Advent Caring Community Athletic Excellence Strategic Plan Join Us Apply Now Work Here Make a Gift Visit Baylor Our Stories Baylor>About Baylor>Senior Administration>President's Council>Tiffany Hogue Tiffany Hogue Chief of Staff to the President Tiffany Hogue Chief of Staff to the President Ms. Tiffany Hogue became chief of staff to the president on August 18, 2021. She previously served as a clinical professor of higher education leadership and policy at Baylor, beginning in 2016. Previously, among other Baylor appointments, she was chief of staff to the provost from 2011-16 and assistant provost from 2003-11. In those roles, she helped to lead the two-year campus-wide strategic visioning process that resulted in Pro Futuris and Baylor’s 2007 reaffirmation of SACSCOC accreditation. She also served as assistant dean of academics for the College of Arts & Sciences in the early 2000s. Ms. Hogue earned a BA in political science from Baylor in 1995 and a JD from Georgetown University Law Center in 1998. She returned to Baylor after practicing employment law at a large firm in her hometown of Phoenix, Arizona. She is an active member of the State Bar of Texas with expertise in higher education and the law. She is the founder of the Girls’ Running Club at Hillcrest PDS Elementary School (Waco ISD) and a member of the Board for Greater Waco Legal Services. She and her husband, Andy, who serves as associate dean for engaged learning in the College of Arts & Sciences at Baylor, have two daughters, Anna (14) and Caroline (11). They are active members of Calvary Baptist Church in Waco. More Information Office of the President Senior Administration Office of the President University Council Administrative Departments Organizational Chart About Baylor Show More General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 Office of the President University Council Administrative Departments Organizational Chart About Baylor