Skip to main content Toggle navigation Search Global dropdown menu Research Support Subject Librarians Reach out to a librarian for specialized help in a discipline. Library Catalog Find books, audio and video, music scores, maps and more. Research Guides Use the best resources we have, picked by librarians. Databases There's a wealth of information to be found through our database subscriptions. Collections Print and digital collections serve as extensions of our teaching and research facilities. Research Services We're available throughout all stages of your research. Quick Links Library Search JSTOR PubMed Make an Appointment Newspapers Journals Collections Program Borrow & Renew Library Catalog Find books, audio and video, music scores, maps and more in the catalog. Borrowing & Requesting Learn how to borrow materials at Dartmouth and from other libraries via BorrowDirect or DartDoc. Tech Loans We've got everything from chargers to a professional portable recording studio. Alumni Access and Resources How to access resources, on and off-campus. Media Discover an extensive range of movies, television series, documentaries, educational programs, audio and more. Off-Campus Access Students, staff, and faculty can access most of our electronic resources off-campus. Quick Links BorrowDirect DartDoc Course Reserves for Faculty Course Reserves for Students Libraries & Spaces Study and Meeting Spaces Book a meeting room for a group or sign up to use a private study room. Hours and Locations Our hours, holiday closings, street addresses and contact information. Baker-Berry Library Our main library houses the humanities, mathematics, music, physical sciences and social sciences collections Biomedical Libraries The Dana and Matthews-Fuller libraries support the disciplines of health and life sciences. Evans Map Room Houses thousands of sheet maps, mapping software, atlases, globes & more. Feldberg Business & Engineering Library Offers support for the Tuck School of Business & Thayer School of Engineering. Jones Media Center Provides facilities & collections for researching, viewing & producing media. Rauner Special Collections Library Includes rare books, manuscripts & more. Sherman Art Library Supports the departments of Art History, Studio Art, as well as the Hood Museum of Art. About Us Hours and Locations Events Latest News Privacy Policy Dean’s Council for Equity and Inclusion Strategic Objectives Visiting & Exhibits Help Library Search Learn about signing into your account, search options and tips, getting to resources and working with citations. Research Support We're committed to partnering with you to enhance and showcase your research. Publishing Support We provide consultation focusing on opportunities in digital publishing and scholarship. Subject Librarians We have a subject librarian for your major who wants to help! Teaching Support We have librarians who specializes in your subject area and can support your students’ learning. Workshops & Events We offer a variety of events to assist you in developing skills ranging from research to programming. Quick Links Contact Us FAQs Off-Campus Access Send Us Feedback Staff Directory Login Students, Faculty & Staff DHMC & Guests Alumni BorrowDirect DartDoc Search Global dropdown menu Research Support Borrow & Renew Libraries & Spaces Help Login Students, Faculty & Staff DHMC & Guests Alumni BorrowDirect DartDoc Feldberg Stories Feldberg Library serves the Tuck School of Business, Thayer School of Engineering, and Dartmouth College Visit Research Guides Services Workshops Contact Staff Today See All Hours Feldberg Business & Engineering Library 8am - 12am See All Hours Feldberg Business & Engineering Library Feldberg Stories Interesting doings from Feldberg Library Feldberg Library Reopens Just in time for the start of spring term 2022, Feldberg Library has REOPENED! The library relocated during the Irving Institute construction project and the Murdough Center’s renovation. Now both projects are complete and we are excited to welcome you into our refreshed space. Chat with the business, engineering, and economics librarians, use the Bloomberg terminals, or just find a sunny place to study. Books on business, management, and engineering topics are available for circulation, and readings for courses at Tuck and Thayer will be on reserve. Tuesday Tune-Ups The Engineering librarians at Feldberg host several workshops each term and invite you to attend. Workshops are hosted via Zoom from 12:15-1:05 pm. Session recordings are available on request. View and sign up for upcoming workshops here. Working Together with Data Sometimes library research helps you complete a class assignment, but sometimes it lands you in the pages of the New York Times or Wall Street Journal. As a research assistant, Ranjan Sehgal '22 has co-authored a number of papers with Bruce Sacerdote, the Richard S. Braddock 1963 Professor in Economics. Recently, their work on COVID news coverage, "Why Is All COVID-19 News Bad News?", and the stock trading behavior of US Senators, Relief Rally: Senators As Feckless As the Rest of Us at Stock Picking, resulted in lots of media attention (Undergraduate's Economics Research Gets Big Media Play). The Library was able to assist in this work in some less expected ways. Ranjan tells us, “I have often enlisted the help of great librarians like Wendel Cox [Research & Learning Librarian for Humanities & Social Sciences], John Cocklin [Research & Learning Librarian for Business & Economics], and James Adams [Data and Visualization Librarian], to help with traditional problems that I thought the library would be helpful for, such as locating books or figuring out the mechanics of citations. However, the previously mentioned librarians have helped tremendously not only with those problems, but so much more. The library has been a great resource for working with, and locating data, which I did not expect when entering Dartmouth.” John Cocklin adds, "Ranjan is a gifted student, and Professor Sacerdote has been a great partner as the Library expanded its economic data collection. For many years, the Library has provided online access to the full-text of historical and current newspapers like the New York Times, Wall Street Journal, and Le Monde to the Dartmouth Community. More recently we have been working with publishers to also provide the raw files and tools necessary for the type of data mining Ranjan and Professor Sacerdote used to find patterns in large collections of text." The Library continues to invest in specialized data sources and to teach data analysis skills to aid both faculty and students in their research. Email & Phone Feldberg Business & Engineering Library feldberg.reference@dartmouth.edu 603-646-2191 Address Feldberg Business & Engineering Library 31 Murdough Dartmouth College Hanover, NH 03755 Mailing Address: Dartmouth College 31 Murdough Center Room 101-A HB 6193 Hanover, NH 03755 Our Staff Matthew M. Benzing Research and Learning Librarian - STEM Richard Langdell Library Collections Services Specialist Amelia B. Looby Research & Learning Librarian - Business & Economics Jentry E. Campbell Research and Learning Librarian - STEM John Cocklin Research & Learning Librarian - Business & Economics Interim Head of Acquisitions Jane Quigley Head of Research & Learning for STEM, Business & Economics Karen L. Sluzenski Research & Learning Librarian - Business & Economics Kenneth Gonzalez-Ponce Library Access Services Specialist All Feldberg Business & Engineering Library Staff Dartmouth Library Baker-Berry Library Book Arts Workshop Evans Map Room Jones Media Center Biomedical Libraries Feldberg Business & Engineering Library Rauner Special Collections Library Records Management Sherman Art Library About Us Strategic Objectives Staff & Departments Subject Librarians Alumni Services Visiting & History Accessibility Library Catalog Careers Friends of the Library More About Us Contact Us 25 North Main Street Hanover, NH, USA 03755 Phone: 603-646-2567 Contact Us Give Us Feedback Connect with Us Facebook Instagram YouTube Footer copyright Dartmouth Copyright © 2020 Trustees of Dartmouth College Privacy