Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Brown University Robert J. & Nancy D.Carney Institute for Brain Science Search Brown University Home Research Research Projects Where Brain Science Happens BRAINSTORM Program Centers & Core Facilities Center for Alzheimer's Disease Research Center for Computational Brain Science COBRE Center for Neuromodulation Center for the Neurobiology of Cells and Circuits Center for Translational Neuroscience Center for Vision Research COBRE Center for Central Nervous System Function Research Projects Research Cores Behavior and Neuroimaging Core Design and Analysis Core MRI Research Facility Carney Human Testing Space The Bioluminescence Hub COVID-19 Resuming Research Plan Training Undergraduate Students Concentrations Graduate Study Postdocs Executive Committee Carney Summer Scholars Training Programs ICoN - Interdisciplinary Training Interdisciplinary Vision Training Program TPCP - Training Program People Institute Team Executive Committee Affiliated Faculty Community Spotlights Center Directors Scientific Advisory Board News & Events News Upcoming Events Past Events BrainExPo Seminar Series Carney Conversations Methods Meetups Resources Funding Opportunities Research Toolbox Brain Facts Education & Outreach Research & Educational Resources About Our Impact Affiliated Units Where Brain Science Happens FAQ Partner With Us Give To Carney Give To Carney Home Research Research Projects Where Brain Science Happens BRAINSTORM Program Centers & Core Facilities Center for Alzheimer's Disease Research Center for Computational Brain Science COBRE Center for Neuromodulation Center for the Neurobiology of Cells and Circuits Center for Translational Neuroscience Center for Vision Research COBRE Center for Central Nervous System Function MRI Research Facility Carney Human Testing Space The Bioluminescence Hub COVID-19 Resuming Research Plan Training People News & Events Resources About Partner With Us Search Carney Institute for Brain Science Center for Translational Neuroscience About Affiliated Clinical Programs Events Announcements The Brown Center for Translational Neuroscience (CTN) synergizes the missions of the Robert J. and Nancy D. Carney Institute for Brain Science and the Brown Institute for Translational Science (BITS). The mission of the CTN is to advance knowledge of the pathogenesis of brain disease and to translate this knowledge to improved clinical outcomes for families affected by brain disease. The mission has an emphasis in research and training related to deciphering disease pathogenesis, identification of new targets for molecular interventions, and development of improved diagnostics and biomarkers. In establishing the first formal collaboration between the Carney Institute and BITS, the CTN is a bench-to-bedside, “go-to” hub facilitating translational neuroscience research at Brown University and the clinical neuroscience departments in the Warren Alpert Medical School and affiliated hospitals. The CTN builds upon and complements current translational research strength and expertise at Brown, with a central focus on specific brain diseases. A key element of the CTN is multidisciplinary team science with a focus in molecular medicine. The science of the CTN starts with patients and takes the specific approach of genetically inspired translational neuroscience. To this end, an emphasis in the CTN is to follow the logic of genetics based in the approach of a translational neuroscience cycle of research. This cycle moves back and forth from fundamental basic research to clinical research — with each stage providing key information that can be integrated into clinically relevant solutions — and, thereby, serves families affected by brain disease. Robert J. & Nancy D. Carney Institute for Brain Science Robert J. & Nancy D. Carney Institute for Brain Science Brown University Box 1901 164 Angell St., 4th Floor Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-7421 Email [email protected] Brown University Giving to Brown Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA 401-863-1000 Contact Us Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility All Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top