Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search More Sites Main College College News About Us Undergraduate Graduate People News Research Labs Give About Us Undergraduate Graduate People News Research Labs Give Search About Us Undergraduate Graduate People News Research Labs Give We are an integrative biology department that cultivates interactions that traverse traditional interdisciplinary boundaries. We actively recruit scientists who span spatial, temporal and complexity scales from molecular to cellular to organismal to population to ecosystem, using the most powerful approaches to address Biology’s most pressing questions. The Department of Biology is conducting an open rank cluster hire to recruit three new faculty who will integrate with any of the department’s four main research foci. We especially encourage applications from candidates who will increase departmental diversity. Click here to view advertisement. We apply this integrative approach to undergraduate education, developing novel cross-disciplinary courses and exposing our students to cutting edge research through direct involvement in research lab groups. Faculty Spotlight An interactive community of six symbiosis/microbiome research groups Learn More Undergraduate Spotlight Sathvik Palakurty (Class of 2019) Learn more Meet Our New Faculty Meet our new faculty member Dr. Dalia Shelton Read More Graduate Student Spotlight Belen Fadrique (Feeley Lab) Learn more Give to the department Give to the Department of Biology Learn more John C. Gifford Arboretum Take a virtual tour of the Arboretum! Learn more University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 Department of Biology 215 Cox Science Center 1301 Memorial Drive Coral Gables, FL 33146 Phone 305-284-4647 Phone 305-284-4647 Fax: 305-284-3039 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices