Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Honors College Menu About Contact Information Events FAQs Give Leadership Honors College Advisory Council News Profiles Social Media Directory Faculty Meet with Us & Learn More! Distinguished Scholars Day Invitation to Excellence Opportunities Experiential Opportunities Baylor 2 Programs Baylor in Washington D.C. The Pulse William Carey Crane Scholars Getterman Scholars Program Application Tips Program Selection Requirements for Consideration Meet Our Getterman Scholars Pre-Health & Science Baylor 2 Medical Track Program Christian Pre-Health Fellowship (CPF) Research & Internship Opportunities Student Research Materials Grant Programs & Majors University Scholars Great Texts Baylor Interdisciplinary Core (BIC) Honors Program Research Faculty Publications Student Research Materials Grant Student Publications Pre-Health & Science Research/Internships Undergraduate Research Assistant Program Scholarships Scholarships for Prospective Students Scholarships for Current Students Scholarships for International Students Study Abroad Study Abroad Scholarships The Honors Residential College Benefits Why Honors (Videos) Choose the Honors College Prestigious Post-Baccalaureate Scholarships & Awards Resources & Events Academic Honors Week Laura Jackson Lecture Drumwright Lecture Career Opportunities & Awards Prestigious Post-Baccalaureate Awards Lecture Videos Publications Recent Faculty Books Student Publications The Pulse Marketing Resources Pre-Advising 2022 Meet Your Major Programs Application Process Application Timeline Honors College Line Camp Questions & Tips Apply Now Give Baylor>Honors College>About>News News May 27 2022 The Honors College Launches Undergraduate Research Assistant Program Earlier this spring, Honors College Dean Douglas Henry announced the launch of the Undergraduate Research Assistant Program. This new program, which directly supports Pro Futuris and Illuminate, will provide support for research productive faculty and give Honors College students the opportunity to learn and be mentored as they assist professors. May 18 2022 Dr. Darren J.N. Middleton Appointed Director of the Baylor Interdisciplinary Core The Honors College is excited to announce that Dr. Darren J.N. Middleton, John F. Weatherly Professor of Religion at Texas Christian University, has accepted appointment as Director of the Baylor Interdisciplinary Core. In addition to his administrative role, he will hold a tenured faculty appointment in the BIC as Professor of Literature and Theology. He is set to begin service effective August 1. May 12 2022 Baylor Religion Professor Receives Fulbright U.S. Scholar Award to South Korea WACO, Texas (May 12, 2022) – Baylor University Honors College faculty member Candi K. Cann, Ph.D., associate professor of religion in the Baylor Interdisciplinary Core (BIC), has received a Fulbright U.S. Scholar Award to South Korea, a prestigious and competitive fellowship of the Department of State’s Bureau of Educational and Cultural Affairs. Apr 29 2022 100 Days of Dante Creates the World’s Largest Dante Reading Group Seven months ago, Baylor’s Honors College embarked on a journey to create the world’s largest Dante reading group through 100 Days of Dante. With the help of Biola University, Gonzaga University, Whitworth University, the University of Dallas, and Eastern University, the project led over 15,000 people from across the globe through the Divine Comedy. Apr 20 2022 Honors College Graduates Win Wilson Award for Best Thesis during Academic Honors Week Honors College graduates Samuel Aker, Benjamin “Jack” Young and Angelo Wong were recently named the 2021 recipients of the F. Ray Wilson II Award for Best Thesis, a recognition that rewards excellence in scholarship honoring undergraduate thesis writers in Baylor’s Honors Program. Apr 15 2022 Dean's Update - April 15, 2022 Do you know Christina Rossetti’s moving Good Friday poem? It's entitled "Beneath the Cross." Her plaintive self-indictment begins with the first line, continues in the middle stanzas through contrasts with mortal and cosmic lament at Christ’s passion, and gathers at the end with an appeal to the mercy of the Lord. On this day, may we weep for love of Christ, sorrow for sin, and hope of redemption. Happy Good Friday, my friends. Apr 5 2022 Baylor University Announces $3 Million Gift Establishing New Chair in Christian Thought WACO, Texas (April 7, 2022) – Baylor University today announced a $3 million gift from Jim and Sharon Harrod of Horseshoe Bay, Texas, establishing an endowed faculty chair position to support exceptional scholarship and transformational learning within the Honors College and the study of great thinkers who have stood at the intersection of the Christian faith and culture at large. Mar 31 2022 Honors College Program Attracts Top-Tier Students Each year, hundreds of high-achieving students apply for the chance to be named a Getterman Scholar. Along with the prestige of selection comes an annually renewable scholarship that covers full tuition, fees, room and board, along with summer study abroad, research internships, and mission/service trips. Mar 28 2022 Baylor Honors College Faculty Member Selected for Elite Summer Fellowship Baylor University’s Honors College is pleased to share that Dr. Matthew Whelan, Assistant Professor of Moral Theology in the Honors Program, has been selected as a Campion Hall Laudato Si’ Research Institute (LSRI) Visiting Fellow. Mar 15 2022 Dean's Update - March 15, 2021 Thirty-three years ago, a gifted professor nearly persuaded me down the road not taken. Frank Smist’s political science course took stock of a world of Cold War conflict. Those days held relentless awareness of the prospect of nuclear annihilation. To be sure, as the 1980s wound down, Mikhail Gorbachev’s efforts at glasnost and perestroika were welcome, and rumors of a McDonald’s planned in Pushkin Square were sensational. Yet such developments tamped down rather than resolved superpower tension. In spring 1989, no one imagined staggering changes coming later that year when the links of the Iron Curtain broke apart. Feb 24 2022 Student-Engaged Partnership Accelerates Undergraduate Microbiome and Cancer Research Baylor students participate in top-tier research on state-of-the-art equipment, like an anaerobic chamber in Dr. Leigh Greathouse's lab. Learn how a unique partnership, focused on student research opportunities, brought this resource to Baylor. Feb 16 2022 Dean's Update - February 15, 2022 C.S. Lewis is ubiquitous. He routinely turns up in conversation. Students know his work and refer to it. Our faculty and staff trace his influence in our lives, sometimes incorporating his books or essays into courses. Alumni and donors frequently bring up Lewis when I see them, calling attention to his accessibility and relevance for ordinary people. Just last week, I spoke with a magnificently generous couple about their love of Lewis. In him they recognize a kindred spirit, a person whose faith and mind work together and whose writing edifies and elevates them. Feb 1 2022 Honors College Anticipates New Home at the Historic Heart of Baylor In 2021, the Baylor Board of Regents approved the renovation and improvement of the Honors Residential College (HRC) along with the development of space in nearby academic facilities for Honors College faculty and staff offices. Spanning both sides of Founders Mall, the Honors College’s new home will create a hub of honors education at the historic heart of the University. Jan 20 2022 Baylor Senior Chemistry Major Wins Prestigious Churchill Scholarship WACO, Texas (Jan. 20, 2022) – Baylor University senior chemistry major Kate Rojales of Milton, Georgia, is among 18 recipients of the prestigious Churchill Scholarship in mathematics, science and engineering, announced by the Winston Churchill Foundation of the United States. Rojales, who conducts research as an undergraduate in inorganic chemistry, is the second Churchill Scholar in just two years of the University being a participating institution in the program. Jan 19 2022 University Scholars Assistant Director Receives NEH Grant to Translate Important Medieval Treatise A Baylor University faculty member will use a prestigious grant from the National Endowment for the Humanities (NEH) to make the ideas of one of the greatest medieval philosophers more accessible and understandable to modern readers. Jan 17 2022 Dean's Update - January 17, 2022 Happy Martin Luther King Jr. Day! I’m reflecting today on a challenging new book by Roosevelt Montas, known for his past leadership of Columbia University’s celebrated core curriculum. Rescuing Socrates: How Great Books Changed My Life and Why They Matter for a New Generation unites memoir, a defense of liberal education, and critical reflection on Plato, Augustine, Freud, and Gandhi—"four companions . . . [who] speak with intimate familiarity about human experiences that we all share.” Written in first-person voice and full of touching anecdotes, the book is warmly personal and inspiring. It is also attuned to critical identity issues that cut through the heart of American life. Nov 30 2021 Drumwright Family Lecture Features Angel Adams Parham, Ph.D. Over the last several months, headlines haven’t shied away from what they call a crisis in the Classics. Some criticism of the great books, echoed in the New York Times Magazine, calls for removing canonical works of epic poetry, drama, and literature because they are tainted by racism. Nov 15 2021 Dean's Update - November 15, 2021 I recently finished Eric Adler’s The Battle of the Classics: How a Nineteenth-Century Debate Can Save the Humanities Today. It opens with an anecdote from a general education debate that it was Adler’s misfortune to witness. Nov 5 2021 Baylor Regents Affirm Next Five-Year Framework for Illuminate Strategic Plan, Including Hiring 100 Faculty, Completing Residence Hall Renovations, Athletics Capital Projects WACO, Texas (Nov. 5, 2021) – During its regular fall meeting, the Baylor University Board of Regents affirmed the framework for the next five years of Illuminate, the University’s strategic plan, including hiring 100 new faculty to accelerate the University toward Research 1 status as the preeminent Christian research university. Oct 28 2021 New Grant Helps Faculty Re-Envision the Humanities With humanities education being examined on a national scale, the Honors College is embarking on a year-long initiative to re-envision humanities education through a faculty mentoring program led by Honors College Dean Douglas Henry. Oct 18 2021 Dean's Update - October 18, 2021 What happens when you thread together autobiography, literary criticism, pedagogical reflection, and travel literature, with Homer’s Odyssey as an organizing principle of it all? One finds out in Daniel Mendelsohn’s touching book, , An Odyssey: A Father, a Son, and an Epic (Knopf, 2017). Luke Slattery describes the book as Mendelsohn’s “attempt to braid Homer’s fantastical seafaring tale into his own life; his own family story. It’s at once a lit lesson and a travel tale, an autobiography and biography: a double portrait of father and son echoing the bond between Odysseus, eponymous hero of Homer’s tale, and his son Telemachus.” Oct 3 2021 Dean's Update - October 3, 2021 Much of last week and the coming one, I’m traveling to bring good words about the Honors College to alumni, friends, and donors in the Houston, Washington, DC, and Boston areas. It’s a joy to hold high our accomplishments and to invite others to embrace and support our aspirations. Admiration of the Honors College runs high. I always hear spirited praise of our faculty and staff, and the stories recounted of our students’ successes are touching. Sep 24 2021 MD Anderson Internship Places Honors Program Students at the Forefront of Cancer Research Everyone has a cancer story. Whether they have battled cancer themselves, know someone who just received a diagnosis, or lost a loved one to the disease, no one escapes unscathed. This summer, nine Baylor Honors Program students were given the opportunity to work shoulder-to-shoulder with MD Anderson cancer researchers hoping to make those cancer stories fewer and further between. Sep 15 2021 Dean's Update - September 15, 2021 Ken Follett’s Pillars of the Earth was published in 1989, translated into 30 languages in over 27 million copies, and adapted into an acclaimed miniseries. It begins and ends with a somber line: “The small boys came early to the hanging.” The first hanging, in 1123 A.D., is of an innocent commoner, a penniless minstrel accused of theft. The second hanging, a half-century later, is of guilty aristocrat, a sadistic nobleman involved in Thomas Beckett’s murder. Between the two deaths, Follett limns the lines of a soaring cathedral while he explores the foundations—the pillars of the earth—on which life, longing, and love are built. Sep 1 2021 Dean's Update - September 1, 2021 One of the humanities’ mainstays, classics, has garnered attention in recent years over racist tropes in ancient texts, problematic interpretations, and whether or not the field should be sustained in its present form. Dan-el Padilla Peralta has voiced the view that classics is “equal parts vampire and cannibal,” and is undeserving of a future in the academy. Are you looking for more News? Archives About Contact Information Events FAQs Give Leadership Honors College Advisory Council News Profiles Social Media Directory Faculty Meet with Us & Learn More! Distinguished Scholars Day Invitation to Excellence Honors College Contact Us ApplyVisitMake a GiftBaylor Interdisciplinary CoreGreat TextsHonors Residential CollegeHonors ProgramUniversity Scholars General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 About Contact Information Events FAQs Give Leadership Honors College Advisory Council News Profiles Social Media Directory Faculty Meet with Us & Learn More! Distinguished Scholars Day Invitation to Excellence Opportunities Experiential Opportunities Baylor 2 Programs Baylor in Washington D.C. The Pulse William Carey Crane Scholars Getterman Scholars Program Application Tips Program Selection Requirements for Consideration Meet Our Getterman Scholars Pre-Health & Science Baylor 2 Medical Track Program Christian Pre-Health Fellowship (CPF) Research & Internship Opportunities Student Research Materials Grant Programs & Majors University Scholars Great Texts Baylor Interdisciplinary Core (BIC) Honors Program Research Faculty Publications Student Research Materials Grant Student Publications Pre-Health & Science Research/Internships Undergraduate Research Assistant Program Scholarships Scholarships for Prospective Students Scholarships for Current Students Scholarships for International Students Study Abroad Study Abroad Scholarships The Honors Residential College Benefits Why Honors (Videos) Choose the Honors College Prestigious Post-Baccalaureate Scholarships & Awards Resources & Events Academic Honors Week Laura Jackson Lecture Drumwright Lecture Career Opportunities & Awards Prestigious Post-Baccalaureate Awards Lecture Videos Publications Recent Faculty Books Student Publications The Pulse Marketing Resources Pre-Advising 2022 Meet Your Major Programs Application Process Application Timeline Honors College Line Camp Questions & Tips Apply Now Give