By continuing to use this site, you agree to the use of cookies in accordance with our privacy policy. Dismiss Stay Safe The official source of public health information for Syracuse University. Skip to Content Open menu About Admissions Academics Life Athletics More Search the University Open search Popular searches Close menu Home About Toggle dropdown Leadership Vision & Mission Consumer Information Facts & Figures Plan Your Visit Campus Map History News Partnerships Work at Syracuse Social Media Bookstore Brand Help & Contacts Admissions Toggle dropdown Undergraduate Graduate Online Part-Time Cost & Aid Request Information Visit & Tour Apply Academics Toggle dropdown Schools & Colleges Undergraduate Majors & Minors Graduate Degrees Online Programs Syracuse University Global Study Abroad Opportunities & Support Calendars Departments Research Centers & Institutes Libraries, Collections & Galleries Academic Administration Life Toggle dropdown Accessibility & Diversity Campus Highlights Events Calendar Services & Support Meals & Dining Housing Groups & Activities Recreation & Facilities For Students For Veterans & Military For Faculty & Staff For Parents & Families A-Z Index Sitemap Login Athletics Men’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Football Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Track and Field Women’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Field Hockey Ice Hockey Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Softball Tennis Track and Field Volleyball Athletics Dept. Toggle dropdown Facilities Staff Directory Academic Honors Community Service Spirit Program Varsity Club Sports Medicine Championships Fan Zone Toggle dropdown Dome Schedule Seating Information Orange All Access Otto’s Kids Club Game Photos Promotions Orange Club Schedules News Alumni About Toggle dropdown Notable Alumni Alumni Association Awards News Events and Clubs Toggle dropdown Orange Central Northeast Midwest South West World/Affinity Regions Toggle dropdown Atlanta Boston Chicago Los Angeles Middle East New York San Francisco Washington, DC Services Toggle dropdown Career Network Generation Orange Directory Profile Class Notes Giving Contact Contact Visit Apply Coronavirus Updates Forever Orange Home Admissions Undergraduate Admitted FAQ More from this Section Syracuse Bound Deferral Request Veterans Syracuse Pathway Program HEOP & SSS Visit Opportunities Checklist Housing Living Learning Communities Health and Wellness Requirements Dining & Meal Plans Expenses, Billing, & Payment Things to Consider Technology International Students Important Dates Discovery Program SummerStart Admitted Students FAQ The Office of Admissions can provide answers to your questions relating to program of study, dining options, student organizations, payment, important forms, and more. Here are a few of the most frequently asked questions: How do I find out more about the program to which I have been admitted? What kind of food will I find on campus and nearby? What types of clubs and organizations are available? What exercise facilities and recreation opportunities are available? Is the advance tuition payment refundable? Is the advance housing payment refundable? What forms of payment are accepted? Where and when do I need to send in the Health Form? What if I'm getting a low grade in one of my current high school classes? Is my admission going to be rescinded if I drop the class? When and how do I register for classes? When is orientation and when do I move in? When do classes start? How do I gain access to the online Housing and Meal Plan Application? Do I need to complete the online Housing and Meal Plan Application if I'm not going to live on campus? How am I assigned housing and may I choose my residence hall? What is a Learning Community? I am entering as a first-year student. In what type of room will I live? I am entering as a transfer student. In what type of room will I live? What meal plan must I purchase? Is tobacco use allowed on Syracuse University's campus? Where do I send my advance payments by mail? As an international student, what do I need to do when I arrive at Syracuse University? When do I take the ELAE exam? As an international student, how do I ship my luggage to the U.S.? How do I find out more about the program to which I have been admitted? Link You can learn more about the program to which you are admitted by exploring your college’s website. School of Architecture The College of Arts and Sciences School of Education College of Engineering and Computer Science School of Information Studies Martin J. Whitman School of Management S.I. Newhouse School of Public Communications David B. Falk College of Sport and Human Dynamics College of Visual and Performing Arts Maxwell School of Citizenship and Public Affairs What kind of food will I find on campus and nearby? Link All undergraduates living in either Main or South Campus residence halls are required to enroll in a University meal plan. Meal plans provide a wide array of dining options on campus in the five residence hall dining centers (vegetarian, vegan, kosher, and halal options available), two food courts, 15 cafes, and four on-campus convenience stores. Within walking distance from campus are restaurants on Marshall Street or in the Westcott area. Or, explore eateries in downtown Syracuse by taking the Connective Corridor bus. What types of clubs and organizations are available? Link You can choose from more than 350 student organizations from academics, arts, and entertainment, to governance, Greek life, and more. Many students get involved in the community through service learning and volunteer opportunities. Visit the Mary Ann Shaw Center for Public and Community Service to learn more. What exercise facilities and recreation opportunities are available? Link Students can choose from a variety of Drop-In Fitness Classes, Intramural Sports, Sport Clubs, weight rooms, gyms, studios, tennis courts, and fields on campus. While students can participate in the various exercise and recreation activities on campus, there’s plenty to do off campus as well. Students can take advantage of Outdoor Adventure activities such as whitewater rafting, skiing and hiking. Visit the Barnes Center at The Arch Be Active webpage for more information. Is the advance tuition payment refundable? Link The advance tuition payment is $500 for the spring or fall 2022 semester. If you withdraw from Syracuse University, your advance tuition payment is fully refundable until May 1, 2022 (January 1, 2022 for spring applicants). Deadlines for submitting the tuition payment: Spring enrollment: As soon as possible. Enrollment is on a space-available basis Early Decision: February 15 (if you were not admitted to your first choice, the deadline is May 1) Regular Decision: May 1, or as noted on your letter of admission Is the advance housing payment refundable? Link The advance housing payment is $450 for the spring or fall 2022 semester. If you withdraw from Syracuse University, your advance housing payment is fully refundable until June 1, 2022 (January 1, 2022 for spring applicants). After that date, your housing commitment is financially binding. Refunds are subject to penalties according to schedules stated in Tuition, Fees, and Related Policies, a publication available from Bursar Operations. What forms of payment are accepted? Link When completing the Admissions Acceptance Form, you will see options for submitting your advance payments. The following forms of payment will be accepted: ACH Electronic Funds Transfer from U.S. Bank Checking or Savings Account Credit Card or Debit Card Using a secure online web connection and browser, you may use your credit or debit card to make a payment on your Bursar account. You may use MasterCard, Visa, or Discover credit cards, or debit cards with the MasterCard or Visa logo. Important: NelNet Business Solutions, an independent third party contractor that accepts tuition and other payments made using credit and debit cards, charges a non-refundable convenience fee of 2.7 % of the amount charged. This fee is established and charged solely by NelNet Business Solutions, not by the University. The convenience fee is paid in full to and retained by NelNet Business Solutions; the University does not receive any of this fee. Paper Check Please make the check payable to Syracuse University. Write the Student Account Number (SUID) in the comment section of the check. Checks must be drawn on a U.S. Bank. Third party checks will not be accepted. A $25.00 fee will be charged to your Bursar Account for each check that is returned due to Insufficient Funds. Mail to: Admission Acceptance Processing Syracuse University P. O. Box 35180 Syracuse, NY 13235 If you choose to send the advance payments using a package delivery company (i.e. FedEx, UPS, DHL), use this address: Admission Acceptance Processing Syracuse University 400 Ostrom Ave Syracuse, NY 13244 Wire Transfer Should you need to provide a physical mailing address to complete a wire transfer, please use: JPMorgan Chase 500 Plum St Syracuse, NY 13204 More specific information is provided on the Admission Acceptance Form. Where and when do I need to send in the Health Form? Link Incoming students are asked to complete the following health and wellness requirements. Find instructions and additional information surrounding the health and wellness requirements on the Health and Wellness Services and Requirements webpage. What if I'm getting a low grade in one of my current high school classes? Is my admission going to be rescinded if I drop the class? Link Please seek assistance from your current teacher. The Office of Admissions cannot definitively advise you on whether to drop or switch your current course. The final decision should be made in consultation with your guidance counselor and in consideration of your goals and the requirements of the college to which you have been accepted, as well as your high school’s graduation requirements. You will need to decide what is the best course of action for your situation. Your guidance counselor will need to submit your final high school transcript at the end of your senior year. Your admission is contingent upon maintaining the same level of academic achievement as demonstrated in your application as well as graduation from secondary school. When and how do I register for classes? Link This varies by school or college. For spring enrollment you will register during orientation. For fall enrollment, you’ll receive information in late May. When is orientation and when do I move in? Link Please visit the Office of First-Year and Transfer Programs for more information on orientation. When do classes start? Link Please check out the complete academic calendar for important dates. How do I gain access to the online Housing and Meal Plan Application? Link You must complete the following steps prior to gaining access to the online housing application: Accept your offer of admission by submitting the online Admission Acceptance Form (AAF) with your advance tuition and housing payments. If you have not already done so, activate your NetID. Access your official Syracuse University email account. Upon receipt of an e-mail from Syracuse University Housing to your syr.edu email account confirming your MySlice Student Services access to the online housing application, complete your housing application. View a tutorial on completing the online housing application. Do I need to complete the online Housing and Meal Plan Application if I'm not going to live on campus? Link If your immediate family resides in the Syracuse area and you plan to commute from home, please check the appropriate box on the online Housing and Meal Plan Application. If you are not obligated to the University’s two-year, on-campus living requirements and you plan to live off campus, please check the appropriate box on the online Housing and Meal Plan Application. How am I assigned housing and may I choose my residence hall? Link Shortly after the Candidates Reply Date, the Office of Housing assigns a random number to each online housing application received from new first-year and transfer students. The randomly assigned number will establish the order in which applications are processed and is designed to promote a fair and equitable system for all new students that is inclusive and encourages students from different backgrounds to live together. Housing assignments will be made in the order of the assigned number and will take into consideration any living and learning opportunities, mutual roommate requests, or special circumstances you have indicated on the online Housing and Meal Plan Application. The University will not accept requests for housing in a specific room type or residence hall. What is a Learning Community? Link Learning Communities allow you to live and take classes with a group of students who are all joined by a common interest or academic major. Although living in a learning community is optional, many first year students find that the experience helps to ease the transition to college life. However, not all communities are residential. Check out your LC options. Learning Communities are offered on a space-available basis and fill up quickly. If you’d like to enroll in a community, please submit your completed Admission Acceptance Form as soon as possible so you may gain access to the online Housing and Meal Plan Application. I am entering as a first-year student. In what type of room will I live? Link First-year students live in one of the following residence halls on Main Campus: Boland, Brewster, Brockway, Day, DellPlain, Ernie Davis, Flint, Haven, Lawrinson, Sadler or Shaw. First-year students typically live in a double with another first-year student. View more information on floor plans, building descriptions, specific living options, and virtual tours of rooms. I am entering as a transfer student. In what type of room will I live? Link Transfer students typically live on South Campus. If you have completed fewer than 40 credit hours, you are encouraged to reside in University housing unless you have a family or commute from the permanent home of your immediate family. Housing for transfers is on a space-available basis until all vacancies are filled. View more information on floor plans, building descriptions, specific living options and virtual tours of rooms. What meal plan must I purchase? Link First-year students may choose from a variety of unlimited or block meal plans. You can find more information on meal plan options on the Housing, Meal Plan and I.D. Card Services web page. Is tobacco use allowed on Syracuse University's campus? Link To help ensure a healthy, productive, respectful environment, Syracuse University is pleased to provide a smoke- and tobacco-free campus, effective July 1, 2015. Learn more about our tobacco-free policy. Where do I send my advance payments by mail? Link By mail: If you will be sending your advance payments using a package delivery company (i.e., FedEx, UPS, DHL), please send to the following address: Admission Acceptance Processing Syracuse University 400 Ostrom Ave Syracuse, NY 13244 By Credit Card or Wire Transfer: You also have the option to submit your advance payments by credit card or wire transfer. You may authorize your banking institution to transfer funds through the Federal Reserve (U.S. banks) or the SWIFT system (foreign banks), in accordance with the following instructions: JPMorgan Chase New York, NY ABA#: 021000021 Credit: Syracuse University Account #: 018-000-1182 ATTN: Upstate Syracuse Account SWIFT Code: CHASUS33 (required for foreign banks only) Reference: (include your student ID number) Should you need to provide a physical mailing address to complete a wire transfer, please use: JPMorgan Chase 500 Plum St Syracuse, NY 13204 Using a secure online connection and browser, you may use your credit or debit card to make a payment on your Bursar account. You may use MasterCard, Visa, or Discover credit cards, or debit cards with the MasterCard or Visa logo. Important notice: NelNet Business Solutions, an independent third party contractor that accepts tuition and other payments made using credit and debit cards, charges a non-refundable convenience fee. Further information is provided on your Admission Acceptance Form (AAF). As an international student, what do I need to do when I arrive at Syracuse University? Link Upon arrival, please report to the Center for International Services to start your orientation and clearance procedures. They have prepared a checklist to help you make a smooth transition into life at Syracuse University. When do I take the ELAE exam? Link If required, international students must take the ELAE exam. You may take the exam upon arrival, prior to the beginning of classes. Visit the Center for International Services website for more information. As an international student, how do I ship my luggage to the U.S.? Link You may ship your luggage and boxes to Express Save Industries (ESI) in Syracuse. To do this, you must send a fax to ESI with the following information: Your name Address Phone number Fax number Email address Your anticipated date of arrival Number of boxes and bags The fax number for ESI is 315.454.0292. The charges will be a minimum of $10 monthly storage fee for each package less than 2x2x2 feet. To have the bags delivered to the front door of your residence or residence hall, there will be an additional charge. Further questions can be addressed to ESI at the fax number above. Popular Toggle dropdown Academic Calendar Campus Map Careers Libraries Majors and Minors Visit and Tour A-Z Toggle dropdown Academic Departments Schools and Colleges Sitemap Search Contact Toggle dropdown Admissions Financial Aid Emergency Contacts Human Resources Make a Gift Login Toggle dropdown MySlice Blackboard SUMail Syracuse University 900 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, NY 13244 Phone: +1.315.443.1870 Follow S.U. on Instagram Like S.U. on Facebook Follow S.U. on Twitter Follow S.U. on LinkedIn Follow S.U. on Tiktok Subscribe to S.U. on YouTube © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy