Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Applied Behavior Analysis Certificate (Graduate) You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Applied Behavior Analysis Certificate (Graduate) Apply Visit Request More Info Applied Behavior Analysis Certificate (Graduate) Admissions Information Financial Aid Our Faculty Applied Behavior Analysis Graduate Certificate The Applied Behavior Analysis Certificate (Graduate) program in Temple’s College of Education and Human Development trains students to apply the principles of learning and behavior to influence behavior change that is significant to society. Learn to systematically change behavior by analyzing related environmental variables and applying interventions based on the principles of behavior analysis. Behavior analysts have improved a wide range of everyday issues, including enhancing staff performance, promoting industrial and public safety initiatives, teaching effective parenting skills, treating problem behavior in children, improving general and special education teaching strategies, rehabilitating individuals who abuse substances, and more. This graduate-level certificate program teaches you effective instructional strategies for teaching students with autism spectrum disorders, ethical practices for behavioral analysts, implementation of a behavioral change program, theoretical foundations of behavioral analysis and more. Program course of study fulfills the coursework requirements of the Behavior Analyst Certification Board (BACB), but does not culminate in a degree. Check out the frequently asked questions about the Applied Behavior Analysis program. Who Might Be Interested? Educational or social services professionals who would like to achieve BACB certification without enrolling in a graduate degree program (e.g., professionals who already have a degree acceptable to the Behavior Analysis Certification Board) are excellent candidates for this graduate-level, continuing education certificate program. If you are interested in the coursework and a degree in applied behavior analysis, consider the Master of Education in Applied Behavior Analysis. That program fulfills both the degree and coursework requirements for BACB certification. Learn more about the Applied Behavior Analysis MSEd. Association for Behavior Analysis International Verification The Association for Behavior Analysis International has verified the following courses toward the coursework requirements for eligibility to take the Board Certified Behavior Analyst® or Board Certified Assistant Behavior Analyst® examination. Applicants will need to meet additional requirements before they can be deemed eligible to take the examination. Credit Requirements To earn the Applied Behavior Analysis Certificate (Graduate), you must complete seven graduate-level courses (21 credits) in applied behavior analysis. Though these credits may be applied (pending approval) to the Master of Science in Education in Applied Behavior Analysis, completion of the certificate program does not guarantee admission to the graduate program. Non-matriculated students may transfer up to nine credits of coursework before enrolling in the certificate program. Classes & Curriculum Concepts taught in classes include assessment of skill deficits and behavior problems, principles of learning, single subject research methodology, and more. View the complete Applied Behavior Analysis Certificate (Graduate) curriculum. Field Experience As part of your academic program, you will gain firsthand knowledge in classrooms through immersive field placements. Clearance Requirements Students enrolled in courses that require fieldwork or internships must submit updated child abuse, criminal and drug clearances every year. Learn more about submitting clearance requirements. Delivery Method All courses are delivered in the classroom on Temple’s Main Campus in Philadelphia. You can enroll part- or full-time and have up to two years to complete the certificate program. Related Graduate Degrees Applied Behavior Analysis MSEd Special Education MEd Related Graduate Certificates Autism Endorsement Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Graduate Certificate offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $966.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,329.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Program Contact Jason Travers, associate professor in the Teaching and Learning Department, is the faculty program coordinator for the Applied Behavior Analysis Certificate (Graduate) program. Email: jason.travers@temple.edu Our Advisors Individual Applied Behavior Analysis faculty advisors will guide you in navigating the curriculum and selecting the appropriate coursework to achieve your academic and professional goals. A graduate academic advisor will also be available to help you with scheduling, policies and procedures to ensure your smooth passage through the program. Approved Course Sequence This program meets the coursework requirements for the Board Certified Behavior Analyst (BCBA) credential. This program consists of a Verified Course Sequence (VCS), verified by the Behavior Analyst Certification Board (BACB). Students are responsible for ensuring they complete all requirements designated by the BACB for the certification. For example, students will need to ensure they have a BACB-approved degree and obtain all supervised experience independently to fulfill the supervised experience hours required by the BACB. See the Behavior Analyst Certification Board’s website for more information about the requirements for the national BCBA credential, and view the BCBA Examination pass rate report (pdf). Questions For more information about this program, the College of Education and Human Development, how to apply for admission, and your application status, contact Enrollment Management. Enrollment Management Ritter Annex 150 1301 Cecil B. Moore Ave. Philadelphia, PA 19122 Phone: 215-204-8011 Email: educate@temple.edu ED-ABA-GRAD Additional Program Information Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Applied Behavior Analysis Certificate (Graduate) Admissions Information Financial Aid Our Faculty Apply Visit Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Visit Request More Info