Skip to main content Information For: Current Students Alumni Harvard Undergraduates Educators Recruiters Media Apply Give to HGSE Search Apply for Degree Programs Apply for Professional Education Donate Give back to HGSE and support the next generation of passionate educators and innovative leaders. Keywords Close Menu Degree Programs Professional Education Faculty & Research Usable Knowledge Keywords About HGSE About the Dean Dean's Welcome Messages from the Dean Commentary and Media Dean's Office History of HGSE Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Our Impact Campus and Facilities Office Directory Virtual Tour Gutman Conference Center Reservation Request Form Capacities and Cost Floor Plan Catering Policies Audio Visual Directions, Parking, and Hotels Map of HGSE Directions to HGSE History of HGSE Buildings Faculty & Staff Directory Work at HGSE Title IX Information Doctoral Degree Programs Doctor of Education Leadership Doctor of Philosophy in Education Brochures Academic Calendar Academic Catalog Doctoral Viewbook Master's Degree Program Master's in Education Programs Education Leadership, Organizations, and Entrepreneurship Education Policy and Analysis Human Development and Education Learning Design, Innovation, and Technology Teaching and Teacher Leadership Concentrations Arts and Learning Early Childhood Global, International, and Comparative Education Higher Education Identity, Power, and Justice in Education Literacy and Languages A Personalized Approach Online Master's in Education Leadership Foundations Brochures Academic Catalog Academic Calendar Academic Year 2020-22 Programs Professional Education About Us Programs Early Childhood K-12 Higher Education Online Programs For Organizations Group and Team Enrollment Custom Programs Admissions Payment & Tuition Assistance Refunds & Withdrawals Policies and Accessibility Campus Experience On-Campus Program Health and Safety Policies FAQs Events Contact Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Centers, Projects and Initiatives Faculty Recruitment Faculty Experts Admissions Introduce Yourself Explore Find the Right Program Brochures Life at HGSE Connect Apply Refer a Candidate Frequently Asked Questions Financial Aid HGSE & Harvard University Consumer Information Tuition & Costs Applying for Aid Incoming Students Incoming International Students Continuing Students Scholarships, Fellowships & Grants Need-Based Grant Awards HGSE Fellowships Additional Fellowships External Fellowships Student Loans Student Work International Students International Applicant FAQ Funding Sources Students with Families Financial Aid Appeals Presentations & Publications Budgeting & Financial Literacy Budget Calculator Registrar News & Events Harvard Edcast Education Now Askwith Education Forum Upcoming Events Submit an Event Usable Knowledge Ed. Magazine Harvard Education Publishing Group Information for Media Education Now Usable Knowledge Usable Knowledge Harvard EdCast Ed. Magazine HGSE Centennial Community Learning Beyond the Classroom Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Organizations and Initiatives Community Events and Action Resources Teaching and Learning Gutman Library Services Alumni Services Collections Special Collections Request for Library Purchase Library Hours Websites for Educators About the Library Facilities & Equipment Contact Information Coronavirus Response Information Directory Calendar Alumni Network & Connect Get Involved Learn & Grow Benefits & Services my.harvard Student Handbook Introduction Welcome to HGSE Preface Commitment to Diversity Part 1: Enrollment Policies Academic Programs and Affiliations Registration and Enrollment Policies Tuition and Fees Financial Aid Student Health Insurance Grading Part 2: Student Supports Advising HGSE Supports University Supports Campus Safety and Security Part 3: Program Policies Academic Governance Doctor of Education (Ed.D.) Program Policies Doctor of Philosophy in Education (Ph.D.) Program Policies Doctor of Education Leadership (Ed.L.D.) Program Policies Master of Education (Ed.M.) Program Policies Part 4: Academic Integrity and Standards of Conduct Resolution on Rights and Responsibilities Academic Standards and Integrity Standards of Conduct in the Harvard Community Committee on Rights and Responsibilities Policies on Harassment and Discrimination Policy on Consensual Romantic Relationships Policy on Physical Violence Policy on Misrepresentation of Status Policy on Illicit Substances Policy on Hazing Policy on Threats Part 5: Copyright and Publishing Policies Copyright Disclosure Use of the Harvard Name Information For Current Students Alumni Harvard Undergraduates Educators Recruiters Media Connect with HGSE Facebook Twitter Linked In LinkedIn Symbols Created with Sketch. Instagram Alumni Get Involved At HGSE, alumni are an essential part of our work and our mission. You can support HGSE and our global alumni community by volunteering your time and expertise to build a worldwide community of change-makers. Alumni Advocates Alumni Advocates are passionate members of the HGSE community focused on connecting alumni with each other and with HGSE in meaningful ways. Advocates support alumni engagement activities in five main areas: Social media Global Day of Service Large event support Hosting small events Annual Fund If you are interested in learning more and potentially becoming a part of the Alumni Advocates program, please complete the application or email Emily Williams with any questions. Alumni Council The Alumni Council of the Harvard Graduate School of Education is a group of volunteer representatives of the school who provide a valuable connection between HGSE and its growing body of alumni. Council members work to strengthen the relationship between HGSE and its alumni through engagement and outreach, including event development and support, Admissions recruitment, strengthening volunteer opportunities, and broadening alumni networks. Council members serve as both representatives of the larger alumni body and as sources of information for the Office of Alumni Relations. Each year, the Alumni Council also selects an Alumni Council Award recipient, based on nominations from the HGSE alumni community. Alumni Admissions Ambassadors Program Alumni play a critical role in HGSE recruitment efforts by identifying prospective candidates and sharing their experiences and insights. If you are interested in getting involved in outreach, the Admissions Office invites you to volunteer for the Alumni Admissions Ambassador Program (AAAP). Student-Alumni Mentoring Initiative (SAMI) The Student-Alumni Mentoring Initiative strives to accomplish varying goals related to the establishment of mutually beneficial mentoring relationships among participants. The program pairs current HGSE students with alumni during the academic year and the Alumni Relations office facilitates events and communications for SAMI participants to help make the matches a meaningful experience for both parties. The Alumni Mentor application opens each August. Become an i-Lab Advisor Are you an alum with start-up experience? Industry expertise? The Harvard Innovation Lab invites you to share your knowledge with Harvard i-lab student entrepreneurs by joining our virtual Advisor Network. Giving to HGSE Your support advances the HGSE mission of changing the world through education. In this section Alumni Network & Connect Get Involved Learn & Grow Benefits & Services Alumni Alumni Network & Connect Get Involved Learn & Grow Benefits & Services Sign up for our newsletters to get the latest from the Harvard Graduate School of Education. Sign Up Now Artboard 1 13 Appian Way | Cambridge, MA 02138 Centennial Contact Us Directory Directions Harvard University ©2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College Linked In Symbols Created with Sketch. Youtube RSS Podcast HGSE Publishing Policies & Disclaimers Digital Accessibility Policy Privacy Policy Trademark Notice