Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Apply Visit Give Information For Incoming Students – Summer 2022 Current Students Employers Alumni Veterans Search BC.edu Links Menu Main Nav Back Back Close About Overview Dean's Message Mission & History STM Values Facts & Figures STM Global Diversity at STM Contact Us and Staff Directory Accreditation and Educational Effectiveness Related Links Strategic Plan STM News About BC Admission Overview Why Choose STM? How To Apply Funding Your Studies Scholarships & Assistantships Federal Financial Aid Webinars and Campus Visits Request Information Meet the Admissions Team Partnerships Related Links Living in Boston Facts & Figures FAQ New Student Information Academics Overview Programs Master of Divinity (M.Div.) Master of Arts in Theology and Ministry (M.A.) Master of Theological Studies (M.T.S.) Hybrid M.A. in Theology and Ministry Master of Theology (Th.M.) Ph.D. in Theology and Education Doctorate in Sacred Theology (S.T.D.) Licentiate in Sacred Theology (S.T.L.) Bachelor of Sacred Theology (S.T.B.) Certificate in Theology and Ministry Certificate in Hispanic Ministry Certificate in Religious Education Post-Master's Certificate Certificate in Christian Spirituality Certificate in Ignatian Spirituality Certificate in Spiritual and Pastoral Care Hispanic Ministry Programs Dual Program with M.S.W. Dual Program with M.B.A. Dual Program in Counseling Nondegree Coursework Summer at STM Intensive on the 19th Annotation for Spiritual Directors Courses Summer at STM Summer at Linz Summer at STM Supervised Ministry Spirituality Studies Programs in Hispanic Theology and Ministry STM From a Distance Related Links Current Student Resources Dual Degrees Boston Theological Interreligious Consortium Arts at STM Certificates & Nondegree Faculty & Research Overview Faculty Directory Jeffrey Von Arx, S.J. John F. Baldovin, S.J. André Brouillette, S.J. Francine Cardman Vicente Chong, S.J. Richard J. Clifford, S.J. Andrew R. Davis Daniel J. Daly Dominic F. Doyle Brian Dunkle, S.J. Angela Kim Harkins Colleen M. Griffith Margaret Eletta Guider, O.S.F. Barton T. Geger, S.J. Franklin T. Harkins Thomas H. Groome Mary Jo Iozzio David W. Jorgensen Maria Kakavas L. Callid Keefe-Perry Melissa Kelley Richard Lennan Rafael Luciani Christopher R. Matthews Catherine Mooney Matthew S. Monnig, S.J. Hosffman Ospino Theresa A. O'Keefe Félix Palazzi Andrea Ponzone, J.C.D., LL.B. William D. Roozeboom Jane E. Regan Walter J. Smith, S.J., Ph.D. Thomas D. Stegman, S.J. Judith A. Talvacchia O. Ernesto Valiente Benjamin Valentin Andrea Vicini, S.J. Joseph E. Weiss, S.J. Faculty Expertise New Testament Abstracts Student Research International Fellows Theology and Ministry Library Related Links BC Theology Department Lumen et Vita (STM Student Journal) Institute for Advanced Jesuit Studies Ricci Institute for Chinese-Western Cultural History Center for Teaching Excellence Community Overview Liturgy & Worship Diversity & Dialogue Formation Living in Boston Our Spaces Career Development Student Forum Related Links Current Student Resources BC Campus Ministry BC Graduate Student Life STM Alumni Resources Continuing Ed Overview Crossroads Formación Continua Campus Events / Webinars Registration Instructions STM Webinar Zoom Help Encore The Journey Continues Calling Out From the Depths Close Directory A to Z Listing Search STM site Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Incoming Students – Summer 2022 Current Students Employers Alumni Veterans BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Home Continuing Ed Continuing Education Continuing Education Enriching Faith, Improving Ministry, Enhancing Knowledge As part of the STM’s mission to serve the community and the Church, our Continuing Education programs provide access to world-class theological and pastoral scholarship, online and on campus, for ministers and others who seek to deepen their engagement with the Catholic faith. Our priority is to create opportunities for people to participate in conversations on the faith tradition, contemporary theological issues, and ways to pray and serve in the 21st century. We offer an array of on-campus presentations, as well as online courses, certificate programs, videos, podcasts, and other resources for faith enrichment. At the STM Hybrid MA Program (online/on-campus) Summer at STM Non-degree Students Campus Events and Webinars We encourage students, faculty, staff, alumni/alumnae, and the wider community to take part in a variety of contemporary theological discussions on campus. From lectures to ministry renewal days, these events are accessible, timely, thought-provoking, and free for everyone to attend. STM Online: Crossroads With a focus on shared reflection in an online learning community, Crossroads offers non-credit courses for spiritual enrichment and faith renewal. Our courses foster conversation and participation that enhance understanding and encourage personal growth in faith. Encore Encore is a free, curated collection of digital resources covering a range of topics. This archive includes podcasts and videos of our on-campus events, as well as Encore Access—a guide to using selected videos for discussion with members of a faith community. Through Encore, we make the richness of STM excellence available to an even wider audience. Formación Continua Interdisciplinary and intercultural, these courses, offered completely in Spanish, help Spanish speakers deepen their growth as Christians. On-campus and online options promote mutual enrichment and the common good. Featured Programs ENROLL NOW Teaching Religion to Adolescents July 20 - Aug. 23, 2022 | $60 Young people today are growing up into a world making complex demands of them: in school, the marketplace, personal relationships, and in the use of technology. Join us to explore the developing capacities and needs of adolescents. Draw from Scripture and Church teaching to increase your skills as a teacher (or parent) for helping teens understand and deepen their faith, strengthening them as they rise up to respond to the world around them. This course equips catechists and religion teachers with the resources and strategies needed to teach adolescents about the Catholic faith with inspiration and confidence. Drawing upon experts in theology, developmental psychology, and religious education, the course addresses pressing questions: Who are my students? What should I teach? and How do I teach it effectively? ENROLL NOW The Engaged Parish July 20 - Aug. 23, 2022 | $60 Working for a more vibrant faith community? Adult faith formation plays a vital role in animating the local church. Yet, it often suffers relative neglect. This course is for anyone on a parish council or other ministry with adults. It explores the ways in which faith formation can happen anywhere members work together in the life of the church through evangelization, catechesis, and conversation about things that really matter. It considers the cultural issues of diversity in the parish and post-modernity in the greater society as the context for deepening adults' engagement in the faith community. It also reflects on the communities of practice that make up the parish, and how to leverage them in helping individuals grow in their faith. *This course was previously called, "Adult Faith Formation for a Vibrant Church" ENROLL NOW St. Mary of Magdala Aug. 3 - Aug. 30, 2022 | $30 Who was St. Mary of Magdala? What does scripture tell us about her ministry? What impact does her saintly life have on us today? This course explores the imagery of St. Mary of Magdala, both positive and negative, that have shaped our view of the Apostle to the Apostles. This course also explores the impact of her life on the ministry of women in the church. To complement the informative text and videos, a scripture study text is included to provide an optional prayer experience of St. Mary of Magdala as portrayed in the Gospels. Upcoming Events Continuing Education Crossroads courses Connect With Us @bcstmce @bcstmce @bcstmce $30 Starting cost of some courses 50+ Number of courses offered 6 Number of certificates offered Back To Top Back To Top School of Theology and Ministry Simboli Hall 9 Lake Street Brighton, MA 02135-3841 617-552-6501 About Admission Academics Faculty & Research Continuing Ed/Formación Continua Community Apply Visit Give Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube LinkedIn Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College