Covid-19: Get the latest updates here Apply to JTS Contact Campus Life Alumni Get Email Updates Donate Now Search About Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund Leadership History JTS and Israel Conservative Judaism Offices & Resources Policies Accreditation Visit JTS Admissions List College Admissions Davidson School Admissions Rabbinical School Admissions Gershon Kekst Graduate School Admissions H. L. Miller Cantorial School Admissions Take a Virtual Tour Academics Academics School List College The William Davidson School The Rabbinical School The Gershon Kekst Graduate School H. L. Miller Cantorial School Faculty & Scholars Faculty & Scholars Center & Institutes Center for Pastoral Education Block / Kolker Center for Spiritual Arts The Hendel Center for Ethics and Justice Milstein Center for Interreligious Dialogue Louis Finkelstein Institute for Religious & Social Studies Research Institutes Summer Programs Nishma Summer Sessions Summer Hebrew Language Courses Professional Training Professional Training CONTINUING EDUCATION FOR CLERGY The Rabbinic Training Institute (RTI) Summer Rabbinic Learning Conference Online Learning for Rabbis and Cantors FOR JEWISH EDUCATORS Day School Leadership Training Institute (DSLTI) Jewish Early Childhood Education Leadership Institute (JECELI) Ivriyon: Hebrew Immersion Institute for Day School Educators Jewish Day School Standards and Benchmarks FOR OTHER PROFESSIONALS NAASE Week of Study Community Learning Community Learning ONLINE Live Online Classes JTS Torah Online BEYOND THE CAMPUS JTS Learning in Your Community Courses and Curricula LEARNING EVENTS Public Lectures and Events FOR 8TH-12TH GRADERS Prozdor Teen Learning Library About The Library Letter from the Librarian Library Services The New JTS Library Library Programs and Events Library Online Exhibits Special Collections JTS Library Membership Email a Librarian News & Events News Events Academic Calendar Library Special Collections Note: During the fall 2021 semester we are moving the Special Collections to the new library. Access to the Special Collections is currently available in digital format. The Genizah collection is available online. Archives can be retrieved from storage upon request by contacting archives@jtsa.edu. Stay tuned for our opening in the winter of 2022. A World-Class Collection The JTS Library’s Special Collections are world-class. With the largest collection of Hebrew manuscripts on earth, the most complete collection of early Hebrew printed books (incunables), 43,000 fragments from the Cairo Genizah, and much more, there are few collections that offer students, scholars, and visitors material of such quality, depth, and breadth. Our outstanding rare collections include: Hebrew Manuscripts: With 11,000 Hebrew manuscripts, JTS has the largest such collection in the world. Among outstanding sub-collections are those in rabbinics (over 2,500), Bible, Jewish philosophy and poetry, liturgy, and philology. Images of many manuscripts, including those digitized by the Polonsky Digitization Project, are available through our Makor online discovery tool. Genizah Fragments: From the Ben Ezra Synagogue in Cairo, representing Jewish life in the eastern Mediterranean world and beyond from the 10th to the 19th centuries. Outstanding examples include a letter signed by Maimonides and a handwritten letter by the great Hebrew philosopher and poet Judah Halevi. Genizah fragments may be viewed online or, during our 21st Century Campus Project, in the Rare Books and Special Collections Department at the Firestone Library of Princeton University. Incunables: Hebrew books printed from the birth of movable-type print through 1500, illustrating the interests and commitment of Jews in the 15th century. Ketubbot: Over 500 Jewish marriage contracts, providing evidence of Jewish art and culture from the 17th through the 20th centuries. Digitized images are available through Makor. Broadsides: 4,000 rare and significant pieces spanning the 16th to the 20th centuries from communities in Europe, Israel, the Near East, and America. Broadsides are sheets printed on one side, including posters, handbills, or signs. The collection includes poems and prayers, Kabbalistic writings, genealogical charts, micrographs, maps, and legal documents. Some are available online; please consult a librarian. Scrolls: 430 scrolls, including Torah and Haftarah scrolls, Kabbalistic scrolls, and 300 Esther scrolls, some of them decorated. Archives: Our archival collections include papers representing the history of Jews in the United States, and the Conservative Movement in particular, during the 20th century. We also hold significant Jewish music archives. Finding aids for specific archives are available through Makor. Polonsky Digitization Lab The Library has an active digitization program, providing online access to thousands of digital images, many of them one-of-a-kind manuscripts, with more being added every day. Most of these images were created in the Library’s Polonsky Digitization Lab in Memory of Rabbi Marc H. Tanenbaum, which was dedicated in 2015, and many were the product of the Dr. Georgette Bennett and Dr. Leonard Polonsky Digitization Project. Italian Hagaddah, 1515 (digitized through the Dr. Georgette Bennett and Dr. Leonard Polonsky Digitization Project) Conservation The Library’s Conservation Department is responsible for the protection, stabilization, and repair of rare materials for in-house exhibitions as well as loans to other institutions. It is the care and expertise of our conservators that make possible our aggressive loan and digitization programs. Without their extraordinary skills, it would be impossible for us to protect our rare materials while providing wide access to these treasures. Loans for Exhibition The Library of JTS is happy to loan items from its Special Collections for exhibit at museums and other venues. There will be no interruption in this service during our construction. If you are a curator looking for items of historical or artistic value, we are happy to consult and to recommend specific works. Learn more about our loan policies and guidelines. Photography and Reproduction The Library is happy to provide copies of rare items for research, publications, and exhibits. Learn more about ordering digital images. SHARE THIS PAGE Search the Library SUPPORT ONE OF THE GREATEST COLLECTIONS OF JUDAICA IN THE WORLD MAKE A GIFT TO THE JTS LIBRARY RESOURCES Current Students Faculty & Scholars CONNECT WITH US Get Email Updates Visit Give Social Media © The Jewish Theological Seminary All Rights Reserved | בית המדרש ללימודי יהדות 3080 Broadway, New York, NY 10027 Privacy Policy x Share This Page From Name(Required) From Email(Required) To Email(Required) Message