Skip to main content. ADVISORY | COVID-19 Information × kumc.edu School of Health Professions School of Medicine School of Nursing University of Kansas The University of Kansas Health System The University of Kansas Cancer Center Search within this section Search all sites School of Medicine Wichita Academics Education Standardized Patient Program Staff Our Campuses Give Now Info for School of Health Professions School of Medicine School of Nursing Current Students Blackboard Webmail myKUMC Prospective Students Prospective Employees Alumni Faculty & Staff Residents & Fellows Patients Donors Researchers Visitors Academic & Student Affairs-Wichita Our Campuses Give Now Info for Academic & Student Affairs-Wichita Education Education SOM Curriculum Electives Curriculum International Electives Curriculum Graduation Competencies Visiting Medical Students Standardized Patient Program Standardized Patient Program General Information For Standardized Patients For Students For Faculty Staff Staff Our mission is to educate students, residents and physicians through patient care, service, research and scholarly activities to improve the health of Kansans in partnership with Kansas communities. Prospective Students Visiting Medical Students Current Students With Kansas in need of more physicians, KU School of Medicine-Wichita opened in 1971 to provide hands-on clinical training to medical students in their third and fourth years. In 2011, KU School of Medicine-Wichita expanded to a full, four-year campus, welcoming its first class of first-year medical students. While the majority of medical schools are tied to a hospital, KU School of Medicine-Wichita is community-based thanks to more than 1,000 volunteer faculty inside three partner hospitals (Robert J. Dole VA Medical Center, Wesley Medical Center, and Ascension Via Christi) as well as in doctors' offices across the state. Resources & Links KU School of Medicine Catalog George J. Farha Medical Library Admission & Aid Registrar's Office Financial Aid Enroll and Pay Rural Health Oasis Email Protocol for Blood Borne Pathogen Exposure ASA Calendar Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Events calendar powered by Trumba KU School of Medicine-Wichita 1010 North Kansas Wichita, KS 67214-3199 316-293-2635 Facebook Wichita Twitter Wichita Youtube Wichita LinkedIn Wichita Instagram Wichita Give Now 3901 Rainbow Boulevard, Kansas City, KS 66160 | 913-588-5000 About Calendar News Equal Opportunity Statement Careers Facebook opens in new tab Twitter opens in new tab YouTube opens in new tab Instagram opens in new tab LinkedIn opens in new tab © 2022 The University of Kansas prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, ethnicity, religion, sex, national origin, age, ancestry, disability, status as a veteran, sexual orientation, marital status, parental status, gender identity, gender expression, and genetic information in the university's programs and activities. Retaliation is also prohibited by university policy. Inquiries regarding our non-discrimination policies should be directed to the Director for the Equal Opportunity & Academic Compliance Office, Mail Stop 7004, 4330 Shawnee Mission Parkway, Fairway, KS 66205, 913-588-5964, 711 TTY (for the Wichita, Salina, and Kansas City, Kansas medical center campuses). Inquiries regarding the University Sexual Harassment Policy should be directed to the Title IX Coordinator at 913-588-8011. Free Expression Statement | Privacy Statement | Notice of Privacy Practices | Consumer Information We use cookies to analyze our traffic & provide social media features. Visit the KU Medical Center Privacy Statement for more information. By closing this window & browsing this site, you agree to our use of cookies.