Skip to main content Iowa State University Office of Admissions Menu Toggle Search Visit Apply My Account Main navigation Admissions Admissions Freshman Admissions Transfer Admissions International Admissions Graduate Admissions Next Steps / Timeline Financial Aid Request info Contact Us Related Links Nontraditional Nondegree Veterinary Medicine Military Why ISU Academics Academics Academic Programs Colleges Transfer Credit Credit by Exam Orientation Honors Program Learning Communities Apply Visit Related Links Course Equivalency Guides Transfer Plans TRANSIT Supplementary Course List Admissions Partnership Program Destination Iowa State Cost + Aid Campus Living Campus Living Housing ISU Dining Diversity and Inclusion International Students and Scholars Clubs and Organizations Recreation Services Student Health Athletics Apply Visit Related Links Student Leaders Sorority and Fraternity Entertainment Traditions Distinguished Alumni Why ISU Visit Application Let the adventure begin Iowa State is home to game changers and industry leaders who take the world by storm. From your first step on campus, you will be surrounded by world-renowned professors, resume-building opportunities and state-of-the-art facilities to help you accomplish your dreams. 900 clubs and organizations. More than 100 majors. 1 amazing adventure. Like to apply yourself? Apply using our institutional application or the Common App. Freshman Students You're a high school senior or first-time college student seeking a bachelor's degree. International Undergraduate Students You're not a U.S. citizen/permanent resident but are seeking a bachelor's degree. Military Students Thank you for your service to our country. Returning Students More information can be found on the Office of the Registrar's website. Transfer Students You’re currently studying or have studied at another college/university after graduating from high school and wish to attend Iowa State. Graduate Students You hold a bachelor's or higher degree from a regionally-accredited college or university and wish to pursue a graduate degree. Nondegree Students You're simply looking to learn and wish to take classes without working towards a degree at Iowa State. Veterinary Students More information can be found on the College of Veterinary Medicine website. Want to change your application? To make changes to a submitted application, log in using the same account you used when that application was first submitted. If you did not submit an application online, please submit your requested change via email to admissions@iastate.edu (Note: Changes requested by email will take longer to process). Iowa State University Office of Admissions Contact Office of Admissions Enrollment Services Center Ames, IA 50011 Call or text: 515-294-5836 Soults Family Visitors Center 2229 Lincoln Way Ames, IA 50014 Quick Links New Student Programs Counselor Directory Chat with students and staff Request Information Copyright © 1995- Iowa State University of Science and Technology All rights reserved. Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility Analytics Disclaimer Loading...