Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index Transfer Connection Menu Search TTU Transition & Engagement Transfer Connection Transfer Connection <!-- intentionally non-empty iframe; for xsl --> In order to assist you with your transition, the Transfer Connection is a collaborative collection of programs and services that will provide you opportunities to create connections with students, faculty, and staff, and to the university community you now call home. How will the Transfer Connection help me? While this isn't your first collegiate experience, this is your first year at Texas Tech. We want to make you feel welcome and help you through your journey in higher education. Consider the Transfer Connection as a way to get to know your new home. We are here to help you make friends, get connected, and become a leader. As a transfer student, you may be at Texas Tech a shorter time than your first year counterparts, and we're here to help you make the most of your time at Texas Tech. Make friends. Take part in Transfer Welcome Week events tailored to meet the specific needs of incoming transfer students and meet others who are in a similar situation as you. Then, join the Transfer Techsans, a student organization by transfer students and for transfer students. It's a great way to get to know other transfers and have a lot of fun! Get connected. Attend the Transfer Leadership Connection retreat. This student-led retreat will help you connect with other students, within the Texas Tech community, and with your own leadership potential. Apply to be a student in the Tech Leadership Insitute where you can be mentored by other transfer students and grow in your leadership skills with a group of transfer students who share similar experiences as you. Be a leader. Apply to be a Transfer Ambassador and help other new students successfully transition to life at Texas Tech. Students who graduate from the Tech Leadership Insitute will also have the opportunity to apply and be TLI Mentors for the program. "When I became involved in the Transfer Connection I quickly realized I WAS SO NOT ALONE. There were so many transfers out there feeling just as overwhelmed as I did. I suddenly felt like I found a place at Texas Tech.I made relationships that were beyond surface level because these people truly understood me. The Transfer Connection changed my college experience for the better, and I met all my closest friends through it." Violet Watson Supply Chain Management Transferred from University of Houston "The Transfer Connection meant that my university loved me and cared about my time as a Red Raider. It allowed me to meet new people when I didn't know anyone at first, and become a leader among my fellow students." Tiffany Montemayor Political Science Transferred from Huston-Tillotson Contact TTU Contact Contact TTUContact Contact TTU News News for NewsNews for News Events EventsEvents Transfer Connection Like Transfer Connection on FacebookLike Transfer Connection on Facebook Follow Transfer Connection on twitterFollow Transfer Connection on twitter Follow Transfer Connection on InstagramFollow Transfer Connection on Instagram Address 201 Student Union Building Box 45014 Lubbock, TX 79409 Phone 806.742.2993 Email transferconnection@ttu.edu Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock, Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversityApr 4, 2022 2:24 PM Transfer Connection Home Ambassadors Techsans Welcome Week Leadership Connection Retreat Tech Leadership Institute Resources Transfer Connection Resources Back Resources Transfer Connection Resources Resources Back Getting Around Social Opportunities Academic Resources Career Resources Financial Resources Famous Transfer Students Contact Us Transfer Connection Contact Us Back Contact Us Professional Staff Student Staff Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index