Skip to main site navigation Skip to main content Open the search panel Open the main menu Search Go Close the search panel Information for… Incoming J.D. Current Students Faculty Staff Media Employers News Events Alumni Giving About Library Login Open the Search panel Admissions Admissions Why Columbia J.D. Admissions Graduate Admissions Academics Academics J.D. Program and Curriculum LL.M. Program and Curriculum Executive LL.M. Program and Curriculum J.S.D. Program and Curriculum Dual and Joint Degrees International Programs Public Interest and Public Service Experiential Learning Courses Registration Services Academic Calendar Executive Education Areas of Study Areas of Study Constitutional Law, Regulation, and Public Policy Corporate, Business, and Transactional Law Criminal Justice Data Analytics Environment and Energy Family, Gender, and Sexuality Intellectual Property and Technology International and Comparative Law Law of the Workplace Leadership Legal History Litigation and Dispute Resolution National Security and Privacy Social Justice and Human Rights Faculty & Scholarship Faculty & Scholarship Faculty Directory Research Centers and Programs Scholarship Archive Workshops, Lectures, and Colloquia Careers Careers Private Sector Careers Public Interest and Public Service Careers Academic Careers Judicial Clerkships Employment Statistics Employment Policies Community Life Community Life Visit Campus Dean’s Welcome Your Campus, Your City Student Life Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Strategic Initiatives Graduate Admissions Admissions Graduate Admissions Explore degree paths that will help you deepen your knowledge, broaden your perspective, and advance your career. More in this Section Explore Graduate Admissions: Two LL.M. Options at Columbia Law LL.M. Admissions Executive LL.M. Admissions J.S.D. Admissions Graduate Admissions Events Columbia Law School’s graduate degree options (LL.M., Executive LL.M., and J.S.D.) provide lawyers from around the world with unparalleled opportunities to achieve their academic and career goals. Develop insight into the American legal system, transform your global business law practice, or pursue a distinguished career in legal scholarship. Office of Graduate Degree Programs We provide individual support to each LL.M., Executive LL.M., and J.S.D. student throughout every step of their Law School experience, from application to degree conferral, and we keep in close touch with our broad network of alumni. Related Links Contact the Office of Graduate Degree Programs LL.M. Admissions Events Which LL.M. Is Right for You? Learn about our programs, and decide which suits you. Learn More LL.M. Challenge yourself. Broaden your perspective and your network. Rediscover the law and your future in the legal profession. Learn More Executive LL.M. Join a program as agile and ambitious as you are. Advance academically while staying connected professionally. Learn More J.S.D. Join a community of individuals who share your passion for the law and engage the resources of a world-class university to establish a career in legal academia. Learn More Inside the Executive LL.M. Program Watch students discuss the true value of the accelerated Executive LL.M. program, which is designed to be responsive to the rapidly changing landscape of business law and to minimize time away from home and work. Apply Now Executive LL.M. Alumni 14 countries 10 native languages spoken 5 continents 12.8 years average work experience Student Voices All News & Stories Jordan A.J. Jarrett ’22 LL.M.: Use the Law to Make Meaningful Impact Annah Akhoun-Murat ’22 LL.M.: Build a Sustainable Future Amr Jomaa ’21 LL.M.: Giving Back to the World Brenda Efurhievwe ’21 LL.M.: Becoming an Instrument for Change LL.M. Students Share Their Experiences Bamisope Adeyanju ’20 LL.M.: The Human Rights Attorney Mo’taz Arshied ’20 LL.M.: The Startup Champion Samarth Patel ’19 LL.M. on the Value of the Columbia Law School Community Tatiana Salles ’19 LL.M. on Blockchain, Digital Platforms, and Technology Law Amanda Sotto Fontes ’18 LL.M. on Studying Entrepreneurship, Technology and the Law Neeraj R.S. ’18 LL.M. on Preparing for Career in International Trade, Development Next Up Annah Akhoun-Murat ’22 LL.M.: Build a Sustainable Future Next Up Amr Jomaa ’21 LL.M.: Giving Back to the World Next Up Brenda Efurhievwe ’21 LL.M.: Becoming an Instrument for Change Next Up LL.M. Students Share Their Experiences Next Up Bamisope Adeyanju ’20 LL.M.: The Human Rights Attorney Next Up Mo’taz Arshied ’20 LL.M.: The Startup Champion Next Up Samarth Patel ’19 LL.M. on the Value of the Columbia Law School Community Next Up Tatiana Salles ’19 LL.M. on Blockchain, Digital Platforms, and Technology Law Next Up Amanda Sotto Fontes ’18 LL.M. on Studying Entrepreneurship, Technology and the Law Next Up Neeraj R.S. ’18 LL.M. on Preparing for Career in International Trade, Development Next Up Jordan A.J. Jarrett ’22 LL.M.: Use the Law to Make Meaningful Impact All News & Stories LL.M. Class of 2020 300 students 53 jurisdictions represented 40 native languages 23 Fulbright and other competitive external scholarship awardees Related Stories Read All Stories More in The Press Alumni News Shearman & Sterling’s Powerhouse Partner in Asia: Lorna Chen ’99 LL.M., ’01 J.D. From Beijing to Frankfurt, New York to Hong Kong, Chen has forged a unique path on her way to leading Shearman’s international investment funds practice in Asia. Students News Leading by Example: The 2021–2022 Davis Polk Leadership Fellows Students News Innovating for Justice: The 2021–2022 LL.M. Human Rights Fellows Students News Adilbek Kaziyev ’22 LL.M. Awarded 3C Foundation Scholarship Related Events View All Events May 31 2022 Deadline - June 6th - Moot Court Student Editor/LPW Teaching Fellow Tue, 6:00 p.m. - 8:00 p.m. William and June Warren Hall, 1125 Amsterdam Ave., New York, NY 10027 Jun 1 2022 Revolution 12/13 | Abolition Feminism with Sarah Haley Wed, 6:00 p.m. - 8:00 p.m. The People's Forum, 320 W. 37th St., New York, NY 10018 Jun 2 2022 Annual Staff Appreciation & Recognition Luncheon Thu, 12:00 p.m. - 2:00 p.m. Faculty House, 64 Morningside Dr., New York, NY 10027 Presidential Ballroom View All Events Admissions Why Columbia Visit 435 West 116th Street New York, NY 10027 212-854-2640 Contact Us Social Media (Administrative Title) Twitter LinkedIn Facebook Instagram Admissions Academics Areas of Study Faculty & Scholarship Careers Community Life Information for… Incoming J.D. Current Students Faculty Staff Media Employers Login News Events Alumni Giving About Library Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Donate © Copyright 2022 The Trustees of Columbia University in the City of New York.