Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links Campus Safety Menu Main Nav Campus Safety Contact Back Back Close About Overview FAQ BC Police Department Overview About Meet Our Team In Memory FAQ News Accreditation Contact Community Relations & Crime Prevention Community Resource Officer (CRO) R.A.D. Programs Crime Prevention Education Compliments or Complaints Services Emergency Management Overview Potential Hazards Communication How to Prepare What to Do in an Emergency Students with Disabilities Environmental Health & Safety Overview Laboratory Safety Occupational Health & Safety Programs Indoor Environmental Quality Fire Safety Contact Documents Overview Crime Alerts Annual Campus Security & Fire Safety Report Business Continuity Emergency Plans and Publications Contact Close Directory A to Z Listing Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Compliments or Complaints Home BC Police Department Community Relations & Crime Prevention Compliments or Complaints Community Relations & Crime Prevention Community Resource Officer (CRO) R.A.D. Programs Crime Prevention Education Compliments or Complaints The Boston College Police Department strives to develop and maintain positive relationships with all members of the Boston College community and endeavors to provide the highest quality of service possible. Our goal is to ensure that BCPD employees are guided by principles so every individual they come in contact with be treated equally and with dignity. A citizen complaint, and its subsequent investigation, causes the police to examine the services that are provides to the BC community and to make improvements as needed. Each complaint will be accepted in a courteous and professional manner. All complaints will be properly documented and investigated in a timely fashion with appropriate follow up. Anonymous complaints, while accepted will limit our ability to adequately resolve the issue without corroborating information. If you wish to file a formal complaint, please click on the button below. A trained investigator will be assigned and will be in contact with you. If you would like to immediately speak with a Police Supervisor about the incident please call 617-552-4440 and ask for the on duty supervisor. Complaint Investigation The Boston College Police Department, along with its many law enforcement duties, is often called upon to perform community based services which are unrelated to the detection, investigation, or acquisition of evidence associated with the violation of criminal statutes. Much of our time is spent in community orientated crime prevention patrol; where there is a principal University interest in the broader issue of community safety. In accomplishing this mission, conflicts can arise on how best to meet this challenge while still ensuring individual rights remain protected. To address this issue, BCPD has a designated command staff officer as the Department's Internal Affairs Investigator, who reports directly to the Director of Public Safety. The primary responsibility of Internal Affairs is to respond to any allegation of misconduct against the Department. The Internal Affairs Officer is responsible for registering, recording, and controlling the investigation of complaints against BCPD employees. Duties also include supervising and controlling the investigation of alleged misconduct within the department and maintaining the confidentiality of these investigations and corresponding records. The internal affairs process helps make certain that the integrity of the Department is maintained through a system where objectivity and fairness is assured by thorough impartial investigation and review. The objectives of our internal affairs investigations are: Protection of the BC community; Fairness and objectivity to our employees; Community education concerning police actions; Correction of procedural and/or personnel problems and; Education, retraining, or corrective action when warranted. Alleged or suspected violations of law, ordinances, Department or University rules, regulations, policies, procedures, and/or orders are investigated according to established procedures. BC Police Citizen Compliment/Complaint Form Back To Top Back To Top Boston College Police Department Maloney Hall 617-552-4444 About BC Police Department Emergency Preparedness Environmental Health & Safety Documents To report a campus emergency: Call BC Police @ 617-552-4444 In case of fire call 911 Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College