Skip to main content Main navigation Mobile Educational Programs Master’s Programs Executive Education Doctoral Programs Public Leadership Credential Courses Academic Calendars & Policies Admissions & Aid Master's Program Admissions Executive Education Admissions Doctoral Program Admissions Funding Your Education Faculty & Research Faculty Profiles Publications Policy Topics PolicyCast Library & Knowledge Services Centers & Initiatives Ash Center for Democratic Governance and Innovation Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs Carr Center for Human Rights Policy Center for International Development Center for Public Leadership Institute of Politics Malcolm Wiener Center for Social Policy Mossavar-Rahmani Center for Business and Government Shorenstein Center on Media, Politics and Public Policy Taubman Center for State and Local Government Women and Public Policy Program All Initiatives Alumni Connect Volunteer Give Back Benefits Events About More COVID-19: Keep HKS Healthy Commencement About News & Announcements Events Student Life Directory Employers HKS Magazine Contact Us Search Search Main navigation Educational Programs Master’s Programs Executive Education Doctoral Programs Public Leadership Credential Courses Academic Calendars & Policies Admissions & Aid Master's Program Admissions Executive Education Admissions Doctoral Program Admissions Funding Your Education Faculty & Research Faculty Profiles Publications Policy Topics PolicyCast Library & Knowledge Services Centers & Initiatives Ash Center for Democratic Governance and Innovation Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs Carr Center for Human Rights Policy Center for International Development Center for Public Leadership Institute of Politics Malcolm Wiener Center for Social Policy Mossavar-Rahmani Center for Business and Government Shorenstein Center on Media, Politics and Public Policy Taubman Center for State and Local Government Women and Public Policy Program All Initiatives Alumni Connect Volunteer Give Back Benefits Events About More COVID-19: Keep HKS Healthy Commencement About News & Announcements Events Student Life Directory Employers HKS Magazine Contact Us Search Search Executive Education Find Your Program Access 2022 Program Guide In This Section Educational Programs Executive Education Program Finder Admissions & Fees Contact Us Executive Education Alumni Faculty Program Experience You are here Home Educational Programs Executive Education Executive Education has returned to on campus programming. For the latest on COVID-19 policies, including FAQs about participating in an on-campus program, please visit our Executive Education resource page. CHOOSE YOUR LEARNING PATH: MORE THAN 35 ON-CAMPUS, ONLINE, AND BLENDED EXECUTIVE PROGRAM OPPORTUNITIES On-Campus Programs Immerse yourself with a cohort of peers on Harvard's campus in a short executive program Come to Harvard Online Programs Explore intensive and extended online programs that include live sessions with faculty Get Started For Organizations Design a tailored program for your organization to meet your training needs Learn More Sharpen Your Leadership Capabilities and Make a Difference. Harvard Kennedy School Executive Education programs are designed to help leaders from every sector gain the skills and strategies needed to address current problems in real time. Whether you immerse yourself in an intensive, in-person program on Harvard’s historic campus or engage in a highly interactive, live online program from home, you will become part of a vibrant community of leaders around the globe striving to make a difference. The world won't wait. Why Choose HKS Executive Education? WATCH VIDEO If you’re a leader who wants to strengthen your skill set, generate new solutions to current problems, and make the world a better place, a short online or on-campus program at Harvard Kennedy School Executive Education can offer you a unique opportunity to make a difference. Upcoming Programs Leadership and Character in Uncertain Times Offers a unique opportunity to learn how to lead in times of conflict and disagreement using adaptive leadership concepts and tools to exercise moral leadership. July 12, 2022 - August 12, 2022 October 18, 2022 - November 18, 2022 Infrastructure in a Market Economy Examines public-private partnerships in infrastructure that are technically sound, economically feasible, and politically acceptable. May 07, 2023 - May 19, 2023 Implementing Public Policy Equips policymakers with both the skills to analyze policies, as well as the field-tested tools and tactics to successfully implement them. Upcoming Sessions Coming Soon Expand your capabilities in public leadership Discover the broadest range and highest caliber of executive education programs in public leadership offered anywhere. Minus Take the Next Step in Your Career Development Access the 2022 Program Guide Learn more about Executive Education at Harvard Kennedy School and the portfolio of programs available Access Now Alumni Benefits Expand your global network and join a vibrant community of leaders who are here to make a difference. Discover Sign up for emails Stay up to date with HKS Executive Education by subscribing to email updates. Subscribe Apply Now Already have a program in mind? Submit your application today. Apply HKS Faculty Webinar Series The most recent webinar features Mark Fagan, lecturer in public policy at Harvard Kennedy School and faculty chair of Delivering Public Services: Efficiency, Equity, and Quality, discussing how AI is reshaping service delivery and operations management. Watch past webinars and sign up for emails to receive invitations to attend future sessions live. A GLOBAL COHORT 165 countries and territories represented Executive Education participants come from around the world Globe Alumni Spotlight “The rush to jump to solutions is so strong that we have to try so hard to get people to stop thinking about what they’re going to do about it, and to instead understand what the problem is and follow the process.” - Building State Capabilities Director Salimah Samji Implementing Public Policy alumni and degree-program students at HKS learn to avoid a rush to solutions and instead trust an iterative process. From blood safety in Nigeria to helping the elder workforce in Massachusetts, read their story. Executive Certificates Build on your learning by taking multiple programs within an executive certificate concentration. Nonprofit Leadership Certificate Programs focused on the special concerns of those at the helm of nonprofit organizations View Programs Public Policy Certificate Provides leaders with a principled guide to action in public policy See Programs Public Leadership Certificate For those looking to advance leadership excellence in the public sector Discover Options Economic Development Certificate For leaders focused on improving the economic, political, and social well-being of their nation Learn More Start Now Program Experience Discover what it is like to attend an executive program. Executive Education Admissions Read more about the HKS Executive Education admissions process and related fees. Contact Executive Education exed@hks.harvard.edu +1-617-496-9000 79 John F. Kennedy Street Cambridge, MA 02138 617-495-1100 Ask What You Can Do Master’s Programs Executive Education Doctoral Programs Public Leadership Credential Admissions Events Give Now Alumni Jobs Contact Us Privacy Web Accessibility Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College. https://www.facebook.com/harvardkennedyschool/ https://twitter.com/kennedy_school https://www.linkedin.com/school/harvard-kennedy-school-of-government/ https://www.youtube.com/user/HarvardKennedySchool http://instagram.com/harvardkennedyschool/