Skip to main content The Magazine of the University of Central Florida | Archives In This Issue Spring 2022 More Than Words UCF’s Communication Disorders Clinic provides essential training for its graduate students and critical services to the local community. Quite a Catch UCF researchers receive a new, custom boat to continue studying sea turtles. A Generational Effort For two decades, the UCF Business Incubation Program has supported the growth of hundreds of local small businesses to diversify the Central Florida economy. Now, the program is positioning itself for a new generation of success. Not Your Average Students Education is a lifelong endeavor, as evidenced by this comparison of two of UCF’s oldest and youngest students. Ingenuity at Work Developments from UCF faculty advance their fields while making societal impacts. Elevating Expression Shawn Welcome ’17 reflects on the power of poetry in a community as he begins his term as Orlando’s poet laureate. We’re Here to End This These UCF researchers shine a light on what it takes to end domestic violence, and they have a question for everyone: Who’s willing to help break the cycle? On Campus — Spring 2022 From new winter celebrations to new campus murals and learning technology, there’s plenty of ways Knights are staying engaged at UCF. Why I Believe in Medical City After graduating from UCF’s first class of medical school graduates, Elona Rrapo Kaso ’13MD ﻿has returned to Lake Nona to work and help train students at the Orlando VA Medical Center. She shares what it’s like to see the development of Medical City and UCF’s College of Medicine. Together Again For the first time since the start of the pandemic, UCF’s Gather Luncheon returned to campus to promote community building and healthy eating. Making Waves Thanks to NASA-developed technology, this UCF alum’s company is working to achieve clean water globally. Relationship Goals If you aren’t taking these six actions, you should be, according to experts at UCF’s Marriage and Family Research Institute. Powering Potential UCF’s new Microgrid Control Lab simulates a modern grid control room and will serve as a hands-on learning and research facility. Artistic Celebration Flying Horse Editions celebrates 30 years of supporting artistic works and research with an exhibit featured in UCF’s Art Gallery. Pegasus The Magazine of the University of Central Florida In This Issue Archives Elevating Expression Shawn Welcome ’17 reflects on the power of poetry in a community as he begins his term as Orlando’s poet laureate. When Orlando Mayor Buddy Dyer announced English alum Shawn Welcome ’17 as the city’s second poet laureate, it was a natural progression for a life devoted to performance poetry and community work. “I feel like the trajectory of my life will always be surrounded by arts and community,” says Welcome. “I always want to do something impactful.” Over the last 15 years, Welcome has performed across Florida and made a name for himself on the spoken word scene. At the same time, he’s served as a counselor in Title I schools, a teacher, and a family engagement coordinator and program facilitator for local nonprofits. Welcome also created a poetry and life skills program for youth offenders, and he launched Orlando’s longest running weekly open mic night, which he continues to spearhead in the downtown area — all while raising five children with his wife, Jannah, and earning a master’s degree in applied sociology at UCF. “The English program grounded me academically as an artist, and the sociology program will ground me academically as a community guy,” Welcome says. “It’s everything that I thought it would be, and I’m learning more and being stretched and challenged in all the right ways.” Now, Welcome is poised to bring his passion for arts and community to an even wider audience as Orlando’s poet laureate. How did you get into poetry? It started off more as rap, during my senior year of high school. It was kind of a surprise — like, “Oh, I’m really good at this.” And it was creative and fun and just kind of tickled my brain. When I started school at Valencia, there was an open mic type show they had through the African American Cultural Society. That was my first real performance, with a microphone and a formal audience. I don’t remember what piece I performed, but I do remember the reaction: People were going nuts. And I thought, “This is it. I’m staying right here.” What inspired you to start your own open mic night? The open mic scene was very homogenous in my opinion, like the same people and the same groups depending on what open mic you went to in what part of town. So, in 2006 I went to the National Poetry Slam, and it was very much mixed and diverse. That’s when I thought, we have to capture that same spirit here in Orlando. In 2006, some of my poetry friends and I were invited to speak to youth offenders at the [Orange County] 33rd Street jail. We ended up going back [weekly and] created a 12-week curriculum for a poetry and life skills course. Seeing the impact that had, in addition to my exposure at nationals, was the primary spark for starting an open mic night. I was developing an awareness that poetry isn’t just entertainment. It can be much more. What do you hope to accomplish in your role as poet laureate? I think part of what I want to accomplish as poet laureate is helping define what it is. I’d say about 80% of people who hear that term don’t know what it means. And I’m interested in amplifying the awareness, the presence, the importance, the imagination of what the role of poetry can be in a city. Whatever I do … I want to create something that’s ongoing, something the next poet laureate can build on. We want to create an energy in the city that says poetry is important, and it does more than we think it does at its face value. I’m also invested in developing more infrastructure for other artists to be heard, to get paid. I never had that, and I found a way. I want to build a pathway that other Orlando artists can follow. What would you say is poetry’s role in a city? A few years into hosting the open mic, I started to get a sense of the social impact that was happening beyond the poetry. People were dealing with heartbreak and addiction and tragedy … and there’s an audience listening. It’s like a legitimate form of free therapy. Poetry is entertaining and inspiring, but the strength of relationships and networks that are built because of it, I think that’s big. I also think it’s helpful to be in the space of imagining what our future can be like. And one way our imagination is provoked and tuned into our own identity and the identity of our community is through poetry. Collectively, we start to put these pieces together and develop concrete ideas when we enter this seemingly abstract space. So, I think stimulating the imagination of a community and building social capital are two major benefits of poetry. To view more of Welcome’s work, visit diverseword.org. By Ashley Cullins Spring 2022 Share this content on Facebook Tweet this content Related Stories Why I Sing in Black and White Creating a Scene Alum, Local Artist Creates New ‘Elevation’ Mural for UCF Downtown More from the Spring 2022 Issue Together Again For the first time since the start of the pandemic, UCF’s Gather Luncheon returned to campus to promote community building and healthy eating. On Campus — Spring 2022 From new winter celebrations to new campus murals and learning technology, there’s plenty of ways Knights are staying engaged at UCF. More Than Words UCF’s Communication Disorders Clinic provides essential training for its graduate students and critical services to the local community. Making Waves Thanks to NASA-developed technology, this UCF alum’s company is working to achieve clean water globally. We’re Here to End This These UCF researchers shine a light on what it takes to end domestic violence, and they have a question for everyone: Who’s willing to help break the cycle? Ingenuity at Work Developments from UCF faculty advance their fields while making societal impacts. Relationship Goals If you aren’t taking these six actions, you should be, according to experts at UCF’s Marriage and Family Research Institute. A Generational Effort For two decades, the UCF Business Incubation Program has supported the growth of hundreds of local small businesses to diversify the Central Florida economy. Now, the program is positioning itself for a new generation of success. Not Your Average Students Education is a lifelong endeavor, as evidenced by this comparison of two of UCF’s oldest and youngest students. Artistic Celebration Flying Horse Editions celebrates 30 years of supporting artistic works and research with an exhibit featured in UCF’s Art Gallery. Quite a Catch UCF researchers receive a new, custom boat to continue studying sea turtles. Powering Potential UCF’s new Microgrid Control Lab simulates a modern grid control room and will serve as a hands-on learning and research facility. Why I Believe in Medical City After graduating from UCF’s first class of medical school graduates, Elona Rrapo Kaso ’13MD ﻿has returned to Lake Nona to work and help train students at the Orlando VA Medical Center. She shares what it’s like to see the development of Medical City and UCF’s College of Medicine. Like us on Facebook Follow us on Twitter Find us on Instagram Follow us on YouTube Pegasus Magazine Suggest a Story Tell Us What You Think Update Your Address © University of Central Florida 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, FL 32816