Skip to main content Menu Resources Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply or Give Apply Now Make a Gift Faculty Senate Senate Information Senate Leadership and Membership The Faculty Senate leaders are Kristine Vernon (President), Dave Blakesley (Vice President/President-Elect), and Hugo Sanabria (Secretary). Senate terms begins with the April meeting. The Senate consists of 50 members — 35 full-time, tenure-track faculty and 14 non-voting, lecturer delegates. These elected representatives are expected to fulfill certain responsibilities. 2022-2023 Senator Roster by College 2021-2022 Delegate Roster Senate Committees Each Senator and lecturer delegate serves on one of the Senate’s standing committees. The Senate’s officers – the President, Vice-President, and Secretary – along with lead senators, a second representative from each college, and committee chairs compose the Executive and Advisory Committees. These committees meet jointly once a month and act as a steering committee for the senate. 2022-2023 Senate Executive, Advisory, and Standing Committees Membership Communicating with the Senate and All Faculty Meetings of the Faculty Senate are open to all faculty, and minutes are posted approximately one month after each Senate meeting. Approved Meeting Minutes There are several ways to formally communicate with the Senate, and, through the Senate, communicate with all faculty. Attending monthly senate meetings Requesting to give a Special Order presentation to the Faculty Senate Click Here Participating in Free Speech period during a Faculty Senate meeting Submitting an Open Forum essay Faculty Representation on University Committees A significant responsibility of the Faculty Senate is selecting or nominating faculty representatives to university committees. Senate Governing Documents The actions of the Faculty Senate are governed by three documents: The Constitution of the Faculty of Clemson University, Appendix A, Article II: The Faculty Senate Faculty Senate Procedural Bylaws - Updated Spring 2019 Faculty Manual Home Members Policies Awards Archives Shared Governance Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram