Skip navigation You can access career counseling in-person or virtually. Schedule career counseling appointments via LionSHARE and indicate whether you would like to meet in-person or via Zoom. Class of 2022: tell CCE about your post-graduation plans on the Beyond Columbia Survey. All data is analyzed and reported only in the aggregate, and all individual responses are confidential. For Alumni For Employers In the Know About Contact LionSHARE Jobs & Internships Jobs Internships Employers We Work With CCE Internship Programs Funding Programs Career Counseling Drop-in Hours Career Counseling Appointments Practice Interviews Programs & Services Career Resources Design Your Next Steps Resumes & CVs Cover Letters Networking Negotiating Interviews Workplace Career Advancement Graduate School Free Premium Resources Career Exploration Majors Industries Arts Business Communications & Media Consulting Education Engineering & Technology Environment & Sustainability Financial Services Government Healthcare International Affairs Law Non-Profits & Social Justice Psychology, Counseling & Social Work Science Sports Startups Student Experiences Career Assessments Connect With Alumni Info For... First-Generation/Low-Income Students International Students Students with Disabilities Veteran Students LGBTQ Students Visiting Students Families Students of Color Women Events Jobs & Internships Jobs Internships Employers We Work With CCE Internship Programs Funding Programs Career Counseling Drop-in Hours Career Counseling Appointments Practice Interviews Programs & Services Career Resources Design Your Next Steps Resumes & CVs Cover Letters Networking Negotiating Interviews Workplace Career Advancement Graduate School Free Premium Resources Career Exploration Majors Industries Student Experiences Career Assessments Connect With Alumni Info For... First-Generation/Low-Income Students International Students Students with Disabilities Veteran Students LGBTQ Students Visiting Students Families Students of Color Women Events Search Beyond Columbia Discovery through real-world experiences. Read more Beyond Columbia We’ll show you where to start. Read more Beyond Columbia College Walk to career. Read more Beyond Columbia Start here. Go everywhere. Read more Beyond Columbia We work with employers here and around the globe. Read more Partner with us to explore career options, prepare for internships and jobs, build connections and design your next steps! About us Search jobs and internships Explore Careers “DESIGN YOUR NEXT STEPS” and plan your career To make an appointment, visit LionSHARE. Featured Tips & Resources See all What to Know Before You Go: Researching Organizations Researching organizations in advance of a networking event or interview will help you stand out as a candidate.Career ExplorationInterviewsNetworking Writing a Resume: Getting Started If you’re applying for an internship or job, attending a networking event, or seeking a volunteer opportunity, chances are you’ll need a resume. We’ll walk you through the basics.Resumes & CVs Negotiating 101 It is often unclear whether the salary you are being offered is negotiable or not. To develop a successful negotiation strategy, it is important to understand what it’s appropriate to ask for....WomenNegotiating Quick Questions? Virtual Drop-in Hours for Quick Questions offered Monday — Friday from 2 pm — 4 pm during the academic year Learn more Get to Know CCE Begin Your Journey! CCE by the numbers 71,502 jobs and internships were posted on LionSHARE last year 97.8% of Columbia College and Columbia Engineering - Undergrad degree earners had at least 1 internship during their time at Columbia 574 students have interned abroad as part of our Columbia Experience Overseas (CEO) programs 3,430 students to date participated in our Funding Programs or Work Exemption Program 98.2% of surveyed students would recommend our Career Advising Sessions to a friend 98.1% of surveyed students would recommend Quick Questions to a friend 2,720 unique individuals were seen last year in career advising appointments $80,000 median starting salary for working graduates of Columbia College and Columbia Engineering - Undergrad 1,463 virtual employer events available to students last year 90.6% of Columbia College and Columbia Engineering - Undergrad degree earners are employed or in grad school 401 events, programs, and workshops sponsored by CCE last year 3,182 total attendance at our virtual events last year 6,436 Total 1 on 1 career counseling sessions last year 1,864 unique undergraduate attendees at last year's events See all of our data Top VISIT US East Campus Building Lower Level 116th & Amsterdam (enter through Wien Courtyard) CALL US (212) 854-5609 Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn OFFICE HOURS Monday-Friday, 9:00 AM – 5:00 PM QUICK QUESTION? Virtual Drop-in Hours offered Monday — Friday from 2 p.m. — 4 p.m. ET during the academic year. ACCESSIBILITY INFORMATION Disability access is available at the southern door of 70-74 Morningside Drive. Ramps provide entrance to the front desk. A sign indicating disability access and Center telephone numbers is posted below the University call box. To ensure the ease of access, it is strongly encouraged that clients call either the front desk at 212-854-5609, Employer and Alumni Relations at 212-854-9167, or visit our Contact Us form prior to arrival. SEARCH JOBS AND INTERNSHIPS To make an appointment, visit LionSHARE. For all inquiries CONTACT US Copyright © 2022 The Trustees of Columbia University in the City of New York Privacy Policy Notice of Non-Discrimination Terms of Use