Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Department of Sociology About Us People Research Undergraduate Graduate Resources Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Graduate Resources About the Program Contact the Advisor How to Apply MA Degree Requirements Graduate Student Handbook Graduate Assistantships Opportunities for Support Course Descriptions Graduate Catalog Forms and Links Graduate Student Profiles Student Placements Student Publications Forthcoming201420132012Prior 2012 Student Presentations Student Theses Student Awards Take Action Community Out of Chaos Online B.A. Contact Us Follow Us Online Facebook Home Sociology Graduate Graduate Student Opportunities Opportunities Financial Support and Travel Funds The Department of Sociology attempts to provide financial support to as many students as possible by awarding graduate assistantships (click here) to its most qualified students. Graduate assistants gain valuable experience by working with faculty on teaching and/or research projects. The Department provides some travel funds for students who present papers at professional meetings. In addition, students can apply for travel funds through the University of Memphis Graduate Student Association and through the Donovan Travel Enrichment Fund. Teaching and Professional Development/Enrichment Some of our more advanced graduate students have an opportunity to teach their own introductory sociology courses. Students who have 18 hours of coursework and who have taken SOCI 7210 (Theory Seminar) may be considered for a teaching assistantship. We offer a professional development course every semester that covers such topics as publishing, submitting grant proposals, developing good teaching skills, reading papers at professional meetings, preparing resumes and vitas, applying for non-academic jobs, and applying to doctoral programs. The course is required of all graduate assistants, but students who are not on assistantships are welcome to attend. The Department of Sociology sponsors a Research Colloquium Series. Well-known scholars, departmental faculty, and our own graduate students present as part of the Series. The Department encourages students to present their research as part of the Research Colloquium Series and at professional meetings. In recent years, our students have presented at such regional and national associations as the Southern Sociological Society, the Association for the Sociology of Religion, the Pacific Sociological Association, the Southwestern Social Science Association, the Society for the Study of Symbolic Interaction, the First Congress of Qualitative Inquiry, and the Association of Black Sociologists. Click Graduate Student Accomplishments for a list of student publications, presentations, and honors. Support for Thesis and Other Student Research To carry out thesis projects, students may need financial assistance to cover the costs of such things as supplies, printing, and data sets. The Department makes every attempt to provide financial support for these projects. The University of Memphis is a member of the Inter-University Consortium on Political and Social Research (ICPSR). This membership gives students ready access to a wide range of data sets that can be used for thesis and independent research projects. Students have access to two large computer labs and a wide array of current software programs. Student Paper Competition Every year we have a graduate student paper competition. The winner receives $200. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 1/26/21 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.