Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Department of Theatre & Dance About Academic Programs Admissions People Production Archives Purchase Tickets Resources Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Academic Programs Undergraduate BFA About the BFAPerformanceMusical TheatreDesign/Technical ProductionDanceDance Science Graduate MFA About the MFA MFA Curriculum Scholarships Application Process Take Action 2022-2023 Season Prospective Students Watch Me – Theatre Video UofM Ranked Among Top Dance Programs in the Nation Follow Us On Social Media InstagramFacebook Home Theatre & Dance Programs MFA Curriculum MFA Curriculum The MFA requires 60 hours of course work. All MFA candidates will take a specific set of core classes as well as classes in their own field of study. The Theatre Core is specified in the Graduate Bulletin. Additionally, the Department requires of MFA directing candidates 18 credit hours as designated in the directing group. The directing group is designed to offer experience in both the theory and practice of stage direction. There are four formal classes in stage direction and also a first year Directing Studio project and a second year Directing Studio project. The directing candidate's first year project will have as its central focus directorial skills involving staging techniques and collaboration with actors. The second year project will additionally offer the opportunity for collaboration with designers. Consult the guidelines for "Project Phases and Plans of Action" in the Production Practicum section in order to prepare properly with your Advisory Committee for the first year Directing Studio project and the second year Directing Studio project. All design candidates share the common core of three foundation courses; the balance of credit hours is a mix of executed projects and academic coursework designed to develop specific skills, implement strengths and overcome weaknesses. All design and technology students develop a plan of study document that incorporates their primary and secondary areas of study in collaboration with their advising committee. Areas of study available to the MFA design student are Costume Design, Lighting Design, Scenic Design, Sound Design and Technical Direction. Design projects are assigned or approved by the graduate advising committee and are based on a candidate's self-evaluation and the evaluation of the advising committee. Projects culminate with a practicum (thesis) project and a comprehensive exam that includes both written and oral portions. The 21 credit hours of elective courses may be taken from any of the areas in the department: directing, performance, design, or critical studies. Although adjustments may be made later, these elective courses should be proposed on the initial Plan of Study. Electives should clearly support the personal and professional needs and goals of the individual student. A three-year Plan of Study can be created most effectively by consulting the semester-by-semester Advising Sheets that identify courses available each semester in the cycle of offerings. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 5/10/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.