Home Student Stories Give Today Opening Doors for All As the world’s future scientists, educators, entrepreneurs, and innovators dream of coming to the Heights, it is vital that we maintain our ability to recruit and retain the most promising among them. We believe that any student who has earned admission through our rigorous admission process should be able to accept the offer to become an Eagle—regardless of their family’s financial circumstances. GIVE NOW Campaign Milestones Raised Donors Scholarships Select Company, Deep Commitment BC is one of a small number of universities that admit students on the merit of their applications, not on their ability to afford tuition, and that then meet 100 percent of their demonstrated need. This levels the playing field for so many worthy young men and women from all walks of life. The University’s dual commitment—to need-blind admission and to meeting students’ full demonstrated need—is what makes BC academically competitive; fosters a rich, vibrant campus community; and increases the value of a BC degree for all alumni. SHOW YOUR COMMITMENT Drew Cappel ’21 “ If I can facilitate a trip during which one out of a dozen people can latch on to something and can carry that forward for the rest of their lives, that’s what Appa was about to me.” Drew Cappel ’21 Carroll School of Management Concentrations: Accounting, business analytics Cincinnati, Ohio “ If I can facilitate a trip during which one out of a dozen people can latch on to something and can carry that forward for the rest of their lives, that’s what Appa was about to me.” Andrew Cappel ’21 Cincinnati, Ohio Carroll School of Management Deserving, Determined, and Depending on You There are many ways to support BC students now and into the future, from annual contributions that help right away, to endowed funds that last forever, to testamentary gifts that cement your legacy. The economic downturn connected to the global pandemic has already had a profound effect on college students, including those at BC. Financial aid support is critical to serving our student population, 38 percent of whom receive need-based University grants. Despite the challenges they face, BC students continue to demonstrate the resiliency that defines their character and makes them Eagles in the first place. And that is why they need our support now more than ever. EMPOWER OUR STUDENTS There are many ways to support BC students now and into the future, from annual contributions that help right away, to endowed funds that last forever, to testamentary gifts that cement your legacy. Zion Johnson ’21, MS’23 “My mom always says you can’t try to half-do things because that never turns out right. You have to put your all into something or do nothing at all.” Zion Johnson ’21, MS’23 Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences Major: Computer science Woods College of Advancing Studies Program: MS, Cybersecurity policy and governance Bowie, Maryland “My mom always says you can’t try to half-do things because that never turns out right. You have to put your all into something or do nothing at all.” Zion Johnson ’21, MS’23 Bowie, Maryland Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences Woods College of Advancing Studies Lighting the Way – Be a Beacon Undergraduate Financial Aid Budget, 2012-2021 This year, Boston College has increased its financial aid to undergraduate students—a budget that has grown by 43 percent over just the past 10 years. Philanthropic support for financial aid is the only way to sustain BC’s commitment to remaining need blind, and it will take significant resources to ensure that the Heights is open to all accepted students. We are counting on you to Be a Beacon for these students. Be a Beacon Today Undergraduate Financial Aid Budget, 2012-2021 DJhane Valido ’23 “All this hard work is going to pay off in the long run. I know I might not see results now, but if I keep going I can finally see this masterpiece that I’ve been working on for so long.” DJhane Valido ’23 Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences Major: Communication La Mirada, California “All this hard work is going to pay off in the long run. I know I might not see results now, but if I keep going I can finally see this masterpiece that I’ve been working on for so long.” DJhane Valido ’23 La Mirada, California Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences Answer the Call Join the loyal BC alumni and parents who have made financial aid one of their top philanthropic priorities. Contact us at beabeacon@bc.edu to learn more. Make a Gift to Financial Aid BOSTON COLLEGE ALUMNI ASSOCIATION Cadigan Alumni Center 140 Commonwealth Ave. Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 CONNECT WITH US ACCESSIBILITY EMERGENCY CONTACT NOTICE OF NONDISCRIMINATION Copyright © 2021 Trustees of Boston College