Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index Office of the Provost Menu Search TTU Office of the Provost Office of the Provost Staff Office of the Provost Staff Ronald Hendrick Provost Ronald L. Hendrick is Provost and Senior Vice President for Academic Affairs at Texas Tech University. Prior to coming to Texas Tech, Hendrick served as dean of the Michigan State University College of Agriculture (CANR) and Natural Resources and professor in the Department of Forestry. As dean, Hendrick oversaw all academic, research and outreach efforts of CANR, which includes 12 academic departments and schools, the Institute of Agricultural Technology, MSU AgBioResearch and MSU Extension. Read more about Dr. Hendrick » Staff Rob Stewart Senior Vice Provost Rob Stewart currently serves as Senior Vice Provost of Texas Tech University with oversight responsibilities for areas in support of academic programs, faculty advancement, and student matriculation. He previously served for 11 years as an associate dean in the College of Arts and Sciences. He is a professor in the Department of Communication Studies, where he began as an assistant professor at Texas Tech in 1984. More » Mitzi K. Lauderdale Vice Provost Mitzi Lauderdale serves as Interim Vice Provost for Academic Affairs, Associate Academic Dean for Students in the College of Human Sciences and is an Associate Professor in the Department of Personal Financial Planning at Texas Tech University. Mitzi teaches graduate and undergraduate courses in estate planning, legal and regulatory aspects of personal financial planning, special needs planning, and general personal financial planning. More » Melanie Hart Vice Provost Melanie Hart holds the title of Vice Provost for eLearning & Academic Partnerships. Her responsibilities include the oversight of the six regional teaching sites and the Center at Junction, online program compliance and quality, Osher Lifelong Learning Institute (OLLI), continuing education, and Texas Tech University Independent School District (TTUISD). More » Darryl James Vice Provost Darryl James serves as Vice Provost for Institutional Effectiveness and is responsible for the oversight of institutional effectiveness. He represents the university as the accreditation liaison with SACSCOC. He supports TTU compliance with SACSCOC and discipline-based accreditor academic standards. More » Patrick C. Hughes Vice Provost for University Programs and Student Success Patrick Hughes is Vice Provost for University Programs and Student Success and a Professor of Communication Studies. He is a member of the Texas Tech University Teaching Academy and he received the Texas Tech University President's Excellence in Teaching Award in 2007, the Texas Tech University President's Excellence in Gender Equity Award in 2017 and received over 1.3 million dollars in research funding. He is a former department chair and associate dean for academic affairs. More » Jessica Williams Senior Director of Academic Finance Dr. Jessica Williams serves as the Senior Director of Academic Finance for the Office of the Provost. In her role, she provides support to the Office of the Provost and to the colleges in regards to fiduciary matters by overseeing areas of academic funding and Provost Office contributions. She also assists with faculty and staff appointments through reviewing/processing of faculty offer letter requests and faculty transcript credentialing. More » Sharon Pigg Executive Associate, Provost and SVP Academic Affairs Sharon Pigg serves as the Executive Associate and reports to the Provost and Senior Vice President at Texas Tech University. In her role, Sharon provides total support to the Provost, and manages the office. Sharon is a Lubbock native and lifelong Red Raider fan. Sharon has an extensive Administrative management support history. More » Te'Ree Wozniak Senior Administrative Assistant Te'Ree Wozniak serves as a Senior Administrative Assistant to the Office of the Provost, providing direct support to Senior Vice Provost Dr. Rob Stewart and Vice Provost Dr. Darryl James. She has served in several administrative support roles at Texas Tech since 2005. More » Luciana Cavazos Executive Administrative Associate, Provost and SVP Academic Affairs Luciana Cavazos is an Executive Administrative Associate in the Office of the Provost. She directly supports Vice Provosts Melanie Hart, and Mitzi Lauderdale. Luciana also plays an important role in the daily operations of the Provost office, providing assistance in many key areas of business. She previously worked as an Event Producer for College Flowers for seven years. More » Abigail Walton Administrative Assistant Abigail Walton is from Lubbock Texas, and she and her family have lived here for about 13 years. In 2018, she graduated from South Plains College with her associate's degree and has recently graduated from Texas Tech University with her bachelor's in Psychology and a minor in Nutrition. More » Contact TTU Contact Contact TTUContact Contact TTU News News for NewsNews for News Events EventsEvents Office of the Provost Address 104 Administration Building, Box 42019, Lubbock, Texas 79409-2019 Phone 806.742.2184 Email provost.communications@ttu.edu Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock, Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversityApr 15, 2022 11:38 AM Office of the Provost About Office of the Provost About Back Provost Communications Leadership Office of the Provost About Leadership Back Meet the Provost Staff Directory Individual College Administration University Strategic Plan Academic Calendar Office of the Provost About Academic Calendar Back Provost Planning Calendar New Faculty Bios Academic Affairs Office of the Provost Academic Affairs Back Academic Affairs Provost Units COACHE Faculty Job Satisfaction Institutional Effectiveness Councils, Committees, Centers & Institutions Professional Licensure Faculty Resources Office of the Provost Faculty Resources Back Policies Office of the Provost Faculty Resources Policies Back Tenure & Promotion Tenure & Promotion FAQs Faculty Handbook Operating Policies & Procedures Required & Optional Language for Syllabi Curriculum Office of the Provost Faculty Resources Curriculum Back Core and Multicultural Curriculum Writing Intensive Requirement Lab Science Requirement Curricular Proposals Communication Literacy Academic Program Terminology Prospective Faculty Office of the Provost Faculty Resources Prospective Faculty Back Prospective Faculty About Texas Tech About Lubbock Education Housing Health Care Transportation Arts, Culture & Entertainment Sports & Recreation Shopping & Dining Dual-Career Couples Texas Tech Human Resources Faculty Enrichment Office of the Provost Faculty Resources Faculty Enrichment Back 2020-2022 Facult Convocation Program President's Excellence in Teaching Professorship President's Excellence in Research Professorship Big XII Faculty Fellowships Faculty Award Incentives & Recognition Integrated Scholars Spring 2020 Report of the Faculty Success Task Force Faculty Success Initiative Faculty Ombudsperson For Department Chairs/School Directors Campus Climate Initiatives Office of the Provost Initiatives Back Worldwide eLearning Success & Retention Outreach & Engagement OnRamps Dual Enrollment Osher Lifelong Learning Institute (OLLI) Faculty Success Signature Educational Experiences Office of the Provost Signature Educational Experiences Back Pi Squared: Program in Inquiry and Investigative Thinking Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index