Brown University Quick Exit General Health Physical Health Acne Asthma Breast Exams Bronchitis Colds Concussion Headaches Meningitis Mononucleosis Sleep Seasonal Flu Sun Safety and Skin Cancer Stomach Flu Testicular Self-Exams Travel and Health Yeast Infection Emotional Wellbeing Mindfulness Sleep Stress Self-Care Techniques for Stress Relief Wellness on Campus Social Wellbeing Community, Connection and Coping: Remote Resources Consent Economic Stress Roommate Relationships Unlearning Toxic Masculinity Reproductive Health Abortion Adoption Amenorrhea Bacterial Vaginosis Colposcopy Erectile Dysfunction Pregnancy Gender Care GYN Visits HPV Vaccine Menstruation Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pregnancy Tests Premature Ejaculation Prenatal Care Testicular Self-Exams Accessing Care Gender Care GYN Visits LGBTQ Health Care at Health Services Men's Health Exams Pregnancy Tests STI Testing Options Resources and Links Nutrition & Eating Concerns Eating Well at Brown Being a Vegetarian Dietary Guidelines Eating Off Meal Plan Meal Plan And Dining Information Supplements Eating Concerns and Body Image Body Image Concerns Eating Concerns Help at Brown Sports Nutrition Relative Energy Deficiency in Sport (RED-S) Sports Nutrition Accessing Care Help at Brown Worried about a Friend Sexual Health Sex 101 SHAG! Erectile Dysfunction Orgasm Premature Ejaculation Sex and Alcohol Sex Toys Sexually Explicit Media Contraception Birth Control Pills Cervical Cap Condoms Depo-Provera Emergency Contraception Fertility Awareness Method Implant Internal Condoms IUD Ortho Evra (The Patch) Ring Spermicides and Lubricants The Recent Election & Contraception Access Withdrawal (Pull Out Method) Reproductive Health Abortion Adoption Amenorrhea Colposcopy Erectile Dysfunction Pregnancy GYN Visits HPV Vaccine Menstruation Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pregnancy Tests Prenatal Care Testicular Self-Exams Yeast Infection Safer Sex Ship n SHAG! Sexual Health and Safer Sex During Covid-19 Abstinence Condoms Dental Dams Internal Condoms Post Exposure Prophylaxis (PEP) Pre Exposure Prophylaxis (PrEP) Safer Sex Withdrawal (Pull Out Method) STIs AIDS/HIV Bacterial Vaginosis Chlamydia Colposcopy Gonorrhea Hepatitis B Herpes HPV and Genital Warts HPV Vaccine Molluscum Contagiosum Oral Sex and STIs Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pubic Lice and Scabies Sexually Transmitted Infections Syphilis Talking with a Partner STI Testing Options Trichomoniasis Urinary Tract Infections Yeast Infection Sexual Assault & Dating Violence Get Help Sexual Assault Response Line SHARE Advocates Dating Violence First Five Days After an Assault Male Survivors Sexual Violence and Assault Sexual Harassment Stalking Help a Friend SHARE Advocates How to Help a Friend Get Involved in Prevention Interrupting the Red Zone: How we keep each other safe Culture of Respect Collective Sexual Assault Peer Education (SAPE) Help Prevent Sexual Assault Unlearning Toxic Masculinity Relationships and Communication Consent Dating Violence Learn More Common Reactions to Sexual Violence and Assault Predatory Drugs Sexual Misconduct and Title IX Sexual Violence: Key Terms Resources and Links Alcohol & Other Drugs Alcohol Alcohol and Your Body Recognizing a Problem Risks and Realities Sex and Alcohol Ways to Cut Down Other Drugs Caffeine Cocaine Ecstasy Energy Drinks GHB Inhalants Ketamine LSD Marijuana Methamphetamine Predatory Drugs Psilocybin (Mushrooms) Rohypnol Tobacco Smokeless Tobacco Smoking Cessation Tobacco Learn More Law and Policy Summary Educational Links Accessing Care Resources at Brown Off Campus Resources Calling EMS How to Help a Friend Quit Smoking How to Talk to a Friend about Drinking or Drug Use Google Tag Manager Physical Health Asthma What is asthma? You can get asthma at any age. Approximately 5% of the general population in the U.S. have asthma. Often there is a history of allergies and/or asthma in a family member. Asthma is caused by spasm and inflammation of the airways in the lungs. Like branches of a tree, your breathing airways get smaller and smaller until they reach the air sacs that make up the lungs. When asthma is under control, the airways are clear and air flows in and out of your chest easily. When asthma is not under control, the airways become constricted and inflamed, with increased mucus production that further obstructs the airways. During an asthma attack, less air can get in and out of the lungs, causing coughing, wheezing, and shortness of breath. Coughing for more than 10 days after a cold can also be a symptom of asthma. Sometimes prolonged coughing is the only symptom that people experience. What sets off an asthma attack? Factors that cause asthma attacks are called triggers. Triggers can be animals with fur, cigarette smoke, dust, feather or down bedding, perfumes, pollen, cold air, upper respiratory infections, exercise and acid reflux. It is important to note which triggers may be causing your asthma symptoms. How is asthma diagnosed? Your medical provider can often diagnose asthma in the office. If this is your first episode, laboratory tests or x-rays may be ordered. Using a peak flow meter is a quick and easy method of measuring the amount of air flowing through your airways. If your asthma is moderate to severe, your provider may have you repeat this breathing measurement at home to help you adjust your medicine. Can I make an appointment at Health Services? If you are a Brown student and you are concerned about asthma, you can make a confidential appointment at Health Services by calling 401.863-3953. Health Services provides a range of services including general health care, inpatient services and emergency medical care. You can request a medical provider by gender or by name. We are located at 13 Brown Street on the corner of Brown and Charlesfield Streets. Do people react differently to asthma attacks? Asthma attacks can vary in severity. With intermittent asthma, symptoms occur sporadically in response to a trigger, and there are no symptoms between episodes. In cases of mild persisitent asthma, there may be symptoms less than 2 times per week and night coughing 3 to 4 times per month. Moderate persisitent asthma occurs when there are symptoms present daily, a peak flow 60% to 80% of the predicted norm and night coughing greater than once per week. With severe persisitent asthma, there are daily symptoms with limited physical activity, night wakening daily or very frequently, and a peak flow of less than 60% of the predicted norm. How are attacks prevented? Taking any asthma medications as directed and avoiding triggers that can set off your asthma is the best way of preventing attacks. Your medical provider can help you determine which steps to take to help avoid triggers. Another important step to help minimize asthma attacks is to drink plenty of water. Fluids keep normal lung mucus from becoming sticky. Try to drink 1 glass of water every 2 hours while awake. Common steps for preventing attacks by controlling or avoiding triggers: Dust/dust mite allergy Remove rugs, carpet and extra pillows. Use mattress and pillow coverings to avoid dust mites. Do not use down comforters or pillows. Wash sheets and blankets in hot water weekly. Vacuum often. Allergies/hay fever Take antihistamines and other allergy medications as prescribed to control symptoms. Your medical provider may suggest an evaluation by an allergist if the allergies are a significant trigger for your asthma attacks. Upper respiratory infections Discuss with your medical provider whether or not a flu shot is appropriate. Careful hand washing can help to prevent frequent colds. Do not directly share food, drinks or eating utensils. Start the asthma inhaler at the first sign of shortness of breath or wheezing, or as directed by your provider. Smoke or odors Avoid smoke-filled places, use unscented soaps and detergents. Do not use perfumes or colognes. Animal fur Avoid animals with fur. Keep pets outside if you cannot avoid them completely. Cold air Wear a scarf over your mouth and nose to warm the air you breathe. Exercise Use medicines prescribed by your medical provider before exercising to help prevent attacks. Always carry medication with you while exercising, and be prepared to stop at the first sign of an asthma attack. Measure your peak flow regularly This will help you assess your own level of asthma control and identify when you are in trouble. Peak flow readings provide an objective measure to help your medical provider evaluate your status and give you the right treatment advice. Which medicines are used to control asthma? While avoiding triggers is the first approach to asthma management, medicines will help keep your symptoms under control. It is very important that you use the medicines correctly, and at the correct intervals as prescribed. Four classes of medicines are most commonly used to treat asthma symptoms. Your medical provider will choose one or more of these medicines based on the causes and severity of your asthma symptoms. Most of the medicines are inhaled so that the maximum effects go straight to the airways. To improve the dose of the inhaled medicine that gets to your lungs, your medical provider may prescribe a spacer device to be attached to the inhaler. Short-acting inhaled bronchodilators (e.g.,Ventolin, Albuterol, Proventil) These rescue or quick-relief medicines act on the smooth muscle lining the airways to help reverse the spasm and narrowing of the airways. The effects are felt immediately. This medicine may be prescribed on a regular basis, or as needed for symptoms which are intermittent. You may feel a little jittery, light-headed or racy after starting this medicine. These symptoms usually diminish with subsequent doses. If your symptoms are not relieved with the prescribed inhalations, call your medical provider. Do not exceed the prescribed number of inhalations. If you need this rescue medicine more than 6 times in one day to control asthma attacks, you need immediate help from your medical provider. Sometimes short-acting bronchodilaotrs are prescribed for use 20 minutes before exercise to control exercise induced asthma symptoms. Long-acting inhaled bronchodilators (e.g., Serevent) These medications have the same action on the airways as short-acting bronchodilators but deliver that effect over a prolonged period, often making them useful for people with nighttime symptoms. They are not to be used for quick relief of asthma symptoms and should never be used more often than prescribed. Steroids (e.g., Flovent, Beclovent, Vanceril, Aerobid) These medicines reverse the inflammation in the airways which is present in patients with chronic asthma symptoms. Inhaled steroids need to be used on a regular, ongoing basis to be effective. They have no effect on acute shortness of breath and should not be used on an intermittent basis. Remember to rinse out your mouth with water after each use of inhaled steroids. In some cases, your asthma symptoms may be severe enough to require a short course of oral steroids to decrease inflammation. Oral steroids are best taken in the morning. Be sure to take this medication exactly as prescribed. Combination asthma medication (e.g., Advair, Symbicort) Inhaled steroids are sometimes prescribed in combination with long-acting broncholdilators. It is important not to use these more often than prescribed by your provider, as excessive doses of long-acting agends can have serious side effects. Leukotiene receptor antagonists (e.g., Singulaire) These oral medicines are sometimes additionally used to improve asthma control, and for exercise-induced symptoms. Cromolyn products (e.g., Intal, Alocril) This class of medicines is sometimes used for prevention of exercise-induced asthma symptoms or predictable allergic exposures (e.g., visiting a home with a cat). What do I do if I'm experiencing an asthma attack? Act fast if an asthma attack starts: Know that coughing, wheezing, tight chest, and waking up at night are signs of an asthma attack. Move away from the thing that started the attack, if you can identify it. Take a quick-relief asthma medicine. Stay calm for 1 hour to be sure breathing gets better. Get emergency help if you experience any of these asthma danger signs: If your quick-relief medicine does not help for very long or does not help at all. Breathing is still fast and hard. It is hard to talk. Your lips or fingernails turn gray or blue. Your heartbeat or pulse is very fast. You can see the skin around your ribs pulling in when breathing. It is hard to walk. Related Links To learn more about asthma, you can visit: American Lung Association MEDLINE Plus About BWell: Quick Links About Us Staff Confidential Appointments Sexual Assault Response Line Workshops Peer Education Programs Health Empowerment Tools PHONE NUMBERS 401.863-2794 Health Promotion 401.863-3953 Health Services 401.863-6000 Sexual Assault Response Line 401.863-4111 EMS 401.863-3476 Counseling & Psychological Services 401.863-4111 DPS Make an Appointment What is Peer Education? Learn about BWell's Peer Education Programs! Get involved in empowerment and prevention work at Brown. Get Involved Meet Our Staff About Us Make an Appointment Brown University BWell Health Promotion Health and Wellness Brown University Box 1928 450 Brook Street Providence, Rhode Island, 02912 Phone 401-863-2794 Fax 401-863-7953 [email protected] © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Related Offices Brown EMS Counseling and Psychological Services Health Services Social Media BWell on Facebook SHAG on Facebook BURP on Facebook Health Services on Facebook