Business Engagement Talent Interns Career Fairs On Campus Interviews On Site Networking Research CyBiz Lab Capstone Projects President’s Initiative Grad Students & Post Docs Collaborative Research Professors as Advisors Corporate Engagement/Branding Guest Lecture Speaking Gigs Program Curriculum Advisors Advisory Boards Industry Associations & Consortia Sponsorships CyBiz Lab Specialized Equipment & Spaces Fee for Service Mitigate Risk & Liability Labs & Staff Prototyping or 3D Printing Visualization Philanthropy Scholarship & Leadership Programs Mentor Network Seed Network Naming Specialized Resources America’s SBDC Iowa Center For Industrial Research And Service (Ciras) America’s Cultivation Corridor CyBiz Lab ISU I-Corps Site KEY PROGRAM DATES ISU Office of Intellectual Property and Tech Transfer ISU Pappajohn Center For Entrepreneurship ISU Research Foundation ISU Research Park ISU Startup Factory Regents Innovation Fund Proposals News & Events News Events Featured Stories About Contact Select Page CORPORATE ENGAGEMENT/BRANDING With more than 100 majors represented at Iowa State, there is genuine value in engaging with the university. Connect with the EDIR office to gain exposure for your brand in front of more than 36,000 students. Click to learn more about these offerings, designed to help you engage with the university: GUEST LECTURES Our guest lecturer program adds value to the undergraduate and graduate experience. Inspiring the next generation of leaders, lectures serve as an opportunity for those in industry to have a real-world connection with students. SPEAKING GIGS While the EDIR does not offer a formal speakers bureau, we facilitate the placement of speakers throughout the university. PROGRAM CURRICULUM ADVISORS We offer opportunities for our partners to provide input on curriculum as Program Curriculum Advisors to ensure students are gaining the knowledge and skills necessary to find success in industry. ADVISORY BOARDS Advisory Boards at Iowa State University offer an opportunity for industry experts to work with university faculty, staff, alumni and leadership. These boards advise specific departments to ensure that degree programs continue to excel and meet the needs of employers in industry and academia. INDUSTRY ASSOCIATIONS Iowa State University has partnerships with literally hundreds of industry associations that our EDIR staff can connect you with. SPONSORSHIPS From specific projects to entire programs of study, the EDIR office can facilitate corporate sponsorship and support. CYBIZ LAB CyBIZ Lab provides opportunities for cross-functional teams of students to work on business and organizational projects. Copyright 2022 Economic Development & Industry Relations