Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links Vice Provost for Research Menu Main Nav Vice Provost for Research Vice Provost for Research Contact Back Back Close About Overview Research Facilities Animal Care Facility Clean Room Electron Microscopy Flow Cytometry BD FACSAria Cell Sorter Imaging Facility Isotope Geochemistry Magnetic Resonance Mass Spectrometry Scientific Instrumentation & Machining Services Transmission Electron Microscope X-ray Crystallography Materials Characterization Training News Contact Policies Related Links Research Policies at Boston College VPR Organization Chart (PDF) Internal Grant Opportunities Sponsored Programs Overview Coronavirus Updates BC Research Policies & Federal Regulations University Research and Projects Policy Funding Assistance Documentation & Forms Institutional Profile PeopleSoft Financials Technology Transfer Overview Invention Disclosure Guidance and Education Faculty and Staff Students Partners and Industry Documents Frequently Asked Questions Research Security, Integrity and Compliance Overview Research Security Research Integrity Research Misconduct Export Controls Research Protections Overview Policies & Procedures Forms & Templates Protocol Submission Authorization Agreements Training International Research Animal Welfare Contact Postdoctoral Affairs ResearchMatch Related Links ORP Standard Operating Procedures document Policy for the Protection of Human Research Participants IRB Committee Bylaws Human Subjects Payment Policy Gift Card Distribution Log Close Contact Directory A to Z Listing Search VPR website Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close The Office of the Vice Provost for Research supports and enhances research, education, and design-driven innovation at Boston College. We foster the creation of new knowledge, discoveries, and transformative advances by improving current processes and preparing for new initiatives in learning, scholarship, and outreach as aligned with the University’s strategic direction to address complex societal problems and contribute to the common good. Core Facilities Cyber IRB Export Controls Training Boston College Research in the News Tracking the opioid epidemic A new, penny-sized sensor developed by researchers from BC, BU, and Giner Labs uses wastewater to measure opioid use at the local level. Boston College to partner on study of hazards from plastics An international team will survey health risks posed across the continuum of plastic production, use, and disposal. BC study shows rise in adolescent handgun carrying Researchers at Boston College's Lynch School find uptick particularly among white, rural, and higher income teens. BC research report looks at Medicare and prescription drug costs A Center for Retirement Research brief explored the financial implications of Alzheimer's drug Aduhelm. U.S. Army Corps of Engineers awards $6.2M grant to BC research team A four-year partnership will examine water quality in watersheds and along coastlines in three U.S. regions. Predicting the future of COVID Boston College biologists develop a computational model to detect emerging Coronavirus strains. What happens when you ban sale of flavored tobacco products? BC researchers will study the effect of state policies on young people's use of the products. Exotic metals BC research reveals new insights on the unique properties and phenomena of 'kagome lattice' superconductors. Air pollution’s deadly toll BC Global Observatory uncovers air pollution's striking economic and human cost in Africa's first continent-wide survey. Student Research at BC Undergraduate Opportunities Boston College students are encouraged to get involved in research as part of their educational experience. Learn More Graduate Opportunities Our highly selective graduate programs give access to some of the most prestigious funding opportunities in the country. Learn More Support Research at Boston College Individual and corporate sponsorship of research at Boston College can help underwrite the important process of discovery. Through sponsorship of specific projects, individual faculty, or student support, you can become a vital partner in the success of research at Boston College. Make a gift Back To Top Back To Top Vice Provost for Research Boston College, Waul House 270 Hammond Street Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 vproffice@bc.edu 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College