Who We Are About Us Our Programs During COVID-19 Our History Our Staff Our Students Our Alumni Our Collaborators Job Openings On The Farm The Yale Farm Open Workdays Teaching and Learning Yale Farm Summer Internship knead 2 know In the classroom Studying Food & Agriculture Courses in Food & Agriculture Undergraduates Graduate Students Around The World A Global Perspective Chewing the Fat Global Food Fellowship Harvest Pre-Orientation Program Podcast Series Connect With Us Events Voices Newsletter Contribute Newsletter Sign-up Events Contact Us Yale Sustainable Food Program Who We Are About Us Our Programs During COVID-19 Our History Our Staff Our Students Our Alumni Our Collaborators Job Openings On The Farm The Yale Farm Open Workdays Teaching and Learning Yale Farm Summer Internship knead 2 know In the classroom Studying Food & Agriculture Courses in Food & Agriculture Undergraduates Graduate Students Around The World A Global Perspective Chewing the Fat Global Food Fellowship Harvest Pre-Orientation Program Podcast Series Connect With Us Events Voices Newsletter Contribute On The Farm The Yale Farm Open Workdays Teaching and Learning Yale Farm Summer Internship knead 2 know The Yale Farm Endearingly known as “the Old Acre,” the Yale Farm is a lively acre of land where students care for plants and animals to enrich their studies and explore the relationships between food, farming, people, and planet. For Yale Farm programming during the COVID-19 pandemic, please refer to our following guidelines. In May 2003, the first group of YSFP student interns began to transform a forgotten corner of Farnam Memorial Gardens into an agricultural space. Today, the Yale Farm at 345 Edwards Street (a 15-minute walk from Old Campus) is a lush and productive academic farm that produces dozens of varieties of vegetables, fruits, herbs, and flowers, and is home to free-range laying hens and honeybees. Throughout the year, students, faculty, staff, and members of the New Haven community visit the Yale Farm to study the connection between land and food. The Farm employs growing practices and crop rotations that reflect our regional and national agricultural landscape. In this way, the Yale Farm strives to be a working model of agricultural approaches that students can participate in directly, which happens through the following ways: The Farm hosts weekly workdays run by an excellent staff of student farm managers. In the spring and fall, we end Friday workdays with pizza from our hearth oven. During the academic year, Yale professors from several departments—from Anthropology to American Studies, Mechanical Engineering to Women’s, Gender, and Sexuality Studies—use the Yale Farm as a resource in their coursework, as they would a museum or an art gallery. Our “Seed to Salad” Program brings classes from New Haven Public Schools to the Farm on a weekly basis for lessons in ecology, science, and food production. Each summer, six undergraduate interns manage the Yale Farm as part of the Yale Farm Summer Internship. The Internship includes on-site training, field trips to regional growers, farmers’ market experience, and lessons in the ecological, economic, and social issues that orbit food and agriculture. The Yale Farm is a social hub on campus. Prospective students are invited to work on the Yale Farm during Bulldog Days every spring. In late August, new students gather around the oven to share pizza before leaving on their Harvest pre-orientation trips. Yalies make lifetime friends on the Yale Farm. Harvesting occurs on a weekly basis year round. Students sell the majority of this produce at our local CitySeed Wooster Square Farmers’ Market. Farm produce is also cooked on-site for YSFP events and speaker series. While the Yale Farm composts in its own bin systems, we do not accept food scraps from visitors. To see what options you might have as a resident in New Haven, please review this resource from the Yale Office of Sustainability. Back to Top Yale Accessibility at Yale · Privacy policy Copyright © 2020 Yale University · All rights reserved Photography by Logan Howard ’21, Noa Hines ’21, and Sol Thompson ’22.