Alert By continuing to use this site, you agree to the use of cookies in accordance with our privacy policy. Dismiss Stay Safe The official source of public health information for Syracuse University Skip to Content Toggle menu Search the University Search the University Online Online Programs The Experience Why Online Veteran and Military Online Student Support FAQs Online Online Programs The Experience Why Online Veteran and Military Online Student Support FAQs Home Online The Experience The Online Student Experience Earn your degree at a top-tier research institution with a powerful alumni network that can help you achieve your goals. Even though our interaction is all online, I feel very connected to my professors. Our relationship is like a friendship, so I enjoy seeing them in my virtual classes! —Gurudev Dhimal, Cybersecurity Administration Program, University College Join a Global Community of Scholars and Professionals Whether your classes are online or on campus, the connections you build with classmates and professors are just as valuable as the knowledge and skills you develop. Your Syracuse University degree will meet the same high standards that have produced a global community of alumni who are leaders in their fields. I love that I don’t have to make a choice between one thing or another, or give up what’s important to me. —Lindsay Bentley, Executive MPA Program, Maxwell School of Citizenship and Public Affairs Find the Right Fit for Your Busy Life There’s no one path to a great education. Our online programs are designed to meet the needs of working professionals. And classes are just the beginning. With our focus on experiential learning, you’ll receive countless opportunities to apply your education to real-world situations. Amplify Your Impact Connect with a worldwide community of high-impact alumni who form a powerful network, giving back to students through expert advice, mentoring and career opportunities. Syracuse University promotes a healthy work-life balance and offers flexible options that work for me and my family. —Brian Green, MBA Program, Whitman School of Management Be Part of an Engaged Learning Community You may not be on campus, but you’ll always be part of our Orange community. You’ll have easy access to faculty, fellow students and academic support staff so you can stay connected throughout the course of your education. Frequently Asked Questions Is my program offered entirely online? How long will it take me to finish my program? Will my degree be considered an “online” degree? How do I buy books/materials? Veteran and Military Students See how an online degree offers everything you need to accomplish your mission. Online Student Support Get the support you need to grow your career—in any direction. Take the next step: Find Your Program PopularToggle dropdown Academic Calendar Campus Map Careers Libraries Majors and Minors Visit and Tour A-ZToggle dropdown Academic Departments Schools and Colleges Sitemap Search ContactToggle dropdown Admissions Financial Aid Emergency Contacts Human Resources Make a Gift LoginToggle dropdown MySlice Blackboard SUMail Syracuse University 900 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, NY 13244 Phone: +1.315.443.1870 Like Syracuse on Facebook Follow Syracuse on Twitter Subscribe to Syracuse on YouTube Follow Syracuse on Instagram © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy