Emergency Notification: COVID-19 Visit the Health Advisories website for the latest updates, FAQs, vaccination information, and to Report a Case. Skip to main content San José State University Menu Visit Campus Tours Maps Parking Silicon Valley Hammer Theatre SJSU Loves SJ Academics Colleges and Departments Majors and Programs Centers and Institutes Academic Calendar Classes King Library Admissions Tuition and Fees Housing Professional Education Parent and Family Programs Campus Life Health and Wellness Safety SJSU Cares Events Traditions Student Alumni Connection Research and Innovation Office of Research SJSU Research Foundation Student-Faculty Collaborations Become a Research Partner About Administration and Leadership Facts and Accomplishments Partnerships Transformation Defined SJSU on Facebook SJSU on Twitter SJSU on LinkedIn SJSU on Instagram SJSU on YouTube Athletics Alumni Association Giving to SJSU Canvas one.SJSU Search University Menu .Go toSJSU homepage. Visit Campus Tours Maps Parking Silicon Valley Hammer Theatre SJSU Loves SJ Academics Colleges and Departments Majors and Programs Centers and Institutes Academic Calendar Classes King Library Admissions Tuition and Fees Housing Professional Education Parents and Family Programs Campus Life Health and Wellness Safety SJSU Cares Events Traditions Student Alumni Connection Research and Innovation Office of Research SJSU Research Foundation Student-Faculty Collaborations Become a Research Partner Athletics About Administration and Leadership Facts and Accomplishments Partnerships Transformation Defined Home Campus Life Traditions Campus Life Traditions What Does it Mean to Be a Spartan? For more than 160 years, shared qualities like creativity and adaptability have connected generations of Spartans. Our traditions, both new and established, also connect our dynamic community. Show Your SJSU Pride Spartan Pride Thursdays Whether you're on campus or living and working in another country, show your pride every Thursday by wearing your Spartan blue and gold. Get Blue and Gold Gear Sing the Alma Mater Hail, Spartans, Hail! Hail, Spartans, Hail!— Hail, gold, blue and white! We pledge our hearts and hands to keep thy colors ever bright. Forward we go! We will not fail! Sing to our Alma Mater, Hail! Hail! Hail! Learn the SJSU Fight Song Fight on for dear old San Jose State; Fight on for victory! We are with you in every way. No matter what the price may be! Onward for Sparta noble and true, Fight hard in everything you do! And so we'll Fight! (RAH!) Win! (RAH!) March onward down the field and we will win the day! S...J...S...U...S..J..S..U..SJSU...SAN JOSE STATE! Welcoming Community Admitted Spartan Day Every spring, new Spartans have the opportunity to come to campus to learn about all the wonderful resources that San Jose State has to offer, as well as how to complete the required next steps to enroll at SJSU. Weeks of Welcome During the first weeks of the semester, SJSU welcomes back returning students and supports new students in their transition to the university with Spartan spirit-filled events. Ask Me Tables New to campus and need directions to class or just have a question? Come by the "Ask Me" tables! Members of the SJSU staff, faculty and administration are available to help you find your way around campus and answer any questions during the first few days of the fall and spring semester. Homecoming From Fire on the Fountain, Campus MovieFest and the Spartan football, Homecoming is a weeklong celebration for the entire campus community. Celebrating Legacies Legacy Month The legacy of equity and social justice is a part of SJSU’s DNA. Every October, the campus honors this legacy, which includes the human rights protest by alumni Tommie Smith and John Carlos at the 1968 Olympic Games. Earth Day/Sustainability Week Gaylord Nelson, '39 Political Science, founded Earth Day. Today, sustainability is a core SJSU value. Legacy of Poetry Poets have found inspiration and community at San Jose State since Edwin Markham wrote "The Man with the Hoe." SJSU celebrates this lyrical legacy every spring. Commencement Commencement is an honored tradition at all universities. At SJSU's spring and fall ceremonies, there's special element: the ceremonial mace. An ornamental staff or scepter, the mace is carried by officials as part of formal parliamentary or academic ceremonies. A gift from the Tower Foundation of SJSU, the university’s ceremonial mace was designed and created this spring by Art and Art History Lecturer Yvonne Escalante, ’13 MFA Spatial Arts. She found inspiration for the design in both SJSU history and the paths students take to reach graduation. Read the Story of the Mace Footer San José State University SJSU on Facebook SJSU on Twitter SJSU on LinkedIn SJSU on Instagram SJSU on YouTube One Washington Square San José, CA 95192 408-924-1000 Accessibility Title IX Diversity Land Acknowledgement Privacy Colleges Business Education Engineering Graduate Studies Health and Human Sciences Humanities and the Arts Professional and Global Education Science Social Science Resources A-Z Index Annual Security Report [pdf] Bookstore Calendars Careers and Jobs Catalog Current Students Emergency Food & Housing King Library Parking and Maps Contact Us Contact Form Directory Doing Business with SJSU Emergency Info Report a Web Problem Report a Title IX Complaint Last Updated Jul 10, 2020