We use cookies to make your website experience better. To learn about how we keep your information safe, view our Privacy Policy. Accept Safer Return to Campus Masks Strongly Recommended. Notification of Potential Workplace Exposure. Skip To Main Content Popular Searches × Undocumented Students Services Home About Us Office Location and Contact Us Our Staff Our Mission Messages of Support Legal Services (CARECEN) Events Incoming Students UndocuTransfer Pipeline Undergraduate Application Process Student Programs Current Students Student Involvement Financial Aid Requirements Connect with Alumni Campus Partners DREAMers Ally Training Graduating Students Annual UndocuGraduation Alumni Network Campus/Community Resources Campus Resources CSU Resources Community Scholarships and Grants COVID-19 Resources Liaisons and Partners Undocumented Students Services Due to COVID-19, we are operating in a hybrid mode of operation by providing both in-person and online services. The Bronco Dreamers Resource Center is now open Monday through Friday from 8:00 am – 5:00 pm. To make an appointment with our Senior Coordinator, please click here. Come on in to get assistance in filling out your Dream Act Application, making an appointment with our legal (to renew DACA, or receive immigration services), receive free printing, study, use our computers, or get free BDRC gear! Welcome to Undocumented Students Services! Click bullet links below to access: More Info About USS Legal Services Dreamer Ally Training Residency for Tuition Purposes (AB540) DREAM Act Application Checklist Scholarships and Grants COVID-19 Resources for the Undocumented Community Use the Site Map to Navigate our Website Access Site Map Broken Link or Suggestion for the Website? Let Us Know General Information Welcome to the BDRC Office Staff and Contact Information Main Phone: (909) 869-2728 Email: dream@cpp.edu Follow us on Social Media: Instagram, Twitter and Facebook Subscribe to Our Newsletter Below: Subscribe DACA Updates As of 9/8/2021 USCIS Updates USCIS has updated their website to say that,in compliance with the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Texas, the agency will now:  Not be granting initial DACA requests and accompanying requests for employment authorization. Continue to grant or deny renewal DACA requests, according to existing policy. Accept applications to travel internationally through Advance Parole for educational, professional, and humanitarian reasons. Restore work permits to 2 years instead of 1 & Issue automatic Extensions for permits issued for 1 year. USCIS announced it will reuse previously submitted biometrics to process valid Form I-765, Application for Employment Authorization, extension requests. We encourage DACA recipients to renew their DACA, if needed. Please visit this website for the latest USCIS updates in relation to COVID-19. National Immigration Law Center (NILC) Resources Announcement: https://www.nilc.org/issues/daca/ Frequently Asked Questions: https://www.nilc.org/issues/daca/faq-uscis-accepting-daca-renewal-applications/ Official Department of Homeland Security Memo https://www.uscis.gov/humanitarian/deferred-action-childhood-arrivals-response-january-2018-preliminary-injunction Coalition for Humane Immigrant Rights (CHIRLA) Announcement: http://daca.chirla.org. Donate to Dreamers Dream Scholarship This scholarship was started with a goal to help all students receive a quality and equal education regardless of their immigration status. With the will of one student, then president of the Mexican American Student Association—Ricardo Ortega, and support from his family and friends the scholarship was started in the spring of 2006. Now his dream continues gaining support from Cal Poly Pomona administrators and students alike, who see the strength and importance of this scholarship and share its initial goal. By contributing to the Dream Scholarship, you will help fund the tuition of undocumented students. Click to Donate Undocumented Students Services The Undocumented Students Services supports the holistic success (academic, personal, professional) of undocumented students at Cal Poly Pomona. Its purpose is to educate the community about current issues and to convene campus allies in a dialogue of student success. By donating to the Undocumented Students Services, you will contribute to on-going programs and student staffing. Click to Donate 3801 West Temple Avenue, Pomona, CA 91768 ©2021 California State Polytechnic University, Pomona All Rights Reserved About Cal Poly Pomona Feedback Privacy Accessibility Document Readers