Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu Division of Student Affairs Office of Financial Aid Main Navigation Undergraduate Show Extended Applying FAFSA Dream Act Cost of Attendance Disbursement Parent FAQs Maintaining Eligibility SAP Repeated Coursework R2T4 | Withdrawing Unit Cap Type of Awards Pell Grant FSEOG TEACH Grant Cal Grant California Dream Act Service Incentive Grant California Emergency Grant Chafee Grant SUG EOP Grant MCS Subsidized & Unsubsidized Parent Plus Dream Loan Federal Work Study Scholarships Credential Show Extended Applying FAFSA Dream Act Cost of Attendance Disbursement Parent FAQs Maintaining Eligibility SAP Repeated Coursework R2T4 | Withdrawing Unit Cap Type of Awards Pell Grant TEACH Grant Cal Grant California Emergency Grant Federal Work Study SUG Golden State Teacher Grant Subsidized & Unsubsidized Parent Plus Scholarships Dream Loan Graduate Show Extended Applying FAFSA Dream Act Cost of Attendance Disbursement FAQs Maintaining Eligibility SAP Repeated Coursework R2T4 | Withdrawing Unit Cap Type of Awards Golden State Teacher Grant TEACH Grant SUG Unsubsidized Graduate Plus Federal Work Study Scholarships Dream Loan Special Groups Show Extended Study Abroad Year Round Students Summer Forms & Appeals Contact Us Parent FAQs Consumer Information Disbursement FA Terms & Conditions FAFSA Dream Act Freshmen Guide Transfer Guide CSUF Net Price Calculator Federal Work-Study Federal Work Study Info for Employers The Federal Work-Study (FWS) provides part-time jobs for undergraduates and graduate students with financial need, allowing them to earn money to help pay education expenses. The program encourages community service work and work related to the student's course of study. Students are employed with on-campus and off-campus partners. Students receive an allocation of funds to be earned through part-time employment. FWS employee are paid once a month, ranging from California's minimum wage to the maximum wage of $21.00an hour, depending on the type of job. Positions are advertised on HRDI’s Career page . If you are interested in a position that is not designated as Federal Work-Study, while interviewing you can share that you are Federal Work-Study eligible. Whether or not students can be hired as Federal Work-Study students is determined by the hiring department. Eligibility Requirements Complete the FAFSA by March 2nd Answer "Yes" to question 31 on the FAFSA, "Are you interested in being considered for work-study?" Submit all requested financial aid documentation from your To-Do-List by the due date Maintain Satisfactory Academic Progress Enrolled in at least six (6) or more units per semester Must have Federal Need as determined by Federal Guidelines The Student's Responsibility Student with FWS awards do not have to accept the award offer. The FWS Coordinator will accept the student's award once the student is hired and we receive the request to approve the offer and when eligibility requirements are confirmed. Provide a copy of your award summary to show proof of a FWS award when submitting applications. If an award is not included in your award summary, you cannot apply for FWS jobs. Award summaries can be obtained on your student portal. Complete the hiring process with your employer ensuring that all required documents have been provide to Human Resources. Notify your supervisor of any changes to your FWS award. Work with your supervisor to keep accurate records of hours worked so as not to exceed the FWS allocation. Complete and submit time sheet to the appropriate supervisor on time. Maintain at least half-time units per semester, at all times. If you drop below the half-time unit requirement, you cannot continue to be employed under FWS regulation. Maintain Satisfactory Academic Progress according to the policies and procedures of the Office of Financial Aid. Important FWS Information Finding a FWS Job Simply visit HRDI’s Career website and utilize the Federal Work-Study filter. If you are having problems finding a job you may want to seek assistance from the Career Center. They can help you develop a resume, prepare for interviews, explore careers and have many other important and valuable resources. To ensure your success in finding a Federal Work-Study position, please apply early in the academic year as availability of positions will decrease over time. Make sure you pay attention to the needs of the employer, if they are seeking specific majors that differ from yours, maybe you should consider another position. Also, if you are interested in a position, writing a cover letter or email to the employer may be a great way to introduce yourself, highlight your skills, and show your interest in the job. FWS - Terms & Conditions If you do not secure employment by the appropriate date (approximately mid-October), your Federal Work-Study award may be canceled. You must meet CSUF Student Assistant hiring qualifications . Be a U.S. citizen or permanent resident. Have a social security number. Continue to meet financial aid requirements. You must be enrolled in at least half-time units during any semester in which you are employed For continued participation in the FWS program, you must meet the standards for Satisfactory Academic Progress . If you lose your financial aid eligibility for any reason, you also lose your eligibility for FWS and you must stop working immediately. You can no longer earn FWS funds after you have completed your academic career at CSUF. HOur Limits You may work a maximum of 20 hours per week during the school year between Mid-August through Mid-May. Hours are contingent on the amount of FWS awarded and employer needs. You cannot work over your approved FWS award. Employment Policies Once an employer agrees to hire you, you must complete the FWS employment authorization process before you may begin working. You must provide I-9 Employment Verification Documentation to Human Resources. Your employer will submit all necessary paperwork for you to begin working and the FWS Coordinator will accept your FWS award on your behalf once eligibility is confirmed. Working periods of the academic year Federal Work-study students are awarded beginning in July for the academic year. These students can be appointed from July to August (Summer), from August/September to December (Fall), and from January to mid-May (Spring). All on-campus Federal Work Study will cease mid-May to support end of year reconciliation. The Federal Work-Study program will communicate the work end dates to employers as the end of Spring approaches. Summer employment Who Can Work Before School Begins (During July/August)? You may begin to earn a portion (20%) of your academic year award during July/August, if You have already received an award letter which includes a Federal Work-Study award, You have made Satisfactory Academic Progress(link) during the preceding year, and You will be enrolled at least half-time units (link to enrollment page) during the upcoming Fall semester. You may only be eligible to work 20 hours a week if you are enrolled in summer courses. Pay Periods Pay periods are based on the calendar month. At the end of the month, sign and submit your time sheet to your FWS supervisor for payment on or before the 15th of the following month. Your employer will complete and submit an Attendance Report to Payroll services. If your Attendance Report is submitted late, you will still be paid, but the payment may be delayed. Pay checks The Attendance Clerk at your place of employment distributes pay checks. Pay day is on or before the 15th of each month. You will be paid only for the hours you have worked and reported on your time-sheet for the previous month. Breaks You are entitled to one 15-minute break within four consecutive hours worked. When working a full eight-hour day, you may take two 15-minute breaks with pay and minimum of one 30-minute lunch break without pay. Paid breaks may not be taken at the beginning or end of the work period and are not cumulative. Employee benefits You are covered during your usual work hours by Worker's Compensation insurance against job-related illness or injury. Also, all employees are eligible to utilize the Employee Assistance Program . FWS students are not entitled to other employment benefits such as overtime pay, paid holidays, vacation or sick leave, unemployment insurance or permanent status. Employment Expectations You are entitled to be informed by your FWS supervisor of your expected work schedule and duties. You are expected to conduct yourself in a professional manner. An Employer May Terminate Your FWS Employment if: Your work schedule is not compatible with the employers' needs; You display unprofessional conduct such as repeated absences or tardiness; You do not maintain confidentially of records; or Your work is unsatisfactory. Monitoring Your Earnings You are responsible for monitoring your FWS wages and notifying your FWS supervisor when you are close to reaching your FWS allocation (maximum earnings). You may not earn more than your FWS award amount as indicated in TITAN Online. If your FWS award is revised, you must notify your FWS supervisor immediately. You are responsible for reporting your time accurately and for signing and submitting your time sheet on time each month to your supervisor. Not Eligible For FWS But Interested In Working On-Campus? If you are not eligible for Federal Work Study, you might want to look into other on-campus employment opportunities: HRDI Careers website- On-Campus Student Employment Opportunities Career Center - Titan Connection Off-Campus Student Employment Opportunities Associated Students, Inc. - Employment Opportunities Auxiliary Services Corporation - Open Positions Need more assistance? Contact the Office of Financial Aid Phone: 657-278-3125 or submit an inquiry through our Financial Aid Questions ticketing system on our Contact Us page. This site is maintained by Office of Financial Aid. Last Published 4/8/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact financialaid@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.10 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.