Skip navigation Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Brown Grad School About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Graduate School Academics & Research Professional Development Graduate School Skip to Navigation Professional Development Professional development is an integral part of graduate education. In coordination with offices and centers across campus, the Graduate School helps graduate students develop the skills they need to succeed in both the academic and non-academic worlds. The University provides abundant opportunities for students to develop as teachers, scholars, speakers, and researchers. Development Plan The Graduate School encourages students to develop an Individual Development Plan to map out career goals and the steps of their professional development. Doctoral students can take advantage of Brown's distinctive development opportunities. Center for Careers and Life After Brown 167 Angell St. (401) 863-3326 [email protected] Center for Careers and Life After Brown (CareerLAB) The CareerLAB offers advising services and extensive programming for those seeking career information and job search assistance. You can schedule individual sessions to ask quick questions on resume or CV critiques, and attend programs and workshops. Services are geared to both master’s and doctoral students. All sessions are confidential. The graduate student section of the CareerLAB website links to many resources for career exploration, skill development, and specific interest areas. Graduate students should complete their profile on Handshake and also BrownConnect. Handshake is Brown's system for making appointments, finding job postings and learning about workshops and events. BrownConnect allows students to connect with alumni for internship opportunities or networking. For more information or to make an appointment to see a counselor, use Handshake or email [email protected]. Also view a Resume & CV workshop for PhD students video (spring 2021). Distinctive Opportunities Development opportunities include advanced teaching opportunities, Global Mobility grants and research travel funds, interdisciplinary scholarly opportunities at Centers and Institutes, communications workshops and public research talks, and a series exploring careers in higher education administration. Leadership The Graduate Community Fellows Program is an opportunity for graduate students to cultivate community, leadership, collaboration, and problem solving skills through developing and implementing initiatives that strengthen the Brown graduate community and foster a culture that respects and celebrates diversity, inclusion and equity. Initiatives fall under one of the following areas: Race & Social Justice, International Community, Wellness & Health, Family-Friendly, and Master’s Student Community. Publishing Publishing is one measure of student development. Graduate students are welcome to work with peer mentors in the Writing Center. The Graduate School is pleased to celebrate and acknowledge publishing success: Please email your accomplishments to [email protected]. Professional Development Links External Funding External awards are prestigious and a valuable acknowledgement of intellectual pursuit and promis. Writing a fellowship proposal can clarify your thinking about your research and improve your ability to communicate its impact. Teaching Developing teaching and presentation skills are measures of your development, whether you aim to teach, conduct research, or be a leader at a federal agency, a museum, or think tank. ELAT English language and acculturation training is available to incoming international students during the summer, through a collaborative effort of the Center for Language Studies (CLS) and the Graduate School. Conference Travel Presenting papers at professional conferences is important to doctoral students' academic careers and growth as professionals, and is relevant experience for careers both inside and outside of academe. Research Travel The Graduate Research Travel Grant provides supplemental funding for scholarly research travel that occurs during the academic year. International Travel The International Travel Fund provides funding for graduate student conference presentations and research studies abroad. Preparing for the Job Market Take advantage of resources and services at the CareerLAB. You can schedule individual sessions, drop in for quick questions on resume or CV critiques, and attend programs and workshops. LinkedIn: Graduate Student Groups Groups for Humanities and Social Sciences and Life and Physical Sciences facilitate networking among current graduate students and alumni with advanced degrees from Brown University in these fields. Home About the Graduate School Healthy Brown FAQs for Graduate Students Academics & Research Ph.D. Requirements Master's Requirements Fields of Study Post-Baccalaureate Research Education Program (PREP) Fifth-Year Master's Degree Concurrent Bachelor's/Master's Degrees Distinctive Opportunities Graduate Advising and Mentoring Rules & Regulations Course Registration Research Professional Development Training Opportunities, Events & Tools Partnerships & Exchanges Living & Resources Financing & Support Admitted Students & Orientation Application Information For Graduate Students For Faculty and Staff Related Items Advising & Mentoring Guidelines & Resources Distinctive Opportunities Teaching Certificates Mellon Graduate Workshops Global Mobility Grants Interdisciplinary Opportunities Brown Executive Scholars Training Effective Performance Workshops Research Matters! The Versatile Ph.D. Graduate Career Options Conference Graduate Community Fellows Program PhD Career Pathways Proctorship in Academic Administration Brown University Brown University Graduate School Box 1867 Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-2600 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Resources Graduate School Handbook Academic Code CareerLAB Brown University Writing Center Sarah Doyle Center for Women and Gender Sheridan Center for Teaching & Learning Top Destinations Admission Inquiry Form Commencement Five-Year Ph.D. Support Open Graduate Education External Funding Application Process International Applicants