Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Health Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Our Services Appointments Health Topics Events Forms and Guidelines Our Organization News See All Services What's Open Now Patient Resources Quarantine and Isolation Support Coping Tools Immunization Compliance Top Services Birth Control Education Individual Counseling Primary Care Register with Disability Services Sexual Assault: Get Support STI Testing Support Groups Travel Medicine Urgent Medical Concerns Workshops and Trainings Cost of Service Overview Make an Appointment Same Day Service Emergency and After-hours Support Alcohol Body Image Concerns Marijuana Disabilities Other Drugs HIV Insurance Men's Health Mental Health and Well-Being Anxiety Depression Stress Nutrition Physical Activity Relationships Overview Academic Relationships Friendships Roommates Sexual and Reproductive Health Sleep Transgender and Gender Expansive Health Violence Prevention Prevention Consent What Is Sexual Assault? Supporting a Survivor What Is Relationship Abuse? Stalking What Is Sexual Harassment? Bystander Intervention-Step UP! Women's Health See All Events Sexual Assault Awareness Month Columbia Health Flu Season Information Virtual Naloxone Training About Columbia Health Who We Are Who We Serve Confidentiality, Patient Rights, & Patient Responsibilities Operating Philosophy Video Library Your Feedback Staff Directory Health Units Alice! Health Promotion Counseling and Psychological Services Disability Services Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) Insurance Office Medical Services Sexual Violence Response Columbia Health You are here: Home Health Topics Sexual & Reproductive Health Sexual & Reproductive Health ADDITIONAL RESOURCES Intra-uterine device (IUD) and Contraceptive Implant (Nexplanon) Insertion Termination of Pregnancy The choice to be sexually active is unique to the individual. The majority of Columbia students take active steps to protect their sexual and reproductive health by: Limiting the number of sexual partners Using barrier methods to prevent sexually transmitted infections (STIs) Using barrier methods or hormonal contraception to prevent pregnancy Sexual and reproductive health resources include access to free safer sex supplies (internal and external condoms, dental dams, lubricant, and information). There are a number of locations where free safer sex supplies are available to students on the Morningside campus. Check the map for locations, hours, and directions to safer sex supplies. Google Map Location Find these supplies at: Sexual Violence Response (7th floor of Lerner Hall) Alice! Health Promotion (3rd floor of John Jay Hall) Disability Services (1st floor of Wien Hall) Undergraduate Student Life (5th floor west of Lerner Hall) To talk with a staff member about sexual health questions, including safer sex options and strategies, visit Alice! Health Promotion during drop in hours or call 212-854-5453 to make an appointment. The Gay Health Advocacy Project offers free and confidential HIV antibody testing to the entire Columbia community, and arranges treatment and support for HIV-infected students. In addition, Gay Health Advocacy Project provides peer counseling on issues of sexuality and information about transmission, treatment, and prevention of STIs. Medical Services also provides an array of sexual and reproductive health services including well-woman examinations, birth control, pregnancy options counseling, STI testing and treatment, and much more. Related Resources Go Ask Alice! Sexual and Reproductive Health archives Birth control education sessions Learn more about the Quick Escape button. Columbia Health Administration Wallach Hall, Suite 125, Mail Code 4202, 1116 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-2284 Contact Us [email protected] Internal Use Only Login to Access Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close