Skip to main content Skip to main content My Account My Account Give Give Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content SMU Libraries Find & Borrow Research & Teaching Locations & Collections Visit SMU Libraries About Get Help Find & Borrow Find Books Journals & Newspapers Articles Films Music Scores & Recordings Borrow & Request Checkout & Renew Interlibrary Loan Request a Purchase Guest Services Alumni Services Research Card Research & Teaching Scholarship & Publishing GIS@SMU SMU Scholar Research Data Digital Scholarship Scholarly Impact & Publishing Copyright Teaching Support Library Materials for Courses Classroom Instruction Assignment Design Online Guides & Tutorials Locations & Collections Libraries Bridwell Library Business Library DeGolyer Library Fondren Library Hamon Arts Library Underwood Law Library Fort Burgwin Library Exhibits & Digital Collections Campus Exhibits Online Exhibits Digital Collections Special Collections & Archives Visit Visit Hours Maps & Parking Technology & Printing Policies Accessibility Spaces Places to Study Graduate Student Spaces Lockers Class & Event Spaces About About Us Staff Directory Dean's Office Equity, Diversity, Inclusion & Accessibility Faculty & Student Awards Join Us Staff & Student Employment Internships Student Advisory Board Friends of SMU Libraries Connect with Us News Events Social Media Contact Us Get Help Ask Us (email, chat, text, call) Research Guides by Discipline How Do I . . . ? Guides Find Your Librarian Attend Workshops Writing Support ☰ Libraries About Equity, Diversity, Inclusion & Accessibility Equity, Diversity, Inclusion & Accessibility SMU Libraries Value - We Find Strength in Unity The SMU Libraries values creating and sustaining a climate of inclusion individually, through our language and behavior, and institutionally, through our services, spaces, collections, and practices. Strategic Directions & Plan Goal 4: Connect Our Communities “SMU Libraries cultivates inclusive, equitable, and accessible spaces, services, programs, and resources so that our libraries exemplify the SMU welcoming and supportive community.” SMU Libraries Strategic Plan, 2019-2024 EDIA Plan and Report In Progress Committee The SMU Libraries Equity, Diversity, Inclusion, and Accessibility (EDIA) Committee guides the SMU Libraries in proactively advancing diversity, equity, and inclusiveness in SMU Libraries. Its charge is the creation and oversight of a plan for advancing diversity, equity, and inclusiveness in staffing, programs, services, and resources, and to advise and liaise with other SMU Libraries committees (e.g., LEAD) in their training, advocacy, and involvement in campus-wide and professional initiatives. The first year of this committee established a plan to fulfill the SMU Libraries Strategic Plan, 2019-2024 Goal 4 Objective 1. The ongoing work of the EDIA Committee will be in an advisory capacity for the committees, teams, and departments to make changes as defined by this plan. Chairing this Committee, the EDIA Officer will communicate recommendations from SMU’s Chief Diversity Officer for the Committee to address within SMU Libraries. EDIA Officer The Equity, Diversity, Inclusion, and Accessibility (EDIA) Officer serves as an advocate for all members of the SMU Libraries community. Primary roles of the EDIA Officer are to lead the EDIA Committee to fulfill their charge, and to serve as the SMU Libraries representative to the SMU University Diversity Council and the direction of SMU’s Chief Diversity Officer (CDO). The EDIA Officer serves in an ex officio capacity on the SMU Libraries Executive Board, Student Advisory Board, and all SMU Libraries search committees. Resources Research Guides LGBTQ+ Research Multicultural Literature African-American History Cultural Intelligence Resources Databases A-Z Databases: Multicultural Oral Histories Voices of SMU collection: Histories of Communities of Color at SMU About this collection About Staff Directory Dean's Office Equity, Diversity, Inclusion & Accessibility Database Access Faculty & Student Awards Contact Hollie Gardner Director of Strategic Initiatives hgardner@smu.edu Related Accessibility Office of Diversity and Inclusion Bias Education and Response Form SMU Libraries Student Advisory Board SMU Libraries Strategic Plan Maps & Directions | Contact Us | Feedback Accessibility | Legal Disclosures © SMU Libraries, PO Box 750135, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share