Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Department of Biological Sciences Undergraduate Graduate Centers People Research Blog Scholarships Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Scholarships Information Undergraduate Graduate Eligibility Make a Gift to the Bill Simco Graduate Research Scholarship Scholarship Recipients Tiger Scholarship Manager Guidelines myMemphis Portal Contact Committee Chairman Take Action DEI Resources Seminar Schedule Research and Program Facilities Contact Us Follow Us Online Facebooktwitter Home Biological Sciences Scholarships Biology Bill A. Simco Graduate Research Scholarship Bill A. Simco Graduate Research Scholarship In March of 2014, the Department of Biological Sciences presented the first Bill A. Simco Graduate Research Scholarship, established to honor the many years of service provided to the Department by him. Dr. Simco passed away on January 17, 2016 (read his obituary). To apply for the Bill A. Simco Graduate Research Scholarship access the guidelines here: guidelines Dr. Simco began his career at the University of Memphis (then Memphis State University) four decades ago, when the Department only offered Master's degrees and research took a back seat to teaching. In a recent interview with the Daily Helmsman, Dr. Simco indicated that when he arrived at the U of M, his teaching load was about 20 hours a week—it's substantially less than that now. In addition to teaching, Dr. Simco found time to assist in the founding of the U of M's Ecological Research Center, where he continues to serve as co-director and he was instrumental in developing the department's doctoral program. Simco's research interests lie in aquaculture, a result of his work as a graduate student at the University of Kansas. He uses channel catfish as an experimental model because, as he said in the Helmsman article "You can get them in any number and any size. They are quite tolerant of experimental conditions, sort of like an aquatic white rat." Although Dr. Simco enjoys both teaching and research, it's his interactions with students that are most satisfying. Dr. Simco concluded his interview by saying "I'm very honored to have a scholarship in my name," Simco said. "I hope that every graduate student applies and that it will help support students and research for years to come." The scholarship will go to one graduate student per year. Students studying biological sciences will send their proposals to the department's Graduate Studies Committee in order to be considered. The committee will consider students within any field of biology. Graduate students wishing to apply must send in a research proposal listing what they want to research, why it is important and how it impacts the scientific community. You may contribute to the Bill Simco Graduate Research Scholarship through the UofM secure online form. You may also contact the Development office at: 901.678.3953 to make a gift by phone, or email gifts@memphis.edu for other options. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 5/25/21 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.