Skip to site alert. Skip to content College of Dental Medicine Students Alumni Faculty Giving Contact Us Search About Us About Us Our Mission History Leadership and Administration Board of Advisors Global Dean's Council News Diversity Community Outreach Global Initiatives Support the College of Dental Medicine Events Calendar Contact Us Columbia Visiting Professorship Program CDM Publications Education Education DDS Program Advanced Standing Program for Foreign Trained Dentists Postdoctoral and Residency Programs Tuition, Fees and Financial Aid Global Programs Visits & Externships Continuing Education Academic Sections/Divisions Academic Calendars Research Research Research Areas Research Labs Research Centers Research Faculty Clinical Trials Research Resources Student Research First International Symposium of Fusobacteria Patient Care Patient Care ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Teaching Clinics Patient Resources COVID-19 Safety ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Our Doctors Our Services Our Locations Make an Appointment Make an Appointment Choose between ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry and our affordable Dental Clinics. Para Español, haga clic aquí. Explore Your Options Events News You are here Home > Research > Student Research Research Areas Research Labs Research Centers Research Faculty Clinical Trials Research Resources Student Research Summer Research Fellowship Program William Jarvie Research Society Birnberg Research Symposium Student Research Funding Opportunities First International Symposium of Fusobacteria Student Research Student research is an integral and highly-valued activity at the College of Dental Medicine. There are a number of opportunities for students to become involved in research across a range of disciplines. Students at the College of Dental Medicine work in research settings across the University, the nation, and globally. Our students have received national and international awards for their research and have presented first-authored abstracts at national professional meetings. The strength of the student research program is also shown via the 50+ year tradition of the William Jarvie Research Society (the dental student research group) and the annual Birnberg Student Research Program, which features the presentation of student research posters. The College of Dental Medicine provides a supportive environment for predoctoral and postdoctoral participation in the exciting discoveries of biomedical research both at the University and beyond. The methodological and analytical approaches, refined during their research experiences at the College, serve our students well as they take their places in the dental profession at a time of profound advancement and innovation in the field. CDR Magazine is an award-winning, peer-reviewed, clinical publication edited by the students of the school. Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian ColumbiaDoctors About Us Education Research Student Life Alumni Faculty Contact Us Intranet Columbia University College of Dental Medicine 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Back to top