Skip to Main Content Brown University News from Brown Site Navigation Featured Events For Journalists Search Menu Topics News and Events Date November 29, 2017 2017-11-29 Media Contact O'rya Hyde-Keller [email protected] 401-863-1632 All News Share Facebook Twitter Linkedin Email State, higher education leaders celebrate South Street Landing’s launch In a Nov. 29 ribbon-cutting ceremony, Rhode Island Gov. Gina Raimondo, Brown President Christina Paxson and other speakers extolled the project as both a symbol of and catalyst for economic development. 1 of 3 Brown University President Christina Paxson, Rhode Island Gov. Gina Raimondo and Providence Mayor Jorge Elorza (photo center) joined higher education, government and business leaders to celebrate South Street Landing's official ribbon-cutting on Wednesday, Nov. 29. All Photos: Nicholas Dentamaro / Brown University 2 of 3 Brown University President Christina Paxson speaks at a Nov. 29 ribbon-cutting ceremony for South Street Landing. Seated (from left): Rhode Island State Sen. Joshua Miller, Providence Mayor Jorge Elorza and Rhode Island Governor Gina Raimondo. 3 of 3 The event showcased the building's Dynamo Hall, the heart of the former South Street Power Station. PROVIDENCE, R.I. [Brown University] — Rhode Island government, higher education and business leaders gathered in South Street Landing’s soaring Dynamo Hall on Wednesday, Nov. 29, for a ribbon-cutting to signify the official opening of the renovated power station in Providence’s Jewelry District. After a multi-year $220 million project, the long-abandoned former Narragansett Electric power station is now home to 11 Brown University administrative offices and the Rhode Island Nursing Education Center, a joint Rhode Island College and University of Rhode Island complex. “South Street Landing is once again standing as a cornerstone of civic enterprise and purpose,” Brown President Christina Paxson said during remarks at the event. “It once again projects an image of solidity and purpose to the public, but it also projects an image of innovation and the kind of work that’s going to move Providence and Rhode Island continually forward… The city and state are on an upward trajectory, and this is a symbol of that.” Early conversations about the potential to bring new life to the derelict power station began more than five years ago as Brown explored options to create housing for graduate and medical students following the 2011 opening of the Warren Alpert Medical School across the street. Making it a reality was the result of a public-private collaboration involving three universities, city, state and federal government, and private developers — a fact much noted in remarks at the ribbon-cutting ceremony. It’s an example of the collaborative effort needed to move the state forward in the changing economy, said Rhode Island Gov. Gina Raimondo. “A lot of people talk about the great things that can happen when everyone comes together,” she said. “We’re doing it. This is a symbol of what’s happening in our state… Rhode Island is unmistakably on the move.” Raimondo added that South Street Landing serves as a metaphor for the shifting Rhode Island economy. “This used to be a power station on the edge of a booming Jewelry District,” she said. “But as manufacturing changed and the jobs went away, the factories went silent. Today, we're changing the narrative. This empty power plant is now full of young people learning in-demand skills that will let them compete in the 21st century. I want to thank everyone who worked tirelessly to make this happen.” Brown has leased 136,000 square feet of the 265,000-square-foot South Street Landing. Eleven offices, ranging from Human Resources and Finance to Communications and Advancement, will occupy four of the building’s six floors. Staff from 10 University departments have already moved into the building, with the remaining Brown occupants joining them on Dec. 1. Relocating administrative offices to the building advances the University’s academic mission by freeing space on College Hill for undergraduate-focused academic pursuits and strengthening and concentrating its administrative functions, Brown officials noted. The move also reflects the University’s goal to catalyze economic growth in the Jewelry District, Providence and Rhode Island. Brown has invested more than $225 million in the neighborhood, including the state-of-the-art Warren Alpert Medical School building, the School of Professional Studies and the Laboratories for Molecular Medicine. Moving forward, the University will be an anchor tenant, along with Cambridge Innovation Center and Johnson & Johnson, in a new Innovation Center being developed by Wexford Science & Technology on former I-195 land. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Snapchat Twitter YouTube Social Media Directory © Brown University Brown University For You Current Students Faculty Staff Parents & Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Featured Events For Journalists Topics Arts and Humanities Environment Health and Medicine News and Events Science and Technology Social Sciences Student Life University Initiatives Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events For You Give to Brown All of Brown.edu People News Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search State, higher education leaders celebrate South Street Landing’s launch Open details for State, higher education leaders celebrate South Street Landing’s launch Bookmark this Page