Skip to main content Menu Resources Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply or Give Apply Now Make a Gift Staff Senate Staff Senate Elections GET INVOLVED – BECOME A SENATOR! What is a Staff Senator? We are looking for colleagues who want to be a voice for others in their area and who want a better understanding of how our University works. A Senator has the opportunity to be a listener and advocate. They will get a better understanding of how decisions are made as well as meet University decision-makers. They will be collaborators in Senate initiatives and network with colleagues at Senate events. Senators interact with staff from across campus, as well as with faculty, administrators and representatives from all University areas. They receive first-hand knowledge about the policies and pending changes affecting campus. They represent their co-workers and address the needs of their constituents with other Senators. It’s interesting and fun! We have Senate representation in each of the following budget centers: B001 - PSA B003 - Provost B004 - CAFLS B005 - AAH B006 - CBSHS B007 - CECAS B008 - College of Business B009 - CCIT B010 - Libraries B011/B012/B027 - Office of the President, BOT, and General Counsel B013 - Athletics B014 - Student Affairs B015/B023 - Research & Economic Development B016 - Development & Alumni Relations B017 - Facilities B018 - Finance & Operations B024 - College of Education B026 - Communication Brand Strategy B028 - Inclusion & Equity B029 - Restoration Institute Check back here in early 2023 to find out which seats will be open for election for the 2023-2026 term. Fun facts: A new Senator’s term begins at the May meeting and continues for three years. Senators attend monthly Staff Senate meetings, held on the second Thursday of each month at the Student Union and on Zoom. All Senators also serve on a Senate committee, which meets monthly (schedules vary by committee). In addition, they may volunteer and/or be appointed to serve on a University committee; if selected, they represent the interests of Staff Senate and provide a meeting report regarding the committee’s activities. There are lots of fund-raising and social activities to attend and support. More information about a Senator’s duties can be found in the Staff Senate Bylaws. We invite you to attend a meeting and/or contact any Senator with questions you may have about the duties and responsibilities of a Staff Senator. If you have any questions about the election process, please contact Erin Fall in the Staff Senate office or call 656-9000. ATTENDANCE RECORD OF STAFF SENATORS Being a representative of staff and serving on Staff Senate is a responsibility that our Senators take seriously. Attendance records for regular staff meetings and committee meetings are kept for all current Senators and updated regularly. Read more about our attendance requirements on our Bylaws page. Home Bylaws Committees Minutes Newsletter Staff Senate Endowed Scholarship Employee Emergency Fund Thank You, Veterans Contact Us Join Staff Senate Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram