Search | Directories | Reference Tools UW Home > Discover UW > Student Guide UW Bothell Course Descriptions UW Tacoma Course Descriptions Glossary COLLEGE OF BUILT ENVIRONMENTS CONSTRUCTION MANAGEMENT Detailed course offerings (Time Schedule) are available for Spring Quarter 2022 Summer Quarter 2022 Autumn Quarter 2022 CM 250 Construction and Culture (5) I&S Evolution of modern building construction with emphasis on the relationship between the projects built over time and the people who built them. Focuses on the development of building technology, equipment, and materials used by Western civilizations. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: CM 250 CM 260 Digital Tools (3) Use construction and design related software to perform project administration. Students will be able to apply Excel to organize construction costs, Revit to visualize construction in 3-D, Computer Aided Design to draw construction plans, SketchUp to visualize construction activities, and Bluebeam for plan reading and collaboration. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: CM 260 CM 301 Construction Communications (3) Applies business writing to the construction industry. Focuses on planning, writing, and editing documents most critical to a construction manager's professional success. Offered: ASp. View course details in MyPlan: CM 301 CM 310 Introduction to the Construction Industry (3) Introduction to the construction process, including general overview of organization, relationships, practices, terminology, project types, procurement methods, industry standards, contract documents, and career opportunities. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: CM 310 CM 311 Construction Documents (2) Introduction to construction plans and specifications with emphasis on reading and interpreting them. Focuses on architectural/engineering drawings and associated specifications used in building construction. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: CM 311 CM 312 Construction Accounting (3) Introduction to accounting for the contractor, placing emphasis on the analysis and use of financial statements and a job cost accounting system. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: CM 312 CM 313 Construction Methods and Materials I (4) Introduction to basic building materials, with emphasis on techniques for assembly and utilization in residential and light construction, including materials such as concrete, brick, and wood. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: CM 313 CM 320 Construction Contract Documents (3) Introduction to working drawings, specifications, and other documents designed to enable the student to read and interpret complete set of contract documents for residential and light commercial projects. Emphasis on the organization and uses of architectural/engineering drawings and specifications in the construction process. Offered: S. View course details in MyPlan: CM 320 CM 321 Mechanical Systems in Buildings (3) Introduction to building heating, cooling, plumbing, and fire protection systems including aspects of design, construction, estimating, and problem solving. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: CM 321 CM 322 Electrical Systems in Buildings (3) Introduction to electrical construction including electrical distribution from generation to consumption, terminology, equipment and applications, electrical contract documents and estimating, and electrical project management theory and practice. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: CM 322 CM 323 Construction Methods and Materials II (5) Analysis of building methods for structural, non-structural, and design and use of temporary structures including method selection, sequencing, and coordination of specialty trades in commercial and industrial construction. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: CM 323 CM 330 Construction Estimating Lab (1) Apply software to perform material take off and apply cost when estimating construction projects. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: CM 330 CM 331 Construction Estimating I (3) Introduction to the principles and techniques of estimating construction costs, with emphasis on quantity take-off and pricing elements of work. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: CM 331 CM 332 Construction Equipment Management (3) Study of the basic principles, practices, and techniques used in the construction industry for selecting and managing construction equipment. Focuses on understanding the time value of money, estimating equipment ownership and operating costs, selecting the proper equipment for specific construction tasks, and estimating equipment production. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: CM 332 CM 333 Construction Safety (3) Explanation of requirements of the Occupational Safety and Health Act and other related federal and state legislation as applied to the building construction industry. Standards for accident prevention, hazard identification, and responsibility for compliance emphasized. Offered: WSp. View course details in MyPlan: CM 333 CM 334 Construction Surveying (2) Introduction to construction surveying including layout of construction features, distance and elevation measurement, and use and care of surveying equipment. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: CM 334 CM 335 Sustainable Construction (3) Studies issues associated with planning and constructing sustainable projects including development of LEED documentation and evaluation of financial, social, and environmental impacts of construction operations. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: CM 335 CM 340 Sustainable Building Design and Construction Practices (3) Examines sustainable standards for design and construction of commercial and institutional buildings focusing on environmental, economic, and social benefits of sustainable buildings. View course details in MyPlan: CM 340 CM 404 Integrated Design/Build Studio (6) Study of the design/build process with emphasis on the synthesis of design and construction considerations. Focuses on developing design and construction concepts to meet program requirements specified in case studies. Offered: jointly with ARCH 404. View course details in MyPlan: CM 404 CM 410 Construction Estimating II (4) Principles and techniques for estimating commercial construction projects including a mock bid day exercise on a commercial construction project. Prerequisite: CM 331; CM 332. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: CM 410 CM 411 Project Planning and Control (4) Introduction to the basic principles, techniques, and practices used as tools by contractors to plan, schedule, and control costs on building construction projects. Prerequisite: CM 331. Offered: AW. View course details in MyPlan: CM 411 CM 412 Construction Practice (2) Introduction to challenges of managing a construction organization. Focuses on ethical behavior, organizational behavior, human resources management, marketing, financial management, and risk management. Prerequisite: CM 417 or CM 421. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: CM 412 CM 413 Competitive Business Presentations (1) Study and development of skills needed to develop and deliver professional construction management presentations. Includes a series of workshops and practical exercises in construction presentation skills, teamwork, and leadership. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: CM 413 CM 414 Virtual Construction (3) Examines the use of building information models for managing the construction process and facilitating collaboration among project participants. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: CM 414 CM 415 Heavy Construction Practices (3) Introduction to heavy construction with emphasis on highway and bridge construction. Topics include: contract analysis, work breakdown, equipment selection, unit-price cost estimating, site logistics planning, and project scheduling. Prerequisite: CM 332. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: CM 415 CM 416 Residential Project Development (3) Studies the financial, technical, and managerial activities as well as the environmental impact regulations and studies associated with the development of residential projects, including the business and construction practices and marketing strategies needed for a successful project. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: CM 416 CM 417 Residential Project Management (3) Introduction to the organization, management, control and administrative functions on residential construction projects. A residential case study will be utilized to provide hands on learning opportunities. Introduction to Cost control, Value Engineering, and Site Logistics. Prerequisite: CM 410; CM 411. View course details in MyPlan: CM 417 CM 420 Temporary Structures (3) Study of temporary structures used to support construction operations such as concrete formwork, scaffolding systems, shoring systems, cofferdams, underpining, slurry walls, and construction dewatering systems. Prerequisite: ARCH 321. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: CM 420 CM 421 Project Management I (3) Introduction to the organization, management, and administrative functions on construction projects including a hands-on and extensive case study of a commercial construction project, cost control, and introduction to the concepts of Value Engineering, partnering, and Total Quality Management. Prerequisite: CM 410; CM 411. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: CM 421 CM 422 Computer Applications in Construction (2) Introduction to the use of automated programs for planning, scheduling, and controlling construction projects. Focuses on the use of Primavera Project Planner software. Prerequisite: CM 411. Offered: WSp. View course details in MyPlan: CM 422 CM 423 Construction Law (3) Legal issues arising from design and construction services, focusing on risk management and liability awareness. Topical areas include basic legal doctrines, the design professional/client relationship, contractor selection, the construction process, and professional practice problems. Emphasizes Washington state law. Prerequisite: CM 417 or CM 421. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: CM 423 CM 425 Concrete Technology (3) Introduction to the properties and behavior of concrete. Focuses on uses of concrete as a building material and new techniques for concrete construction. View course details in MyPlan: CM 425 CM 426 Preconstruction Techniques (3) Studies the preconstruction phase of a building construction project by focusing on conceptual cost estimating, schedule analysis, and constructability reviews during the development of the design for the project. View course details in MyPlan: CM 426 CM 428 Heavy Construction Techniques (3) Studies the materials, methods, and techniques used in site work, highway, utility, and other heavy construction projects. Addresses concrete as a construction material, foundations, rigid and flexible pavements, bridges, dams, and tunnels. View course details in MyPlan: CM 428 CM 429 Construction Superintendent (3) Study of the role and responsibilities of the Project Superintendent, analytical and technical skill sets used in managing field operations. Special emphasis on logistics, work flow planning, productivity tracking and development and management of a project schedule's critical path. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: CM 429 CM 430 Building Code and Environmental Regulations (3) Introduction to the permit process, life-safety requirements, and environmental regulations for designs and construction of buildings as established by the national and local jurisdictions. Prerequisite: ARCH 322. View course details in MyPlan: CM 430 CM 431 Project Management II (5) Capstone project using case studies to apply skills, knowledge, techniques, and concepts developed in prior courses. Emphasis on the concept of integrated project management, including cost estimating and bidding, scheduling, cost control, safety, project organization, and documentation. Prerequisite: CM 417 or CM 421. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: CM 431 CM 432 Soils and Foundations (3) Origin, classification, and physical properties of soil as used in engineering and construction applications, together with loads and stresses of soil on, and from, the more common types of engineering structures. Prerequisite: CM 323. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: CM 432 CM 433 Construction Labor Relations (2) Introduction to construction labor topics, including labor-management organization, legislation, and regulation, collective bargaining, and job site administration. View course details in MyPlan: CM 433 CM 434 Lean Project Planning (3) Studies lean construction principles and examines how those principles can be applied in a construction context to improve project quality and shorten duration while reducing cost. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: CM 434 CM 449 Construction Plan Reading and Estimating (3) Reading and interpreting a complete set of working drawings for residential and commercial construction projects. Principles and techniques of estimating construction, with emphasis on quantity take-off. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: CM 449 CM 450 Construction Project Management (5) Examines management of construction projects focusing on construction contracting, cost estimating, project scheduling, and resource management. View course details in MyPlan: CM 450 CM 481 Facility Life Cycle 1: Planning (3) Introduction to facility management. First in sequence of three built around the principle of the facility life cycle. Defines key terms. Examines topics such as ethics, business context, budgets, cost analysis, and strategic planning. Students work in online teams to develop a course-final project. View course details in MyPlan: CM 481 CM 482 Facility Life Cycle 2: Design and Construction (5) Second in sequence of three built around the principle of the facility life cycle. Covers design basics, cost estimates, building materials, project management, and construction administration. Students establish a mentor relationship with a professional facility manager and interview three guest speakers, experts in their fields. View course details in MyPlan: CM 482 CM 483 Facility Life Cycle 3: Relocation and Operational Issues (4) Final in sequence of three built around the principle of the facility life cycle. Provides an overview of issues related to facility operations and maintenance, including occupancy and start up, inventory and staff management, relocation, disaster planning, emergency preparedness, and security. View course details in MyPlan: CM 483 CM 498 Special Topics (1-10, max. 20) View course details in MyPlan: CM 498 CM 499 Undergraduate Research (*, max. 12) Individual or small-group studies. Students may select topics with approval of faculty sponsor and department. View course details in MyPlan: CM 499 CM 500 Design and Construction Law (3) Legal issues arising from design and construction services, focusing on risk management and liability awareness. Topical areas include basic legal doctrines, the design professional/client relationship, contractor selection, the construction process, and professional practice problems. Emphasis on Washington State law. Offered: jointly with ARCH 574; A. View course details in MyPlan: CM 500 CM 510 Advanced Construction Techniques (3) Study of techniques and practices used in complex construction projects, including industrial and high-rise structures, building renovation, and tenant improvements. View course details in MyPlan: CM 510 CM 512 Preconstruction Facilitation (3) Studies the preconstruction phase of a building construction project by facilitating the work of a multi-disciplinary team focusing on developing the conceptual design for a construction project. View course details in MyPlan: CM 512 CM 515 Virtual Construction Management (3) Examination of innovative techniques for planning and managing construction projects including use of time-phased, three-dimensional Building Information Models; sustainable construction techniques; and web-based project management tools. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: CM 515 CM 518 Lean Construction (3) Examines the application of lean production management concepts to the management of construction projects. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: CM 518 CM 520 Construction Procurement Systems (3) Study of the different methods used in the procurement and delivery of projects in the construction industry including lump sum, unit price, cost-plus, design-build, and construction management contracts. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: CM 520 CM 525 Cost Analysis and Management (3) Study of cost management procedures applicable to the building process from the conceptual phase through owner operations, including conceptual estimating, project cost analysis and control, and value engineering and life-cycle costing. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: CM 525 CM 527 Management of Scope and Risks for Construction Projects (3) This course introduces students to the process of evaluating scope definition and risks in a project's life cycle. Using industry literature and reviewing case studies, students will learn project scoping and risk management best practices and apply them to a team project. View course details in MyPlan: CM 527 CM 528 Advanced Cost Management in Construction (3) Studies the three primary aspects of project cost control: overhead cost control, direct construction cost control, and life-cycle cost analysis. Addresses techniques in activity-based costing, earned value analysis, and life-cycle cost analysis. View course details in MyPlan: CM 528 CM 530 Project Economics and Risk Analysis (3) Studies the process for delivery of public-private infrastructure projects and risk analysis techniques used in economic/financial project studies. Focuses on understanding public-private project delivery systems, feasibility studies, project financial and economic modeling, and quantitative risk analysis techniques. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: CM 530 CM 535 Research Methods in Construction (3) Lin Examination of research methods used in construction studies. Includes an overview of the research process, planning of a successful research endeavor, literature review, qualitative and quantitative research, ethics in research and publishing, and various research methodologies. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: CM 535 CM 540 Sustainable Construction (3) Study of sustainable construction techniques and best practices. Focuses on use of U.S. Green Building Council's Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design standards to evaluate alternatives and select techniques for constructing sustainable projects. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: CM 540 CM 545 Real Estate Development (3) A study of the technical issues involved in developing real-estate projects. Tracks project development from initial conception through closing of the sale. Emphasizes the steps and processes involved in pursuing, analyzing, and closing a real-estate purchase. View course details in MyPlan: CM 545 CM 550 Residential Project Development (3) Study of the financial, technical, and management activities and environmental impact regulations and studies associated with the development of residential projects, including business and construction practices and marketing strategies for continued profitable operation of a residential construction firm. View course details in MyPlan: CM 550 CM 555 Construction Firm Management (3) Management of construction company including organization, corporate structure, operation procedures, marketing, and human resources management. Emphasis on safety and loss prevention management, insurance and risk management, financing, accounting, marketing construction services, and bonding requirements for construction company. Other topics include individual and corporate planning and process of strategic planning. View course details in MyPlan: CM 555 CM 560 Design-Build Project Management (3) Examines the design-build process used for the delivery of construction projects. Involves analysis of project owner requirements and development of a written proposal for design and construction. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: CM 560 CM 565 Managing International Projects (3) Study of processes involved in the selection, acquisition, and management of international construction projects. Emphasis is placed on examining common problems associated with managing construction projects outside the United States, identifying risks involved, and discussing possible solutions. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: CM 565 CM 570 Facilities Management (3) Major issues involved in facilities management: facilities planning, financial planning, real estate management, interior space planning and management, facilities operation and maintenance, and emergency preparedness. View course details in MyPlan: CM 570 CM 575 Leadership in Construction (3) Studies leadership principles applicable to the construction industry. Addresses both organizational leadership and leadership of construction processes. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: CM 575 CM 580 Temporary Structures (3) Study of materials, methods, and techniques associated with temporary structures used in various construction operations, such as concrete formwork, scaffolding, underpinning, cofferdams, slurry trenches, earth-retaining structures, and dewatering systems. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: CM 580 CM 582 Heavy Construction Estimating (3) Study of the principles used in developing cost estimates for heavy construction projects. Includes interpretation of contact documents, quantity take-off, pricing, and preparation of unit-price bid documents. Emphasizes developing cost estimates for highway projects. Offered: S. View course details in MyPlan: CM 582 CM 584 Marine Construction (3) Study of the materials, methods and techniques associated with construction of projects in marine environments, including the impact of site conditions on the selection of appropriate construction techniques. Emphasizes equipment and crew selection, productivity and cost estimation, and construction sequencing. View course details in MyPlan: CM 584 CM 586 Utility Systems Construction (3) Study of the materials, methods, and techniques associated with construction of major utility systems, such as water, sewer, communications, electrical or natural gas. Includes construction of central utility plants as well as major distribution and collection systems. Offered: S. View course details in MyPlan: CM 586 CM 588 Construction Operations and Productivity (3) Study of heavy construction operations with emphasis on productivity enhancement focusing on an integrated approach to planning, modeling, analysis, and design of construction operations, and the use of simulation models and other analytical tools. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: CM 588 CM 590 Research Methods in Construction Engineering (2) Study of the academic research process. Includes development of a research proposal, review of relevant literature, selection of research methodology, collection of data, data analysis, and preparation of research report. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: CM 590 CM 598 Special Topics (1-6, max. 6) Systematic study and offering of specialized subject matter. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: CM 598 CM 600 Independent Study or Research (*-) An in-depth independent investigation of some facet of construction management. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: CM 600 CM 700 Master's Thesis (*-) Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: CM 700 Office of the University Registrar registrar@uw.edu Modified: May 30, 2022