Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Department of Mathematical Sciences About People Undergraduate Graduate Research News Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Research Applied Statistics Combinatorics Computational Analysis Differential Equations Ergodic Theory Functional Analysis Math Education Current Grants Take Action Student FAQ Cantor Sect Contact Us Home Math Sciences Research Functional Analysis and Operator Theory Functional Analysis & Operator Theory Main Focus of Research Interests The research area is focused on several topics in Functional Analysis, Operator Theory, Dynamical Systems and applications to Approximation Theory and Fixed Point Theory. Weekly Seminars Weekly seminars are conducted on a regular basis where the newest results in the area are presented by faculty members, visitors, and graduate students. All faculty and graduate students are invited. Seminars can be found on News & Events page. Job Placement In the department, a number of doctoral degrees have been awarded in this area, and currently several Ph.D. students are working on their doctoral dissertation under the guidance of members of this group. The placement of Ph.D. students advised by the members of this group consists of research universities and colleges in the USA and abroad. Members Below are research interests and three representative or recent publications from each member. Fernanda Botelho, Professor; Graduate Coordinator (Mathematics) Research Interests: Operator Theory and Functional Analysis. Topological properties of operations on spaces of differentiable functions. Adv. Oper. Theory 4 (2019), no. 1, 305–320 (2019). A note on bi-contractive projections on spaces of vector valued continuous functions Concr. Oper. 5 , no. 1, 42–49, with T.S.S.R.K.Rao (2018). Linear bijections on von Neumann factors commuting with λ-Aluthge transform Bull. Lond. Math. Soc. 48 , no. 1, 74–84 , with Lajos Molnár and Gergő Nagy (2016). Anna Kamińska, Professor Research Interests: Isometric and isomorphic geometry of Banach spaces and locally bounded linear topological spaces, structural properties of Köthe and rearrangement invariant spaces, Orlicz spaces, Lorentz spaces, noncommutative spaces of measurable operators with applications to the best approximation and fixed point theory. Isomorphic copies in the lattice E and its symmetrization E(*) with applications to Orlicz-Lorentz spaces, Journal of Functional Analysis, 257, 271-331, with Yves Raynaud, (2009). Smooth points in symmetric spaces of measurable operators, Positivity, 16(1), 29-51, with M. Czerwińska and D. Kubiak, (2012). The Daugavet property in rearrangement invariant spaces, to appear in Transactions of Amer. Math. Soc., with M. Acosta and M.Mastyło Pei-Kee Lin, Professor Research Interests: Geometry of Banach spaces, best approximation, fixed point property of nonexpansive mappings. Fixed point theory and nonexpansive mappings, Arab. J. Math. (Springer), 1(4), 495-509, (2012). Isometric shifts on (c ⊕ X)∞, J. Math. Anal. Appl., 384(2), 198-203, (2011). There is an equivalent norm on l1 that has the fixed point property, Nonlinear Anal., 68(8), 2303-2308, (2008). Bentuo Zheng, Associate Professor Research Interests: Isomorphic theory of Banach spaces and its applications to frame theory, non-linear functional analysis, and approximation properties. The strong approximation property and the weak bounded approximation property, accepted by Journal of Functional Analysis, with J. Kim. Operators on Lp (2<p<∞) which factor through Xp. J. Funct. Anal. 273, no. 2, 782–798, (2017). On spreading sequences and asymptotic structures. Trans. Amer. Math. Soc. 370, no. 10, 6933–6953 (with D. Freeman, E. Odell and B. Sari), (2018). Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 3/15/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.