Skip to content Columbia University Irving Medical Center Find People Events Faculty and Staff Resources Give Now Search About Us About Us Facts and Figures Explore CUIMC Events Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion at CUIMC Community Development and Alumni Explore CUIMC Leadership and Administration A-Z Listing Affiliated Hospitals Campus Map and Directions Campus Resources Contact CUIMC Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion At CUIMC, we are committed to continuous improvement in providing culturally inclusive medical education and clinical care. Learn About Our Commitment Education Education Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Mailman School of Public Health School of Nursing College of Dental Medicine VP&S Columbia Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons is dedicated to developing the next generation of leaders in medicine Learn About Our Academic Programs Research Research The Louisa Gross Horwitz Prize Columbia Technology Ventures Research Administration Columbia Clinical Innovation Lab Patient Care Patient Care ColumbiaDoctors Children's Health Columbia Primary Care Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Digital Health Services at Columbia Find a Doctor Search for a provider by specialty, expertise, location and insurance. Schedule an appointment online. Find a Doctor News News For the Media Share Your News CUIMC Update CUIMC Celebrates Columbia Medicine Read the latest news stories about CUIMC faculty, research, and events Explore Our News COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Information for Patients COVID-19 Campus Safety for Employees and Students COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students COVID-19 Information and Resources for Clinical Staff COVID-19 Vaccine Information Learn about COVID-19 vaccine availability and requirements for employees and students at CUIMC Get the Latest Information Parkinson's Topics Campus News Research Medical School Public Health Cancer Mental Health Infectious Diseases Neurology Neuroscience Education Heart Health Pediatrics View All Topics Search All News Keywords News Top Stories Columbia Scientists and Team of International Experts Awarded $9M to Investigate Early Parkinson's New technology will allow scientists to uncover what happens in the brain during the early stages of Parkinson's disease, which could lead to earlier diagnosis and better therapies for the disease. Topic Neuroscience Are Immune Cells Good or Bad for Parkinson’s Disease? Only select neurons die during Parkinson’s disease. Columbia researchers are looking for clues in immune cells to find out what makes these brain cells so vulnerable. Topic Neurology For Parkinson’s Patients, Genetic Testing May Open Possibilities With several targeted Parkinson’s disease drugs entering clinical trials, a new genetic testing and counseling program may help identify patients who qualify for enrollment. Topic Neurology Robotic Device Improves Balance and Gait in Parkinson's Patients Columbia neurologists and engineers are using a robotic device to investigate how Parkinson’s affects the ability to walk and respond to balance perturbations. Topic Neurology Latest News Parkinson’s Is Partly An Autoimmune Disease, Study Finds June 21, 2017 Researchers have found the first direct evidence that autoimmunity plays a role in Parkinson’s disease. Topic Medical School Detailed Images Reveal Interactions that Affect Signaling In The Brain May 3, 2017 Columbia scientists observed how molecules that regulate chemical signaling in the brain interact with the AMPA receptor, governing brain function. Topic Neurology Improving Brain’s Garbage Disposal May Slow Alzheimer’s Disease December 21, 2015 A drug that boosts activity in the brain’s “garbage disposal” system can decrease levels of toxic proteins associated with Alzheimer’s disease. Topic Neurology Gaucher Disease Carriers Have Higher Parkinson's Risk June 9, 2014 A new study measures the risk of developing Parkinson's for people with Gaucher disease and Gaucher carriers. Topic Medical School Studies Identify Spinal Cord Neurons that Control Skilled Limb Movement April 30, 2014 Researchers have identified two types of neurons that enable the spinal cord to control skilled forelimb movement. The findings could lead to new ways to treat movement disorders. Topic Neuroscience Is Parkinson's an Autoimmune Disease? By 1 April 17, 2014 New findings that overturn a theory about the brain and the immune system suggest Parkinson's may be an autoimmune disease. Topic Medical School Brain Bank Donations Advance Study of Parkinson’s Disease April 7, 2014 Scientists studying Parkinson's disease rely on the generous donation of brains by patients—as well as some family members—to brain banks. Topic Neurology New Nanomedicine Resolves Inflammation, Promotes Tissue Healing March 18, 2013 Study finds tiny, targeted drug particles may be effective in treating chronic diseases Topic Research Improper Protein Digestion in Neurons Identified as a Cause of Familial Parkinson's March 5, 2013 Scientists discovered how common genetic mutations in Parkinson’s disease damage brain cells Topic Neurology New Prenatal Gene Test Proposed as Standard of Care [Video Included] December 5, 2012 A new genetic test, microarray, found significantly more clinically relevant information than the standard method - results in NEJM. Topic Neurology Pages 1 2 next last Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian About Us Careers News Education Patient Care Research Resources at CUIMC Columbia University Irving Medical Center 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Back to top