Skip to main content Search: Go Search Filters: This Site Cornell Menu Search Cornell Home About Us Education Hospitals Health Topics Diagnostic Center Departments Research Impact Alumni Directions Contact Us Emergency Phone Numbers Routine and Emergency Care Companion Animal Hospital in Ithaca, NY for cats, dogs, exotics, and wildlife 607.253.3060 Directions Equine and Nemo Farm Animal Hospitals in Ithaca, NY for horses and farm animals 607.253.3100 Directions Cornell Ruffian Equine Specialists, on Long Island for every horse 516.488.4510 Directions Ambulatory and Production Medicine for service on farms within 30 miles of Ithaca, NY 607.253.3140 Directions Animal Health Diagnostic Center New York State Veterinary Diagnostic Laboratory 607.253.3900 Directions General Information Cornell University College of Veterinary Medicine Ithaca, New York 14853-6401 607.253.3000 Directions Questions? Email Us People Giving Emergencies In this section: Faculty Raina Plowright CVM Research Steven Osofsky photo credit: Dave Burbank Department of Population Medicine and Diagnostic Sciences Jay Hyman Professor of Wildlife Health & Health Policy Director, Cornell Wildlife Health Center CORNELL WILDLIFE HEALTH CENTER AHEAD (Animal & Human Health for the Environment And Development) PLANETARY HEALTH Department of Population Medicine and Diagnostic Sciences Cornell University College of Veterinary Medicine Ithaca, NY 14853 Office: 607.253.3856 Fax: 607.253.3627 Email: s.osofsky@cornell.edu Research Interests The Wildlife Health & Health Policy Group's focus is on the conservation of free-ranging wildlife, as well as on the deeply intertwined relationships among sustainable conservation, system resilience, economic development, and human health and well-being – all as underpinned by environmental stewardship. We work on developing and helping to apply science-based landscape-scale approaches to conservation, particularly in terms of policy guidance to address challenges at the interface of wildlife, agriculture and other types of land use, and people. The scope of work includes engagement with various national and international governmental and non-governmental partners, as well as at local levels, and being a reliable resource on issues related to wildlife health, One Health, and Planetary Health. Wildlife, livestock, and human diseases will continue to have a significant impact on the development of sustainable land uses, protected areas, transboundary natural resource management, other biodiversity conservation approaches, and of course, livelihood opportunities around the world. Experience at the interface of wildlife health, domestic animal health, and human health and livelihoods has demonstrated that a One Health approach can build new constituencies for conservation and strengthen existing ones, while mitigating key threats to conservation success. Our team works on launching and growing programs and policy initiatives that cut across regional and disciplinary boundaries to solve environmental and related health challenges via One Health / Planetary Health approaches. Current efforts include the AHEAD (Animal & Human Health for the Environment And Development) Program as well as our partnership with Harvard and The Rockefeller Foundation in the launching of the Planetary Health Alliance. Education Harvard College of Harvard University, Cambridge, Massachusetts (1981-84). A.B. in Biology, 1984. Magna Cum Laude: Phi Beta Kappa. Recipient of “Benjamin A. Trustman Travelling Fellowship” for one year of unrestricted world travel following graduation. New York State College of Veterinary Medicine, Cornell University, Ithaca, New York (1985-89). D.V.M. (Doctor of Veterinary Medicine), 1989. Post-Graduate Training Virginia-Maryland Regional College of Veterinary Medicine, Virginia Tech, Blacksburg, Virginia (1989-1990). Internship in Small Animal Medicine and Surgery, 1990. Rotating internship including all major services, night emergency duty, and external rotations at the Veterinary Emergency Center in Richmond and the Wildlife Center of Virginia in Weyers Cave. Fossil Rim Wildlife Center, Glen Rose, Texas (1990-1991). Internship in Wildlife and Zoological Medicine. The 3,000 acre Center served as habitat for 1,000+ animals of over 30 species, most in semi-free ranging herds. The program emphasized field immobilization techniques, preventative medicine, conservation-oriented research, and an international perspective. Upon completion of this one year internship, I was awarded the “Fossil Rim Wildlife Center Field Conservation Fellowship,” designed to allow a qualified wildlife professional to explore in situ conservation efforts in the geographical area(s) of his/her choice. The individual selected is to use the grant (up to $18,000 was available for up to one year) to explore career options in the field of wildlife conservation. It was this grant that facilitated my trip to Botswana, where I was subsequently hired as wildlife veterinarian by the Botswana Department of Wildlife and National Parks (see below). As one of the grant’s conditions, all Fossil Rim funding ceased as soon as I was employed. Biography/Professional Experience Cornell University, College of Veterinary Medicine, Ithaca, New York (July, 2016-present). Jay Hyman Endowed Professor of Wildlife Health & Health Policy, a member of the Department of Population Medicine and Diagnostic Sciences, with a focus on the conservation of free-ranging wildlife. Responsible for developing and helping to apply science-based landscape-scale approaches to conservation, particularly in terms of policy guidance to address challenges at the interface of wildlife, agriculture and other types of land use, and people. The scope of work includes engagement with various national and international governmental and non-governmental partners, and being a key resource for the University on issues related to wildlife health, One Health, and Planetary Health. Wildlife, livestock, and human diseases will continue to have a significant impact on the development of sustainable land uses, protected areas, transboundary natural resource management, other biodiversity conservation approaches, and of course, livelihood opportunities around the world. Experience at the interface of wildlife health, domestic animal health, and human health and livelihoods has demonstrated that a One Health approach can build new constituencies for conservation and strengthen existing ones, while mitigating key threats to conservation success. The Hyman Professorship involves a commitment of approximately 70% of my time to science policy and research, 10% to teaching, and 20% to service, including gradual development of a center focused on launching and growing programs and policy initiatives that cut across regional and disciplinary boundaries to solve environmental and related health challenges via One Health / Planetary Health approaches. Wildlife Conservation Society (WCS), New York, New York (July, 2013- June, 2016). Executive Director, Wildlife Health & Health Policy Program (annual multi-million dollar budget and ~50 staff around the world), based outside of Washington, D.C. Responsible for managing all of the WCS Global Conservation Program's work in the health realm, the Executive Director, Wildlife Health & Health Policy is responsible for delivering on WCS’ mission to save wildlife and wildlands. Responsibilities include: ensuring that WCS addresses the issues raised by wildlife health concerns to achieve better conservation results; identifying, developing, and growing programs, projects and policy initiatives that cut across regional boundaries and address the key threats and opportunities that a One Health approach identifies; being a key spokesperson for the Society on issues related to wildlife health and One Health, speaking at public events, academic institutions, and across the conservation community to maintain and expand WCS’ authority as a leader in the wildlife health field; being a visionary leader and helping to implement the goals and objectives of the Society’s conservation efforts while ensuring that a One Health approach meshes well with the overall strategic vision of the Society, and with the specific conservation targets (places, species) that are the Society’s priorities; being a strong fundraiser via both private and public sources. Wildlife Conservation Society (WCS), New York, New York (December, 2002-June, 2013). Senior Policy Advisor and then Director, Wildlife Health Policy, based outside of Washington, D.C. As a member of the Field Veterinary Program, responsibilities include: provision of advice and development of policy recommendations for U.S. and foreign governments on free-ranging wildlife health and management issues; development of good working relationships with government agencies, non-governmental organizations, and other parties involved in promoting the health of free-ranging wildlife nationally and internationally; training of foreign professionals in policy development and implementation related to free-ranging wildlife health issues; briefing or informing relevant agencies and organizations on issues of free-ranging wildlife health critical for conservation; reviewing and assisting in WCS field programs and those of grantees to facilitate appropriate wildlife health policy development and implementation; public speaking, professional writing, and provision of technical recommendations and advice in a variety of fora; and identification of potential sources of support for priority programs and development of contextually relevant project proposals. World Wildlife Fund (WWF), Washington, D.C. (July, 2000-November, 2002). Director, Field Support, Species Conservation Program and (June, 2001- November, 2002) Acting Vice President, Species Conservation Program. Responsibilities include: the coordination of international endangered species conservation programs and wildlife policy initiatives anchored by a landscape-based (ecoregional) approach in Asia and Africa; development and management of projects associated with WWF’s priority species of global concern, particularly efforts focused on African and Asian rhinos and African and Asian elephants; cultivation of synergistic linkages between the Species Conservation Program and other WWF programs, departments, and network field offices; analysis of programs and policies to maximize efficacy at addressing key threats; identification of emerging wildlife policy and species conservation challenges; advancement of key policy initiatives via strategic advocacy targeted at government agencies, other conservation organizations, academia, private sector interests, donors, and the public; provision of technical recommendations and advice in a variety of fora; and identification of potential sources of support for priority programs and development of contextually relevant project proposals. World Wildlife Fund (WWF), Washington, D.C. (July, 1998-June, 2000). Senior Program Officer for Species Conservation. Responsibilities include: the coordination of international endangered species conservation programs and wildlife policy initiatives; development and management of projects associated with WWF’s priority species of global concern, particularly efforts focused on African and Asian rhinos and elephants, and tigers; cultivation of synergistic linkages between the Species Conservation Program and other WWF programs, departments, and network field offices; analysis of programs and policies to maximize efficacy at addressing key threats; identification of emerging wildlife policy and species conservation challenges; advancement of key policy initiatives via interaction with government agencies, other conservation organizations, academia, private sector interests, donors, and the public; provision of technical recommendations and advice in a variety of fora; and identification of potential sources of support for priority programs and development of contextually relevant project proposals. Promoted to Director in July, 2000. AAAS Science and Diplomacy Fellowship with USAID, Washington, D.C. (September, 1996-June, 1998). American Association for the Advancement of Science Fellow serving as a Biodiversity Program Specialist at the U.S. Agency for International Development. Selected for a post in the Environment Center’s Bureau for Global Programs, Field Support and Research. Responsibilities include the planning, monitoring, and field support of sustainable development programs that have major environmental / biodiversity conservation components. Emphasis is on ground-truthing Integrated Conservation and Development Projects, critically evaluating sustainability, protected area / buffer zone strategic planning, ameliorating conflicts at the wildlife / livestock interface, and linking wildlife research to management needs. Projects require collaboration among a diversity of governmental and non-governmental organizations. Program / partner agencies / objective: -Partnership for Biodiversity / US Dept. of Interior, Peace Corps / Support high biodiversity sites around the world through technical assistance packages and training. -Rhinoceros and Tiger Conservation Act Fund and African Elephant Conservation Act Fund / USFWS / Ecosystem-focused support to specific conservation efforts in range countries. -CITES Interagency Committee / USFWS, Dept. of State, other USG agencies / Help develop US positions for CITES Conference of Parties (COP) 10 and attend the COP as a member of the US Delegation, technical support team. -Mission Consultation / USAID Field Missions / Technical support for biodiversity activities in USAID-assisted countries. Field highlights have included working with various wildlife management authorities (Ecuador- Inefan; Tanzania- TANAPA and Wildlife Division; Nepal- DNPWC) along with local and international NGOs. Fossil Rim Wildlife Center, Glen Rose, Texas (August, 1994-May, 1996). Director of Animal Health Services at the 3,000 acre Center which serves as habitat for 1,500+ animals of over 40 species. (The collection had increased in size since my internship.) My program emphasized advanced field immobilization protocols, preventative medicine, conservation-oriented research, and international training/outreach. Most species are in a semi-free ranging situation, and management style reflected a commitment to practical field-oriented conservation. I directly supervised one associate veterinarian, two veterinary technicians, one administrative assistant, as well as rotating senior veterinary students. Botswana Department of Wildlife and National Parks, Botswana, southern Africa (January, 1992-January, 1994). Two year contract directly with the Government of Botswana to serve as the first Wildlife Veterinary Officer for the Department of Wildlife and National Parks. Filling this new post meant developing a Wildlife Veterinary Unit literally from “nothing.” Responsible for: developing all of the administrative infrastructure needed to serve the wildlife veterinary needs of the nation; obtaining and maintaining all necessary field and laboratory equipment; developing all capture, safety, animal welfare, and data collection protocols needed; performing all wildlife immobilizations in the country for Departmental research and/or management purposes (including problem predator work); providing chemical capture services for approved private researchers working in national parks and reserves; developing and completing research projects; training field officers in safe wildlife capture/sample collection and evaluation techniques; performing disease outbreak investigations, and providing extension services to game farmers/ranchers. Species worked with include: buffalo, cheetah, wild dog, eland, elephant, giraffe, impala, kudu, leopard, lion, ostrich, white rhinoceros, springbok, tortoise, vulture, wildebeest, and zebra. All animals handled underwent a thorough biomedical evaluation as part of the Unit’s program to establish a wildlife health database/set of clinical normal values/serum bank. I directly supervised two Game Wardens (assistant wildlife biologists), one Assistant Game Warden (veterinary assistant), and one volunteer veterinarian serving as a technician/field assistant. Peer-Reviewed Publications Opengart, K. N., Brown, T. P., Osofsky, S. A., and M. Moon. 1990. “Congenital Extra-Hepatic Biliary Cyst in a Congo African Grey Parrot (Psittacus erithacus erithacus),” Avian Diseases, vol. 34 (2): 497-500. Osofsky, S. A., Brown, T. P., and C. Carrig. 1990. “An Ectopic Wing in a Wild Black Vulture (Coragyps atratus),” Avian Diseases, vol. 34 (3): 765-769. Dubey, J. P., Zajac, A., Osofsky, S. A., and L. Tobias. 1990. “Acute Primary Toxoplasmic Hepatitis in an Adult Cat Shedding Toxoplasma gondii Oocysts,” Journal of the American Veterinary Medical Association, vol. 197 (12): 1616-1618. Osofsky, S. A., Rogers, P. S., and A. Trawford. 1995. “Facilitation of Boma Adaptation of an Injured Subadult Male Southern White Rhinoceros Ceratotherium simum simum via Introduction to an Adult Male,” Pachyderm, no. 20: 41-44. Radcliffe, R. W., Bommarito, M. P., and S. A. Osofsky. 1996. “Ultrasonography as a Tool in the Conservation of the African Rhinoceros: Ex Situ and In Situ Applications,” Pachyderm, no. 21: 55-59. Osofsky, S. A., Hirsch, K. J., Zuckerman, E. E., and W. D. Hardy. 1996. “Feline Lentivirus and Feline Oncovirus Status of Free-Ranging Lions (Panthera leo), Leopards (Panthera pardus), and Cheetahs (Acinonyx jubatus) in Botswana: A Regional Perspective,” Journal of Zoo and Wildlife Medicine, vol. 27 (4): 453-467. Osofsky, S. A., McNutt, J. W., and K. J. Hirsch. 1996. “Immobilization of Free-Ranging African Wild Dogs (Lycaon pictus) using a Ketamine/Xylazine/Atropine Combination,” Journal of Zoo and Wildlife Medicine, vol. 27 (4): 528-532. Osofsky, S. A. 1997. “A Practical Anesthesia Monitoring Protocol for Free-Ranging Adult African Elephants (Loxodonta africana),” Journal of Wildlife Diseases, vol. 33 (1): 72-77. Radcliffe, R. W., Czekala, N. M., and S. A. Osofsky. 1997. “Combined Serial Ultrasonography and Fecal Progestin Analysis for Reproductive Evaluation of the Female White Rhinoceros (Ceratotherium simum simum): Preliminary Results,” Zoo Biology, vol. 16: 445-456. Osofsky, S. A. and K. J. Hirsch. 2000. “Chemical Restraint of Endangered Mammals for Conservation Purposes: A Practical Primer,” Oryx, vol. 34 (1): 27-33. Ferrell, S. T., Radcliffe, R. W., Marsh, R., Thurman, C. B., Cartwright, C. M., De Maar, T. W. J., Blumer, E. S, Spevak, E., and S. A. Osofsky. 2001. “Comparisons Among Selected Neonatal Biomedical Parameters of Four Species of Semi-Free Ranging Hippotragini: Addax (Addax nasomaculatus), Scimitar-Horned Oryx (Oryx dammah), Arabian Oryx (Oryx leucoryx), and Sable Antelope (Hippotragus niger),” Zoo Biology, vol. 20: 47-54. Osofsky, S. A., Paglia, D. E., Radcliffe, R. W., Miller, R. E., Emslie, R. H., Foose, T. J., du Toit, R., and M. W. Atkinson. 2001. “First, Do No Harm: A Precautionary Recommendation Regarding the Movement of Black Rhinos from Overseas Zoos Back to Africa,” Pachyderm, no. 30: 17-23. Thomson, G. R., Penrith, M.-L., Atkinson, M. W., Atkinson, S. J., Cassidy, D., and S. A. Osofsky. 2013. “Balancing Livestock Production and Wildlife Conservation in and around Southern Africa's Transfrontier Conservation Areas,” Transboundary and Emerging Diseases, vol. 60 (6): 492–506. http://dx.doi.org/10.1111/tbed.12175 Thomson, G. R., Penrith, M.-L., Atkinson, M. W., Thalwitzer, S., Mancuso, A., Atkinson, S. J., and S. A. Osofsky. 2013. “International Trade Standards for Commodities and Products Derived from Animals: The Need for a System that Integrates Food Safety and Animal Disease Risk Management,” Transboundary and Emerging Diseases, vol. 60 (6): 507–515. http://dx.doi.org/10.1111/tbed.12164 Myers, S. S., Gaffikin, L., Golden, C. D., Ostfeld, R. S., Redford, K. H., Ricketts, T. H., Turner, W. R., and S. A. Osofsky. 2013. “Human Health Impacts of Ecosystem Alteration,” Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America, vol. 110 (47): 18753-18760. http://dx.doi.org/10.1073/pnas.1218656110 Whitmee, S., Haines, A., Beyrer, C., Boltz, F., Capon, A. G., de Souza Dias, B. F., Ezeh, A., Frumkin, H., Gong, P., Head, P., Horton, R., Mace, G. M., Marten, R., Myers, S. S., Nishtar, S., Osofsky, S. A., Pattanayak, S. K., Pongsiri, M. J., Romanelli, C., Soucat, A., Vega, J., and D. Yach. 2015. “Safeguarding Human Health in the Anthropocene Epoch: Report of The Rockefeller Foundation–Lancet Commission on Planetary Health,” The Lancet, vol. 386 (10007): 1973-2028. http://www.thelancet.com/journals/lancet/article/PIIS0140-6736%2815%2960901-1/fulltext and http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/S0140-6736(15)60901-1 Bayles, B. R., Brauman, K. A., Adkins, J. N., Allan, B. F., Ellis, A. M., Goldberg, T. L., Golden, C. D., Grigsby-Toussaint, D. S., Myers, S. S., Osofsky, S. A., Ricketts, T. H., and J. B. Ristaino. 2016. "Ecosystem Services Connect Environmental Change to Human Health Outcomes," EcoHealth, 7 pp. http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/s10393-016-1137-5 Gilbert, M., Sulikhan, N., Uphyrkina, O., Goncharuk, M., Kerley, L., Hernandez Castro, E., Reeve, R., Seimon, T., McAloose, D., Seryodkin, I. V., Naidenko, S. V., Davis, C. A., Wilkie, G. S., Vattipally, S. B., Adamson, W.E., Hinds, C., Thomson, E. C., Willett, B. J., Hosie, M. J., Logan, N., McDonald, M., Ossiboff, R. J., Shevtsova, E. I., Belyakin, S., Yurlova, A. A., Osofsky, S. A., Miquelle, D. G., Matthews, L., and S. Cleaveland. 2020. "Distemper, Extinction, and Vaccination of the Amur Tiger," Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America, vol. 117 (50): 31954-31962. https://doi.org/10.1073/pnas.2000153117 Mulia, B. H., Mariya, S., Bodgener, J., Iskandriati, D., Liwa,S. R., Sumampau, T., Manansang, J., Darusman, H. S., Osofsky, S. A., Techakriengkrai, N., and M. Gilbert. 2021. "Exposure of Wild Sumatran Tiger (Panthera tigris sumatrae) to Canine Distemper Virus," Journal of Wildlife Diseases, vol. 57 (2): 464-466. https://doi.org/10.7589/JWD-D-20-00144 Edited Volume Osofsky, S. A., Cleaveland, S., Karesh, W. B., Kock, M. D., Nyhus, P. J., Starr, L., and A. Yang, (eds.). 2005. Conservation and Development Interventions at the Wildlife/Livestock Interface: Implications for Wildlife, Livestock and Human Health. IUCN, Gland, Switzerland and Cambridge, United Kingdom. xxxiii and 220 pp. http://www.wcs-ahead.org/wpc_launch.html Book Chapters Radcliffe, R. M. and S. A. Osofsky. 2002. “Disease Concerns for Wild Equids,” pp. 124-153 and pp. 182-184, in Moehlman, P. D. (ed.) Equids: Zebras, Asses and Horses Status Survey and Conservation Action Plan. IUCN/SSC Equid Specialist Group, IUCN, Gland, Switzerland and Cambridge, United Kingdom. Nyhus, P. J., Osofsky, S. A., Ferraro, P., Madden, F., and H. Fischer. 2005. “Bearing the Costs of Human-Wildlife Conflict: The Challenges of Compensation Schemes,” pp. 107-121, in Woodroffe, R., Thirgood, S., and A. Rabinowitz (eds.) People and Wildlife: Conflict or Coexistence? Cambridge University Press, Cambridge, United Kingdom. Osofsky, S. A., Kock, R. A., Kock, M. D., Kalema-Zikusoka, G., Grahn, R., Leyland, T., and W. B. Karesh. 2005. “Building Support for Protected Areas Using a ‘One Health’ Perspective,” pp. 65-79, in McNeely, J. A. (ed.) Friends for Life: New Partners in Support of Protected Areas. IUCN, Gland, Switzerland and Cambridge, United Kingdom. Zahler, P., Joly, D. O., Krueger, L., Osofsky, S. A., and S. Enkhtuvshin. 2007. “Improving Poverty Reduction and Conservation Outcomes in the Grassland Ecosystem of Mongolia,” pp. 89-96, in Steele, P., Oviedo, G. and D. McCauley (eds.) Poverty, Health, and Ecosystems: Experience from Asia. IUCN, Gland, Switzerland and Asian Development Bank, Manila, Philippines. Osofsky, S. A., Cumming, D. H. M., and M. D. Kock. 2008. “Transboundary Management of Natural Resources and the Importance of a ‘One Health’ Approach: Perspectives on Southern Africa,” pp. 89-98, in Fearn, E. and K. H. Redford (eds.) State of the Wild 2008-2009: A Global Portrait of Wildlife, Wildlands, and Oceans. Island Press, Washington, D. C. Barrett, M. A. and S. A. Osofsky. 2013. “One Health: Interdependence of People, Other Species, and the Planet,” pp. 364-377 (and online supplement pp. 407(e1)-416(e10) at studentconsult.com), in Katz, D. L., Elmore, J. G., Wild, D. M. G., and S. C. Lucan (eds.) Jekel’s Epidemiology, Biostatistics, Preventive Medicine, and Public Health (4th ed.). Elsevier / Saunders, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. Cumming, D. H. M., Osofsky, S. A., Atkinson, S. J., and M. W. Atkinson. 2015. “Beyond Fences: Wildlife, Livestock and Land Use in Southern Africa,” pp. 243-257, in Zinsstag, J., Schelling, E., Waltner-Toews, D., Whittaker, M., and M. Tanner (eds.) One Health: The Theory and Practice of Integrated Health Approaches. C.A.B. International, Oxfordshire, United Kingdom. Editorials Osofsky, S. A. 1986. “Some Thoughts on the Roles and Responsibilities of the Modern Zoo,” Intervet: Journal of the Student American Veterinary Medical Association, vol. 22 (2): 16-20. Osofsky, S. A. 1997. “Think Link: Critically Evaluating Linkages Between Conservation Projects and Development,” Journal of Zoo and Wildlife Medicine, vol. 28 (2): 141-143. Osofsky, S. A., Karesh, W. B., and S. L. Deem. 2000. “Conservation Medicine: A Veterinary Perspective,” Conservation Biology, vol. 14 (2): 336-337. Karesh, W. B., Osofsky, S. A., Rocke, T. E., and P. L. Barrows. 2002. “Joining Forces to Improve Our World,” Conservation Biology, vol. 16 (5): 1432-1434. Redford, K. H., Myers, S. S., Ricketts, T. H., and S. A. Osofsky. 2014. “Human Health as a Judicious Conservation Opportunity,” Conservation Biology, vol. 28 (3): 627-629. http://dx.doi.org/10.1111/cobi.12290 Almada, A. A., Golden, C. D., Osofsky S. A., and S. S. Myers. 2017. “A Case for Planetary Health / GeoHealth,” GeoHealth, vol. 1: 1-4. http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/2017GH000084/full Osofsky, S. A. and M. J. Pongsiri, 2018. “Operationalising Planetary Health as a Game-Changing Paradigm: Health Impact Assessments Are Key,” The Lancet Planetary Health, vol. 2 (2): e54-e55. https://doi.org/10.1016/S2542-5196(17)30183-3 Osofsky, S. A. 2019. “The Global Burden of (How We Manage) Animal Disease: Learning Lessons from Southern Africa,” Journal of Wildlife Diseases, vol. 55 (4): 755-757. https://www.jwildlifedis.org/doi/pdf/10.7589/2019-01-024 White Papers, Guidelines, Proceedings and other Peer Outreach Osofsky, S. A. 1993. “Ethical Triage in Free-Ranging Wildlife in Botswana,” World Association of Wildlife Veterinarians Newsletter, no. 13 (November): 8-9. Osofsky, S. A. and D. M. Crowe. 1993. “An Operational Plan for Wildlife Veterinary Services.” Research Division Report Number 6. Botswana Department of Wildlife and National Parks, Government of Botswana, Gaborone, Botswana, 8 pp. Osofsky, S. A. 1994. “Botswana’s Wildlife Resource: A Veterinary Perspective,” Journal of the American Veterinary Medical Association, vol. 205 (10): 1381-1385. Osofsky, S. A. 1994. “Botswana Department of Wildlife and National Parks’ Wildlife Veterinary Unit: An Update, November 1991-January 1994,” IUCN Species Survival Commission Veterinary Specialist Group Newsletter, no. 8 (November): 9-11. Bush, M., Osofsky, S., Radcliffe, R., and D. Decker. 1995. “Laparoscopic Vasectomy: A Simple Technique for Sterilization of the Male Cheetah (Acinonyx jubatus),” Felid Taxon Advisory Group Action Plan: 1995 Report, American Zoo and Aquarium Association. Escondido, California. Pp. 29-30. Radcliffe, R. W. and S. A. Osofsky. 1996. “Reproductive Applications of Transrectal Ultrasonography in Captive African Rhinoceros, and Thoughts on In Situ Use,” Proc. Conf. American Association of Zoo Veterinarians. Puerto Vallarta, Mexico. Pp. 42-47. Radcliffe, R. W., Bommarito, M. P., and S. A. Osofsky. 1996. “Clinical Challenge” (Rhino Ultrasound), Journal of Zoo and Wildlife Medicine, vol. 27 (2): 275-277. Radcliffe, R. W., Foggin, C. M., Radcliffe, R. M., and S. A. Osofsky. 2000. “Reproductive Ultrasonography as a Tool for Wild Rhinoceros Management: What Does this Technology Offer to Field Managers and Rhino Conservation Programs?” Proc. Fifth Meeting of the IUCN SSC African Rhino Specialist Group. Lake Manyara Serena Safari Lodge, Tanzania. pp. 68-70. Nyhus, P., Fischer, H., Madden, F., and S. Osofsky. 2003. “Taking the Bite Out of Wildlife Damage: The Challenges of Wildlife Compensation Schemes,” Conservation in Practice, vol. 4 (2): 37-40. D’Amico Hales, J., Osofsky, S. A., and D. H. M. Cumming. 2004. “Wildlife Health in Africa: Implications for Conservation in the Decades Ahead,” pp. 129-130, in Burgess, N., D’Amico Hales, J., Underwood, E., Dinerstein, E., Olson, D., Itoua, I., Schipper, J., Ricketts, T., and K. Newman (eds.) The Terrestrial Ecoregions of Africa and Madagascar: A Conservation Assessment. Island Press, Washington, D. C. Cook, R.A., Karesh, W.B., and S. A. Osofsky. 2004. The Manhattan Principles on ‘One World, One Health’: Building Interdisciplinary Bridges to Health in a Globalized World, New York, Wildlife Conservation Society. http://www.oneworldonehealth.org/sept2004/owoh_sept04.html Osofsky, S. 2009. “Beyond Borders,” World Conservation (IUCN Magazine Special Issue, Life Support: Human Health and the Environment), vol. 39 (1): 14-15. Thomson, G., Penrith, M.-L., Atkinson, S. J. and S. A. Osofsky. 2017. “Guidelines on Management of Foot and Mouth Disease Risk through Value Chain Approaches for Beef Exporting Enterprises in Southern Africa, 2nd Edition.” Technical Report on behalf of Cornell University’s AHEAD Program. 15 pp. http://www.wcs-ahead.org/kaza/170904-guidelines-for-implementing-cbt-final.pdf Osofsky, S. A. 2018. “2030 and Beyond: The Planet as the Most Important Health System,” Science eLetter, http://science.sciencemag.org/content/359/6382/1337/tab-e-letters Thomson, G., Penrith, M.-L., Atkinson, S. J. and S. A. Osofsky. 2018. “Guidelines on Commodity-Based Trade Approaches for Managing Foot and Mouth Disease Risk in Beef in Southern Africa, 3rd Edition.” Technical Report on behalf of Cornell University’s AHEAD Program. 17 pp. http://wcs-ahead.org/kaza/181114-guidelines-for-implementing-cbt-final.pdf Atkinson, S. J., Bing, M., McNutt, J. W., Marshall, C., Masedi, M., Osofsky, S. A., Penrith, M-L., Ramsden, N., Ross, K. S., Thomson, G. R., van Rooyen, J., and R. W. Worobo. 2019. “Gap Analysis on the Implementation of Commodity-Based Trade of Beef in Ngamiland, Botswana.” Report prepared in consultation with the Government of Botswana’s Department of Veterinary Services. AHEAD Program, Cornell University. 120 pp. http://www.wcs-ahead.org/kaza/rpt-cbt-gap-analysis-ngamiland-final-190912.pdf Osofsky, S. A. and R. D. Taylor, 2021. “Piecing Together an African Peace Park,” Science, vol. 373 (6557): 864. https://doi.org/10.1126/science.abl7447 General Audience Osofsky, S. A. 1988. “Panther Diary,” Natural History, vol. 97 (4): 50-54. Osofsky, S. 2008. “On the Horn of a Dilemma,” pp. 195-206, in Spelman, L. H. and T. Y. Mashima (eds.) The Rhino with Glue-On Shoes. Random House, New York, New York. Atkinson, S. and S. Osofsky, 2014. “Tourism, Beef or Both? Rethinking Productivity in the Kavango Zambezi Transfrontier Conservation Area,” Zambezi Traveller, Jun-Jul-Aug edition. P. 34. http://zambezitraveller.com/chobe/transfrontier-parks/tourism-beef-or-both. Osofsky, S. 2014. "How to Keep Viruses in the Wild from Finding Humans," https://www.cnn.com/2014/10/09/opinion/osofsky-ebola-wildlife. Osofsky, S. A. 2018. “Planetary Health,” 5-minute podcast in the What Makes Us Human? Cornell University podcast series http://as.cornell.edu/news/planetary-health. Osofsky, S. 2019. “A Plea to Botswana: Please Rethink a ‘Not Enough Fences’ Approach,” https://news.mongabay.com/2019/03/a-plea-to-botswana-please-rethink-a-not-enough-fences-approach-commentary/. Osofsky, S. 2019. Radio interview for Viewpoints with Canadian journalist Todd van der Heyden on the recent Intergovernmental Science-Policy Platform on Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services (IPBES) report on the losses of natural systems and unprecedented extinction rates, https://soundcloud.com/cjad-viewpoints/viewpoints-episode-97#t=20:57. Osofsky, S. 2019. “Of Animal Germs and Pachyderms: A Novel Approach for Making Africa’s Largest Transfrontier Conservation Area a Success,” https://blogs.scientificamerican.com/observations/of-animal-germs-and-pachyderms/. Osofsky, S. 2020. "Preventing the Next Pandemic: We Can Make This a ‘Never Again’ Moment," https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/preventing-the-next-pandemic-we-can-make-this-a-never-again-moment/articleshow/74974789.cms. Osofsky, S. 2020. Podcast interview for the Excellsior podcast, "The Wildlife Origins of SARS-CoV-2 and the Importance of a One Health Lens," http://excellsior.libsyn.com/s2-eps5-the-wildlife-origins-of-sars-cov2-and-protecting-one-health. Osofsky, S. 2020. "One World, One Health: A Critical Reminder for Earth Day,” https://medium.com/cornell-university/one-world-one-health-a-critical-reminder-for-earth-day-c649e955dc74. Osofsky, S. 2020. "Emerging Dis-Ease: U.S. Foreign Assistance Needs to Focus on the Root Causes of Pandemics," https://thehill.com/opinion/international/499351-emerging-dis-ease-us-foreign-assistance-needs-to-focus-on-the-root. Osofsky, S. 2020. Podcast interview for the Cracking One Health podcast, with Dr. Osofsky providing a personal perspective on his One Health work in southern Africa, and on his role in the origins of the One Health movement, https://www.crackingonehealth.com/podcast/episode/4ac932a0/5-dr-steven-osofsky. Osofsky, S. 2020. Podcast interview for the Life After Covid: The Optimist’s Guide to a Post-Pandemic Future podcast, with a focus on questions our pandemic predicament makes unavoidable, and on the value of using a One Health / Planetary Health lens to inform our answers, https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/animals-and-wildlife-with-dr-steven-osofsky/id1514017871?i=1000475010199. Selected Lectures and Presentations Cornell University's College of Arts & Sciences, Ithaca, New York. Dept. of Anthropology course ANTHR 2400 (Cultural Diversity and Contemporary Issues), invited guest lecturer on March 23, 2022: "One World, One Health in an Era of Rapid Change." Cornell University's College of Veterinary Medicine, Ithaca, New York, February 26, 2022. Wildlife Conservation Day, invited closing speaker: "Dr. O's First Annual Super-Fun (and Admittedly Somewhat Self-Indulgent) Safe Chemical Capture Lecture," or "Chemical Restraint of Endangered Mammals for Conservation Purposes: A Practical Primer." Cornell University’s College of Veterinary Medicine, Ithaca, New York, March 20, 2021. Special Species Symposium, invited lecturer: "Wildlife Health in a Rapidly Changing World." Cornell University Alumni Affairs and Development virtual Reunion 2020 event, Ithaca, New York, June 6th, 2020. Invited speaker for panel: "One Health: Cornell's Collaborative Approach to Ensuring Human, Animal, and Ecosystem Health in the Time of COVID-19." See https://live.alumni.cornell.edu/reunion?_ga=2.47216679.127530141.1591028563-2081347323.1436274369&v=5edc6c7f7515a376fa79c31c. Cornell University Alumni Affairs and Development Family Fellows event, Ithaca, New York, March 7th, 2020. Invited luncheon speaker on 3-speaker panel: "Birds, Beasts and Biomes." Cornell University’s College of Veterinary Medicine, Ithaca, New York, February 1st, 2020. Zoo and Wildlife Society Wildlife Health Day Symposium, invited opening lecturer: “The Cornell Wildlife Health Center: Why Here, Why Now?” Cornell University’s Institute for African Development, Ithaca, New York, February 14th, 2019. Special Topic Seminar Series invited speaker: “Beyond Fences: Policy Options for Wildlife, Livelihoods and Transboundary Animal Disease Management in Southern Africa.” The 99th Annual Conference of Research Workers in Animal Diseases (CRWAD), Chicago, Illinois, December 1-4, 2018. Invited Featured Speaker (“Beyond Fences: Policy Options for Wildlife, Livelihoods and Transboundary Animal Disease Management in Southern Africa”) for December 2nd Calvin Schwabe Symposium as organized by the Association for Veterinary Epidemiology and Preventive Medicine (AVEPM) in honor of the lifetime professional achievements of Dr. Alfonso Torres. Training Workshop for the Botswana Department of Veterinary Services, in partnership with AHEAD, Commodity-Based Trade of Beef and Enhanced Market Access: The Vital Role of the Department of Veterinary Services, Gaborone, Botswana, February 6-7, 2018. Invited speaker: “On Fences, Fauna, and FMD.” Cornell University Tropical Biology and Conservation Graduate Student Association Tropical Biology & Conservation Lightning Symposium, Ithaca, New York, October 21st, 2017. Keynote Speaker: “Wildlife Health in a Rapidly Changing World.” Cornell University Alumni Affairs and Development Return to the Classroom event, Menlo Park, California, September 16th, 2017. Invited speaker: “Wildlife Health in a Rapidly Changing World.” See http://live.alumni.cornell.edu/video/return-to-the-classroom-menlo-park. Cornell University’s College of Arts & Sciences, Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, Ithaca, New York, September 11th, 2017. Departmental Seminar Series invited speaker: “Beyond Fences: Policy Options for Wildlife, Livelihoods and Transboundary Animal Disease Management in Southern Africa.” Cornell University’s College of Veterinary Medicine, Ithaca, New York, September 9th, 2017. Veterinary Public Health Symposium, invited lecturer: “Human Health Impacts of Ecological Degradation: Rethinking Public Health in the Anthropocene,” and Planetary Health Panel discussant. Cornell University, June 9, 2017. Reunion 2017 event: “Wildlife Health Cornell – Because We Need Nature, and Nature Needs Us” panel discussion hosted by Provost Michael Kotlikoff. See https://livestream.com/cornellalumni/events/7409326. Cornell University’s College of Veterinary Medicine, April 22, 2017. Special Species Symposium, invited opening lecturer: “Wildlife Health in a Rapidly Changing World.” Cornell University’s College of Agricultural and Life Sciences, Cornell International Institute for Food, Agriculture and Development (CIIFAD), Ithaca, New York, October 5th, 2016. Fall Seminar Series invited guest speaker: “Beyond Fences: Policy Options for Wildlife, Livelihoods and Transboundary Animal Disease Management in Southern Africa.” See the video here. Cornell University’s College of Agricultural and Life Sciences, Department of Natural Resources, Ithaca, New York, October 4th, 2016. Fall Seminar Series invited guest speaker: “One World, One Health: From Science to Policy and Action at the Wildlife / Domestic Animal / Human Health & Livelihoods Interface.” 50th Anniversary Celebratory Symposium of the University of Pretoria’s Mammal Research Institute (MRI) – Mammal Research in Southern Africa: A Blueprint for the Next Two Decades, Kruger National Park, Mopani Camp, South Africa, September 12-16, 2016. Invited Plenary Speaker: “Beyond Fences: Policy Options for Wildlife, Livelihoods and Transboundary Animal Disease Management in Southern Africa.” Aspen Ideas Festival Spotlight Health! Aspen, Colorado, June 23-26, 2016. Invited featured speaker for June 24th’s “Planetary Health: The Interdependence of Human and Natural Systems” panel session. https://www.aspenideas.org/sessions/planetary-health-the-interdependence-of-human-and-natural-systems. One Health for the Real World: Zoonoses, Ecosystems and Well-Being, London, March 17-18, 2016. Invited panelist: “Engaging Research with Policy and Action.” Symposium organized by the Dynamic Drivers of Disease in Africa Consortium, the Royal Society, the Institute of Development Studies, and the Zoological Society of London. See https://figshare.com/articles/Steve_Osofsky/4680841. Town & Country 2nd Annual Philanthropy Summit (http://www.townandcountrymag.com/society/tradition/a3122/announcing-the-2015-philanthropy-summit-panelists/), New York City, May 7, 2015. Invited presenter: “Wildlife Conservation.” “Best of the Summit” video snippets, including a short excerpt from T & C Editor Klara Glowczewska's one-on-one interview with me, are available at http://www.townandcountrymag.com/leisure/arts-and-culture/news/a3157/the-best-of-2015-philanthropy-summit/. George C. Poppensiek Visiting Professorship in Global Animal Health, Cornell University College of Veterinary Medicine, Ithaca, New York, September 5-8, 2014. Invited George C. Poppensiek Lecturer on September 5: “One World, One Health: From Science to Policy to Action at the Wildlife / Domestic Animal / Human Health & Livelihoods Interface.” Second lecture on September 7, as part of the 5th Annual Cornell University College of Veterinary Medicine Zoonotic Diseases Symposium: “Human Health Impacts of Ecological Degradation: Rethinking Public Health in the Anthropocene.” Wildlife Disease Association 63rd Annual Conference, Albuquerque, New Mexico, July 27-August 1, 2014. Invited Opening Plenary talk on July 28: “Human Health Impacts of Ecological Degradation: Rethinking Public Health in the Anthropocene.” United States Agency for International Development (USAID), Washington, D. C., June 18, 2014. Agrilinks Feed the Future Ag Sector Council Seminar, invited presenter: “Beyond Fences: Policy Options for Biodiversity, Livelihoods and Transboundary Animal Disease Management in Southern Africa.” The presentation and associated materials are available at http://agrilinks.org/events/beyond-fences-policy-options-biodiversity-livelihoods-transboundary-animal-disease-management. Cornell University’s College of Veterinary Medicine, April 27, 2013. Special Species Symposium, invited banquet Keynote Speaker: “One World, One Health: From Science to Policy to Action at the Wildlife / Domestic Animal / Human Health & Livelihoods Interface.” Global Health: Innovation / Implementation / Impact, Fourth Annual Consortium of Universities for Global Health (CUGH) Conference, Washington, D. C., March 14-16, 2013. Invited panelist for “One Health- Ecology, Conservation and Disease” session. SADC Transboundary Animal Diseases Project “Scientific Session on Foot and Mouth Disease in SADC” & Joint SADC / AHEAD Workshop “Reconciling Livestock Health and Wildlife Conservation Goals in Southern Africa: Strategies for Sustainable Economic Development,” Gaborone, Botswana, November 13-16, 2012. Invited Opening Address and chair of several sessions. SADC Group of Ambassadors Meeting, hosted by the Embassy of Angola, Washington, D. C., June 12, 2012. Invited Briefing: "Achieving Compatibility between Livestock Production and Wildlife Conservation in the SADC Region." 1st International One Health Congress, Melbourne, Australia, February 14-16, 2011. Invited speaker for plenary panel (“Environmental Drivers”), session chair (“Globalisation”), and session speaker (“One Health Policy Options for Biodiversity, Livelihoods and Transboundary Disease Management in Southern Africa”). Chatham House Energy, Environment and Development Programme and Centre for Global Health Security Invited Forum: “Strengthening Collaboration between Wildlife, Livestock and Human Health Sectors,” London, United Kingdom, March 16-17, 2010. Invited participant as well as presenter (“Cross-Cutting Issues and Perspectives: Engaging the Wildlife Sector”) and discussion panelist (“Possible Mechanisms to Facilitate Collaboration”). International Conservation Caucus Foundation, Washington, D. C., January 27, 2010. Congressional Staff Lunch Briefing: “Beyond Fences: Policy Options for Biodiversity, Livelihoods and Transboundary Disease Management in Southern Africa.” See http://www.wcs-ahead.org/webcasts.html for video. SADC (Southern African Development Community) Regional Workshop sponsored by the EU and USAID, “Achieving Compatibility Between the Transfrontier Conservation Area (TFCA) Concept and International Standards for the Management of Transboundary Animal Diseases (TADs),” Kasane, Botswana, November 11-14, 2008. Invited participant as well as presenter on November 12: “Cross-Sectoral Challenges and TFCAs: Lessons from the AHEAD (Animal Health for the Environment And Development) Program.” USDA Smith-Kilborne Program, Cornell University, Ithaca, and the Plum Island Animal Disease Center, Plum Island, New York, May 27-June 3, 2008. Invited lecturer at Cornell on May 30: “Case Studies from Africa: The Value of the 'One Health' Entry Point for Facilitating Conservation and Development.” Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars, Washington, D. C., May 21, 2008. Guest speaker invited by the Environmental Change and Security Program: “Case Studies from Africa: The Value of the 'One Health' Entry Point for Facilitating Conservation and Development,” as part of the “Human, Animal, and Ecosystem Health” 3-speaker panel. Video of the presentation is available at http://www.wilsoncenter.org/event/human-animal-and-ecosystem-health. University of Florida, Center for African Studies, Gainesville, Florida, February 8, 2008. Guest speaker invited by the Natural Resources Management African Working Group (NRMAWG): “Case Studies from Africa: The Value of the 'One Health' Entry Point for Facilitating Conservation and Development.” National Foreign Affairs Training Center, Foreign Service Institute, Arlington, Virginia, August 30, 2007. Invited guest speaker: “The Value of the ‘One Health’ Entry Point for Facilitating Conservation and Development: Case Studies from Africa,” as part of the “Africa’s Environmental Challenges” 3-speaker panel. American Veterinary Medical Association 144th Annual Convention, Washington, D. C., July 14-18, 2007. Invited lecturer on July 16: “Case Studies from Africa: The Value of the 'One Health' Entry Point for Facilitating Conservation and Development,” as part of the “One World, One Health, One Medicine: Emerging Global Animal Health Threats” panel. Global Livestock Working Group (GLWG), Washington, D.C., July 13, 2007. Invited guest panel speaker: “The Value of the ‘One Health’ Entry Point for Facilitating Conservation and Development: Case Studies from Africa,” held at the International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) and co-hosted by USAID and Heifer International. Envirovet Summer Institute 2007 Short Course in Terrestrial and Aquatic Wildlife and Ecosystem Health, White Oak Conservation Center, Yulee, Florida. Invited guest speaker on June 29 & 30, 2007: “The Wildlife / Domestic Animal / Human Health Interface and Implications for Conservation and Development at the Landscape Scale.” Also showed and led discussion on episode of PBS’s Journey to Planet Earth series: “The State of the Planet’s Wildlife,” which I was involved in as an on-camera commentator. Africa Biodiversity Collaborative Group (ABCG) and USAID FRAME, Washington, D.C., May 7, 2007. Invited guest speaker: “The Wildlife / Livestock / Human Health Interface and its Relevance to CBNRM in Southern Africa,” as part of the “Community-Based Natural Resource Management (CBNRM): Impacts and Lessons Learned” 6-speaker panel held at World Wildlife Fund. Cornell University’s College of Veterinary Medicine, April 20-22, 2007. Special Species Symposium, invited guest lecturer: “The Wildlife / Domestic Animal / Human Health Interface and Implications for Conservation and Development at the Landscape Scale.” Also showed and led discussion on episode of PBS’s Journey to Planet Earth series: “The State of the Planet’s Wildlife,” which I was involved in as an on-camera commentator. International Conservation Caucus, Longworth House Office Building, Washington, D. C., November 16, 2005. Congressional Staff Briefing: “Proposed Global Network for Avian Influenza Surveillance.” American Veterinary Medical Association 142nd Annual Convention / 28th World Veterinary Congress, Minneapolis, Minnesota, July 16-20, 2005. Invited lecturer on July 16: “One World, One Health” or “Moving Wildlife Conservation AHEAD- Animal Health for the Environment And Development.” University of Minnesota Conservation Medicine Seminar Series, Minneapolis, Minnesota. Invited Keynote Speaker on May 12, 2005: “One World, One Health” or “Moving Wildlife Conservation AHEAD- Animal Health for the Environment And Development.” Joint Conference American Association of Zoo Veterinarians, American Association of Wildlife Veterinarians, Wildlife Disease Association, San Diego, California, August 28-September 3, 2004. Lecturer on September 2: “Moving Conservation AHEAD (Animal Health for the Environment And Development): Progress at the Intersection of Program and Policy.” Envirovet Summer Institute 2004 Short Course in Terrestrial and Aquatic Wildlife and Ecosystem Health, White Oak Conservation Center, Yulee, Florida. Invited guest speaker on June 30, 2004: “One World, One Health” or “Moving Wildlife Conservation AHEAD- Animal Health for the Environment And Development." Columbia University (Department of Ecology, Evolution and Environmental Biology), New York City, April 12, 2004. Invited guest lecturer: “Moving Conservation AHEAD- Animal Health for the Environment And Development,” for the graduate course “Topics in Conservation Biology.” Africa Biodiversity Collaborative Group (ABCG), Wildlife Conservation Society (WCS), and Bushmeat Crisis Task Force (BCTF), Washington, D.C., March 8, 2004. Invited guest speaker: “Moving Conservation AHEAD- Animal Health for the Environment And Development,” as part of the “Health Matters: The Importance of the Interface between Wildlife, Domestic Animal and Human Health for Conservation Success in Africa” 3-speaker panel held at Conservation International. Southern and East African Experts Panel on Designing Successful Conservation and Development Interventions at the Wildlife/Livestock Interface: Implications for Wildlife, Livestock, and Human Health, organized by the Wildlife Conservation Society, IUCN SSC Veterinary Specialist Group, and partners as part of the launch of WCS’ AHEAD (Animal Health for the Environment And Development) Program. Durban, South Africa, September 14-15 within the IUCN Vth World Parks Congress (“Benefits Beyond Boundaries”), September 8-17, 2003: opening “Why Are We Here?” and closing “Thanks, and Next Steps” talks. American Veterinary Medical Association 140th Annual Convention, Denver, Colorado. Invited lecturer on July 19, 2003: “Veterinarians and Ecosystem Health: Beyond Loading Darts and Biomedical Arts- Can We Help Shape the Vision, or Do We Just Fix the Parts?” Envirovet Summer Institute 2003 Short Course in Terrestrial and Aquatic Wildlife and Ecosystem Health, White Oak Conservation Center, Yulee, Florida, USA. Invited guest speaker on June 20, 2003: “Veterinarians and Ecosystem Health: Beyond Loading Darts and Biomedical Arts- Can We Help Shape the Vision, or Do We Just Fix the Parts?” SAVMA Symposium 2003, University of Georgia, College of Veterinary Medicine. Invited guest speaker on March 22, 2003: “Veterinarians and Ecosystem Health: Beyond Loading Darts and Biomedical Arts- Can We Help Shape the Vision, or Do We Just Fix the Parts?” Cornell University’s N. Y. S. College of Vet. Med., October 23, 2002. S. Gordon Campbell Memorial Lecture. Invited guest speaker: “Veterinarians and Ecosystem Health: Beyond Loading Darts and Biomedical Arts- Can We Help Shape the Vision, or Do We Just Fix the Parts?” Conference American Association of Zoo Veterinarians, Milwaukee, Wisconsin, October 5-10, 2002. Lecturer on October 9: “World Wildlife Fund’s Asian Rhino and Elephant Action Strategy: In Pursuit of Partnerships.” American Zoo and Aquarium Association Annual Conference, Fort Worth, Texas, USA. Speaker on September 14, 2002: “World Wildlife Fund’s Asian Rhino and Elephant Action Strategy: In Pursuit of Partnerships.” Envirovet Summer Institute 2002 Short Course in Terrestrial and Aquatic Wildlife and Ecosystem Health, White Oak Conservation Center, Yulee, Florida, USA. Invited guest speaker on June 25, 2002: “What Role, DVM?” International Joint Conference of the Society for Tropical Veterinary Medicine and the Wildlife Disease Association- Wildlife and Livestock Disease and Sustainability: What Makes Sense? Pilanesberg National Park, Republic of South Africa, July 22-27, 2001. Invited speaker on July 26: “Can the Wildlife Disease Association (WDA) and the Society for Tropical Veterinary Medicine (STVM) Help the International Donor Community Reevaluate ‘What Makes Sense’ in Regards to Wildlife and Livestock Disease and Sustainability?” Smithsonian Institution’s National Zoological Park Lecture Series, Washington, D.C., July 12, 2001. Invited guest lecturer: “Asian Rhinos and Elephants: To Be or Not to Be?” Denver Zoo, Denver, Colorado, April 19, 2001. Invited guest lecturer: “Large Animals, Landscapes, and Lobbying: What Do We Need to Do to Save Asian Rhinos and Elephants From... Ourselves?” Conservation International, Washington, D.C., March 21, 2001. Invited guest lecturer: “Large Animals, Landscapes, and Lobbying: What Do We Need to Do to Save Asian Rhinos and Elephants From... Ourselves?” Busch Gardens, Tampa, Florida, November 15, 2000. Invited guest lecturer: “Large Animals, Landscapes, and Lobbying: What Do We Need to Do to Save Asian Rhinos and Elephants From... Ourselves?” Radio Free Asia, Washington, D.C., October 23, 2000. Invited guest lecturer (forum for Asian environmental reporters): “Large Animals, Landscapes, and Lobbying: What Do We Need to Do to Save Asian Rhinos and Elephants From... Ourselves?” Virginia-Maryland Regional College of Veterinary Medicine, Maryland (College Park) Campus, May 3, 2000. Invited seminar presentation: “Wildlife Conservation in Southern Africa: a Field Veterinarian’s Perspective.” Cornell University’s N. Y. S. College of Vet. Med., April 16-18, 1999. Special Species Symposium: The Role of Veterinary Medicine in International Species Conservation. Invited guest lecturer: “Linking Wildlife Conservation and Development.” Also delivered banquet Keynote Address: “Are We Doing the ‘Right Stuff,’ or Rearranging Deck Chairs on the Titanic?” Washington State University College of Veterinary Medicine, October 5, 1998. Invited guest lecturer: “Linking Wildlife Conservation and Development” for the International Veterinary Medicine Course. “Wildlife Conservation in Southern Africa: a Field Veterinarian’s Perspective” for the International Veterinary Students’ Association. Western Maryland Veterinary Medical Association, January 22, 1998. Invited guest lecturer: “Wildlife Conservation in Southern Africa: a Field Veterinarian’s Perspective.” Tufts University School of Veterinary Medicine, November 7, 1997. Invited guest lecturer for the Center for Conservation Medicine: “Linking Wildlife Conservation and Development: Progress through Partnerships.” Smithsonian Institution’s Smithsonian Associates Educational and Cultural Program Series, Washington, D.C., July 29, 1997. Invited guest lecturer: “Doctor in the Wild: Diary of a Wildlife Veterinarian on the African Plains.” American Veterinary Medical Association 134th Annual Convention, Reno, Nevada, July 19-24, 1997. Invited lecturer on July 21: “Linking Wildlife Conservation and Development.” University of Zimbabwe, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, June 18, 1997. Invited guest lecturer for the Zimbabwe Students’ Wildlife Group: “Wildlife Conservation in Botswana: a Field Veterinarian’s Perspective.” Smithsonian Institution’s Front Royal Conservation and Research Center Seminar Series, May 21, 1997. Invited guest lecturer: “Wildlife Conservation in Southern Africa: a Field Veterinarian’s Perspective.” Tufts University School of Veterinary Medicine, April 29, 1997. Invited guest lecturer for the Wildlife Clinic / International Programs: “Wildlife Conservation in Southern Africa: a Field Veterinarian’s Perspective.” Cornell University’s N. Y. S. College of Vet. Med., April 25, 1996. Invited guest lecturer for ZAWS (Zoo and Wildlife Society): “Wildlife Conservation in Southern Africa: A Field Veterinarian’s Perspective.” XII Congreso de la Asociacion de Zoologicos, Criaderos y Acuarios de la Republica Mexicana, Acapulco, Mexico, October 25-28, 1995. Invited lecturer on October 27: “Field Anesthesia Monitoring: The Basics.” Hands-on practical sessions on October 28: “Pulse Oximetry: A Valuable Adjunct to Wildlife Anesthesia Monitoring Protocols.” Joint Conference American Association of Zoo Veterinarians, Wildlife Disease Association, American Association of Wildlife Veterinarians, East Lansing, Michigan, August 12-17, 1995. Lecturer on August 16: “Pulse Oximetry Monitoring of Free-Ranging African Elephants (Loxodonta africana) Immobilized with an Etorphine/Hyaluronidase Combination Antagonized with Diprenorphine.” Joint Conference American Association of Zoo Veterinarians, Wildlife Disease Association, American Association of Wildlife Veterinarians, East Lansing, Michigan, August 12-17, 1995. Lecturer on August 16: “Immobilization and Monitoring of Free-Ranging Wild Dogs (Lycaon pictus) using a Ketamine/Xylazine/Atropine Combination, Yohimbine Reversal, and Pulse Oximetry.” U.S.D.A. Seminar on Foreign Animal Disease for the Diagnostician, Fort Worth, Texas, November 15-18, 1994. Lecturer on November 16: “Capture and Restraint of Semi-Free Ranging Mammals: Maximizing Human and Animal Safety.” Wildlife Disease Association 43rd Annual Conference, Monterey, California, July 17-22, 1994. Lecturer on July 21: “Serologic Evaluation of Free-Ranging Lions (Panthera leo), Leopards (Panthera pardus), and Cheetahs (Acinonyx jubatus) for Feline Lentivirus and Feline Leukemia Virus in Botswana.” Cornell University’s N. Y. S. College of Vet. Med., November 19, 1992. Invited guest lecturer for VIDA (Veterinarians Interested in Developing Areas): “The Establishment of the Wildlife Veterinary Unit for Botswana’s Department of Wildlife and National Parks: A First Year Progress Report and a Personal Perspective.” Infectious Diseases of Free Ranging Wild Mammal Populations Workshop, Kruger National Park, Skukuza, October 23-24, 1992. Invited lecturer on October 24: “Wildlife Diseases in Botswana: A Synopsis of Previous Research and a Discussion of Current Challenges Facing the New Wildlife Veterinary Unit.” Botswana Department of Wildlife and National Parks, 1992-94. Multiple presentations on the “Emergency Protocol for Human Narcotic Exposure” for Departmental staff as well as for local public and private hospitals. The lectures cover the safe use of and potential risks associated with various drugs utilized in wildlife capture, as well as the proper handling of accidental human exposures. VA-MD Regional College of Vet. Med., 1989-90. Lecture/laboratory for the third-year student course “Physical Diagnosis.” Lecture/Laboratory (4/90): “Approach to the Thorough Physical Exam.” VA-MD Regional College of Vet. Med., 1989-90. Lecture for the first-year student course “Ethology and the Human-Animal Bond.” Lecture #2 (3/90): “The Importance of Understanding Behavioral Differences Between Wild and Captive Animals.” VA-MD Regional College of Vet. Med., 1989-90. Lecture for the first-year student course “Ethology and the Human-Animal Bond.” Lecture #1 (1/90): “Societal Responsibilities Towards Wild Animals.” VA-MD Regional College of Vet. Med., 1989-90. Intern/Resident Seminar Series. Seminar #2 (4/90): “Diagnostic Peritoneal Lavage: The Basics.” VA-MD Regional College of Vet. Med., 1989-90. Intern/Resident Seminar Series. Seminar #1 (11/89): “Clinical Applications of Hypertonic Fluid Therapy in Small Animals.” Cornell University’s N. Y. S. College of Vet. Med., 1985-89. Multiple presentations for student groups such as the American Association of Zoo Veterinarians, Veterinarians Interested in Developing Areas, as well as for the College Alumni Board of Overseers on “Conservation Problems Facing East Africa,” “The Elephant Research Project,” and “The Florida Panther Project.” Cornell University’s N. Y. S. College of Vet. Med., Ithaca, New York, 1985-89. Open House: organized and managed the “Wildlife Conservation” exhibit all four years as a veterinary student. Selected Conferences/Workshops Emerging Disease, Wildlife Trade and Consumption: The Need for Robust Global Governance— Exploring Ways to Prevent Future Pandemics. Virtual Symposium. Webinar organizer on behalf of the Cornell University College of Veterinary Medicine, working with the World Wildlife Fund and the Cornell Atkinson Center for Sustainability. Opening presenter, and discussant throughout the half-day forum, moderated by Thomas L. Friedman of The New York Times and with keynote presentation by Dr. Jane Goodall. February 23, 2021. For the full meeting video recording, see https://wildlife.cornell.edu/our-work/our-planet-our-health/special-event. Gap Analysis for Implementation of CBT of Beef in Ngamiland: Stakeholder Validation Workshop. Maun, Botswana. Department of Veterinary Services (DVS) / AHEAD Workshop co-organizer; workshop co-facilitator; opening presenter (Day 1- “Purpose and Objectives of the Workshop”); and closing session chair, July 30-August 1, 2019. For the final Gap Analysis on the Implementation of Commodity-Based Trade of Beef in Ngamiland, Botswana report and other meeting materials, see http://www.wcs-ahead.org/ngamiland-cbt-gap-analysis-2019/ngamiland-cbt-gap-analysis-2019.html. Kavango Zambezi Transfrontier Conservation Area (KAZA TFCA) Animal Health Sub-Working Group Meeting. Victoria Falls, Zimbabwe. Meeting co-organizer (on behalf of AHEAD, upon request of the KAZA Secretariat), charged with keeping this official 5-nation working forum moving forward, with a focus on addressing animal health (and related public health) challenges across the TFCA through a cross-sectoral, integrated approach. June 10-13, 2019. For meeting materials, see http://www.wcs-ahead.org/kaza-ahswg/kaza-ahswg.html. Kavango Zambezi Transfrontier Conservation Area (KAZA TFCA) Animal Health Sub-Working Group Meeting. Maun, Botswana. Meeting co-organizer (on behalf of AHEAD, upon request of the KAZA Secretariat), charged with reviving this official 5-nation working forum, focused on addressing animal health (and related public health) challenges across the TFCA through a cross-sectoral, integrated approach. Played multiple roles, including presenting as well as facilitating parts of the meeting, August 1-2, 2018. For meeting materials, see http://wcs-ahead.org/kaza-ahswg/kaza-ahswg.html. Commodity-Based Trade of Beef and Enhanced Market Access: The Vital Role of the Department of Veterinary Services. Gaborone, Botswana. Department of Veterinary Services (DVS) Training Workshop co-organizer (on behalf of AHEAD); workshop facilitator and chair of multiple sessions; presenter (Day 1- “Purpose and Objectives of the Workshop” and Day 2- “Recap of Day 1” and “On Fences, Fauna, and FMD”); and closing session co-presenter (“Closing Remarks on Key Next Steps”), February 6-7, 2018. For the Summary and other workshop materials, see http://www.wcs-ahead.org/botswana_dvs_workshop_2018/botswana_dvs_workshop_2018.html. Wildlife-Friendly Beef: Working towards a Win-Win Solution for Livestock Agriculture & Wildlife Conservation in Ngamiland. Maun Lodge, Maun, Botswana. Dept. of Veterinary Services (DVS) / AHEAD Workshop co-organizer; workshop facilitator; opening presenter (Day 1- “Purpose and Objectives of the Workshop” and Day 2- “Recap of Day 1”); and closing session chair and co-presenter (“Summary of Key Next Steps for Advancing Wildlife-Friendly Beef in Ngamiland”), November 8-9, 2017. For the Proceedings and other workshop materials, see http://www.wcs-ahead.org/dvs_ahead_maun_workshop_2017/dvs_ahead_maun_workshop_2017.html. Inaugural Planetary Health / GeoHealth Annual Meeting. Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts. Meeting co-organizer; session V moderator (“Applying Planetary Health Science Towards Policy and Action” https://vimeo.com/215839887), April 28-30, 2017. https://planetaryhealthannualmeeting.org/2017-inaugural-meeting/ Towards Implementation of Commodity-Based Trade of Beef in the KAZA TFCA: Opportunities for Integrating Livestock Agriculture & Wildlife Conservation. Victoria Falls Safari Lodge, Victoria Falls, Zimbabwe. KAZA / AHEAD / FAO Workshop co-organizer; opening (“Purpose of the Workshop: Why Are We Here?”) and closing (“Summary and Next Steps”) speaker; session chair (“Setting the Scene” and “Progressing Implementation of Commodity-Based Trade of Beef and Building Stronger Bridges between the Agriculture and Wildlife Conservation Sectors”), November 3-4, 2016. For the Proceedings and other workshop materials, see https://www.wcs-ahead.org/kaza_ahead_fao_workshop_2016/kaza_ahead_fao_workshop_2016.html. State of KAZA Symposium 2016: Where Have We Come From, Where Are We Now, and Where Are We Going? Victoria Falls Safari Lodge, Victoria Falls, Zimbabwe. Symposium planning technical committee member and session chair (“Landscape Level Conservation – Myth or Reality?”), October 31-November 2, 2016. For the Proceedings and other workshop materials, see http://www.kavangozambezi.org/index.php/en/news-public/item/17-publication-of-the-state-of-kaza-symposium-2016-proceedings. Television Work Scientific on-camera commentator for episode of PBS’s Journey to Planet Earth series: “Plan B: Mobilizing to Save Civilization,” hosted by Matt Damon– premiered on PBS on 3/30/11. Scientific on-camera commentator for episode of PBS’s Journey to Planet Earth series: “The State of the Planet’s Wildlife,” hosted by Matt Damon– premiered on PBS on 4/18/06. On-camera guest expert on Jack Hanna’s Animal Adventures, for an episode on black rhinos that aired on 2/17/01. Consultant, during 6/97, responsible for developing selection criteria for (and for actually selecting) young veterinarians to participate in a 6 month training fellowship developed as part of a 13-part television series on African game management (“The Great African Wildlife Rescue”). Scientific Advisor (post-filming) during 8/98. The series premiered on Animal Planet 3/99. Scientific Advisor and subject for episode of ABC’s World of Discovery series: “Last Charge of the Rhino,” produced 11/95 and subsequently shown on ABC and Discovery. Graduate Field Memberships Zoology and Wildlife Conservation Natural Resources Regional Science Global Development Public Affairs Ecology and Evolutionary Biology Postdoctoral Fellows Katherine McClure, Ph.D. (Sept. 2019-present), Quantitative Approaches to Guide Evidence-Based Novel Vector Control Efforts to Eliminate Invasive Mosquitoes and Mosquito-Borne Avian Disease in Hawai’i. Professional/Academic Affiliations Atkinson Center for a Sustainable Future Faculty Fellow Mario Einaudi Center for International Studies, Institute for African Development Faculty Associate American Veterinary Medical Association Wildlife Disease Association Society for Conservation Biology American Association of Wildlife Veterinarians IUCN Species Survival Commission (multiple Specialist Groups) The Rockefeller Foundation–Lancet Commission on Planetary Health Planetary Health Alliance Founding Science Policy Director Cornell Laboratory of Ornithology Board Member Director, Cornell Wildlife Health Center Cornell University College of Veterinary Medicine Contact College Careers Follow us on: Privacy Site Feedback Accessibility Land Acknowledgement Site Map Intranet Cornell University ©2016