Skip to content Georgia Tech-Shenzhen Main Menu About A Brief Introduction | Engineering Study Abroad Milestone Events Student Life Annual Safety Security Report Academics Courses Academic Calendars Current GT Students Transient Students Graduate Programs MS Analytics MS Computer Science MS Electrical and Computer Engineering MS Environmental Engineering Master of Industrial Design Exchange To GT-Atlanta MS Analytics MS CS MS ECE MS ENVE Master of Industrial Design To GT-Shenzhen To GT-Lorraine Faculty Georgia Tech Faculty with Rotational Assignment to Shenzhen Faculty Positions Financial Scholarships Coulter Scholarships Merit-Based Scholarships NACA Scholarships Tuition and Fees Industry FAQ FAQ on Admission FAQ on Financial Matters FAQ on Programmatic Issues FAQ on GT MS Degree FAQ on PhD Ugrad Summer Contact Us Search Search for: Search MS Analytics General Information The MS Analytics curriculum is structured to be completed in 1.5 years (fall, spring, summer, and fall), with a total of 36 credits required for each student. Students may take four courses in Fall, four courses in Spring, practicum or 2 courses in Summer, and 2 courses or practicum in the Fall. More info Curriculum The interdisciplinary core includes 15 credits of coursework (equivalent to five three-credit courses) across business, computing, statistics, and operations research. On top of this integrated breadth of study covering the core areas of analytics, each student has 15 credits of electives to satisfy one of the specialized tracks to give them depth in an analytics area of specialization: Analytical Tools, Business Analytics, and Computational Data Analytics. From Fall 2021, Analytical Tools Track will be provided in GT-Shenzhen. The other two tracks may be adopted to GT-Shenzhen in the future. Base Curriculum – For the Analytical Tools Track only • CSE 6040 Computing for Data Analytics (3 credits) • CSE 6242 Data and Visual Analytics (3 credits) • ISYE 6501 Introduction to Analytics Modeling (3 credits) • MGT 8803 Introduction to Business for Analytics (3 credits) • MGT 6203 Data Analytics in Business (3 credits) • Five additional courses (15 credits) in machine learning, statistics, and operations research • ISYE 6748 Applied Analytics Practicum (6 credits, including an internship or team project). Students need to finish eight courses including CSE 6242 and MGT 6203 before taking this course. • The two MGT courses are likely to be offered online. A subset of these courses are offered in the Shenzhen campus. Some of these courses may have an online version, whose availability in the Shenzhen campus will be reviewed later. Analytical Tools Track As mentioned earlier, the Shenzhen campus will start with offering this track in Fall 2021. Other tracks will be considered in the future. The Analytical Tools track provides students with a greater knowledge and understanding of the quantitative methodology of descriptive, predictive, and prescriptive analytics: how to select, build, solve, and analyze models using methodology such as parametric and non-parametric statistics, regression, forecasting, data mining, machine learning, optimization, stochastics, and simulation. GT-Shenzhen MS Analytics Program Director Academics Diploma Admissions Applied Analytics Practicum Call for Proposals: Applied Analytics Practicum Upcoming Events There are no upcoming events at this time. Contact the Institute Directory Offices Campus Map Apply Support / Give Log in Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404-894-2000 Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Accessibility Accountability Accreditation Employment ©2022 Georgia Institute of Technology