Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu School of Social Work About Programs Apply Now Students Faculty & Staff Research Community Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Research Center for Advancement of Youth Development Poverty Fact Sheets MIBH-TI Social-Emotional Curriculum Integrated Behavioral Health Supports Take Action Learn more about Social Work Explore the School of Urban Affairs and Public Policy Support Social Work Education Contact Us Follow Us Online Facebooktwitter Home Social Work Research Research in the School of Social Work The University of Memphis is the largest research university in the Mid-South, bringing leading-edge technology and practices to the region. Faculty in the School of Social Work focus on exploring regional impacts of health and wealth disparities, developing innovative clinical interventions with individuals and families, and implementing effective community solutions to urgent social issues. The School engages knowledgeable community agencies and stakeholders, develops new partnerships, and provides unique opportunities for students to conduct research. Current Research Highlights Memphis Opioid Workforce Paraprofessional Expansion Program (MOW-PEP) The opioid epidemic is impacting the nation, including Memphis, Shelby County, and the Midsouth region. In Shelby County alone, opioid related deaths have continued to climb since 2011. In 2011, there were 51 opioid related deaths and 159 in 2017 (Shelby County Health Department). In an effort to address this growing need, a workforce expansion initiative is being offered at the University of Memphis. The Memphis Opioid Workforce Paraprofessional Expansion Program (MOW-PEP) is a training program for students across diverse programs of study. Students who are enrolled in the program will complete program requirements and will earn a certificate of completion and $3,000 towards tuition and supplies. Upon enrollment, students must successfully complete two approved courses, one of which must be an approved substance abuse course. Students will also complete 30 hours of service learning at an agency or organization that works with families and individuals impacted by opioid or other substance use disorder. Students must also attend the free Opioid Summit that is held on campus each year. The goals of the MOW-PEP program are: Increase the opioid use and substance use disorder paraprofessional workforce in Memphis and greater Midsouth areas. Improve trainee’s understanding of evidence-supported prevention used for working with individuals and families impacted by opioid and substance use disorders. Improve trainee’s understanding of evidence-supported treatments used for working with individuals and families impacted by opioid and substance use disorders. Develop the skills of paraprofessionals in cultural competence for working with those impacted by opioid and substance use disorders. Develop the skills of opioid use and substance use paraprofessionals for working as part of a behavioral health team to provide support and services to those impacted by opioid and substance use disorders. If you are interested in learning more or would like to be part of the training to increase your capacity to be part of the workforce helping to meet the needs of individuals and families impacted by opioid use and other substance use disorder in the Midsouth, contact Dr. Melissa Hirschi at mhirschi@memphis.edu Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 5/28/20 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.