Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Department of Sociology About Us People Research Undergraduate Graduate Resources Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Graduate Resources About the Program Contact the Advisor How to Apply MA Degree Requirements Graduate Student Handbook Graduate Assistantships Opportunities for Support Course Descriptions Graduate Catalog Forms and Links Graduate Student Profiles Student Placements Student Publications Forthcoming 2014 2013 2012 Prior 2012 Student Presentations Student Theses Student Awards Take Action Community Out of Chaos Online B.A. Contact Us Follow Us Online Facebook Home Sociology Graduate Graduate Student Accomplishment Graduate Student Accomplishments Recent Accomplishments of Department of Sociology Graduate Students (For publications and presentations that have multiple authors, sociology graduate students' names are in bold type.) Graduate Student Publications Barry, Colin M., K. Chad Clay, Michael E. Flynn, and Gregory Robinson. 2014. "Freedom of Foreign Movement, Economic Opportunities Abroad, and Protest in Non-Democratic Regimes." Journal of Peace Research, 51(5): 574-588. Barry, Colin M., Sam R. Bell, K. Chad Clay, Michael E. Flynn, and Amanda Murdie. 2015. "Choosing the Best House in a Bad Neighborhood: Location Strategies of Human Rights INGOs in the Non-Western World." International Studies Quarterly, 59(1): 86-98. Bell, Sam R., K. Chad Clay, Amanda Murdie, and James A. Piazza. 2014. "Opening Yourself Up: The Role of External and Internal Transparency in Terrorism Attacks." Political Research Quarterly, 67(3): 603-614. Bell, Sam R., Tavishi Bhasin, K. Chad Clay, and Amanda Murdie. 2014. "Taking the Fight to Them: Neighborhood Human Rights Organizations and Domestic Protest." British Journal of Political Science, 44(4): 853-875. Binnix, T., Rambo, C., Abrutyn, S., & Mueller, A.S. (2017). The dialectics of stigma, silence, and misunderstanding in suicidality survival narratives. Deviant Behavior, 39(8), 1095-1106. Grier, T., Rambo, C., & Taylor, M. (2014). "What are you?": Racial ambiguity, stigma, and the racial formation project interrupted. Deviant Behavior, 35(12), 1006-1022. Loren, D., & Rambo, C. (2018). "God smites you!": Atheists' experiences of stigma, identity politics, and queerness. Deviant Behavior, 40(4), 445-460. Mueller, Anna S., Seth Abrutyn, and Cynthia Stockton. 2015. "Can Social Ties be Harmful? Examining the Social Dynamics of Suicide Suggestion in Early Adulthood." Sociological Perspectives, 58(2): 204-222. Presson, Brittany and Carol Rambo. 2015. "Claiming, Resisting, and Exempting Pathology in the Identities of Self-injurers." Deviant Behavior, 37(2): 1-18. Pruit, John C. 2014. "Identity Work." Encyclopedia of Social Deviance, edited by C. Forsyth and H. Copes: Sage. Rambo, C., Presson, B., Gaines, V. L., & Barnes, B. (2019). Autoethnography as a research method in the study of social problems. In A. Marvasti & J. Trevino (Eds.), Research methods in social problems (Pp. 122-138). Routledge/Taylor and Francis Group: London. Stone Jr., A. J., & Rambo, C. (Forthcoming, 2019). Surviving racism and genocide: Native American caricature iconography and racial formation projects. Studies in Symbolic Interaction. Johnson, A. E. and Stone Jr., A. J. (2018). "The most dangerous negro in America": Rhetoric, race and the prophetic pessimism of Martin Luther King Jr. Journal of Communication and Religion 41(1):8-22. Taylor, M., & Rambo, C. (2014). White shame, white pride: Emotional cultures, feeling rules, and emotion exemplars in white supremacist movement music. International Journal of Crime, Criminal Justice, and Law, 8(1-2), 107-134. Professional Presentations by Sociology Graduate Students Barnes, B. 2019. "Defining Diagnosis/Defining Self: Reflections on Dis-ease and Misdiagnosis." Presented at the Fifteenth International Congress of Qualitative Inquiry, Champagne-Urbana, IL. Stone Jr., A. J., & Rambo, C. 2019. Erase-ism:(Re)writing and (Re)righting Native American racial formation projects. Presented at the Fifteenth International Congress of Qualitative Inquiry, Champagne-Urbana, IL. Pallotta, Hannah Lauren. 2019. "The Global Citizen, Global Trust, & National Privilege: A Study of Individualized Identity in a Globalized World." Southern Sociological Society Annual Meeting, Atlanta, GA. Reilly, Caroline Virginia. 2019. "Creating Whiteness: The Processes of Irish White Identity Formation on Seventeenth-Century Barbados and Montserrat." Southern Sociological Society Annual Meeting, Atlanta, GA. Church, Anna Claire. 2019. "'It Can be Done Anywhere, Anytime': Public Breastfeeding and Social Media Resistance." Southern Sociological Society Annual Meeting, Atlanta, GA. Tasmim, Samia and Junmin Wang. 2019. "Are Free Trade Agreements Associated with Better Health? An Empirical Analysis to Conceptualize the Impact of Trade Agreements on Health Outcomes." Southern Sociological Society Annual Meeting, Atlanta, GA. Topping, Michael Silas. 2019. "The Relationship of Risk Factors and Undergraduate Retention: A Study of a Rural University's Undergraduate Student Population and their Likelihood of Persistence." Southern Sociological Society Annual Meeting, Atlanta, GA. Fatema, Kaniz. 2019. "Impact of Mass Media on the Utilization of Maternal Healthcare Service." Southern Sociological Society Annual Meeting, Atlanta, GA. Stone Jr., A. J. 2018. "I am a cartoon? Not me!": Racial identity work and resistance to Native American caricature iconography. Presented at the Fourteenth International Congress of Qualitative Inquiry, Champagne-Urbana, IL. Fatema, Kaniz. 2018. "Women Entrepreneurs and Their Vulnerability in Informal Sector: A Study on Women Street Vendors in Dhaka City." Southern Sociological Society Annual Meeting, New Orleans, LA. Stone, Anthony. 2018. "I Am a Cartoon? Not Me!": Racial Identity Work and Resistance to Native American Caricature Iconography Erasure." Southern Sociological Society Annual Meeting, New Orleans, LA. Gaines, Victoria. "Self-Injury and Stigma." 2018. Southern Sociological Society Annual Meeting. New Orleans, LA. Church, Anna Claire. 2018. "Sociodemographic Predictors of Infant Mortality: An Analysis of Race and Place-Based Disparities." Southern Sociological Society Annual Meeting, New Orleans, LA. Cooley, Caleb Cameron. 2018. "Sexual Minority Health Behaviors, and Potential Benefits of Same Sex Marriage." Southern Sociological Society Annual Meeting, New Orleans, LA. Wright Thayer, Krista. 2018. "Social Services Workers' Perspective on Clients and Public Assistance." Southern Sociological Society Annual Meeting, New Orleans, LA. Sandifer, J. Dylan. 2018. "Computing our Politics: Bias in Social Media Algorithms." Southern Sociological Society Annual Meeting, New Orleans, LA. Gaines, Victoria. 2017. "Drug Use as Edgework Among Adolescent Populations." Southern Demographic Association Annual Meeting. Morgantown, WV. Presson, B., Rambo, C., Loren, D., & Gaines, V. 2017. "Self-injury and risk: Considering an edgework approach." Paper presented at the Thirteenth International Congress of Qualitative Inquiry, Champaign–Urbana, IL. Loren, D. 2017. "God smites you!": Atheists' experiences of stigma and identity politics. Paper presented at the Thirteenth International Congress of Qualitative Inquiry, Champaign-Urbana, IL. Binnix, T., Rambo, C., Abrutyn, S., & Mueller, A. 2017. "The dialectics of stigma, silence, and misunderstandings in suicidality narratives." Paper presented at the Thirteenth International Congress of Qualitative Inquiry, Champaign–Urbana, IL. Sandifer, J. Dylan. 2017. "Colonizing Sexuality: How Ideas of Queerness are Built on Western Religious Power Structures." American Sociological Association Annual Meeting, Montreal, QC, Canada Boudreaux, JoAnna. 2017. "Unveiling the Veil: American Muslim Women and Identity." Southern Sociological Society Annual Meeting, Greenville, SC. Loftus, Jeni and Degan Loren. 2017. "Increasing Support for the Civil Liberties of Atheists in the United States: Product of Changing Demographics?" Southern Sociological Society Annual Meeting, Greenville, SC. Erigha, Maryann and Anthony Jerome Stone, Jr. 2017. "Political White Saviors: White Candidates and Black Citizens in Democratic Campaign Advertisements." Southern Sociological Society Annual Meeting, Greenville, SC. Garcia, Melissa J. 2017. "Neighborhood Study in Memphis, TN." Southern Sociological Society Annual Meeting, Greenville, SC. Peterson, Gretchen and Daisy Angeles. 2017. "When is a Behavior Considered Cheating?: Conditions Impacting Perceptions of Cheating by Self and Others." Southern Sociological Society Annual Meeting, Greenville, SC. Stone, Anthony Jerome. 2017. "The F!#@ Y'all Lookin'At? The Invisibility of White Privilege as Presented in Aaron McGruder's "The Boondocks". Southern Sociological Society Annual Meeting, Greenville, SC. Angeles, Daisy. 2017. "Communication and Health: Hispanic Advantage or Disadvantage?" Southern Sociological Society Annual Meeting, Greenville, SC. Cooley, Caleb Cameron. 2017. "LGBT Healthcare Access." Southern Sociological Society Annual Meeting, Greenville, SC. Loren, D. 2016. Atheist individuals and identity formation processes. Paper presented at the Twelfth International Congress of Qualitative Inquiry, Champaign–Urbana, IL. Garcia, Melissa. 2016. "Undocumented Latino Immigrants and the Right to the City: A Case Study of Three Cities." Southern Sociological Society Annual Meeting. Atlanta, GA. Bang, Karishma Sonny. 2016. "Health Care Access Disparities in the United States." Southern Sociological Society Annual Meeting. Atlanta, GA. Binnix, Taylor M. 2016. "Suicidality and the Family: Examining Emotions, Relationship Quality, and Interpersonal Dynamics." Southern Sociological Society Annual Meeting. Atlanta, GA. Shuker, Zeinab F. 2015. "Oil, Polity, and Civil Society: The Construction of the Hegemonic Apparatus in Iraq." Southern Sociological Society Annual Meeting, New Orleans, LA. Shuker, Zeinab F. 2015. "Women in Rentier States: The Role of Rent Economy And The Civil Sphere in Shaping Gender Relations in Iraq." Southern Sociological Society Annual Meeting, New Orleans, LA. Campagna, Brittany Kay and Wesley James. 2015. "Walking In Memphis: Lack of Access and Availability to Healthy Food in a Stratified Metropolitan Food Desert in the South." Southern Sociological Society Annual Meeting, New Orleans, LA. Blume, Amelia. "Swept Under the Red Carpet: Scripting Pride, Silencing Shame in a New Religious Movement." International Congress of Qualitative Inquiry. Urbana-Champagne, IL. 2014. Campagna, Brittany Kay. "Walking in Memphis: Racial, Economic, and Residential Disparities in Access to Healthy Food in a Metropolitan Food Desert." Southern Demographic Association Meetings. Memphis, TN. 2014. Presson, Brittany. "Walking Among Shells: A Layered Account of Studying Self-Injury from the Inside Out." International Congress of Qualitative Inquiry. Urbana-Champagne, IL. 2014. Taylor, M. & Rambo, C. 2014. "Shame, pride, and the social bond: Exploring emotion cultures in white supremacist music." Paper presented at the Tenth International Congress of Qualitative Inquiry, Champaign–Urbana, IL. Still, Darla. "Assessing Elements of Romantic Relationship Quality as Protective Factors against Suicidal Ideation in Young Adults." Southern Demographic Association Meetings. Memphis, TN. 2014. Still, Darla. "Romantic Relationship Quality as a Protective Factor Against Suicidal Ideation." Southern Sociological Society Meetings. Charlotte, NC. 2014. Still, Darla. "The Gendered Experience of Relationships as Protective Factors Against Suicidal Ideations." Sociologists for Women in Society Meetings. Nashville, TN. 2014. Taylor, Marshall. "Shame, Pride, and the Social Bond: Exploring Emotion Cultures in White Supremacist Music" International Congress of Qualitative Inquiry. Urbana-Champagne, IL. 2014. Davis, Adriene Francois. "First Generation College Students: Understanding Persistence in Higher Education." Southern Sociological Society Meetings. Atlanta, GA. 2013. Davis, Adriene Francois. "Marijuana Use and Physical Activity: An Enhancer or A Hindrance?" Southern Sociological Society Meetings. Atlanta, GA. 2013. James, Wesley, Anna Mueller, Seth Abrutyn, and Tijuana Jefferson. "Understanding Alcoholism in Young Adults Using Durkheim‟s Theory of Social Integration." Population Association of America. New Orleans, LA. 2013. Jefferson, Tijuana LaShae. "Is this Marriage Killing Me?: The Influence of Marital Status on Blood Pressure." Southern Sociological Society Meetings. Atlanta, GA. 2013. Mueller, Anna S., Seth Abrutyn, and Cynthia Stockton. "Can Social Ties be Harmful? Examining the Social Dynamics of Suicide Suggestion in Early Adulthood." American Sociological Association. New York, NY. 2013. Mueller, Anna S., Seth Abrutyn, and Cynthia Stockton. "Examining the Limits of Social Contagion: Suicide Suggestion in Early Adulthood." Population Association of America. New Orleans, LA. 2013. Otte, Stephanie. "Maternal Age and SES: The Compound Effects on Birth Weight." Southern Sociological Society Meetings. Atlanta, GA. 2013. Otte, Stephanie. "Intergenerational Closure: Is It Protecting U.S. Teens Against Pregnancy and STI Contraction?" Southern Sociological Society Meetings. Atlanta, GA. 2013. Stockton, Cynthia Anne. "Weight and Weight Perception as Predictors of Poor Mental Health: Results from a Nationally Representative Sample of Adults." Southern Sociological Society Meetings. Atlanta, GA. 2013. Driver, Rebekkah. "The Web of Unintended Consequences: A Critique of Diversity Programs in Major Corporations." Southern Sociological Society Meetings. New Orleans, LA. 2012. Johnson, Ryan. "Examining Claims of Urban Authenticity in Memphis and Nashville: A Study in Regional Contrast." Southern Sociological Society Meetings. New Orleans, LA. 2012 Miller, Cassie. "Too Legit: the Tea Party, Occupy Wall Street, the Media, and Legitimization." Southern Sociological Society Meetings. New Orleans, LA. 2012. Scott, Michele. "Beyond BBQ: Navigating a Meatless Memphis." Southern Sociological Society Meetings. New Orleans, LA. 2012. Smiley, Kevin T. "New Public Spaces, Shifting Public Cultures: Memphis and the Adoption of Greenway Networks." Southern Sociological Society Meetings. New Orleans, LA. 2012. Stockton, Cynthia. "Obesity, Weight Perception, & Suicide Ideation in American Adolescents." Southern Sociological Society Meetings. New Orleans, LA. 2012. Wesley James, Anna Mueller, Seth Abrutyn, and Tijuana Jefferson. "Suicide Suggestion and Alcoholism in Young Adults." Southern Demographic Association. Williamsburg, VA. 2012. Anderson, Dale. 2005. "Interpreting Breast Augmentation." Presented at the Research Colloquium Series, Department of Sociology, University of Memphis. _____. 2005. "Interpreting Breast Augmentation." Presented at the First International Congress of Qualitative Inquiry, University of Illinois, Urbana-Champaign. Binkley, Bonnie. 2003. "Racial Inequality in the South: A Case Study of State and Employer Strategies in Maintaining a Split Labor Market in Memphis, TN." Presented at the Annual Meeting of the Southern Sociological Society, Atlanta, GA. _____. 2001. "A Case Study of the Impact of Deindustrialization in Memphis, TN." Presented at the Annual Meeting of the Southern Sociological Society, Atlanta, GA. Brown, Victoria. 2007. "Experiences in Student Teaching." Presented at the Colloquium Series, Department of Sociology, University of Memphis. _____. 2006. "One Must Bend: Redefining the Self with Multiple Sclerosis." Presented at the Annual Meeting of the Couch/Stone Symposium, Athens, GA. _____. 2006. "One Must Bend: Redefining the Self with Multiple Sclerosis." Presented at the Research Colloquium Series, Department of Sociology, University of Memphis, Memphis. Brooknut, Tecola. 2006. "Cultural Diversity and Development in Sub-Saharan Africa". Presented at the Research Colloquium Series, Department of Sociology, University of Memphis. Clay, Chad. 2008. "Aiding and Abetting? USAID and Human Rights." Presented at the Research Colloquium Series. Department of Sociology, University of Memphis. Guy, Gerise. 2001. English Proficiency and Peripheral Status: "A Comparative Analysis." Presented at the Annual Meeting of the Southern Sociological Society, Atlanta, GA. Lumm, Kimberly. 2005. "Countercultural Community and Christian Identity: A Comparison of Religious Communal Living Experiences in the 1970's and Today." Presented at the Graduate Research Internship Program, University of California, Santa Barbara. _____. 2005. "Living Your Research: Review of a Summer Research Internship Experience." Presented at the Research Colloquium Series, Department of Sociology, University of Memphis. _____. 2004. "Public Charter School in Memphis: A Case Study of the Memphis Academy of Science and Engineering." Invited presentation for a Cities in Change class, Department of Sociology, University of Memphis. Murphy, Kendra. 2007. "Experiences in Student Teaching." Presented at the Colloquium Series, Department of Sociology, University of Memphis. Rambo, Carol and Laurie Cooper Stoll. 2002. "Constraint and Resistance in the Narrated Identitites of Adult Survivors of Childhood Sexual Abuse: The Cultural Production of Silence." Presented at the Annual Meeting of the Society for the Study of Symbolic Interaction, Chicago. Rambo, Carol, Don Mynatt, Sara R. Presley, Alison Cody, and Victoria Brown. 2006. "Testing Exotic Dancers' Hypotheses Regarding Researchers." Paper presented at the Annual Meeting of the Couch/Stone Symposium, Athens, GA. _____. 2005. "Black Consciousness and Cultural Production in Memphis." Presented at the Annual Meeting of the Annual Southern Sociological Society. Charlotte, NC. _____. 2005. "Black Consciousness and Cultural Production in Memphis," Presented at the Meeting of the Annual Chicago Ethnography Conference, "Broadening the Scope of Ethnography." Chicago, IL. _____. 2004. "Stratification Processes in the City Schools: Race, Property, and Postmodernism." Presented at the Benjamin L. Hooks Institute for Social Change Civic Education Program in Memphis, TN. _____. 2004. "Black Consciousness and the Postmodern Situation." Presented at the Annual Graduate Student Conference in African American History," Memphis, TN. _____. 2004. "Black Consciousness and the Postmodern Situation." Presented at the Sankofa Research Colloquium Series, Memphis, TN. _____. 2004. "Stratification Processes in the City Schools: Race, Property, and Postmodernism," Presented at the Annual Conference of the Association of Black Sociologists, San Francisco, CA. _____. 2004. "Black Consciousness and Postmodernism in Memphis," Presented at the Annual Meeting of the Southern Sociological Society, Atlanta, GA. _____. 2004. "Black Consciousness and Postmodernism in Memphis." Presented at the Department of Sociology Research Colloquium Series, The University of Memphis, TN. Robertson, Desiree. 2004."Claiming Space in a 'What Are You?' World:" The Articulation of a Biracial Identity." Presented at the Research Colloquium Series, Department of Sociology, University of Memphis, TN. Scanlan, Steven J., Amanda Carroll, and Kimberly Lumm. 2005. "Women, Development and HIV/AIDS: The Human Security Implications." Paper presented at the Annual Meeting of the American Sociological Association, Montreal, Canada. Scanlan, Steven J., Michael F. Grissom, Laurie Cooper Stoll, and Kimberly Lumm. 2004. "Hunger Strikes, Contentious Politics, and Comparative Social Change: Theories, Typologies, and Trends. "Paper presented at the Annual International Studies Association Convention, Montreal, Canada. Stoll, Laurie Cooper and Larry R. Petersen. 2004. "Understanding Church Growth and Decline: A Test of the Market Based Approach." Paper presented at the Annual Meeting of the Association for the Sociology of Religion, San Francisco, California. Stoll, Laurie Cooper and Larry R. Petersen. 2004. "Church Growth and Decline in Shelby County: The Development and Conclusion of a Master's Thesis." Paper presented as part of the Research Colloquium Series, Department of Sociology, University of Memphis. _____. 2003. "Mail Surveys: An Overview and Critique of the Tailored Design Method (TDM)." Presented at the Research Colloquium Series, Department of Sociology, University of Memphis, Memphis. _____. 2002. "Is Birth Order Related to Educational Achievement?" Presented at the Southwestern Social Science Association Annual Meeting, New Orleans. _____. 2002. "Birth Order Effects on Occupational Attainment." Presented at the Research Colloquium Series, Department of Sociology, University of Memphis. Souza, Dale. 2001. "Patriarchal Maquiladoras." Presented at the Annual Meeting of the Southern Sociological Society, Atlanta, GA. Winters, Lisa. 2007. "Deindustrialization and Class: A Community Level Analysis of Changing Class Distinctions." Presented at the Research Colloquium Series, Department of Sociology, University of Memphis. ____. 2007. "Sisterhood and Social Capital: The Continuing Significance of Race In Approaches to Building "Community" through Membership in Fraternities and Sororities." Paper presented at the 7th Annual Isom Student Gender Conference, Sarah Isom Center for Women and Gender Studies, University of Mississippi, Oxford, March. ____. 2007. "Sisterhood and Social Capital: The Continuing Significance of Race In Approaches to Building "Community" through Membership in Fraternities and Sororities." Presented at the Research Colloquium Series, Department of Sociology, University of Memphis. Ziegler, Steven and Marquerite Hernandez. 2004. "Gender Attributes of Lifetime: Female Victimization, the Empowered Woman, and Television for Women." Paper presented at the Annual Meeting of the Pacific Sociological Association. Graduate Student Awards and Honors Anderson, Dale Department of Sociology Travel Award ($300), University of Memphis, 2005. Brown, Victoria Department of Sociology Travel Award ($300), University of Memphis, 2006. Graduate Student Association Travel Award ($150), University of Memphis, 2006. Lumm, Kimberly. Graduate Research Fellowship, Department of Religious Studies, University of California, Santa Barbara, June-August 2005. Advising Professor, Wade Clark Roof. Research grant funded by the National Science Foundation's Alliance for Graduate Education and the Professoriate (AGEP) grant NSF Grant # 8-487610-26406, through the Graduate Research Internship Program at the University of California, Santa Barbara. 2005. Mynatt, Don Managing Editor, Symbolic Interaction, 2006-07. Department of Sociology Travel Award ($300), University of Memphis, 2006. Graduate Student Association Travel Award ($150), University of Memphis, 2006. Pruitt, John Managing Editor, Symbolic Interaction, 2007-Present. Robertson, Desiree Tennessee Board of Regents Minority Fellowship for Graduate Study, 2003. Department of Sociology Travel Award ($300), University of Memphis, 2003. Sandifer, J. Dylan American Sociological Association Student Forum Award, 2017. Department of Sociology Travel Award, University of Memphis, 2017. Stoll, Laurie Cooper Morton Thesis Award, University of Memphis, "Understanding Church Growth and Decline: A Test of the Market Based Approach." 2004. Department of Sociology Travel Award ($300), University of Memphis, 2004. Graduate Student Paper Competition Award, Department of Sociology, University of Memphis, "Stay-at-home Moms with Degrees: A Weberian Perspective," 2003. Outstanding Graduate Paper Award, Department of Sociology, University of Memphis, "Rational Choice: The Merits and Pitfalls of the Market Based Approach," 2002. Undergraduate Paper Competition Award, Southwestern Sociological Association, New Orleans, "Is Birth Order Related to Educational Achievement?" 2002. Undergraduate Paper Competition Award, Department of Sociology, University of Memphis, "Is Birth Order Related to Educational Achievement?" 2001. Twombly, Corey Department of Sociology Travel Award ($300),University of Memphis, 2005. Ziegler, Steven Department of Sociology Travel Award ($300), University of Memphis, 2004. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 1/26/21 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.