Skip to content Clemson University Clemson University Search Menu Close Sorry, your browser does not support inline SVG. Sorry, your browser does not support inline SVG. Apply Giving News Resources for Students Faculty & Staff Parents Alumni Clemson University Academics Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Academics Home Employment Opportunities Apply for Admission Colleges College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business College of Education College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences College of Science Graduate School Academic Resources Academic Calendar Registrar Division of Undergraduate Studies Center for Career and Professional Development Academic Success Center GRAD 360° Libraries Outside the Classroom PEER/WISE Call Me MISTER® Creative Inquiry and Undergraduate Research Cooperative Education University Professional Internship and Co-op Program (UPIC) Study Abroad Admissions Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Admissions Home Schedule a Tour Apply for Admission Applying to Clemson First-Year Undergraduate Transfer Undergraduate International Undergraduate Graduate Students Academic Opportunities Majors Graduate Programs Online Graduate Programs Scholar Programs Paths to Graduate School Honors College Experiential Learning Financial Aid Tuition and Fee Calculator Undergraduate Financial Aid Graduate Fellowships and Awards Residency Requirements Campus Life Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Campus Life Home Club Sports Brooks Center for the Performing Arts Join Your Clemson Family Finding Your Community Living-Learning Communities Student Veterans Multicultural Programs FIRST Army ROTC Air Force ROTC Services On Campus Housing & Dining Campus Recreation Parking and Transportation Student Health Services TigerOne Card Services Clemson Athletics Get Involved Clubs and Organizations Fraternity and Sorority Life Orientation Ambassadors Tiger Media Graduate Student Government Undergraduate Student Government Research Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Research Home Clemson University Research Foundation (CURF) Division of Research Research Opportunities Student Research at Clemson Creative Inquiry Research Facilities Postdoctoral Affairs Serving South Carolina Through Research School of Health Research Public Service and Agriculture Clemson Experimental Forest Clemson Extension Clemson Research and Education Centers Public Service and Agriculture Research Farm Services Innovation and Economic Development Corporate Partnerships and Strategic Initiatives Clemson University International Center for Automotive Research (CU-ICAR) Clemson University Restoration Institute (CURI) Clemson University Biomedical Engineering Innovation Campus (CUBEInC) Center for Human Genetics Innovation Campus and Technology Park About Clemson Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back About Clemson Home Clemson News Clemson Athletics For Tigers Applying to Clemson Working at Clemson Traditions Military Heritage Things To Do in Clemson Visit Clemson Campus Resources Employment Opportunities Home and Garden Information Center Brand Guidelines CCIT Academic Calendar Training ClemsonForward Campus Leadership Board of Trustees President Academic Affairs and Provost Inclusion and Equity Student Affairs Faculty Senate Staff Senate Search Resources for Current Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni CU Honors College Academics Forward Arrow Academics Curriculum Tracks Forward Arrow Curriculum Tracks General Honors Departmental Honors Interdisciplinary Honors Back Arrow Back Honors Courses and Seminars Honors Graduation Back Arrow Back Admissions Forward Arrow Admissions First-Year Clemson Honors Students Enrolled Clemson Students Transfer Students Clemson Honors Student Ambassadors Schedule a Visit Newly Admitted Students Back Arrow Back Opportunities Forward Arrow Opportunities Intellectual Growth Forward Arrow Intellectual Growth Dixon Global Policy Scholars Dixon Fellows Program EUREKA! Summer Program for Research Interns Back Arrow Back Professional Development Forward Arrow Professional Development Professional Development Opportunities Employer Networking Back Arrow Back Travel Forward Arrow Travel Conference Travel Grants Christopher J. Duckenfield Scholars Program Educational Enrichment Travel Grants London Internship Program Summer 2022 Mini Grants Back Arrow Back Honors Center Honors Residential College Grants Breakthrough Scholars Program Back Arrow Back Student Support Forward Arrow Student Support Honors Advising Peer Mentors SASH Wellness Ambassadors Connections Welcome Week Back Arrow Back About Forward Arrow About Honors Faculty and Staff Departmental Honors Contacts Honors College Advisory Board Honors Student Advisory Board Inclusive Excellence COVID-19 Information Back Arrow Back Resources Forward Arrow Resources Faculty Forward Arrow Faculty Create an Honors Course Honors Faculty Award Back Arrow Back Alumni School Counselors Parents Back Arrow Back Apply Giving News Sikes Hall Icon Main Menu Forward Arrow Icon Back Arrow Icon Back Clemson University Academics Academics Home Employment Opportunities Apply for Admission Colleges College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business College of Education College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences College of Science Graduate School Academic Resources Academic Calendar Registrar Division of Undergraduate Studies Center for Career and Professional Development Academic Success Center GRAD 360° Libraries Outside the Classroom PEER/WISE Call Me MISTER® Creative Inquiry and Undergraduate Research Cooperative Education University Professional Internship and Co-op Program (UPIC) Study Abroad Admissions Admissions Home Schedule a Tour Apply for Admission Applying to Clemson First-Year Undergraduate Transfer Undergraduate International Undergraduate Graduate Students Academic Opportunities Majors Graduate Programs Online Graduate Programs Scholar Programs Paths to Graduate School Honors College Experiential Learning Financial Aid Tuition and Fee Calculator Undergraduate Financial Aid Graduate Fellowships and Awards Residency Requirements Campus Life Campus Life Home Club Sports Brooks Center for the Performing Arts Join Your Clemson Family Finding Your Community Living-Learning Communities Student Veterans Multicultural Programs FIRST Army ROTC Air Force ROTC Services On Campus Housing & Dining Campus Recreation Parking and Transportation Student Health Services TigerOne Card Services Clemson Athletics Get Involved Clubs and Organizations Fraternity and Sorority Life Orientation Ambassadors Tiger Media Graduate Student Government Undergraduate Student Government Research Research Home Clemson University Research Foundation (CURF) Division of Research Research Opportunities Student Research at Clemson Creative Inquiry Research Facilities Postdoctoral Affairs Serving South Carolina Through Research School of Health Research Public Service and Agriculture Clemson Experimental Forest Clemson Extension Clemson Research and Education Centers Public Service and Agriculture Research Farm Services Innovation and Economic Development Corporate Partnerships and Strategic Initiatives Clemson University International Center for Automotive Research (CU-ICAR) Clemson University Restoration Institute (CURI) Clemson University Biomedical Engineering Innovation Campus (CUBEInC) Center for Human Genetics Innovation Campus and Technology Park About Clemson About Clemson Home Clemson News Clemson Athletics For Tigers Applying to Clemson Working at Clemson Traditions Military Heritage Things To Do in Clemson Visit Clemson Campus Resources Employment Opportunities Home and Garden Information Center Brand Guidelines CCIT Academic Calendar Training ClemsonForward Campus Leadership Board of Trustees President Academic Affairs and Provost Inclusion and Equity Student Affairs Faculty Senate Staff Senate Search close CU Honors College Academics show submenu for Academics Curriculum Tracks show submenu for Curriculum Tracks General Honors Departmental Honors Interdisciplinary Honors Honors Courses and Seminars Honors Graduation Admissions show submenu for Admissions First-Year Clemson Honors Students Enrolled Clemson Students Transfer Students Clemson Honors Student Ambassadors Schedule a Visit Newly Admitted Students Opportunities show submenu for Opportunities Intellectual Growth show submenu for Intellectual Growth Dixon Global Policy Scholars Dixon Fellows Program EUREKA! Summer Program for Research Interns Professional Development show submenu for Professional Development Professional Development Opportunities Employer Networking Travel show submenu for Travel Conference Travel Grants Christopher J. Duckenfield Scholars Program Educational Enrichment Travel Grants London Internship Program Summer 2022 Mini Grants Honors Center Honors Residential College Grants Breakthrough Scholars Program Student Support show submenu for Student Support Honors Advising Peer Mentors SASH Wellness Ambassadors Connections Welcome Week About show submenu for About Honors Faculty and Staff Departmental Honors Contacts Honors College Advisory Board Honors Student Advisory Board Inclusive Excellence COVID-19 Information Resources show submenu for Resources Faculty show submenu for Faculty Create an Honors Course Honors Faculty Award Alumni School Counselors Parents Clemson Home CU Honors College Admissions Current: First-Year Clemson Honors Students First-Year Clemson Honors Students First-Year Admission Process Why Clemson Honors? The Honors College provides many tools and experiences to help you thrive during and beyond your time at Clemson – enhancing your undergraduate experience and strengthening your resume for post-undergraduate opportunities. As an Honors student, you have exclusive access to courses and seminars only available to Honors students, as well as expanded research and program opportunities that complement your major. In addition to individualized access to Honors facilities, faculty, and courses, you become part of a community that intentionally nurtures friendship, support, and success through experiences that range from mentorship opportunities with leading Clemson faculty to incredible study abroad trips. Review Before You Submit PLEASE take great care in reviewing your Honors application BEFORE SUBMITTING. We are NOT able to edit your application after submission. The only changes you can make after submission are to upload additional, optional supplemental materials or to withdraw your application. We're Here to Help! If you have any questions after reading this guide to the application process, please email HonorsAdmissions@clemson.edu. How To Apply Admission to the Honors College is highly selective, with applicants typically ranking in the top four percent of their high school class. Through their high school activities, application essays, and other application materials, successful applicants will show clear evidence of intellectual engagement and vision as well as community engagement and leadership. Your application to the Clemson University Honors College is separate from (and in addition to) your undergraduate application. After you submit your first-year undergraduate application, you will receive access to the Honors College application in your student portal. Priority vs. Non-Priority Applications The Honors College offers priority and non-priority deadlines for potential students. Students who meet priority deadlines receive their decision sooner and are eligible for consideration for the National Scholars Program. Students who apply by either deadline have the same opportunity to be accepted into the Honors College. Completing the Application To be considered for admission to the Honors College, applicants must have an unweighted GPA of at least 3.70. Exceptions may be made under unusual circumstances. The Honors College application consists of: Two required essays An involvement and activities section An awards section In addition, the following required materials must be submitted: A teacher letter of recommendation and form, submitted by the teacher using the portal (detailed instructions provided to the teacher via email after the applicant enters the teacher’s contact information). A counselor recommendation letter and form submitted by the counselor using the portal (detailed instructions provided to the counselor via email after the applicant enters the counselor’s contact information within the Honors application). A current transcript (uploaded via the Clemson University portal or the counselor can attach a copy of the applicant’s transcript when completing the counselor recommendation form). Unofficial copies of the student transcript are acceptable. Beyond meeting academic criteria, you will want to take great care in producing a thoughtful and well-written application. Essays Write well-developed essay responses (500 words maximum each) for the required essay prompts. Essays constitute a critical part of your Honors College application. Thoughtful and original responses will provide the Honors College Committee with key insights into your accomplishments, intellectual curiosity, and vision. Be genuine in your essay responses, highlighting personal insights and passions, rather than merely listing your accomplishments. Use these essays as an opportunity to separate yourself from the competition - what makes you an ideal candidate for the Honors College? Involvement and Activities Describe up to seven of the most significant leadership, service, work, learning, and/or enrichment activities (e.g., independent research or study, clubs, studies abroad, internships, work, hobbies) in which you have participated in your high school career. For each activity, you will be asked to describe: An overview of the activity Your time commitment to it Your leadership in it The impacts you have made Awards Describe up to five awards or recognitions you have received during your high school career that you regard as significant. Honors Recommendations Within the Clemson University application portal, submit the names and contact information of your assigned guidance counselor and a teacher of your choosing to provide recommendations on your behalf. They will each receive an email prompting them to submit a recommendation form and upload a recommendation letter to your Honors profile. Submitting Required Materials All required materials need to be uploaded directly to your application portal. Please make note of the following: High School Transcripts Your high school transcript needs to be submitted via your student portal or by your guidance counselor. Unofficial transcripts are acceptable. Standardized Test Scores In recognition of challenges presented to prospective students and their families by the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, applicants are not required to submit a standardized test score to be considered for admission for the 2022-23 academic year. Honors Recommendations Recommendation forms and letters must be completed and submitted by a guidance counselor or teacher of your choice. Your Honors application is considered complete and will be moved forward for review after one Honors teacher and one Honors counselor recommendation have been received, along with a copy of your transcript. Your application portal will continue to accept support materials through the end of the application cycle, however, they may not be considered once your application status is awaiting decision. Other Supporting Materials You have the option to upload up to three supporting materials (e.g., resume, writing sample, etc.) and up to two additional letters of recommendation. Your application will not be negatively affected if you decide not to upload these materials. Fall 2022 Essay Prompts Below are the essay prompts incoming first-year students will be asked to answer as part of their Clemson University Honors Application, which can be accessed through the Clemson University Applicant Portal. Access the Clemson University First-Year Student Application. Essay 1 (500 word limit, Required) Tell us about your academic interests and professional goals (to the extent that you have identified them at this point). What inspired these interests and goals? What experiences, talents, accomplishments, identities, and/or personal qualities can you see influencing your college career and beyond? Essay 2 (500 word limit, Required) Describe a time when you had an intellectual “lightbulb moment” or experience/set of experiences in which your ideas, beliefs, or worldview were changed, altered, or expanded. What experience or key piece of knowledge instigated this moment? How did the experience affect you? Essay 3 (500 word limit, Optional) Please use this space to share any special circumstances affecting your application that warrant consideration by the selection committee. Applicant Portal You can verify receipt of ALL of your Honors application materials by reviewing your Clemson University applicant portal. This information is available to you immediately upon submission of your Honors application. Remember to keep track of your username and password and to watch your application portal for your decision notification! How Many Students Are Accepted Into Clemson Honors? First-year enrollment in the Honors College is limited to approximately 350, less than ten percent of the freshman class. Appeals A link to the Honors admission appeal form will be provided to you in your Clemson University applicant portal. Priority Appeals Appeal submissions due: March 1 Decision notification: April 1 Non-Priority Appeals Appeal submissions due: April 15 Decision notification: April 30 Application Tips Being proactive and prepared will help ensure that your application is complete and ready for review. Other tips include: Submit your Clemson undergraduate application early to give yourself time to also complete your Honors application. Before the end of the undergraduate application, you will be asked if you are interested in applying to the Honors College. If you are, select "yes" in order to gain access to the Honors application after you submit your undergraduate application. Ask for recommenders early! We recommend you submit your recommenders' contact information as soon as you access the Honors College application. Pre-write your essays, involvement, and awards sections in advance using a word processing application. Proofread your essays many times, use spell check, and have others review them as well. Above all, please take great care in reviewing your application before you press submit. Neither you or Honors College staff can make changes to your application once it is submitted. The only option is to upload three additional, optional supporting materials. Financial Aid Although many members of the Clemson University Honors College receive scholarships and/or financial aid from Clemson University, there are only a very limited number of scholarships specifically associated with membership in the College. Moreover, the awarding of an academic merit scholarship from any source does not carry with it automatic admission to the Honors College. For scholarship and financial aid questions, please contact Clemson's Financial Aid Office. Important Dates Honors First-year Student Application Deadlines For Notification By Honors College Application Deadline (submitted online) Required Materials Deadline (submitted online) February 15 for Priority Applicants November 1 (11:59 p.m. EST) November 15 (11:59 p.m. EST) April 1 for Non-Priority Applicants February 22 (11:59 p.m. EST) March 1 (11:59 p.m. EST) Visit Your Student Portal Schedule a Visit Talk to a Student Ambassador Applications completed between March 2 and April 20 may be considered on a space available basis. However, we cannot guarantee that such applications will receive consideration. Late applicants will be notified of their Honors status on or before April 30. Applications completed after April 20 will not receive consideration. Schedule a Visit Talk to one of our advisors about the Clemson Honors experience! Learn about program and class options, opportunities to work with world-class faculty, how we build an Honors community, living on Clemson campus – and most importantly, how our faculty and staff encourage our students to excel and reach their fullest potential. Request a Visit National Scholars Program Clemson's Merit Based Scholarship Program The National Scholars Program (NSP) is Clemson's premier undergraduate, merit-based scholarship program. The NSP provides a competitive scholarship for eight semesters of undergraduate study. While not a part of the Clemson University Honors College, the NSP bases finalist selection on rigorous reviews of the Honors application (following a review of applications that meet the earlier Honors priority deadlines). Explore NSP Clemson University Facebook Instagram Twitter Linkedin Youtube Tiktok Policy/Terms of Use Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Copyright © 2022 Clemson University • Clemson, South Carolina 29634 Clemson University Facebook Instagram Twitter Linkedin Youtube Tiktok Resources A-Z Index Campus Map CU Safety Directory Webcams Apply to Clemson