Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Climate School Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Home The School Education Research News Events People Giving Shop Leadership Careers COVID-19 Resources Privacy Policy Explore All Programs MA Climate + Society Non-Degree Programs Educator Training Pre-College Programs Professional Learning Undergraduate Research Experiences Office of Research Pre-Award Unit Research Partners Research Projects Columbia Climate School You are here: Home Education Non-Degree Programs Non-Degree Programs Non-Degree Programs Be part of the solution to society's toughest climate change challenges. Climate change is the defining issue of our lifetime. From shifting extreme weather patterns that threaten food production to rising seas that will drastically reshape cities and countries, the impacts will be on an unprecedented scale felt in every aspect of society. The Columbia Climate School’s non-degree programs will expand your knowledge and prepare you to understand, analyze, and apply cutting-edge research to the complex problem of our changing climate. Our Non-Degree Offerings See our offerings for teachers and educators. Explore our offerings for high school students. Explore our offerings for working professionals and adult learners. In all of our non-degree programs, learners will: engage with leading scientists in climate, environmental science and sustainability in small workshop settings understand the science behind the headlines and talk through the latest research on rapidly evolving climate topics accelerate your education and career with today’s most in-demand skills All non-degree programs are taught by the same Columbia University faculty, researchers, and practitioners who teach in our degree programs and work through the same rigorous content, with the added flexibility needed by today’s busy professionals and students. All offerings through June 2022 will be online at a special rate. Stay In Touch envelope-square icon Email the Non-Degree Programs team envelope icon Sign Up for Updates Interested in a degree program? Explore the Climate School's programs here. Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close