Skip to main content Search form Search Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers Contact Give About Search Menu Public Health Now News Events Publications Topics Student Voices Celebrating the Centennial Our Work to Address COVID-19 Columbia Public Health Magazine Academics Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy & Procedures Office of Education Research Featured Research Global Health Centers Programs Grants & Awards Corporate Partnerships People Our Faculty Current Students Friends and Supporters Partners Alumni Become a Student Meet Our Faculty Life & Community Degree Finder How to Apply Career Services More Information Master of Public Health Degree Programs Certificate Program Core Curriculum Search You are here Home Academics Degrees Executive and Professional Education Professional Non-Degree Programs Winter Storm Update/Impacts to Campus and Services Last Updated 12:50pm Fri May 6 See Coronavirus Updates for information on campus protocols. Professional Non-Degree Programs Professional Non-Degree Programs Professional Non-Degree Programs Professional Programs episummer@columbia: Epidemiology and Population Health Summer Institute at Columbia University episummer@columbia, the Epidemiology and Population Health Summer Institute at Columbia University, provides opportunities to gain foundational knowledge and applied skills for advancing population health research. Intensive short courses are offered either at the Mailman School of Public Health in New York City or in online distance learning formats. Learn more > SHARP Training: Skills for Health And Research Professionals The Department of Environmental Health Sciences partners with the Precision Prevention Initiative to offer a variety of short, intensive boot camps and workshops collectively through the SHARP (Skills for Health and Research Professionals) Training Program. Many EHS faculty experts lead these trainings, geared at teaching in-demand skills on the hottest topics in research and education. Learn more > Columbia Summer Research Institute (CSRI) The Columbia Summer Research Institute (CSRI) offers promising junior investigators the opportunity to gain fundamental skills in research design and statistical analysis for patient oriented research in an intensive summer format. In a five-week period, participants will learn and apply the theory and methods behind the design and conduct of clinical research studies, covering core knowledge in epidemiology and biostatistics, as well as more specialized study of randomized trial design, health disparities research, decision analysis and cost effectiveness analysis. Learn more > Certification of Professional Achievement in Clinical and Translational Research The Certification of Professional Achievement in Clinical and Translational Research (CPA-CTR) provides effective training in core methods used in clinical and translational research in a condensed format suited to working clinicians and post-doctoral researchers. The 12-credit program may be completed in as little as six months; ten credits are earned over 5-weeks in the summer through the Columbia Summer Research Institute (CSRI), and the remaining two credits are earned in a subsequent Fall or Spring semester. Learn more > HPM PROFESSIONAL NON-DEGREE PROGRAMS HPM’s professional non-degree programs delivers highly focused experiences that advance personal leadership development and enhance the current performance of healthcare organizations, non-profits and government agencies. Our goals are to bridge the key strategic, policy, cross-national and operational frameworks that are essential to today’s healthcare managers and executives. Active programming includes: NYP Lead, NYP REACH, GMPHE, HCP-AmCham, as well as customizable programs based on an organization or health system’s needs. Learn more > Special Non-Degree Students A limited number of applicants may be granted admission as special (non-degree) students, to take courses and earn academic credit. Appropriate candidates for non-degree status include fellows in clinical departments in the Columbia Presbyterian Medical Center or Mailman School graduates seeking selected additional courses. The following apply to non-degree students: No more than 12 points may be taken in non-degree status. Non-degree admission does not guarantee admission as a degree student. You cannot submit both a degree application and non-degree application for the same entry term. Financial aid and housing are not available to non-degree students. To view the current cost of attendance and applicable fees, see the Student and Financial Services website: http://sfs.columbia.edu/ Not all programs or courses are available to students with non-degree status, i.e., core classes. Please visit the schedule of classes for more information. Acceptance as a special/non-degree student is dependent on space availability. The School cannot guarantee the required 12 credits for an F–1 Visa for international applicants. Application Instructions Applicants interested in taking one or two courses for professional development should file an admissions application to the School as a special/non-degree student using Mailman Non-Degree Application. Please note that some classes, especially those related to the MPH core curriculum, may be closed to special/non-degree students. Special/non-degree applicants must submit the following documentation with their application: Official transcripts from all post-secondary schools attended A current resume or CV A 500-word personal statement specifying the course(s) the applicant is interested in taking and why Application Deadlines Fall: July 31st Spring: November 15th More to Explore Friday 03June COVID-19: From Causes to ConsequencesMay 27 2022 Asia and Africa Have Similar Aging Burden as the WestMay 4 2022 Period Poverty and the Pandemic: A Forgotten CrisisMay 4 2022 BARDA Support to Speed Development of Next-Generation Sequencing-Based Diagnostics PlatformMay 3 2022 Sign up for Transmission Columnbia Mailman Connect with Us Public Health Now News Events Publications Topics Student Voices Academics Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy & Procedures Office of Education Research Featured Research Global Health Centers Programs Grants & Awards Corporate Partnerships People Our Faculty Current Students Friends and Supporters Partners Alumni Become a Student Meet Our Faculty Life & Community Degree Finder How to Apply Career Services More Information Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health | 722 West 168th St. NY, NY 10032 Site Map Privacy Columbia University Irving Medical Center Copyright © Columbia University 2019 Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers