Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu University Advancement Ways to Give Donor Recognition Your Impact Resources About Us Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Ways to Give Areas of Need Urgent NeedsScholarshipsColleges, Schools & DepartmentsCampus DevelopmentAthleticsLambuthOpportunity Scholars Program Matching Gifts Naming Opportunities Memorials & Honorarium Annual Giving Planned Giving Faculty & Staff Year-End Gifts Take Action Give Now Support Your College Join the Alumni Association Contact Us Home University Advancement Ways to Give Support, Empower, Create At the UofM, every dollar counts. Your gift provides student support, empowers our faculty and creates spaces for the campus community to live, work and change the future. There are many areas of need and giving options. Follow the steps below to make an investment in the University of Memphis. Step 1: Choose a Cause to Support Urgent Needs Urgent Needs Funds go where they are needed most Support Scholarships Scholarships Invest in our students directly to help them overcome financial obstacles Support Colleges/ Units Colleges/ Units Help the departments that shaped your future Support Campus Development Campus Development Help to create a preeminent campus environment Support Athletics Athletics Provide support for our student-athletes and enhanced facilities Support UofM Lambuth UofM Lambuth Invest in the future of UofM Lambuth Support Opportunity Scholars Opportunity Scholars Provide an equal opportunity for education to all students Support Momentum Momentum Explore current projects on our crowdfunding platform Support Step 2: Choose When, How Often and How Much to Give Whether you would like to make a one-time gift, set up an annual gift or leave a lasting legacy, our Development team is here to help. Make an Annual Gift > Make a Gift in Honor of a Loved One > Prepare for Future Gifts > Employer Matching Gift Options > Year-End Giving > Faculty & Staff > Take Advantage of Naming Opportunities > Student Giving > Step 3: Make a Gift Online/Credit Card Make a gift online > By Mail Make check payable to "University of Memphis Foundation" and mail to: Department 238, UofM Foundation P.O. Box 1000, Memphis, TN 38148-0001 In Person Visit us on the UofM Campus in the Billy Mac Jones Building, 633 Normal Street. Office hours are: Monday-Friday, 8:00 am - 4:30 pm By Phone Call 901.678.3953 Set up Automatic Draft Download the Automatic Bank Draft form and return to 107 Billy Mac Jones Building, 633 Normal Street. For assistance or to schedule a meeting to discuss giving options, contact gifts@memphis.edu or 901.678.3953. Appreciated Securities If you own securities that have appreciated in value over time, you may owe a substantial capital gains tax if you sell them. But, if you use such assets to fund a charitable gift, you may completely avoid the capital gains tax while enjoying a federal income tax deduction for the full value of the securities. For maximum tax benefits, it is usually best to give securities that have increased in value the most since you have owned them. It is also possible to make a gift with appreciated securities in a mutual fund. For information on donating securities, please contact gifts@memphis.edu or 901.678.3953. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/4/21 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.