Skip to main content Faculty Clusters About the Initiative UCF’s Faculty Cluster Initiative links faculty from all thirteen of UCF’s colleges, and several institutes and centers, to solve today’s toughest challenges. The faculty are conducting cutting-edge, interdisciplinary research and education to make positive impacts across the globe and to promote UCF excellence. The initial six clusters were launched in 2015 with 33 faculty positions and have since grown to nine clusters with more than 135 joint and secondary joint faculty, each key to their cluster’s success. These clusters are discovering new ways to power our lives, keep power systems resilient and sustainable, keep our private data safe and secure, better understand the genetics behind diseases and biodiversity, improve the ways we use technology to learn, sustain our coastlines, help our bodies accept medical devices, aid the physical and cognitive functions of disabled people and the elderly and protect all members of society from violence. Biionix With some of the latest advancements in medicine involving technology that interfaces with the body, UCF’s Biionix Cluster is working to make these devices smarter than ever and sure that our bodies safely accept these augmentations. Learn More about Biionix Cyber Security and Privacy UCF’s Cyber Security and Privacy Cluster is on the cutting edge of data protection by not only understanding and exploring existing ways to stay secure but also inventing new ones and understanding the social implications new technology and the Internet of Things have on our daily lives. Learn More about Cyber Security and Privacy Disability, Aging and Technology (DAT) UCF’s Disability, Aging and Technology Cluster is helping disabled people and the elderly move better and smarter as well as lead healthier and stronger lives. Learn More about Disability, Aging and Technology (DAT) Genomics and Bioinformatics UCF’s Genomics and Bioinformatics Cluster uses advanced genetic sequencing technology to understand the mysteries behind life, including how to mitigate diseases that spread and evolve through populations and time. Learn More about Genomics and Bioinformatics Learning Sciences Technology is constantly changing and so is the way we use it to learn. UCF’s Learning Sciences Cluster not only develops new technology to improve learning outcomes but also explores how we interact with and learn using machines. Learn More about Learning Sciences Renewable Energy and Chemical Transformation (REACT) UCF’s Renewable Energy and Chemical Transformation Cluster, or REACT, is developing new, alternative power sources for our tech and transportation that are safe for people and the environment. Learn More about Renewable Energy and Chemical Transformation (REACT) Resilient, Intelligent and Sustainable Energy Systems (RISES) UCF’s Resilient, Intelligent and Sustainable Energy Systems Cluster, or RISES, works to develop sustainable and resilient energy systems and storage to make sure we have power and stay connected when disasters strike. Learn More about Resilient, Intelligent and Sustainable Energy Systems (RISES) Sustainable Coastal Systems UCF’s Sustainable Coastal System Cluster integrates science and societal needs to address coastal issues and teach students conservation and resource management. Learn More about Sustainable Coastal Systems Violence Against Women (VAW) UCF’s Violence Against Women Cluster researchers work across the disciplines of education, social work, medicine and nursing to create knowledge to guide policymaking designed to reduce the experience and impact of violence. Learn More about Violence Against Women (VAW) Innovation in Action When research yields a discovery, what happens next? At the Office of Technology Transfer, our team helps UCF discoveries go public through intellectual property protection, marketing and licensing processes. The office connects UCF researchers with companies and entrepreneurs to take the technology to market. By working together, we are able to make the greatest impact. University Research Impact UCF researchers attract more than $100 million annually in grants, gifts and sponsored awards. In addition to supporting innovative research, these financial resources help strengthen and diversify our local and state economies. $204.5 Million in Research Funding (2019-20) #29 Ranking Among Public Universities for Number of Patents, 2019 28 28 Licenses and Options (2019-20) 992 992 Total Patents Secured UCF Research News Check out more stories Colleges & Campus UCF Students Oust Top Teams at 2022 North America Collegiate Programming Contest, Advance to World Finals After beating dozens of top teams to earn seventh place, UCF will advance to the World Finals for the 11th consecutive year. Science & Technology As Hurricane Season Kicks Off, UCF Researchers Working to Make Communities More Resilient More than a dozen researchers are working on a wide variety of research that looks to prepare, respond, and mitigate hurricane impacts in Florida and… Science & Technology ‘Brain-on-a-Chip’ Technology Advances Toward a New Form of Drug Screening Brain-on-a-chip simulated models hold the potential to revolutionize and accelerate the way new drugs are discovered. Research Featured News UCF researchers attract more than $100 million annually in grants, gifts and sponsored awards. View More Featured Research UCF Research Clusters Faculty Clusters Home Biionix Cyber Security and Privacy Disability, Aging and Technology (DAT) Genomics and Bioinformatics Learning Sciences Renewable Energy and Chemical Transformation (REACT) Resilient, Intelligent and Sustainable Energy Systems (RISES) Sustainable Coastal Systems Violence Against Women (VAW) Additional Research Links World-class Faculty Research Technology Transfer Ethics and Compliance Research Development Areas of Excellence 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816