Skip to main content Menu Resources Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply or Give Apply Now Make a Gift Division of Research Home COVID-19 Research Resources Carnegie R1 Research Institution Funding opportunities About Us The Division of Research strives to support faculty and students who continue to push the boundaries of scholarship and discovery at Clemson, a Carnegie R1 research institution. Our mission is to enhance Clemson’s reputation as a world-class research institution, while promoting a culture of discovery and excellence in a collaborative, diverse, safe and inclusive environment. The Division nurtures research activity at Clemson through its R-Initiative funding programs and celebrates excellence through the Researcher of the Year program and the University Research, Scholarship and Artistic Achievement Awards. The Division assists faculty in pursuing competitive research funding, managing awards, navigating complex regulation and compliance matters, collaborating with industry, and commercializing technologies. Additionally, the Division operates four core research facilities that offer world-class equipment and highly trained staff. ANNOUNCEMENTS The Office of Research Compliance is now using InfoEd to streamline the processing of applications, amendments and continuing reviews for Institutional Biosafety Committee (IBC) protocols. Visit the webpage. Read the latest quarterly research report. Use Faculty Insight to find collaborators and funding opportunities specific to your expertise. Use the iLab Solutions online platform for scheduling and billing at our core facilities. This tool is for the benefit of users, principal investigators, accounting managers and facility staff. Industry Collaboration Podcast: Join the University-Industry Demonstration Partnership (UIDP) for candid discussions about partnership and collaboration across academia, industry and government. Watch the video tutorial for finding funding for your research and service activities if you missed attending the workshop earlier. EVENTS TigerSphere: Environmental Justice Wednesday, May 4, 2022 12:30-03:00 PM Registration Link More details Research Symposium 2022 on May 10 Visit the Symposium webpage for more details. CONGRATULATIONS! Researcher of the Year Rhondda Thomas and Lior Rennert Division Offices Animal Resources Business Affairs Conflict of Interest Clemson Light Imaging Facility (CLIF) Clemson University Research Foundation (CURF) Electron Microscopy Facility Export Compliance and Research Security Grants and Contracts Administration Office of Industry Contracts Office of Sponsored Programs Office of Research Development Research Compliance Research Safety Home Leadership R-Initiatives Research Funding Industry Collaboration Core Facilities Regulatory Research Policies Contact Us Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram