Skip to main content University of Nevada, Las Vegas Students Faculty/Staff Alumni Donors Community Audiences Students Faculty/Staff Alumni Donors Community Topics About Academics Admissions Athletics Diversity Research Menu U-N-L-V Directories Directories About Academics Admissions Athletics Diversity Research Find close Directories menu Directories Directories Home A-Z Index Employee Directory Colleges, Schools, and Departments Administrative Units Research Centers and Institutes Resources and Services Mobile Apps Social Media Directory Contact UNLV close find region Find Search A-Z Index Directories Quick Links Bookstore Bookstore Calendar Calendar Campus Maps Campus Maps Degrees Degrees Libraries Libraries MyUNLV MyUNLV News Center News Center RebelCard RebelCard Rebelmail Rebelmail Social Media Social Media UNLV Mail UNLV Mail WebCampus WebCampus Loading Directories Home A-Z Index Colleges, Schools, and Departments Administrative Units Research Centers and Institutes Resources and Services Employee Directory Contact UNLV Social Media Directory UNLV Mobile Apps Breadcrumb UNLV Home Directories Home Resources and Services Resources and Services UNLV offers many resources and services for campus members and the outside community. Audience - Any -AlumniCommunityFacultyStaffStudents Category - Any -Academic SupportAdvising CentersArts and EntertainmentBranch LibrariesEmployee ResourcesFacility AdministrationHealthcareSocial/CulturalStudent Resources Apply 91.5 KUNV 91.5 KUNV 91.5 KUNV offers diverse musical, entertainment and public affairs programming to the Las Vegas valley and beyond. 91.5 The Rebel HD2 91.5 The Rebel HD2 The school’s student-run webcast radio station, 91.5 The Rebel HD2 offers even more programming learning experiences in a format featuring a wide variety of music types including, indie, hip hop, and electronic. Architecture Studies Library Architecture Studies Library The Architecture Library offers course support to School of Architecture students and includes an exhibition hall. ASC Advising ASC Advising The Academic Advising Unit in the Academic Success Center (ASC) is the home for Exploring Majors, non-degree seeking students, and Major Pathways’ students. ASC Coaching ASC Coaching Academic Success Coaching is a free service provided to help UNLV undergraduate students develop strategies for successfully navigating college. ASC Dual Enrollment Program ASC Dual Enrollment Program The ASC Dual Enrollment Program provides highly motivated Nevada high school students an opportunity to get a head start on their college education by enrolling in UNLV courses before high school graduation. ASC Math Bridge Program ASC Math Bridge Program The Math Bridge Program is a free online program designed to help students gain the skills and confidence needed for success in college-level mathematics with a goal of improving their placement scores. The program combines online learning through customized modules with instruction from expert math instructors and peer tutors to better understand core math concepts and overcome anxiety about math. ASC Student-Athlete Academic Services ASC Student-Athlete Academic Services Student-Athlete Academic Services assists student-athletes through their educational process from enrollment to graduation. ASC Supplemental Instruction ASC Supplemental Instruction The Supplemental Instruction program is a free, peer-led study group that partners with historically difficult courses and provides an interactive environment to assist students with course concepts and discuss learning strategies. ASC Tutoring ASC Tutoring The Academic Success Center offers free tutoring for a variety of UNLV courses throughout the school year. The mission of the tutoring program is to supplement in-class instruction and enhance your overall academic experience by providing a respectful, safe educational environment for learning. Bob Boughner Center for Career & Alumni Services Bob Boughner Center for Career & Alumni Services Working in tandem with UNLV Career Services, the Bob Boughner Center for Career & Alumni Services provides opportunities for Harrah Hotel College students and alumni to gain access to a broad range of employers, employment information, and opportunities. Center for Social Justice Center for Social Justice The UNLV Center for Social Justice (CSJ) serves as a resource for students, staff, faculty and community members to unite around, educate about, and advocate against social injustices that affect our campus, local, national, and global communities. Classified Staff Council Classified Staff Council The Classified Staff Council represents and serves classified employees and is an advisory group to the president of the University of Nevada, Las Vegas. Clinical Simulation Center of Las Vegas Clinical Simulation Center of Las Vegas The Clinical Simulation Center of Las Vegas (CSCLV) is a 31,000 square foot facility located at UNLV’s Shadow Lane Campus. It supports the learning enterprise units of the University of Nevada-Las Vegas Schools of Nursing Medicine as well as additional stakeholders. College of Education Student Services Center College of Education Student Services Center The College of Education Student Services Center provides academic advising and coordinate field placement for undergraduate, second baccalaureate, Alternate Route to Licensure, Troops to Teachers, and Teach for America students. College of Engineering Advising Center College of Engineering Advising Center The Engineering Advising Center assists each student in navigating requirements of their engineering degree while at UNLV. College of Fine Arts Advising Center College of Fine Arts Advising Center Fine Arts Advising assists first-year, sophomore, and new transfer students. Students advance past the second year in their respective disciplines, they must seek advising from the school or department of their major. College of Sciences Advising Center College of Sciences Advising Center Sciences Advising Center provides guidance for all undergraduate students in the College of Science with a range of services to make your educational experience at UNLV a positive one. CSUN CSUN Consolidated Students of the University of Nevada, Las Vegas (CSUN) is UNLV’s undergraduate student government. The purpose of CSUN is to represent the voice of students, build a campus community, and to create a memorable college experience for all UNLV Rebels. Donna Beam Fine Art Gallery Donna Beam Fine Art Gallery The Donna Beam Gallery encourages the understanding, appreciation and making of visual art through exhibitions and accompanying programs for the university community, residents of southern Nevada and visitors to the city alike. Electronic Document Services Electronic Document Services Electronic Document Services provides electronic document management, retention monitoring, and physical document storage. English Language Center English Language Center The English Language Center, part of the College of Liberal Arts, prepares students to use English effectively in all situations, whether they be academic, professional, or everyday situations. Faculty and Staff Treatment (FAST) Center Faculty and Staff Treatment (FAST) Center The Faculty and Staff Treatment (FAST) Center provides fast and convenient access to medical care for UNLV employees and their dependents. Fraternity and Sorority Life Fraternity and Sorority Life Members of fraternities and sororities commit to lifelong participation in their organization and aspire to high ideals and values that guide you throughout your collegiate education and beyond. Graduate & Professional Student Association Graduate & Professional Student Association The Graduate & Professional Student Association (GPSA) of the University of Nevada, Las Vegas, promotes and represents the interests of graduate and professional students at UNLV. Harry Reid Center Support Harry Reid Center Support The Harry Reid Center (HRC) is a multidisciplinary research facility housing a variety of research projects on the UNLV campus. HRC Support seeks to support collaborative research, such as the type of projects being developed through the university’s Collaborative Research and Education (CoRE) initiative. Health Sciences Advising Center Health Sciences Advising Center The Health Sciences Advising Center provides guidance for all undergraduate students in the School of Nursing, the School of Integrated Health Sciences, and the School of Public Health. Honors College Advising Center Honors College Advising Center Honors Academic Advisors understand the unique perspectives, challenges, and stresses of high-achieving students. But we do much more than check boxes on a degree worksheet; our goal is to help you design the life you want by guiding you toward all the tools and experiences you need. Hospitality Advising Center Hospitality Advising Center The Hospitality Advising Center supports undergraduate students in the William F. Harrah College of Hospitality. Jean Nidetch Care Center Jean Nidetch Care Center The Jean Nidetch Care Center is committed to creating a supportive and inclusive environment for all genders through programming, services, and advocacy for the UNLV community. Lee Business School Advising Center Lee Business School Advising Center The Undergraduate Advising office provides guidance for all undergraduate students in the Lee Business School. Mathematics Learning Center Mathematics Learning Center The center's top priority is to work with the campus on the continued improvement of remedial and lower division mathematics education at UNLV. Mojave Counseling: Adult Psychiatry & Mental Health Mojave Counseling: Adult Psychiatry & Mental Health The UNLV Mojave Counseling outpatient clinic has been serving clients with mental illness in Las Vegas for more than 25 years. The clinic provides services to adults, adolescents, and children having a psychiatric disability or mental illness in a comprehensive multi-disciplinary manner. Clinicians and staff strive to help people maximize their health, wellbeing, and quality of life. Mojave Counseling: Child/Adolescent Psychiatry & Mental Health Mojave Counseling: Child/Adolescent Psychiatry & Mental Health The UNLV Health Mojave Counseling outpatient clinic has been serving clients with mental illness in Las Vegas for more than 25 years. The clinic provides services to adults, adolescents, and children having a psychiatric disability or mental illness in a comprehensive multi-disciplinary manner. Clinicians and staff strive to help people maximize their health, wellbeing, and quality of life. Multicultural Program Multicultural Program UNLV’s Multicultural Program encourages and recruits minority and underrepresented undergraduate and graduate students into the STEM and healthcare related disciplines, fosters a positive and caring learning atmosphere that supports classroom instruction and professional development, increases retention and graduation rates, and improves overall student success. Music Library Music Library The Music Library supports the curriculum of the School of Music and the teaching and research needs of faculty, students, and the Las Vegas music community. Nevada Conservatory Theatre Nevada Conservatory Theatre With more than 2,000 season subscribers and 18,000 attendees each year, the Nevada Conservatory Theatre is among the most notable and best-attended performing arts organizations in Las Vegas. New Student Orientation New Student Orientation The New Student Orientation program provides new students with information, resources, tools, and tips to help with their transition to UNLV. The Office of Admissions is responsible for this programming. Pediatric Surgery Pediatric Surgery UNLV Health provides advanced diagnosis, treatment, and follow-up care for children with surgical needs. When needed, pediatric surgical specialists can provide robotic microsurgery solutions for children ranging from premature infants with congenital birth defects to adolescent trauma victims. Specialists are always working to provide surgical solutions that are minimally invasive so kids can get back to being kids. Performing Arts Center Performing Arts Center The Performing Arts Center at the University of Nevada, Las Vegas, has long been the home of arts and cultural programming in Southern Nevada. Located on the northeast corner of the university campus, the center is bustling with activity nearly every day of the year. Pharmacy Pharmacy The Pharmacy at the Student Recreation and Wellness Center serves both the Student Health Center and Faculty and Staff Treatment (FAST) Center. Pre-Professional Advising Center Pre-Professional Advising Center The mission of the Pre-Professional Advising Center is to assist students with an understanding of how to academically prepare for professional schools, (regardless of major). Rebel Copy and Send Rebel Copy and Send Rebel Copy and Send provides a wide variety of printing and shipping services to students, alumni, faculty and staff. Rebel Media Group Rebel Media Group The UNLV Rebel Media Group provides clients with innovative and strategic digital media campaigns created by students and overseen by experienced media professionals. Our teams gain hands-on experience while providing digital media solutions for academic, business, and nonprofit clients. School of Medicine Library School of Medicine Library The School of Medicine Library provides course support to the schools of Allied Health Sciences, Community Health Sciences, Dental Medicine, Medicine, and Nursing, as well as other clinical or biomedical programs. Science and Engineering Building Administration Science and Engineering Building Administration The Science and Engineering Building (SEB) Administration supports collaboration among faculty in the sciences, engineering, health sciences, and other university research units. Special Collections and Archives Special Collections and Archives The UNLV Libraries Special Collections and Archives supports researchers worldwide in the interdisciplinary study of Las Vegas, Southern Nevada, and gaming. Sports Medicine Center Sports Medicine Center UNLV Health Sports Medicine Clinic offers the latest in medical care to prevent, evaluate, treat, and rehabilitate injuries for both recreational and competitive athletes of all ages. Our team also helps people with active jobs who sometimes suffer the same injuries and need the same care. Student Health Center Student Health Center The Student Health Center offers fast and convenient access to medical care for UNLV. Student Organization Resource Center Student Organization Resource Center The Student Organization Resource Center (SORCE) is devoted to providing Registered Student Organizations with resources and support to thrive at UNLV. Student Wellness Center Laboratory Student Wellness Center Laboratory The Student Wellness Center Laboratory conducts lab tests for both the Student Health Center and the Faculty and Staff Treatment (FAST) Center. The on-site medical Laboratory is a Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments (CLIA) certified laboratory licensed by the State of Nevada and accredited by COLA. Teacher Development & Resources Library Teacher Development & Resources Library The Teacher Development & Resources Library supports teacher education programs within the UNLV College of Education as well as P12 educators in the Las Vegas community. The Intersection: The Academic Multicultural Center The Intersection: The Academic Multicultural Center The Intersection: The Academic Multicultural Center is a safe, healthy, physical space for students, faculty, and staff to gather, exchange ideas and information, and develop a shared sense of community at UNLV. The PRACTICE The PRACTICE The PRACTICE provides affordable, evidence-based mental health care to our clients and the highest quality training to our students. UNLV Faculty Center UNLV Faculty Center The mission of the UNLV Faculty Center is to promote the professional development of all UNLV educators, researchers, and other academic professionals through a program of research, consultation, events, and resources. Many campus units, academic and administrative, work in collaboration to provide the center’s services, along with a team of Faculty Center Fellows. UNLV Health Cardiology & Pulmonology UNLV Health Cardiology & Pulmonology The clinic's cardiology and pulmonology physicians are trained to prevent, diagnose, and treat illnesses and diseases that affect adults, age 18 and older. UNLV Health features three different internal medicine locations. This location specializes in Pulmonology (respiratory system), and Cardiology (heart). UNLV Health Diabetes & Endocrinology UNLV Health Diabetes & Endocrinology Our endocrinologists can diagnose and manage disorders of the endocrine system. Backed by training and compassion, our team provides a patient-focused environment while providing high-quality care. UNLV Health Ear Nose & Throat (ENT) UNLV Health Ear Nose & Throat (ENT) The ear, nose and throat services offered through the UNLV Health's Otolaryngology includes board-certified physicians as well as highly trained audiologists. There is no problem too small or too complex. UNLV Health Family Center UNLV Health Family Center At the UNLV Health Family Center, physicians are devoted to helping patients and their loved ones achieve and maintain wellness. The clinic makes it easy for patients and their families to access primary care. If specialized care is necessary, direct access to family medicine specialists is made easy with all doctors in one location. UNLV Health Gastroenterology & Rheumatology UNLV Health Gastroenterology & Rheumatology The clinic's gastroenterologist is a leader in the field, using the latest treatments and technology to ensure that a patient's needs are addressed. The clinic's rheumatologist offers the latest treatment for arthritis, osteoporosis, and autoimmune disorders. UNLV Health General Pediatrics UNLV Health General Pediatrics Pediatricians examine children regularly to assess their growth, development, and general physical condition. They also refer patients to pediatric medical specialists and provide other medical referrals when necessary with healthcare devoted to the well-being of children of all ages, from infancy through adolescence. UNLV Health General Surgery UNLV Health General Surgery The UNLV Health General Surgery Center provides excellent patient-centered surgical care in an environment that is focused on the unique surgical needs of every patient. The clinic strives to provide every doctor to patient interaction with empathy, compassion, humility, integrity, and respect. UNLV Health High Risk Maternal Fetal Medicine UNLV Health High Risk Maternal Fetal Medicine At the UNLV Health High Risk Maternal Fetal Medicine Clinic, board-certified maternal-fetal medicine sub-specialists are devoted to helping care for patients and their babies through their pregnancy with empathy and compassion. Doctors strive to give patients the best opportunity for a healthy full-term pregnancy. UNLV Health Neurology UNLV Health Neurology The UNLV Health Neurology clinic includes neurologists highly trained to recognize, diagnose, and address the early symptoms of nerve dysfunction in patients. Because of our clinical experience treating a variety of neurological problems we are able to work with patients to establish the cause of symptoms and prescribe effective courses of treatment. UNLV Health Obstetrics & Gynecology/Maternal Fetal Medicine UNLV Health Obstetrics & Gynecology/Maternal Fetal Medicine UNLV Health Maternal Fetal Medicine clinic provides comprehensive and compassionate care to patients with a wide range of complex maternal and fetal issues. The clinic offers a full spectrum of prenatal diagnoses and care for mothers and babies from conception to birth. Clinicians pride themselves in utilizing a multidisciplinary approach to patient care and have a long history of comprehensive and compassionate care. UNLV Health Oncology Surgery UNLV Health Oncology Surgery The UNLV Health Oncology Surgery provides excellent patient-centered surgical care in an environment that is focused on the unique surgical needs of every patient. The clinic strives to provide every doctor to patient interaction with empathy, compassion, humility, integrity, and respect. UNLV Health Plastic Surgery UNLV Health Plastic Surgery UNLV Health Plastic Surgery’s group of talented, board certified physicians and caring support staff treat every patient with the highest respect, care and attentiveness. UNLV Health Primary Care UNLV Health Primary Care UNLV Health physicians treat your health and wellbeing as their top priority. Our physicians are committed to providing exceptional care in an academic environment. UNLV Health Primary Care: Internal Medicine UNLV Health Primary Care: Internal Medicine UNLV Health provides the highest quality academic medical care for the Las Vegas Community. The Resident and Fellows clinic office is conveniently located across from University Medical Center (UMC) near the corner of Charleston and Rancho. UNLV Health Specialty Pediatrics UNLV Health Specialty Pediatrics The UNLV Health Pediatric Center is devoted to the well-being of children of all ages. The center's specialists are a referral resource to your child’s pediatrician. When a specialist is required, they are conveniently located in the same building along with your child’s general practice doctor. UNLV Wellness Zone UNLV Wellness Zone The UNLV Wellness Zone offers engaging, student-centered wellness education and support resources to the UNLV community. UNLV-TV UNLV-TV UNLV-TV is a full-service media production facility housed with the Hank Greenspun School of Journalism and Media Studies on the UNLV campus. The unit supports the educational mission of the school by providing hands-on production experiences for UNLV students. UNLV/CSUN Preschool UNLV/CSUN Preschool The UNLV/CSUN Preschool provides a model inclusive early childhood program that serves children (6 weeks to 5 years of age) of students, faculty, staff and the surrounding campus community. Urban Affairs Advising Center Urban Affairs Advising Center The Urban Affairs Advising Center provides guidance for all undergraduate students within the College of Urban Affairs. Wilson Advising Center Wilson Advising Center The Wilson Advising Center supports undergraduate students in the College of Liberal Arts. Women's Health Center: Obstetrics & Gynecology (OB-GYN) Women's Health Center: Obstetrics & Gynecology (OB-GYN) The UNLV Health Women’s Healthcare clinic is a group of highly qualified UNLV faculty OB/GYN doctors who specialize in providing health care for women. The clinic offers a full range of services and treatments to promote and maintain good health through every phase of a patient's life. Women’s Council Women’s Council The UNLV Women’s Council ensures the voices of women at UNLV are heard and advocates for a quality work life for women at all levels of the university. Workday Workday Workday is a cloud-based application that automates, streamlines, and standardizes business processes in human resources and financial management at UNLV. The Workday Support Team is dedicated to helping UNLV users navigate Workday transactions. Writing Center Writing Center The Writing Center consults with writers at any level of expertise to help them develop their own strategies for making informed choices. Wellness Coronavirus Information Safety and Emergency University Statements and Compliance Web Accessibility Top Tier 2.0 Employment Visit Our Campus Campus Maps Parking Information News Center Contact UNLV University of Nevada, Las Vegas 4505 S. Maryland Pkwy. Las Vegas, NV 89154 Phone: 702-895-3011 Campus Notifications © 2022 UNLV Produced by UNLV Web & Digital Strategy UNLV.edu Privacy Statement Website Feedback Social Media at UNLV