Skip to content Xavier University Apply to Xavier Request Info Visit Campus Giving to Xavier Open search dialog Open Navigation Menu Undergraduate Admission Admission Process Undergraduate Application Tuition and Aid Visit Campus Make Your Commitment Contact Us Close Undergraduate Admission sub menu Graduate Admission Apply to Xavier Graduate Financial Aid Events and Information Sessions Contact Us Close Graduate Admission sub menu Academics Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Student Outcomes Academic Support Education Abroad Honors Programs Xavier University Colleges Close Academics sub menu Campus Life Residence Halls Campus Dining Options Clubs and Organizations Diversity Faith and Service Recreational Sports Cincinnati Health and Wellness First-Year Experience Close Campus Life sub menu Athletics goxavier.com Close Athletics sub menu About Xavier Xavier University Rankings Mission, Vision, and Values What is Jesuit Education? Close About Xavier sub menu Apply to Xavier Request Info Visit Campus Giving to Xavier Current Students Alumni Relations Employees Parents and Families Employment Opportunities Maps and Directions Search Xavier University: Search Honors Programs Programs Descriptions Honors Advantage Post-Graduate Resources Apply Xavier Home Honors Programs Home Menu Programs Descriptions Honors Advantage Post-Graduate Resources Apply Honors Programs Xavier challenges students to reach their fullest potential. Our honors programs help students refine their academic focus, expand their interests and unlock new possibilities. Program Options We nurture students’ passion for politics, government, and community through rigorous interdisciplinary study in philosophy, history, economics, political science, and beyond. Ask big questions in your classes, intern with a political campaign, in government, or with a non-profit, advance public policy through personal engagement with decision-makers and learn first-hand about the world through study abroad. Explore All Honors Programs Data Science (B.S.) Philosophy, Politics and the Public (H.A.B.) Smith Scholars University Scholars Honors Advantage All honors programs offer participation in a unique community of highly-motivated students and top-notch professors. The programs are challenging but the rewards great, and the amenities are designed to support the stepped-up expectations. Explore Honors Amenities Post-Graduate Resources Xavier honors students pursue a variety of ventures after graduating. Typical post-graduate opportunities include medical and law school, Jesuit Volunteer Corps, and graduate school. Explore Post-Graduate Opportunities Apply Now Admission to university honors programs is separate from the general admission process. Interested students should apply to the program of their choice by December 1 for priority consideration, though Xavier will continue to accept honors applications throughout the spring. Apply Now REQUIREMENTS Admission to Xavier University honors programs is competitive. Admitted students generally rank in the top 15 percent of their high school class and present composite scores of at least 1300 (SAT) or 29 (ACT) if they choose to submit their standardized test scores. In addition to the guidelines for academic scholarship, prospective students need to complete an application form, which includes a brief essay or project. An interview may also be requested at the discretion of the program director. Application to Xavier Honors Programs for Fall 2022 is test-optional. Applicants will be equally considered regardless of score submission. The choice to include or exclude ACT/SAT scores from consideration is made in the initial application to Xavier. If students do choose to submit their scores as part of their initial application to Xavier, those scores may be reviewed for consideration to honors programs. Apply to Xavier Request Info Visit Campus Xavier University 3800 Victory Parkway Cincinnati, OH 45207 513-745-3000 Privacy Policy Accessibility Policy Non-Discrimination Policy Editor Access Xavier University on facebook Xavier University on twitter Xavier University on linkedin Xavier University on youtube Xavier University on instagram