COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Shocker Pride Celebration Section Menu Shocker Pride Home Current Honorees Past Honorees RSVP The Shocker Pride Celebration recognizes outstanding employees with the President’s Distinguished Service Award and the Wayne Carlisle Distinguished Service Award. Current Honorees Past Honorees The Awards President's Distinguished Service Award Each year the University Support Staff Senate, Faculty Senate and Unclassified Professional Senate complete a call for nominations among their constituents. Members of each senate award committee select three individuals who have demonstrated outstanding service to the university community beyond their job descriptions. Honorees selected by the each senate are recognized at the Shocker Pride Celebration. Wayne Carlisle Distinguished Service Award One of the honorees selected will be given the exclusive honor of the Wayne Carlisle Distinguished Service Award. The Carlisle Award is presented to a professional who models the standard of extraordinary service exhibited by the late Wayne Carlisle. Carlisle died Dec. 17, 1991 following a long battle with cancer. He had been the WSU’s director of placement and career services for eight years. Colleagues say Carlisle managed a multitude of tasks each day with intelligence, warmth, courage and humor. Distinguished Strategic Enrollment Management (SEM) Award The Individual SEM Award is given to an employee — either faculty member or university staff — who has made a dramatic contribution to one of the Strategic Enrollment Management goal areas. The recipient goes above and beyond to support the university's enrollment efforts and our goal of presenting WSU as an open, welcoming place. Find out more and make a nomination > 2022 Shocker Pride Celebration The 2022 Shocker Pride Celebration for the President's Distinguished Service Awards will be held at 9 a.m. on Friday, May 6 at the Marcus Welcome Center. Let us know if you are able to attend. RSVP 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©