Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index Accounting Services Menu Search TTU Accounting Services Allowable Expenses & Types of Costs Each cost charged to a sponsored project should be allowable, reasonable, allocable and consistent. If an expense does not meet one of these standards, it should not be charged to the project. What does “Allowable” Mean? An allowable cost must be: Reasonable: A prudent business person would have purchased this item and paid this price. Allocable: It can be assigned to the activity on a reasonable basis and the assigned costs benefits the project. Consistent: Like costs must be treated the same in like circumstances, either direct or F&A costs. Both activities and transactions could be considered unallowable or restricted whether by state or federal regulation or by sponsor limitations. For example, if a sponsor specifies that meal receipts must be provided for reimbursement, then per diem meal costs may not be charged to the project via travel vouchers even though Texas Tech allows for this. The following tables list typically unallowable activities and transactions to sponsored projects. Typically Unallowable Activities Alumni activities Lobbying General advertising or public relations to promote TTU Defending or prosecuting certain criminal, civil or administrative proceedings Organized fundraising Commencement and convocation costs Student activities such as intramural activities and student clubs Selling or marketing of goods and services (does not include service center related costs) Typically Unallowable Transactions Advertising (only certain types are allowable) Bad debt, fines, interest payments or penalties Goods or services for personal use Certain travel costs, such as first class airfare Alcohol and entertainment Donations including cash, property, or services Relocation costs if employee resigns within 12 months Memberships to social dining or country clubs Direct Costs Direct costs can be identified specifically with a particular project relatively easily with a high degree of accuracy. Some examples of direct costs include the following: the salary of a researcher (including benefits costs), laboratory supplies purchased for a project, or equipment purchased to complete a scope of work. Types of direct charges include, but are not limited to, the following: Institutional Base Salaries (IBS): Institutional Base Salary as defined in TTU OP 74.16 Institutional Base Salary is used to compute salaries charged to sponsored projects. Salaries are appointed to sponsored project FOPs on ePAFs and future forms, and associated fringe benefits follow the allocation of the salary appointment. In depth training on ePAF processing is offered by AFISM for further guidance. Separately, administrative salaries are normally treated as indirect costs, however, they may be charged directly if the following requirements are met: Specifically budgeted for in the proposal or subsequently approved in writing; and Integral to the project or activity; and Individuals can be specifically identified with the project. Additional Compensation: Additional compensation is salary paid above and beyond institutional base salary (IBS) and is only allowed in limited circumstances as listed below. Additional guidance may be found in TTU OP 70.16 Compensation in Excess of Base Salary. Performed across department lines or in a remote location; and Approved as in-addition to normal workload by the supervisor; and Is approved in writing by the sponsoring agency where it is specifically stated payment will be above IBS (federal and state awards); and Rates are commensurate with IBS. Tuition & Fee Waivers: Tuition remission is compensation paid in lieu of wages for Teaching Assistants, Research Assistants, and Graduate Part-Time Instructors. Doctoral students receive additional supplements as outlined in TTU OP 62.40 Graduate Tuition and Fee Waivers. Students must meet the following criteria to be eligible for the exemption: Appointed at least half-time as of certain class dates; and Enrolled full-time for a given term as of certain class dates; and Appointed to a position title listed above. Scholarships: Scholarships are allowable only when the purpose of the sponsored agreement is to provide training to select participants and is approved by the sponsoring agency. To charge a scholarship to a sponsored project, departments will complete the Scholarship Establishment Form provided by Accounting Services (AS). AS will submit the form with FOP information to Student Business Services to establish in the Scholarship Tracking System. Departments may then award the scholarships in the online system. Additional guidance may be found in TTU OP 62.17 Payment of Scholarships, Fellowship Grants, and Awards. Materials & Supplies: Procurement of goods less than $5,000 are typically expensed as materials and supplies. These are typically only limited to the standard cost principles (reasonable, allocable, allowable, and consistent treatment). Equipment: Equipment is property with a useful life of one year or more with a cost greater than $5,000 and may be purchased, fabricated, federally or sponsor-provided, or transferred from another institution. For sponsored projects, ownership typically vests with TTU unless an award states otherwise and often must be listed in the budget or subsequently approved in advance in order to be an allowable cost. For federal projects, equipment must be encumbered on the Federal Equipment Form in TechBuy. Additional information and related guidance may be found in TTU OP 65.05 Sub-recipient Monitoring. Sub-Award Costs: Sub-awards are issued to external agencies to carry out part of the scope of work rather than just providing goods or services and are required to adhere to applicable award compliance requirements. Principal investigators (PI) monitor sub-recipient progress and spending through term of the sub-award. Financial invoices are approved by both the PI and Accounting Services before payment is released. Additional information on monitoring and payment requirements can be found in TTU OP 65.05 Sub-recipient Monitoring. Research Service Provider Agreements (RSP): RSPs are agreements with individuals for services that cannot be performed by TTU personnel. RSPs are procured and paid via TechBuy on the Research Service Provider Form in accordance with guidance written in TTU OP 72.17 Procurement of Independent Contractors. Indirect Costs Indirect costs, or facilities and administrative (F&A), costs are those incurred for a common or joint objective, and, therefore, cannot be identified readily and specifically with a particular sponsored project, an instructional activity, or any other institutional activity. Some examples of indirect costs include the following: the salary of a departmental administrator, building utility and maintenance costs, or sponsored project administration (such as president, provost, or CFOs and their offices). TTU is required to negotiate indirect costs rates with a designated cognizant Federal agency (Department of Health and Human Services (DHHS) for TTU) every 4 years for rates applied to different activities. Our current approved rates are as follows: Location/Type of Agreement Applicable Rate On Campus Research or Instruction 49%* On Campus Other Sponsored Activities 37% On Campus IPA Agreements 14% All Off Campus Programs* 26%* *Most commonly used are on-campus rates for research (program 200) and instruction (program 100) or the off-campus rate. How are these rates decided? On campus rates are comprised of facilities + administrative costs. Administrative costs are currently capped at 26% by the Federal government. That means, any increase in our full on campus rate every 4 years is due to increased facilities costs. The off campus rate is only made up of administrative costs capped at 26%. This is why the off campus indirect cost rate has not increased! Overall, the cost of doing research at Texas Tech is greater than 49%. However, due to caps on administrative cost recovery and facilities costs negotiated down by DHHS, Texas Tech is only able to recover a portion of the costs of doing research. This is why voluntary F&A reductions or waivers (reductions not required by an agency) have to be approved by the Vice President for Research. For additional questions, Grant Specialist contacts can be found by college and department in the Accounting Services Find My Grant Specialist contact listing. Research Accounting Regulatory Guidance Award Setup & Budget Modification Allowable Expenses & Types of Costs Cost Transfers Service Centers Cost Sharing Effort Reporting Billing, Reporting & Accounts Receivable Project Closeout & Record Retention Audits & Institutional Reports Institutional Resources & Training Raider Research University (RRU) Contact TTU Contact Contact TTUContact Contact TTU News News for NewsNews for News Events EventsEvents Accounting Services Address TTU Plaza Building, 1901 University, Suite 308, Lubbock, TX 79411 Phone 806.742.2985 | Fax: 806.742.8076 Email accountingservices@ttu.edu Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock, Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversityMay 28, 2020 9:45 AM Accounting Services About Accounting Services About Back Mission & Vision Organization Chart Accounting Services Accounting Services Accounting Services Back Operations Accounting Services Accounting Services Operations Back Service Centers Published Service Center Rates Forms State Accounting Accounting Services Accounting Services State Accounting Back State Reports Reference Material Financial Reporting Property Management Accounting Services Accounting Services Property Management Back Equipment Accounts Plant Accounting Property Management Tips TTU Building Codes Property Forms Property Inventory System Help Financial Systems Management Research Accounting Accounting Services Accounting Services Research Accounting Back Regulatory Guidance Award Setup & Budget Modification Allowable Expenses & Types of Costs Cost Transfers Service Centers Cost Sharing Effort Reporting Billing, Reporting & Accounts Receivable Project Closeout & Record Retention Audits & Institutional Reports Institutional Resources & Training Raider Research University (RRU) Banner 9 Resources Accounting Services Resources Back Resources Accounting Services Resources Resources Back Accounting Services Employee Resources Document Prefix Identifiers Expenditure Allowability Application Forms Operating Policies and Procedures Property Forms Research Expenditure Reports Rule Class: Codes & Descriptions Statewide Single Audit Financial Systems Accounting Services Resources Financial Systems Back Budget Revision System Cognos Financial Transaction System (FiTS) Fringe Projection Application Gateway Finance New FOP Finance Fund Maintenance Retired Fund System (History View) Property Inventory Cornerstone TeamApp Xtender Training Materials Accounting Services Resources Training Materials Back Finance Fund Maintenance Finance New FOP Introduction to FiTS: Training Manual Banner Accounting Services Resources Banner Back Banner 9 (TTUSPRD) Banner 9 (UDEV) Banner 9 (PDEV) FAQs Contact Us Accounting Services Contact Us Back My Grant Specialist My Fund Accountant Staff Directory A&F Areas Accounting Services A&F Areas Back Auxiliary Services Accounting Services A&F Areas Auxiliary Services Back Hospitality Services United Supermarkets Arena University Student Housing Student Union and Activities Recreational Sports TTU Campus Store Student Health Services Business Services Accounting Services A&F Areas Business Services Back Accounting Services Budget & Resource Planning & Management Cash and Credit Management Services Data Management for Financial Resources (DMFR) Payroll & Tax Services Procurement Services Student Business Services Operations Accounting Services A&F Areas Operations Back Operations Planning and Administration Grounds Maintenance Business Services Building Maintenance & Construction Utilities Services Engineering Transportation & Parking Services Safety and Security Accounting Services A&F Areas Safety and Security Back Police Department Fire Marshal Emergency Management Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index