Skip to main content Resources for: Parents Faculty/Staff Alumni Request Info One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search University of Oregon Sites Search Site Navigation Academics Research Admissions & Financial Aid Duck Life About Spring 2022 Academic Initiatives Update Resources for: Parents Faculty/Staff Alumni Request Info Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give University of Oregon Main navigation Academics Research Admissions & Financial Aid Duck Life About Spring 2022 Academic Initiatives Update Homepage 2019 The Business of Sport The World Athletics Championships Oregon22 offers valuable experiences to MBA students from the Warsaw Sports Marketing Center. Explore How COVID-19 and Vaccine Information Combating Racism Sharing our Stories Many cultures, many countries, many languages, and many experiences to listen to during Asian Desi Pacific Island American History Month. Connect and Celebrate Moving Mountains UO scientists working in Taiwan have discovered that the earth's crust can move faster than previously understood. Tectonic Shifts of Knowledge Apply Visit Request Information Nestled between rivers, mountains, and a rocky coastline—we’re all about beautiful contrasts. We’re relentlessly innovative, but grounded in a history we’re constantly learning from. We’re thinkers who create, builders who dream, adventurers, and change agents happily rooted in our own personal arboretum. We love technology and nature, abstract art and discrete mathematics. We believe in respect and inclusion, conversation, and collaboration, and we’re always interested in diverse perspectives. So don't you want to be a Duck? Why UO? READY, SET, DUCK #1 PUBLIC UNIVERSITY IN OREGON FOR first-year RETENTION and GRADUATION RATES 16:1 student to teacher ratio $246M TOTAL FINANCIAL AID OFFERED TO UO STUDENTS per year Image Examine What Makes People Tick The study of human groups, attitudes, and behavior—from the dawn of time to modern day—spans an array of disciplines. We can help you pinpoint your interests. Our psychology program is one of the best in the nation. If anthropology intrigues you, pick a concentration in archaeology or biological or cultural anthropology. We also offer degrees in communication disorders and sciences, family and human services, general social science, neuroscience, and sociology. At the UO you’ll develop a strong foundation in real-world settings with outstanding faculty, whether in a field experience or internship, researching in campus labs, or as part of a student-led program. All of these degrees offer flexibility after college, teaching you skills that relate to a wide variety of occupations or serve as excellent precursors to graduate programs. Dig into Human Behavior Find the Degree Program for You Undergraduate Graduate Law “I still remember presenting [at the Undergraduate Research Symposium] my first time and feeling so excited to share my research. It changed my career trajectory from pre-med to researcher and I'm excited to be pursuing a PhD in Neuroscience in the next year or two.” —Isabelle Cullen, Class of 2022, Neuroscience major “The programs here allow me to intersect my various interests and passions relating to environmental activism and scholarship and have provided me invaluable perspectives on crucial issues that I will carry with me for the rest of my life.” —Jess Gladis, Class of 2023, Environmental Studies major in Clark Honors College A Place for Curiosity Ducks dive into research to find answers to some of humanity’s biggest questions. We’re using big data to save and improve lives, striving to predict earthquakes and prevent deadly disease. We’re combining expertise across disciplines in math, biology, and genomics with bioengineering, neuroengineering, and precision medicine to fight cancer. We’re re-defining research education with the Phil and Penny Knight Campus for Accelerating Scientific Impact, shaping the next generation of scientists, innovators, and entrepreneurs, ready to serve the state, nation, and world with discovery and impact. Image Tier 1 NATIONAL PUBLIC RESEARCH UNIVERSITY Image 73% OF STUDENTS ARE ENGAGED IN RESEARCH ACTIVITY Image 90% of Knight Campus internship graduates are employed within 3 months Building Collaborations “What I like most about the research neighborhoods (at the Knight Campus) are the interactions. Students are exposed to different types of scientific research which helps them find their own path and create their own collaborations.” – Parisa Hosseinzadeh, Computational Biochemist and Assistant Professor, Knight Campus Discover More Connect with Us! Image Image Image Image Image News Get the latest info from Around the O, the University of Oregon's official news source. A celebration in music and images looks back on Pre's life New symphony and multimedia show pay tribute to legendary runner Steve Prefontaine Survey will help gauge how track fans check on air quality Visitors to the area’s outdoor events will be asked how conditions affect them Chuck Kimmel elected into the National Academy of Sciences The emeritus professor and biologist is a pioneer in using zebrafish to study developmental mechanisms All News » Events Medium Inconvenience: Advanced Photography Spring Exhibition May30 Medium Inconvenience: Advanced Photography Spring Exhibition May 30 Erb Memorial Union (EMU) Remember This: Hung Liu at Trillium May30 Remember This: Hung Liu at Trillium May 30 Jordan Schnitzer Museum of Art (JSMA) Let's Talk - Confidential One-on-Ones May30 Let's Talk - Confidential One-on-Ones May 30 See multiple satellite locations in description or website Medium Inconvenience: Advanced Photography Spring Exhibition May31 Medium Inconvenience: Advanced Photography Spring Exhibition May 31 Erb Memorial Union (EMU) Remember This: Hung Liu at Trillium May31 Remember This: Hung Liu at Trillium May 31 Jordan Schnitzer Museum of Art (JSMA) Let's Talk - Confidential One-on-Ones May31 Let's Talk - Confidential One-on-Ones May 31 See multiple satellite locations in description or website Tuesday Treats May31 Tuesday Treats May 31 Erb Memorial Union (EMU) Anakú Iwachá: Yakama Legends and Stories May31 Anakú Iwachá: Yakama Legends and Stories May 31 Many Nations Longhouse Hydraulic Brakes Clinic May31 Hydraulic Brakes Clinic May 31 Erb Memorial Union (EMU) Women of Excellence Banquet May31 Women of Excellence Banquet May 31 Erb Memorial Union (EMU) Unceded Kinship: Land, Place & People Jun1 Unceded Kinship: Land, Place & People Jun 1 Knight Library Medium Inconvenience: Advanced Photography Spring Exhibition Jun1 Medium Inconvenience: Advanced Photography Spring Exhibition Jun 1 Erb Memorial Union (EMU) Remember This: Hung Liu at Trillium Jun1 Remember This: Hung Liu at Trillium Jun 1 Jordan Schnitzer Museum of Art (JSMA) Let's Talk - Confidential One-on-Ones Jun1 Let's Talk - Confidential One-on-Ones Jun 1 See multiple satellite locations in description or website Mike Love & the Full Circle Jun1 Mike Love & the Full Circle Jun 1 WOW Hall Unceded Kinship: Land, Place & People Jun2 Unceded Kinship: Land, Place & People Jun 2 Knight Library Medium Inconvenience: Advanced Photography Spring Exhibition Jun2 Medium Inconvenience: Advanced Photography Spring Exhibition Jun 2 Erb Memorial Union (EMU) Remember This: Hung Liu at Trillium Jun2 Remember This: Hung Liu at Trillium Jun 2 Jordan Schnitzer Museum of Art (JSMA) Get Connected Jun2 Get Connected Jun 2 Erb Memorial Union (EMU) Office Hours with Counseling Services Jun2 Office Hours with Counseling Services Jun 2 All Events » CAMPUS News Events Maps Directions A–Z Index Find People Report a Concern TOOLS Webmail UOmail Canvas Duckweb RESOURCES Class Schedule Academic Calendar UO Libraries For Journalists University of Oregon 1585 E 13th Ave. Eugene, OR 97403 P: 541-346-1000 Contact Us Visit us on Facebook Visit us on Twitter Visit us on Youtube Visit us on Vimeo Visit us on Instagram Visit us on LinkedIn Accessibility Report a Concern Careers Privacy Policy About Find People © University of Oregon. All Rights Reserved. UO prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, sex, national or ethnic origin, age, religion, marital status, disability, veteran status, sexual orientation, gender identity, and gender expression in all programs, activities and employment practices as required by Title IX, other applicable laws, and policies. Retaliation is prohibited by UO policy. Questions may be referred to the Title IX Coordinator, Office of Affirmative Action and Equal Opportunity, or to the Office for Civil Rights. Contact information, related policies, and complaint procedures are listed on the statement of non-discrimination.