Skip to Main Content apply now ☰ Students Parents Alumni People WyoWeb Virtual Tour Give Events A-Z Directory Admissions UW Admissions First Year Transfer International Graduate Cost of Attendance Financial Aid Scholarships Academics Explore Colleges Academic Affairs Catalog/Schedules Degree Plans Graduate Education Honors College Majors/Degrees UW at a Distance Art Museum UW Libraries Athletics NCAA Athletics Athletics Traditions Cowboy Joe Club Athletics Tickets Campus Recreation Club Sports Rodeo Intramural Sports NOLS Research Research & Econ Dev Wyoming INBRE Neuroscience Ctr Tech Business Ctr Nat Parks Service Research Prod Ctr Supercomputing Water Research WY EPSCoR/IDeA Amer Heritage Ctr UW Life Campus Safety Campus Maps Transit & Parking Res Life & Dining Diversity Student Orgs Cultural Prgms Fine Arts Campus Activities University Store UW Pride About UW Points of Pride Alumni Association Geological Museum Foundation Cowboy Parents UWyo Mag Brand Center Visit Campus Download Viewbook Give to UW American Heritage Center Virtual Resource Hub Our Virtual Resource Hub enables researchers to receive a personalized service that allows them to pursue all aspects of their research safely and from anywhere. RRAD Sessions Zoom Consultations Visit Us The AHC is open for research with a pre-approved appointment. Visit the links below to plan your visit! Schedule an On-Site Visit How to Visit Guide Covid Updates Contact Us Archival Collections Browse the Public Portal to explore the AHC’s vast collecting areas, from Wyoming and Western history to Hollywood and the history of the entertainment industry, to the Transcontinental Railroad and America’s transportation industries, to mineral, coal, and oil extraction, to journalism, Women’s Suffrage, and diversity in the West. Additional Resources Virtual Exhibits Curated on Virmuze Discover History Blog of the AHC Archives on the Air Wyo. Public Radio Segment Wyoming History Day Official Website Research Guidance To help get you started More Resources May Featured Collection Union Pacific Historical Society The Union Pacific Historical Society was founded September 1, 1984 in Denver, Colorado to collect, organize, distribute, and publish information relating to the operation and equipment of the Union Pacific Railroad. It was an independent non-profit organization that preserved the history of the Union Pacific Railroad from it's beginning in 1862 to present time. The society was not supported by, or affiliated with the Union Pacific Railroad other than the preservation of its history. Collection contains Union Pacific publications, newsletters, diagrams and drawings, track charts, timetables, reports, maps, photographs, slides, negatives, and books.The Union Pacific Historical Society digital collection is a small sample of Union Pacific images found in the collection. Detailed information about the collection and its contents can be found in the on-line finding aid at https://rmoa.unm.edu/docviewer.php?docId=wyu-ah10713.xml. Past featured collections: April 2022: The Jacques Kapralik papers March 2022: Richard Throssel papers February 2022: UW's 2022 Historic Calendar Important Links University Archives Simpson Institute Grants & Fellowships AHC Faculty & Staff About Us More than 100 years ago, Grace Raymond Hebard—UW faculty member, administrator, librarian, and Wyoming historian—began collecting the papers and reminiscences of Wyoming’s pioneers. Her research on the history of Wyoming, the West, emigrant trails, and Native Americans became the nucleus for what is known today as the American Heritage Center (AHC). Officially established in 1945, the Center now holds over 90,000 cubic feet of historic documents and artifacts in more than 3500 collections—placing the AHC among the largest non-governmental archives in the nation. Today, the AHC contains important holdings in numerous areas. Its western history archives include materials on early women’s suffrage and political achievements, native Americans, ranching, politics, authors, and under-documented communities. Other featured collecting areas include transportation (railroad, highway and air travel), mining and energy extraction, entertainment and popular culture (with important collections featuring Hollywood, music, radio, television and the comic book industry), natural resources and the environment, and military history. The AHC also serves as the primary archives for the University of Wyoming. Connect with us on our social media platforms - Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, Virmuze, and our blog - where we are #ALWAYS ARCHIVING. Sign up for our Newsletter Visitor Information Contact Us Phone: (307) 766-3756 Fax: (307) 766-5511 Email: ahcref@uwyo.edu Full Contact Information Connect with Us Give to the AHC Web Page Site Map Hours of Operation As of January 2022, the AHC’s Reading Room is open from 9:00 am to 4:00 pm. Entrance is by appointment only. The public galleries are open from 10:00 to 5:00 and closed from 1:00-1:30 for lunch. Covid may alter these hours. For up-to-date information and to make an appointment, please visit our How to Visit Guide. Parking Parking in the Centennial Complex lot is free but patrons must register (M-F 8 am-5 pm) at the AHC front desk. Special parking regulations are in effect during game days, please call in advance for more information. AHC News The latest news and press releases from the American Heritage Center. Street Address Centennial Complex 2111 Willett Drive Laramie, WY 82071 Mailing Address For US Postal Service: American Heritage Center University of Wyoming 1000 E. University Ave. Dept. 3924 Laramie, WY 82071 For UPS & FedEx: American Heritage Center University of Wyoming 16th & Gibbon Street Laramie, WY 82071 Attn: Bill Hopkins 1000 E. University Ave. Laramie, WY 82071 UW Operators (307) 766-1121 | Contact Us | Download Adobe Reader Accreditation | Virtual Tour | Emergency Preparedness | Employment at UW | Privacy Policy | Harassment & Discrimination | Accessibility