Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Rankings Data Overview and Updates You are here Home About Ethics & Compliance Data Integrity and Data Verification Unit Rankings Data Overview and Updates Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Preferred Name Use Pronoun Use and Gender Identity Temple Thought Leaders Housing & Dining Health & Wellness COVID-19: Keeping Our Community Safe & Healthy COVID-19 FAQ Testing & Tracing Vaccines Academics, Tuition & Aid Temple HEERF III Grant Student Housing & On-campus Life Work-life for Faculty & Staff Faculty Teaching Information Return Scenario Planning Temple Community Health Advisory Group University Communication Vaccination Rates and Active COVID-19 Cases at Temple University International Campuses and Programs City Life Philadelphia Visiting Temple Accommodations Dining Options Religious Services Information FAQs Safety Main Campus and Philadelphia Safety FAQ Contact Temple RAVE Temple Guardian App Community Programs and Research University News Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Campus Life Arts and Culture Clubs and Organizations Housing, Dining and OWLcards Parking and Transportation Safety Student Banking Student Centers Wireless, Computers and Phone Academics Advising and Academic Support Courses and Calendars International Students Libraries Registration, Grades and Books Schools and Colleges Health and Wellness Athletics and Fitness Health and Counseling Tuition and Financial Aid Financial Aid Tuition and Billing Careers and Internships Career Center Internships Student Jobs Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees Presidential Search President University Leadership Board of Trustees Updates Past Presidents 2019 State of the University History & Traditions Russell Conwell Temple Traditions Acres of Diamonds Honorary Degrees Past Honorary Degree Recipients Temple Health News & Media Media Mentions Temple University Wallpapers Temple's Impact Career in Charitable Change Fueled by Temple Experiences Advancing Breast Cancer Research Leaders in HIV Research 21st-century Learning Temple Firsts Paving the Way Medical & Community Support Student Support Contact members of Strategic Marketing and Communications Offices Public Information Facts About Temple Faculty & Staff Resources Working at Temple Calendars and Time Off Holiday Schedule Careers at Temple Human Resources Performance and Training Business Services Catering Exception Policy Double Tree Catering/ Conferences Contact Frequently Asked Questions Trademark Licensing Policy Corporate Responsibility Logo and Graphics Guide Guidelines for Trademark Use The Student, Faculty and Staff Guide to Ordering Licensed Temple Products Becoming Licensed Trademark and Licensing FAQ Where to Buy Temple Gear University-approved Hotels Club Quarters DoubleTree Hotel Hilton Garden Inn Hilton Philadelphia at Penn's Landing Loews Hotel Sonesta Philadelphia The Conwell Inn Campus Services Computers, Email and Phones Conferences and Meetings Health Sciences Center Form Main Campus Meeting Space Howard Gittis Student Center Form Documents & Insurance Facilities and Space ID Cards Parking and Transportation Faculty Resources Calendars, Schedules and Grades Courses and Curricula Instructional Resources Faculty Senate and News Research and Grants Finance and Travel Accounting and Budget Employee Banking and Finance Tuition Remission Travel and Expenses Wellness and Safety Fitness and Health Safety and Alerts Campus Development Frequently Asked Questions Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Data Integrity and Data Verification Unit In-scope Materials Quick Reference Guide Rankings Data Overview and Updates Additional Resources Frequently Asked Questions FAQ: Fox School of Business MBA rankings Enterprise Risk Management Key Terms and Definitions Helpline Frequently Asked Questions Resources Compliance With the Four Pillars Who We Are Libraries Charles Library Rankings Data Overview Updated: Dec. 12, 2019 This overview will be updated as new information is announced. Jump to a section January 2018: Data error announced July 9, 2018: Jones Day report and recommendations July 11, 2018: New processes for data submission announced July 23, 2018: Interim dean appointed July 25, 2018: Further misreporting Aug. 10, 2018: Temple delivers third update Aug. 10, 2018: Temple responds to Inquirer article Oct. 1, 2018: Interim Dean Ron Anderson announces update on AACSB accreditation Oct. 12, 2018: Temple delivers fourth update Dec. 21, 2018: Temple announces agreement in Fox School class action case March 6, 2019: Leadership reaffirms apology for misreporting of data, updates on efforts to ensure accurate reporting Dec. 12, 2019: Agreement over data integrity issues January 2018: Data error announced Temple University announced that the Fox School of Business identified a data error in its submission to U.S. News & World Report for its Online MBA program. As a result, U.S. News reclassified the Online MBA as “unranked.” In light of the data issue with the Online MBA program, the Fox School contacted U.S News and asked to be withdrawn from consideration in the upcoming results for full-time and part-time MBA programs. Temple University Chancellor Richard M. Englert then brought in Jones Day, a global law firm with substantial experience in such reviews in higher education, to conduct a review of Fox’s rankings data. July 9, 2018: Jones Day report and recommendations Chancellor Englert announced that report’s findings and recommendations, and Fox School of Business Dean Moshe Porat was asked to step down. It was the dean’s initiative to disband a longstanding committee charged with ensuring the accuracy of rankings data. This absence of checks and balances, together with an undue focus on rankings, enabled such misreporting. The Jones Day review found that the Fox School reported inaccurate data to U.S. News for multiple years. In some instances, the misreporting was intentional; in other instances, the Fox School misreported information based on incorrect interpretations of survey questions. Learn more Announcement: Update on Fox rankings July 11, 2018: New processes for data submission announced Executive Vice President and Provost JoAnne A. Epps rolled out a variety of measures at Fox, all other schools and colleges, and other university offices that are responsible for data submissions, to ensure the highest degree of data integrity at Temple University. Learn more Announcement: New processes for data submission July 23, 2018: Interim dean appointed Chancellor Englert and Executive Vice President and Provost Epps appointed Ronald C. Anderson as interim dean of the Fox School of Business. A respected member of the Fox School faculty, Anderson has served as professor and chair of the Department of Finance since joining Temple in July 2012. He is also interim dean of Temple’s School of Sport, Tourism and Hospitality Management and is expected to serve for approximately two years. A national search for a permanent dean is expected to be conducted during the 2019–2020 academic year. Learn more Announcement: Introducing the Fox and STHM interim dean News story: Ron Anderson appointed interim dean of the Fox School of Business July 25, 2018: Further misreporting Chancellor Englert and Executive Vice President and Provost Epps announced that misreporting similar to that involving the Online MBA also occurred with respect to the Executive MBA, Global MBA, Part-Time MBA, Master of Science in Human Resource Management and Master of Science in Digital Innovation in Marketing. These programs all had issues related to the reporting of one or more metrics, including the number of new entrants providing GRE/GMAT scores, student indebtedness and applicants’ undergraduate GPAs. For the Online Bachelor of Business Administration, misreporting related to student indebtedness was found. As a result, Temple University reported to U.S. News that it cannot verify data related to these programs, and that Temple would not participate in business school surveys at that time. In a related update, U.S. News asked Temple to provide a letter verifying the accuracy of its data submissions for the 2018 and 2019 Best Colleges rankings. The university conducted a painstaking review of the voluminous data contained in these submissions. On July 20, Temple provided U.S. News with the requested letter, in which the accuracy of its submissions were verified for both the 2018 and 2019 rankings. University administration also made three corrections: one inadvertent transposition and two typographical errors. Additionally, Temple updated originally reported endowment information to ensure consistency in survey responses. U.S. News also had requested information on additional programs, and that review is underway. In addition to verifying the data provided to U.S. News, the university is responding to ongoing inquiries from the U.S. Department of Education and the Pennsylvania attorney general’s office. Learn more Announcement: Second update on rankings Aug. 10, 2018: Temple delivers third update Since the initial discovery and self-reporting of inaccurate data earlier this year, Temple has received requests from regulators, accreditors and ranking agencies to supply information about data reported by the Fox School of Business and, in some cases, other areas of the university. Some of that progress is outlined below. U.S. News & World Report Temple verified the accuracy of submissions for both the 2018 and 2019 Best Colleges rankings and subsequently responded a U.S. News inquiry about data specific to the Fox School. In addition, U.S. News asked the university to verify data for professional and graduate programs that have most recently submitted survey information, namely, the College of Engineering, the College of Education, the James E. Beasley School of Law and the Lewis Katz School of Medicine. That work has been completed and, though errors were found in two of the reports, the errors were few in number and there was no indication of deliberate misreporting. This information has been reported to U.S. News. Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB) AACSB contacted Temple July 10, 2018, asking for details regarding the misreporting of data and remediation efforts. The university has responded to this request and has also been providing regular updates to AACSB about remediation and corrective measures. The AACSB has moved up its re-accreditation review for the Fox School from spring 2020 to early 2019. Other Ranking and Rating Surveys The university is also in the process of reviewing Fox survey responses to other ranking and rating agencies, including the Princeton Review. Today Temple notified the Princeton Review that a review of data submitted to it shows that at least one inaccurate data point reported to U.S. News was also used in reports to the Princeton Review. Governmental Agencies The university continues to keep the U.S. Department of Education updated on its progress in analyzing past Fox School reports and the procedures that are being put into place to ensure greater data integrity. In addition, Temple is working with the Pennsylvania attorney general’s office to provide the information that it is seeking. learn more Announcement: Third update on rankings Temple University continues to diligently pursue the review of rankings data and will share updates as they become available. Aug. 10, 2018: Temple responds to Inquirer article In response to Temple’s update regarding data integrity, the Philadelphia Inquirer/Philly.com published an article at 4:30 p.m. under the headline “Temple finds data errors at two more schools for U.S. News rankings.” The first line of that article read, “The rankings scandal at Temple University spread beyond the Fox School of Business on Friday...” We completely disagree with both the implication of the headline and the explicit substance of the lead sentence. First, as was clear in our announcement, the data errors found in the two U.S. News surveys are not comparable to the previously disclosed issues in submissions from the Fox School. Second, what we have reported today is precisely the opposite of the “spread” of the “rankings scandal.” Rather, it is confirmation that the issues in Fox have not appeared in any other school or college at Temple. Third, the story includes: “The information Temple shared with U.S. News 'did not have an impact on its 2019 Best Graduate Schools rankings,' Robert Morse, chief data strategist at U.S. News, said in a statement.” This statement stands in stark contrast to the tone and language of the story. We have made this point clear to the Inquirer and sincerely hope they will address it by revising the article to be consistent with the facts. Oct. 1, 2018: Interim Dean Ron Anderson announces update on AACSB accreditation To the Fox community, As you know, the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB) has been among the agencies to request information regarding Fox School of Business data, stemming from the discovery that data was misreported to U.S. News and other rankings organizations. Since July, we have provided information in response to AACSB’s requests. On Sept. 17, representatives from Temple and AACSB met on campus. At that time, we described how we have implemented rigorous data integrity processes and procedures to ensure that data is accurate moving forward. Today, AACSB announced to its educational members that the Fox School remains accredited. At the same time, AACSB has placed our school into a multiyear monitoring process to ensure our compliance with their ethical standards and the effectiveness of our internal controls related to data integrity. The leadership of AACSB, including its Board of Directors, takes this matter very seriously. So do we. I have confidence that everyone at the school will cooperate and work earnestly to ensure the success of our efforts. In the last several months, Chancellor Richard M. Englert, Executive Vice President and Provost JoAnne A. Epps, and I—supported by a dedicated team of faculty and staff—have been working to move the school forward. Because of these efforts, we can clearly illustrate that the Fox School’s research, faculty and programs remain as strong as ever. We also continue to be extraordinarily proud of the accomplishments of our students and alumni. I take pride in the incredible resilience the Fox community has shown in recent months. I also reaffirm our commitment to abiding by the highest standards in the future. Sincerely, Ronald C. Anderson Interim Dean Fox School of Business School of Sport, Tourism and Hospitality Management Learn more FAQ: AACSB Accreditation Oct. 12, 2018: Temple delivers fourth update Board of Trustees Chair Patrick J. O’Connor, Chancellor Englert and Provost Epps provided a fourth update reiterating the university’s apology for data misreporting, outlining the wide array of measures to fix the problem, and announcing that Temple has retained an outside auditing firm to review rankings submissions and to ensure the effectiveness of these new measures. The university is also conducting a search for a compliance officer to enhance its ethics and compliance program, as well as internal reporting structures. Learn more Announcement: Fourth update on rankings Dec. 21, 2018: Temple announces agreement in Fox School class action case Chancellor Richard M. Englert announced that an agreement has been reached to resolve the claims of Fox School of Business students. The agreement has been submitted to the court for its review and approval. The press release linked below offers details on the settlement. LEARN MORE Agreement reached in Fox School class action case March 6, 2019: Leadership reaffirms apology for misreporting of data, updates on efforts to ensure accurate reporting Chancellor Richard M. Englert, Executive Vice President and Provost JoAnne A. Epps, and Interim Fox School Dean Ronald C. Anderson sent a letter to the Fox School community reaffirming the apology for the misreporting of data to U.S. News and World Report. The letter also included several steps that have been taken to ensure rigor in data reporting. LEARN MORE Message regarding Fox School Dec. 12, 2019: Agreement over data integrity issues Temple University has entered into an agreement—known as an Assurance of Voluntary Compliance—with the Pennsylvania Attorney General resolving the Attorney General’s investigation of the Fox School of Business rankings matter. The resolution agreement was made public this morning. The agreement requires Temple to maintain certain internal controls, which have been largely put into place, and to create and fund five $5,000 scholarships per year for 10 years for Fox School students in the affected programs. This is an important step in enabling the Fox School and Temple to move forward and return ever more of our focus to providing the best possible education for our students. The Office of the Attorney General has issued a statement to the media. The university has issued a statement in response to press inquiries regarding the agreement. If you receive any contacts from the media, please refer them to Kevin Feeley (kfeeley@bellevuepr.com or 215-893-4285). Richard M. Englert Chancellor JoAnne A. Epps Executive Vice President and Provost Go back to AboutMore in Data Integrity and Data Verification Unit In-scope Materials Quick Reference Guide Rankings Data Overview and Updates Additional Resources Frequently Asked Questions FAQ: Fox School of Business MBA rankings Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community.