Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Parking Services Parking right arrow down arrow Locations right arrow down arrow Maps Visitors right arrow down arrow Maps Uptown UC Blue Ash UC Clermont 1819 Innovation Hub UC Reading Victory Parkway Students right arrow down arrow Uptown UC Blue Ash UC Clermont Leased Properties Parking Permits Faculty & Staff right arrow down arrow Uptown UC Blue Ash UC Clermont 1819 Innovation Hub Victory Parkway UC Reading Value Pass Mobile Pay Instructions Citations right arrow down arrow View Account Events right arrow down arrow Events Calendar Football Basketball College-Conservatory of Music Event & Meeting Planners Other Event Prepaid Parking Instructions Athletic Events Prepaid Parking Resources right arrow down arrow Policies How-To Videos Alternative Transportation FAQ Home » About UC » Parking Services » Events » Football Set Navigation title in component Events Calendar Football Basketball College-Conservatory of Music Event & Meeting Planners Other Event Prepaid Parking Instructions Athletic Events Prepaid Parking Bearcats Football Parking Gameday Parking Gameday parking starts six hours before game time, and expires at 3 a.m. Football gameday parking by date, opponent, game time and time parking begins Dates Opponent Game Time Parking Starts Saturday, Sept. 4 Miami 3:30 p.m. 9:30 a.m. Saturday, Sept. 11 Murray State 3:30 p.m. 9:30 a.m. Friday, Oct. 8 Temple 7 p.m. 1 p.m. Saturday, Oct. 16 UCF TBD TBD Saturday, Nov. 6 Tulsa (homecoming) TBD TBD Saturday, Nov. 20 SMU TBD TBD Gameday Parking on Campus Gameday Parking impacts all uptown campus parking facilities. Please see the table below for information. While we try to guarantee parking for permit holders in their assigned facility, it is possible they may be directed to another facility on Gameday. Football gameday parking by garage, availability of pre-paid option and price, cash option and price, and whether season parking pass is avialable. Facility Pre-paid Gameday Cash Season Pass/ Event Ops Woodside $20 N/A N/A Stratford Heights $15 N/A N/A Eden $15 $20 Yes Corry N/A N/A Yes Calhoun N/A N/A Yes CCM N/A N/A Yes Varsity Village N/A N/A Yes University Avenue N/A N/A Yes Campus Green N/A N/A Yes ADA Parking A portion of pre-sale parking in Woodside Garage will be reserved for ADA parking sales. For access to ADA parking, a state-issued handicap placard, or license plate will be required on gameday with that parking pass. Anyone showing an ADA pass, without a proper placard or license plate, will not be permitted to park in Woodside Garage, and the pass will not be refunded or honored in another campus facility. Golf cart shuttles will run from outside the parking garage to the Nippert Stadium entry gate. Pre-Purchase Parking Parking Services has partnered with Bearcat Athletics to offer pre-purchased parking through the Bearcat Ticket Office. Visit the Bearcat Ticket site for more information. Your digital parking pass will be scanned on entry to the assigned parking facility. For questions, please contact UC Athletics: 1-877-CATS-TIX (228-7849) - or - 513-556-CATS (2287) Gameday Cash Eden Garage is the designated Game Day Cash facility. Shuttle stops will be located at the front and rear of the garage. Shuttles will drop off at the Intersection of West Daniels and Champions Way. Shuttles will start six (6) hours prior to game time and run through one hour post-game time. Season Pass Parking Season Pass parking is available to season ticket holders only. Contact the Bearcat Ticket Office for more information. Gameday Parking Tips Come Early! Arrive to campus early to get the best spots in the parking facilities, and to avoid the heaviest traffic periods. Enjoy the Grid or the surrounding Clifton area! Know what you can and can’t take in the stadium. You don’t want to trek back to your car, and miss out on a moment of our Bearcats on the field! Head in parking is required. Backing into parking spaces slows down traffic being able to enter the facilities. Everyone wants to get in and enjoy their Gameday experience! Non-traditional tailgating can occur in the parking facilities. What does that mean? You can enjoy a beverage or snack by your vehicle but please stay out of the drive lane. You cannot take up multiple parking spaces. If there is a non-ADA hashed out area near your car, you can use it. Grills are not permitted. If you want to grill out, contact the Bearcat Ticket Office about official tailgating opportunities. Please be courteous and represent your Bearcat nation with pride. Pick up your trash and place in the trash cans located throughout the facility. Restrooms are located in multiple campus facilities and on the Grid. Be aware of and respectful of the people around you. Ingress and Egress on Gameday Please be aware of the following traffic changes before and after the game to help with traffic flow. Before the Game Corry Blvd.: One (1) hour before game time, Corry Blvd. will be one-way from Jefferson Avenue to Dennis Street. Corry Pass holders should get in the left lane. Calhoun, CCM and Varsity Village permit holders will want to stay to the right. Campus Green Garage: Two (2) hours before game time, pass holders will be directed into parking spaces. Come early, and you can have your choice of where to park! Stratford Heights Garage: All traffic will enter the facility from Stratford Avenue. The Clifton Avenue entry/exit will be closed. Parkers will be directed into parking spaces. Coming from I-71/Calhoun St. Turn Right on Clifton Ave. Turn Left on Straight St. Turn Right on Stratford Ave. Coming from I-75/MLK Dr. or I-71/MLK Dr. Turn South on Clifton Ave. (Right from I-75/MLK Dr., Left from I-71/MLK Dr.) Turn Right on Probasco St. Turn Left on Stratford Avenue After the Game Woodside Garage: Starting at the beginning of the game's 4th quarter, all traffic exiting Woodside Garage will be forced to turn left westbound on MLK Drive. Campus Green Garage: Exits to Campus Green and Woodside Drive will be utilized. Traffic will be directed to one or the other to keep vehicles moving. Both exits will allow traffic to travel eastbound/westbound on MLK Drive. CCM Garage: All traffic will exit onto Backstage Dr. which will take you to Calhoun St. Corry Garage: keep what is there but add at the end: The exit to Corry Blvd will be one-way to Jefferson Ave. Prepaid Event Parking Please visit the new UC Athletics' pre-purchase parking web page for your gameday parking access. For questions, please contact UC Athletics: 1-877-CATS-TIX (228-7849) - or - 513-556-CATS (2287) Parking Services University of Cincinnati 4 Edwards Center 51 Corry Boulevard Cincinnati, OH 45221-0624 513-556-2283 parking@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Parking Services University of Cincinnati 4 Edwards Center 51 Corry Boulevard Cincinnati, OH 45221-0624 513-556-2283 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top