Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Apply Visit Give Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links Menu Main Nav Back Back Close About BC Overview President's Message Mission & History Facts & Figures Notable Alumni Campuses, Maps & Directions Trustees & Leadership Related Links Diversity BC Fact Book Office of University Communications BC Media & Publications Office for Institutional Diversity Admission Overview Apply Questbridge Applicants International Applicants Homeschooled Applicants Transfer Applicants Transfer Credit Veteran and ROTC Applicants Test-Optional Policy 2022-23 Early Decision vs. Regular Decision First-Year Admission Profile Visit Discover BC Hotels, Directions, and Parking Contact Admission Affordability Majors & Minors Morrissey College Majors Choosing BC Related Links Undergraduate Tuition & Financial Aid Financial Aid Office Graduate Admission Offices Academics Overview Schools & Colleges Majors & Minors Libraries Professional & Continuing Education Excellence & Innovation Academic Advising Related Links Academic Calendar Office of the Provost Academic Advising Center Core Curriculum Student Services Campus Life Overview Diversity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Student Organizations Sports & Recreation Arts & Culture Related Links Student Affairs McMullen Museum Robsham Theater Research Overview Research Centers & Institutes Undergraduate Research Opportunities Faculty Awards & Grants Graduate Fellowships Research Support Related Links Vice Provost for Research Sponsored Programs Research Integrity and Compliance Technology Transfer and Licensing Jesuit, Catholic Overview Catholic Intellectual Tradition Jesuit Resources Related Links Division of Mission & Ministry Campus Ministry Center for Student Formation The Church in the 21st Century Center Close Directory A to Z Listing Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close For Students HOME Resources Students In the News A great place to work BC Dining employment offers students opportunity and flexibility. Always on duty Boston College nursing student Cameron Howe stepped in to help save the life of a Boston Marathon runner. More than a marathon Senior Olivia Colombo turns a dire medical prognosis into her proudest athletic achievement. Hybrid career expo blends recruitment fair and research showcase Woods College applied economics grad program partners with Open Data Science Conference on new twist in career events. more bc news Manage your life as a BC student Academics Personal Life Your Academic Life Find everything you need to help support your work in the classroom. Academic Calendar Course Information Advising & Help Canvas Agora Portal Libraries Transcripts Course Evaluations Policies Bookstore Your Personal Life Links to help with daily life at BC. Passwords Email Parking Employment Eagle One Card Student Affairs Connell Rec Center Office of Health Promotion Counseling Services Student Involvement Looking for a place to study, rehearse or meet with a group? Find a Space BC Shuttle Bus Looking to get around? Take advantage of the Boston College Shuttle Bus. Dining Menus Hungry? View today's menus and learn about the dining options available on campus. Margot Connell Recreation Center Hours Ready for a workout? Check out the recreation center's hours and fitness schedule. For Eagles, by Eagles Setting the Instaworld aflame, one post at a time. Follow @BostonCollege BC Career Center Blog No Summer Internship? No Problem! 5 Ways to Have a Productive Summer Beyond an Internship While internships are a great way to gain skills and explore a career field, many students seem to think that May 02, 2022 BCCareerCenterTeam Understanding Your AAPI Identity in the Workplace Everyone brings their own set of values and identities to their career and workplace. As someone who identifies as a April 25, 2022 BCCareerCenterTeam Should I Disclose My Disability During a Job Search? Many students with a disability struggle with the question of disclosure during the job and internship search process. “Will disclosure April 25, 2022 BCCareerCenterTeam Staying Positive During the Job Search Like many of life’s challenges, searching for jobs and internships can be emotionally taxing. Unlike most challenges, the effort you April 19, 2022 BCCareerCenterTeam Internship Spotlight: Summer Internships in Science, Technology & Engineering The Eagle Intern Fellowship (EIF) provides financial support to Boston College undergraduates with demonstrated financial need who obtain summer internships April 14, 2022 BCCareerCenterTeam Making a Decision on Job Offers “Congratulations, our company is pleased to offer you the position!” Receiving communication like this, whether via email or a phone, April 11, 2022 BCCareerCenterTeam No Summer Internship? No Problem! 5 Ways to Have a Productive Summer Beyond an Internship While internships are a great way to gain skills and explore a career field, many students seem to think that May 02, 2022 BCCareerCenterTeam Understanding Your AAPI Identity in the Workplace Everyone brings their own set of values and identities to their career and workplace. As someone who identifies as a April 25, 2022 BCCareerCenterTeam Should I Disclose My Disability During a Job Search? Many students with a disability struggle with the question of disclosure during the job and internship search process. “Will disclosure April 25, 2022 BCCareerCenterTeam VIEW MORE POSTS VIEW LESS POSTS Read More Events at BC Academic Calendar Keep Informed How to Serve "Men and women for others" is a Jesuit ideal that our community embraces. Learn about the many ways you can volunteer and serve. Visit VSLC Site Get Involved Getting and staying involved is a critical part of the college experience. At BC, there are hundreds of programs to choose from. Office of Student Involvement Campus News Keep connected with the latest campus updates through BC News, the official source of University news and information. BC News Career Center Whether you're looking for guidance in choosing a major or pursuing an internship, our resources help you identify your career interests and put your talents to use. Visit Career Center Site Campus Events What is happening on campus today? Visit the University calendar to browse hundreds of events. BC Event Calendar Keep Active Campus Recreation cultivates life-long health and active lifestyle experiences for the BC community. Margot Connell Rec Center BC Career Center How do you connect a liberal arts education with career planning? BC's on it. Visit the Career Center for details. career center BC graduates' career outcomes The Gold Pass is your ticket to all the Eagles' regular season home games and exclusive prizes. Athletics Gold Pass Back To Top Back To Top 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Jobs at BC Give Connect With Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube LinkedIn Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College