Skip to main content Operating Status Face coverings are optional in offices, conference rooms, research labs, housing, and public spaces in buildings. Face coverings are still required in all teaching spaces, teaching labs, computer labs, buses, libraries, clinical facilities, and student-staff and student-faculty meetings spaces. More COVID-19 information Close Search Enter a Search Term Search Rutgers Search Search this site Search all Rutgers Search People Rutgers Logo New Brunswick Newark Camden RBHS/Health Info For: Prospective Students and Parents Current Students Faculty and Staff Alumni and Donors Partners Job Seekers News Rutgers Today Rutgers Magazine Events Giving Gcse block (invisible) Open Search Rutgers Logo About Rutgers About the University President Jonathan Holloway Serving New Jersey and the World An Economic Engine A Partner in Research and Innovation United Against COVID-19 Rutgers Excellence Rutgers, By the Numbers Rutgers Rankings Budget Facts Our Structure Governance and Leadership Office of the President Administrative Council Our Revolutionary Roots Rutgers Traditional Songs The Rutgers Experience Discover Rutgers Rutgers–New Brunswick Rutgers–Newark Rutgers–Camden Rutgers Biomedical and Health Sciences (RBHS) Show Your Rutgers Pride Rutgers Athletics Uniquely New Jersey Academics Academics Overview Undergraduate Academics Explore Undergraduate Programs Graduate and Professional Studies Explore Graduate & Professional Programs Top Graduate Programs Schools and Colleges Continuing Education Online Degree Programs Catalogs Libraries Faculty Excellence Global Learning Rutgers at Your Community College Student Support Research Research at Rutgers A Partner in Research and Innovation Health & Patient Care Advancing Treatment and Wellness Admissions & Tuition About Applying Path to Rutgers Tuition and Financial Aid Visits and Tours Getting Here Open Search Open Search Open Menu Close About Rutgers About the University President Jonathan Holloway Serving New Jersey and the World An Economic Engine A Partner in Research and Innovation United Against COVID-19 Rutgers Excellence Rutgers, By the Numbers Rutgers Rankings Budget Facts Our Structure Governance and Leadership Office of the President Administrative Council Our Revolutionary Roots Rutgers Traditional Songs The Rutgers Experience Discover Rutgers Rutgers–New Brunswick Rutgers–Newark Rutgers–Camden Rutgers Biomedical and Health Sciences (RBHS) Show Your Rutgers Pride Rutgers Athletics Uniquely New Jersey Academics Academics Overview Undergraduate Academics Explore Undergraduate Programs Graduate and Professional Studies Explore Graduate & Professional Programs Top Graduate Programs Schools and Colleges Continuing Education Online Degree Programs Catalogs Libraries Faculty Excellence Global Learning Rutgers at Your Community College Student Support Research Research at Rutgers A Partner in Research and Innovation Health & Patient Care Admissions & Tuition About Applying Path to Rutgers Tuition and Financial Aid Visits and Tours Getting Here Utility Mobile Info For: Prospective Students and Parents Current Students Faculty and Staff Alumni and Donors Partners Job Seekers News Rutgers Today Rutgers Magazine Events Giving New Brunswick Newark Camden RBHS/Health The Rutgers Experience Discover Rutgers, and discover yourself. Whether you’re seeking that classic, diverse, big-time university experience, or looking for a stellar education in a more close-knit setting. Whether you want to change the world or just find out where you belong in it, you’ll find a home at Rutgers. New Jersey's #1 Ranked public university U.S. News & World Report On Campus and Online 69,000+ Undergraduate and graduate students World's Top 100 Most innovative universities Reuters Study in 500+ some of the best-rated programs in the Northeast and U.S. Discover Rutgers University Three Main Locations As The State University of New Jersey, Rutgers makes its presence known up and down the Garden State with three regional locations offering their own distinct personality, amenities, and benefits. New Brunswick The flagship Rutgers location is part of the Big Ten athletic conference and a member of the Association of American Universities (AAU). Rutgers–New Brunswick is a quintessential big college campus. Newark In the heart of New Jersey’s largest city, Rutgers–Newark offers a dynamic urban atmosphere just minutes away from New York City. Camden In the southern part of the state, and just across the river from downtown Philadelphia, Rutgers–Camden is known for its close-knit, community atmosphere. Rutgers Biomedical and Health Sciences Rutgers Biomedical and Health Sciences (RBHS) serves as the university's academic health center by conducting research, training health professionals, and providing patient care. Students of the health sciences professions typically enroll in schools aligned with RBHS. Learn More Academics At Rutgers, academics are about personal achievement, cutting-edge discovery, and community involvement. We’re a big university with countless opportunities to explore your interests. Here, undergraduate and graduate students, professionals, and lifelong learners alike encounter a diverse array of educational and research opportunities, delivered by world-class faculty. Undergraduate Academics Graduate and Professional Studies Diversity As one of the nation’s most diverse universities, Rutgers draws strength from the rich variety of perspectives and life experiences of our beloved community. Read about the university's commitment to diversity, equity, and inclusion. Learn more about diversity initiatives at Rutgers locations in New Brunswick, Newark, and Camden. Visit diversity.rutgers.edu Athletics Rutgers has student-athletes at all levels. Whether it’s at the NCAA level, or at the less intensive club or recreational levels, students who want to pursue athletics at Rutgers have many opportunities at each of the university’s locations. Learn More Show Your Pride On game day, on exam day, on any day—Rutgers students (and alumni) proudly wear scarlet and black. Find something that matches your personal style, or a great gift for someone else, and show off your Rutgers pride. Learn More Uniquely New Jersey New Jersey is a unique place, and Rutgers represents its home well. Just like the state, the University of New Jersey® is a diverse melting pot of people from all over the world. The New Jersey economy is strongly linked to the success of the industries here, which employ Rutgers graduates at all levels. Learn More Site Footer Rutgers University New Brunswick Newark Camden RBHS/Health Connect Campus Safety Contact Us Continuing Education Giving to Rutgers Graduate Admissions Undergraduate Admissions University Maps Universitywide Offices Work at Rutgers Find a Health Care Provider Rutgers Magazine University Events Academic Academic Calendars Course Catalogs University Libraries myRutgers Portal Notices April 27, 2022: Open Hearing on the University’s Tuition, Fees, and Housing and Dining Charges for 2022–2023 Commencement Information University Operating Status Accessibility Resources Budget Facts Consumer Information Disclosures Follow Us Subscribe to Rutgers News Rutgers is an equal access/equal opportunity institution. Individuals with disabilities are encouraged to direct suggestions, comments, or complaints concerning any accessibility issues with Rutgers websites to accessibility@rutgers.edu or complete the Report Accessibility Barrier / Provide Feedback form. Copyright ©2022, Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey. All rights reserved. Contact webmaster