Utah State University sites use cookies. By continuing to use this site you accept our privacy and cookie policy. I agree Skip to content Apply Visit Give Calendar A-Z Index Directory Libraries QUICK LINKS MyUSU SEARCH Center for Community Engagement Division of Student Affairs Close search Search Utah State University: I want to search All USU sites People Search terms Submit search Center for Community EngagementOpen main menu Close Open search Our Programs Community Partners Awards About Us AggiePulse News Quick Links Close Quick Links Apply Visit Give Calendar A-Z Index Directory Libraries MyUSU This is where Aggies change the world The Center for Community Engagement develops active citizens through community engagement and scholarship. We empower students to explore civic identity, develop leadership skills, and address community-identified needs, locally and around the world. Community Partners CCE works with local, regional, national, and international partners to tackle critical issues identified by the community. Partnerships with organizations that understand the needs of their communities are vitally important. Info for Partners Faculty Opportunities Aggies who participate in community-engaged learning graduate as citizen scholars equipped to help transform communities in the state, country, and world. Faculty help make these connections happen by offering Community-Engaged Learning courses. Info for Faculty Student Connections CCE aims to provide every USU student with opportunities to find their passion, apply their education, and make a positive and meaningful contribution to the greater community through service and civic engagement. Info for Students Our Programs 2021 Annual Report Even in the midst of worst public health crisis in a generation, CCE staff, students, faculty, and community partners upheld USU’s community engagement and land-grant mission. This annual report showcases the innovative and collaborative nature of CCE programs through this past year. Annual Report USU Community Engagement News Read Story March 21, 2022 Nominations Open for 2022 Community Engagement Awards Each year, Utah State University’s Center for Community Engagement recognizes the work of those who are committed to outstanding service through the Community Engagement Awards. Read Story February 14, 2022 USU's Transforming Communities Initiative Developing Homelessness Landlord Outreach Program Social work students at Utah State University are working with each other — and building on the work of classmates who came before — to build a program combatting homelessness in the Bear River region. Read Story January 24, 2022 USU Eastern Faculty, Students Participate in Deer Collaring Study for Wildlife Management Students at Utah State University Eastern have the unique opportunity to participate in deer collaring research to track mule deer through the San Rafael Swell with associate professor Sunshine Brosi and the Department of Wildlife Resources in Utah. Full News Feed Center for Community Engagement Contact CCE Taggart Student Center (TSC) 318 7205 Old Main Hill Logan UT 84322 (435) 797-9681 Aggie Pulse Carnegie Classification News Assessment Maps & Directions Search USU Campus Safety Jobs Contact Terms of Use Copyright Privacy Accessibility Non-Discrimination Admin Back to top of the page