Skip to main content Home About the School Apply to the School Exhibitions Publications News Public Events Close Yale School of Art 1156 Chapel Street, POB 208339 New Haven, Connecticut, 06520-8339 Pause animations Play animations Home About the School Apply to the School Exhibitions Publications News Public Events Pause animations Play animations This website exists as an ongoing collaborative experiment in digital publishing and information sharing. Because this website functions as a wiki, all members of the School of Art community—graduate students, faculty, staff, and alums—have the ability to add new content and pages, and to edit most of the site’s existing content. Content is the property of its various authors. When you contribute to this site, you agree to abide by Yale University academic and network use policy, and to act as a responsible member of our community. Visitor: Log in Edit this page Page history Page last changed by: Lindsey Mancini Background changed by: Lindsey Mancini Public Events Hosted by the Yale School of Art Welcome to the School of Art’s public events calendar, initiated in the summer of 2020. To stay updated on new events as they’re confirmed, all members of the public are invited to subscribe this calendar to their own calendaring software by clicking the “Subscribe” button below. Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody For events open to the Yale community, view our Yale Calendar listings at bit.ly/SoACalendar >> Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody Yale School of Art Land Acknowledgement > Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody Simplified calendar view available at yaleart.org/publicevents >> Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody Public events hosted by the Yale School of Art are also posted on our Facebook >> Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody For a calendar of exhibitions and events hosted by, led by, or featuring members of the School of Art community, visit Yale School of Art in the World >> Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody For questions, please email School of Art Communications Associate Lindsey Mancini. Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody Background image by @TC12LCI9IR1 Editor details Last edited by: Sara Cronquist Edit access: Everybody © 2022 Support the School Visiting Instagram Facebook YouTube Contact Sitemap Accessibility at Yale This website exists as an ongoing collaborative experiment in digital publishing and information sharing. Because this website functions as a wiki, all members of the School of Art community—graduate students, faculty, staff, and alums—have the ability to add new content and pages, and to edit most of the site’s existing content. Content is the property of its various authors. When you contribute to this site, you agree to abide by Yale University academic and network use policy, and to act as a responsible member of our community. Visitor: Log in Edit this page Page history Page last changed by: Lindsey Mancini Background changed by: Lindsey Mancini