Skip to main content Navigation Academics Admissions Research Locations Student Life Alumni & Giving Athletics Apply Now Integrative General Studies (BGS) Program at a Glance Program Bachelor College(s) College of Undergraduate Studies Department(s) Office of Interdisc Studies In State Tuition Out of State Tuition $212.28 per credit hour $748.89 per credit hour Learn more about program tuition and fees. The Bachelor of Integrative General Studies offers a flexible and self-designed curriculum to degree-seeking students. The program allows students to draw on their multidisciplinary course work to refine and demonstrate their attainment of six learning outcomes that are in high demand. understanding of common human themes, awareness of diverse cultures, and understanding of the cultural, historical, economic, and social implications of learning experiences accomplishments as successful writers, speakers, and producers of digital materials in the academic, civic, and professional worlds understanding of scientific methods and ability to apply them to challenges facing society capacity as well-informed citizens who can reason and can apply analytical, statistical, and computational methods to the challenges of a globally-diverse and technologically rich environment ability to assess and decipher information in a world full of conflicting sources understanding of leadership skills, including decision-making, collaboration, and problem-solving. Integrative General Studies (BGS) may be completed fully online, although not all elective options or program prerequisites may be offered online. Newly admitted students choosing to complete this program exclusively via UCF online classes may enroll with a reduction in campus-based fees. Click here to learn more about this online program. Degree Requirements Students must declare the Integrative General Studies major prior to filing their intent to graduate. Students must earn at least a "C" (2.0) in each core course. Courses designated in 1 (General Education Program) and 2 (Common Program Prerequisites) are usually completed in the first 60 hours. Students in this program are not eligible for a double degree, double major or second degree in Integrative General Studies. Online Integrative General Studies, BGS View Full Description Undergraduate Application Deadlines Freshmen Transfers International Fall May 1 Spring November 1 Summer March 1 Fall July 1 Spring November 1 Summer March 1 Fall March 1 Spring September 1 Summer January 1 Ready to get started? Apply Today Degree Search College of Undergraduate Studies programs Bachelors Integrative General Studies (BGS) University of Central Florida Colleges Burnett Honors Arts and Humanities Business Community Innovation and Education Engineering and Computer Science Graduate Studies Health Professions and Sciences Medicine Nursing Optics and Photonics Sciences Hospitality Management × The Bachelor of Integrative General Studies offers a flexible and self-designed curriculum to degree-seeking students. The program allows students to draw on their multidisciplinary course work to refine and demonstrate their attainment of six learning outcomes that are in high demand. understanding of common human themes, awareness of diverse cultures, and understanding of the cultural, historical, economic, and social implications of learning experiences accomplishments as successful writers, speakers, and producers of digital materials in the academic, civic, and professional worlds understanding of scientific methods and ability to apply them to challenges facing society capacity as well-informed citizens who can reason and can apply analytical, statistical, and computational methods to the challenges of a globally-diverse and technologically rich environment ability to assess and decipher information in a world full of conflicting sources understanding of leadership skills, including decision-making, collaboration, and problem-solving. Integrative General Studies (BGS) may be completed fully online, although not all elective options or program prerequisites may be offered online. Newly admitted students choosing to complete this program exclusively via UCF online classes may enroll with a reduction in campus-based fees. Click here to learn more about this online program. Degree Requirements Students must declare the Integrative General Studies major prior to filing their intent to graduate. Students must earn at least a "C" (2.0) in each core course. Courses designated in 1 (General Education Program) and 2 (Common Program Prerequisites) are usually completed in the first 60 hours. Students in this program are not eligible for a double degree, double major or second degree in Integrative General Studies. Online Integrative General Studies, BGS Degree Requirements Core Requirements: Advanced Level 45 Total Credits Complete all of the following Complete the following: LDR3115 - Contemporary Issues in Leadership (3) Earn at least 42 credits from the following types of courses: Select primarily from upper level courses, with an Integrative General Studies/Interdisciplinary Studies adviser's approval Students are encouraged to choose high-impact and signature courses, such as internships, undergraduate research, service-learning, and study abroad, where possible Capstone 3 Total Credits Complete the following: IDS4939 - Senior Seminar (3) Grand Total Credits: 48 University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida