Skip to main content MyWellesley Give Toggle navigation Search GO About Mission & Values Wellesley Facts Accreditation Strategic Planning President The Campus Sustainability Wellesley in The World College History Wellesley Blogs Visit Admission & Financial Aid Apply Visit Campus In Your Area Cost & Financial Aid Diversity & Inclusion Why Wellesley? FAQ Academics The Academic Program Library & Technology Departments, Programs, & Majors Course Catalog WellesleyX Faculty Academic Centers Academic Institutes Academic Advising & Support Registrar Academic Summer Programs Campus Life Housing Dining Our Community Health and Wellness Getting to Boston Student Life Career Education Athletics Physical Education Athletics Recreation Facilities & Hours News Wellesley in the News Press Room News Archives Events Public Calendar Event Planning Commencement Administration Committees & Groups Offices Policies Working at Wellesley Alumnae Alumnae in the News Online Community Classes, Clubs, & Groups Events & Reunion Wellesley Magazine Awards & Fellowships Volunteer Life-Long Learning Giving to Wellesley About the Association Contact the Association Spanish & Portuguese Department Faculty Marjorie Agosin Marjorie Agosin magosin@wellesley.edu (781) 283-2425 Spanish B.A., University of Georgia; M.A., Ph.D., Indiana University Green Hall Rm. 331 Marjorie Agosin Andrew W. Mellon Professor in the Humanities; Professor of Spanish Poet, human rights activist, literary critic. Interested in Jewish literature and literature of human rights in the Americas; women writers of Latin America; migration, identity, and ethnicity. My creative work is inspired by the theme of social justice as well as the pursuit of remembrance and the memorialization of traumatic historical events both in the Americas and in Europe. I have written about the Holocaust through the portrayal of Anne Frank as well as about the history of Bosnian women during the siege of Sarajevo. I am also a literary scholar and my work has focused on such major writers such as Pablo Neruda, Maria Luisa Bombal and Gabriela Mistral. I have also researched and written about the role of women in Latin America during authoritarian regimes in the seventies and eighties. The work of the Chilean arpilleras has been a pioneer work on this subject. I have also written essays, autobiographical memoirs and a young adult novel. All of these works have as a unified theme the pursuit of social justice and human rights. I teach a variety of courses from Writing 125 to a freshman seminar to courses on the subject of historical and public memory in the Americas. I also teach courses on Jewish women writers and on Latin America. I like to garden, travel, and to compose stories. Spanish & Portuguese Department A Guide to Finding the Right Course for You Faculty Major Courses for Fall 2022 Curriculum Current courses Advanced Placement Policies and Language Requirement Global Portuguese Studies International Study Internships Spanish Café Spanish Table Spanish House Humanities at Wellesley For Alumnae Contact Us Spanish & Portuguese Department Wellesley College Green Hall, Room 438 106 Central Street Wellesley, MA 02481 Carlos Ramos Department Chair Email:cramos@wellesley.edu Tel: 781.283.2744 Jael M. Matos Academic Administrator Email:jmatos@wellesley.edu Tel: 781.283.2402 Working at Wellesley Directory Terms of Use Privacy Key Facts Web Accessibility Webmaster Copyright © Trustees of Wellesley College | Wellesley College 106 Central Street – Wellesley, MA 02481 (781) 283-1000