Skip to main site navigation Skip to main content Open the search panel Open the main menu Search Go Close the search panel Information for… Incoming J.D. Current Students Faculty Staff Media Employers News Events Alumni Giving About Library Login Open the Search panel Admissions Admissions Why Columbia J.D. Admissions Graduate Admissions Academics Academics J.D. Program and Curriculum LL.M. Program and Curriculum Executive LL.M. Program and Curriculum J.S.D. Program and Curriculum Dual and Joint Degrees International Programs Public Interest and Public Service Experiential Learning Courses Registration Services Academic Calendar Executive Education Areas of Study Areas of Study Constitutional Law, Regulation, and Public Policy Corporate, Business, and Transactional Law Criminal Justice Data Analytics Environment and Energy Family, Gender, and Sexuality Intellectual Property and Technology International and Comparative Law Law of the Workplace Leadership Legal History Litigation and Dispute Resolution National Security and Privacy Social Justice and Human Rights Faculty & Scholarship Faculty & Scholarship Faculty Directory Research Centers and Programs Scholarship Archive Workshops, Lectures, and Colloquia Careers Careers Private Sector Careers Public Interest and Public Service Careers Academic Careers Judicial Clerkships Employment Statistics Employment Policies Community Life Community Life Visit Campus Dean’s Welcome Your Campus, Your City Student Life Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Strategic Initiatives Giving Update on COVID-19: Your gifts to Columbia Law School count now more than ever. For fastest processing, we encourage you to make your gifts online. Please note: Due to COVID-19’s impact on staffing, there may be some delay in processing your gift and we thank you for your patience. More in this Section Explore Giving: How to Give The Annual Fund Class Gift Naming Opportunities and Leadership Gifts Recognition Societies Bequests and Planned Giving 2020 Annual Report Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ) Your support makes everything possible. Much of what we do as a community begins with you—our alumni and friends. Your support touches every part of the Columbia Law School experience and allows us to make a difference when and where it matters most: To train our talented students and attract a diverse and world-class faculty of experts. To expand our commitment to experiential learning so that our students become leaders who are prepared to act wisely during the pivotal moments that affect generations to come. To bring new ideas to life and deepen the programs that we already offer. Your contributions allow us to be nimble and proactive; to nurture bold, path-breaking ideas; and to continue to train the next generation of lawyers to lead in a complex and changing world. Your gifts make a world of difference. Give Now If you need further assistance, please contact the Development team at [email protected] or 212-854-2680. Office of Development and Alumni Relations Contact us for important information related to development, giving, alumni events, benefits, and services. 435 West 116 Street, Box A-2, New York, NY 10027 212-854-2680 Send an email Related Links Give Now Make a Reunion Gift Contact Us The Campaign for Columbia Law Our five-year fundraising initiative is charting an ambitious course for the Law School’s future. Learn More The Annual Fund Gifts to the Annual Fund enable the Dean to address immediate, high-priority needs and act on key opportunities as they arise. Learn More Columbians Caring for Students The university has set up a fund to help alleviate students’ financial burdens brought on by the coronavirus crisis. If you would like to assist Columbia Law students, you can make your gift online and select “Law School - Student Support.” Learn More Related News Read All Stories More in The Press News Alumni and Friends Meet Jerome L. Greene Foundation Challenge to Endow 50 New Scholarships Gifts matched by a $5 million challenge grant from the foundation add $10 million for endowed student aid. Giving News Albert E. Cinelli ’55 Endows Fund to Support Business Law Giving News Brad Smith ’84 and Kathy Surace-Smith ’84 Endow Human Rights Clinic at Columbia Law School Giving News Gift Endows Public Interest/Public Service Fellows Program Admissions Why Columbia Visit 435 West 116th Street New York, NY 10027 212-854-2640 Contact Us Social Media (Administrative Title) Twitter LinkedIn Facebook Instagram Admissions Academics Areas of Study Faculty & Scholarship Careers Community Life Information for… Incoming J.D. Current Students Faculty Staff Media Employers Login News Events Alumni Giving About Library Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Donate © Copyright 2022 The Trustees of Columbia University in the City of New York.