Skip to main content Information For: Current Students Alumni Harvard Undergraduates Educators Recruiters Media Apply Give to HGSE Search Apply for Degree Programs Apply for Professional Education Donate Give back to HGSE and support the next generation of passionate educators and innovative leaders. Keywords Close Menu Degree Programs Professional Education Faculty & Research Usable Knowledge Keywords About HGSE About the Dean Dean's Welcome Messages from the Dean Commentary and Media Dean's Office History of HGSE Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Our Impact Campus and Facilities Office Directory Virtual Tour Gutman Conference Center Reservation Request Form Capacities and Cost Floor Plan Catering Policies Audio Visual Directions, Parking, and Hotels Map of HGSE Directions to HGSE History of HGSE Buildings Faculty & Staff Directory Work at HGSE Title IX Information Doctoral Degree Programs Doctor of Education Leadership Doctor of Philosophy in Education Brochures Academic Calendar Academic Catalog Doctoral Viewbook Master's Degree Program Master's in Education Programs Education Leadership, Organizations, and Entrepreneurship Education Policy and Analysis Human Development and Education Learning Design, Innovation, and Technology Teaching and Teacher Leadership Concentrations Arts and Learning Early Childhood Global, International, and Comparative Education Higher Education Identity, Power, and Justice in Education Literacy and Languages A Personalized Approach Online Master's in Education Leadership Foundations Brochures Academic Catalog Academic Calendar Academic Year 2020-22 Programs Professional Education About Us Programs Early Childhood K-12 Higher Education Online Programs For Organizations Group and Team Enrollment Custom Programs Admissions Payment & Tuition Assistance Refunds & Withdrawals Policies and Accessibility Campus Experience On-Campus Program Health and Safety Policies FAQs Events Contact Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Centers, Projects and Initiatives Faculty Recruitment Faculty Experts Admissions Introduce Yourself Explore Find the Right Program Brochures Life at HGSE Connect Apply Refer a Candidate Frequently Asked Questions Financial Aid HGSE & Harvard University Consumer Information Tuition & Costs Applying for Aid Incoming Students Incoming International Students Continuing Students Scholarships, Fellowships & Grants Need-Based Grant Awards HGSE Fellowships Additional Fellowships External Fellowships Student Loans Student Work International Students International Applicant FAQ Funding Sources Students with Families Financial Aid Appeals Presentations & Publications Budgeting & Financial Literacy Budget Calculator Registrar News & Events Harvard Edcast Education Now Askwith Education Forum Upcoming Events Submit an Event Usable Knowledge Ed. Magazine Harvard Education Publishing Group Information for Media Education Now Usable Knowledge Usable Knowledge Harvard EdCast Ed. Magazine HGSE Centennial Community Learning Beyond the Classroom Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Organizations and Initiatives Community Events and Action Resources Teaching and Learning Gutman Library Services Alumni Services Collections Special Collections Request for Library Purchase Library Hours Websites for Educators About the Library Facilities & Equipment Contact Information Coronavirus Response Information Directory Calendar Alumni Network & Connect Get Involved Learn & Grow Benefits & Services my.harvard Student Handbook Introduction Welcome to HGSE Preface Commitment to Diversity Part 1: Enrollment Policies Academic Programs and Affiliations Registration and Enrollment Policies Tuition and Fees Financial Aid Student Health Insurance Grading Part 2: Student Supports Advising HGSE Supports University Supports Campus Safety and Security Part 3: Program Policies Academic Governance Doctor of Education (Ed.D.) Program Policies Doctor of Philosophy in Education (Ph.D.) Program Policies Doctor of Education Leadership (Ed.L.D.) Program Policies Master of Education (Ed.M.) Program Policies Part 4: Academic Integrity and Standards of Conduct Resolution on Rights and Responsibilities Academic Standards and Integrity Standards of Conduct in the Harvard Community Committee on Rights and Responsibilities Policies on Harassment and Discrimination Policy on Consensual Romantic Relationships Policy on Physical Violence Policy on Misrepresentation of Status Policy on Illicit Substances Policy on Hazing Policy on Threats Part 5: Copyright and Publishing Policies Copyright Disclosure Use of the Harvard Name Information For Current Students Alumni Harvard Undergraduates Educators Recruiters Media Connect with HGSE Facebook Twitter Linked In LinkedIn Symbols Created with Sketch. Instagram Professional Education Linked In Symbols Created with Sketch. Payment and Tuition Assistance Payment Full tuition is due by the payment deadline, which you may find on the program's application page. Although a purchase order does confirm enrollment, full payment is still required by the final payment deadline. Please note that failure to pay by the deadline will result in your withdrawal from the program. We accept payment by credit card, check, and bank wire transfer. Upon acceptance to a program, you will receive specific payment instructions as part of the confirmation process. The Harvard Graduate School of Education reserves the right to change faculty or cancel programs at its discretion and is not responsible for any planning expenses incurred. Please Note: Participants are responsible for their own travel expenses and hotel accommodations for on-campus programs. Please click here for more information on hotel accommodations. The school is not responsible for non-refundable travel arrangements or other planning expenses. Tuition Assistance Limited tuition assistance is available for some programs and is granted based on institutional or participant need. If you would like to inquire whether your program offers tuition assistance, please contact our team directly by submitting a case in the Professional Education Community under the Question Topic “Tuition Assistance.” Requests for tuition assistance have no effect on an applicant's prospects for admission. You may access the tuition assistance application after you have submitted your program application. To be considered, tuition assistance applications must be submitted by the final application deadline of the program for which you seek tuition assistance. Applications submitted after this deadline will not be considered. Financial Sponsor Information AmeriCorps Education Award AmeriCorps members who would like to use all or part of their Education Award to pay the program fee cost should, after acceptance and upon submitting enrollment confirmation, select “Segal AmeriCorps Education Award” when indicating how the program fee will be paid. Immediately after submitting the online confirmation, enrolled participants should then initiate a payment request online through their My AmeriCorps account and forward the completed request as confirmation to ppefinar@gse.harvard.edu. Please refer to this link for additional information on using the Segal AmeriCorps Education Award or email ppefinar@gse.harvard.edu with any questions. GI Bill Benefits - No Longer Available The US Department of Veterans Affairs recently notified us of changes in how they interpret their education benefits policy. As a result, until further notice, the programs offered by Professional Education at the Harvard Graduate School of Education are not eligible for payment under Chapter 33 Post-9/11 GI Bill® or the Yellow Ribbon Program. We are no longer developing a VA-specific catalog and have removed language about VA benefit payment options from our website. In this section Professional Education About Us Programs Early Childhood K-12 Higher Education Online Programs For Organizations Group and Team Enrollment Custom Programs Admissions Payment & Tuition Assistance Refunds & Withdrawals Policies and Accessibility Campus Experience On-Campus Program Health and Safety Policies FAQs Events Contact Find a Program Connect with Professional Education Linked In Symbols Created with Sketch. Professional Education Professional Education About Us Programs Early Childhood K-12 Higher Education Online Programs For Organizations Group and Team Enrollment Custom Programs Admissions Payment & Tuition Assistance Refunds & Withdrawals Policies and Accessibility Campus Experience On-Campus Program Health and Safety Policies FAQs Events Contact Connect With Us hgse_profed ProfessionalEducationHGSE LinkedIn “In high-poverty schools that were remote for more than half of 2021, the loss was about half of a school year’s wo… https://t.co/2F2Onsda68 May 19 After the intense pressures of COVID, more than a quarter of superintendents say they plan to resign. A veteran sup… https://t.co/Kr8r2NB2XP May 13 Learn more about HGSE Professional Education offerings Sign up to receive updates Professional Education Harvard Graduate School of Education 13 Appian Way, Longfellow Hall, Fifth Floor Cambridge, MA 02138 ppe@gse.harvard.edu Domestic: 800-545-1849 International: +01-617-496-9139 Fax: 617-496-8051 Connect with Professional Education Linked In Symbols Created with Sketch. Find a Program Artboard 1 13 Appian Way | Cambridge, MA 02138 Centennial Contact Us Directory Directions Harvard University ©2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College Linked In Symbols Created with Sketch. Youtube RSS Podcast HGSE Publishing Policies & Disclaimers Digital Accessibility Policy Privacy Policy Trademark Notice