Skip to content Georgia Tech-Shenzhen Main Menu About A Brief Introduction | Engineering Study Abroad Milestone Events Student Life Annual Safety Security Report Academics Courses Academic Calendars Current GT Students Transient Students Graduate Programs MS Analytics MS Computer Science MS Electrical and Computer Engineering MS Environmental Engineering Master of Industrial Design Exchange To GT-Atlanta MS Analytics MS CS MS ECE MS ENVE Master of Industrial Design To GT-Shenzhen To GT-Lorraine Faculty Georgia Tech Faculty with Rotational Assignment to Shenzhen Faculty Positions Financial Scholarships Coulter Scholarships Merit-Based Scholarships NACA Scholarships Tuition and Fees Industry FAQ FAQ on Admission FAQ on Financial Matters FAQ on Programmatic Issues FAQ on GT MS Degree FAQ on PhD Ugrad Summer Contact Us Search Search for: Search Merit-Based Scholarships The scholarships below are quoted in the Chinese currency RMB. You can visit this page to obtain the exchange rate between RMB and the currency of your interest. As of 02/26/2021, the exchange rate between USD and RMB is approximately 1 USD = 6.48 RMB. We are pleased to announce the availability of a limited number of merit-based GT-Shenzhen scholarships in the form of partial tuition waivers at three different levels: Level A Scholarship at a total of 30,000 RMB, distributed over 3 semesters at 10,000 RMB per semester. Level B Scholarship at a total of 21,000 RMB, distributed over 3 semesters at 7,000 RMB per semester. Level C Scholarship at a total of 12,000 RMB, distributed over 3 semesters at 4,000 RMB per semester. Eligibility: All incoming (newly admitted) GT-Shenzhen MS students are eligible for consideration. Selection criteria: Ranking during your undergraduate studies. If you have enrolled in a graduate program, please submit your graduate ranking information as well. All original official ranking certificates and transcripts must be received by our Atlanta office before you can be considered; see Contact Us page. The reputation of your undergraduate university (and graduate university, if applicable), as well as the rigor of your curriculum. TOEFL, GRE scores and GPA. Once enrolled in a GT MS program, the merit-based scholarship can be discontinued if the recipient is found to have violated the Georgia Tech Student Code of Conduct or if the student fails to maintain a 3.5 cumulative GPA (out of 4.0) in the preceding GT semester. Scholarship decisions will be made approximately 3 months before the start of each term. Scholarship recipients will be asked to assist the GT-Shenzhen office with various administrative tasks. Financial Scholarships Coulter Scholarships Merit-Based Scholarships NACA Scholarships Tuition and Fees Upcoming Events There are no upcoming events at this time. Contact the Institute Directory Offices Campus Map Apply Support / Give Log in Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404-894-2000 Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Accessibility Accountability Accreditation Employment ©2022 Georgia Institute of Technology