COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Alert File your 2022-2023 FAFSA now! The Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) allows you to apply for the full range of possible financial aid programs, including work-study, grants, and loans. Learn more! Types of Financial Aid Section Menu Types of Financial Aid - Home Grants International Student Aid Loans Scholarships Work Study Office of Financial Aid Complete your FAFSA today! Wichita State's school code: 001950Go to FAFSA When it comes to paying for college, you have options, and our helpful staff in the Office of Financial Aid can answer your questions and guide you through the process of finding effective solutions to fund your education. Types of Financial Aid Financial aid is money awarded or loaned to students and/or their families to pay for educational expenses. It includes scholarships, grants, work study employment, and loans. Eligibility for financial aid is based on a number of factors, not just income. Resources Grants Loans Scholarships Work Study Resources for International Students Scholarships Scholarships recognize outstanding academic achievement and/or financial need and do not have to be repaid. Wichita State Scholarships may be awarded based on your application for admission or be specific to your major or circumstances. Outside Scholarships are awarded to students from external organizations. In fiscal year 2017, WSU students earned more than $1.8 million in outside scholarships. Learn more about scholarships Grants Grants are based on financial need and do not need repaid. Some grants, such as the Kansas Comprehensive Grant, Federal Supplemental Educational Opportunity Grant, and Sedgwick County Access Grant are limited, first-come, first-served awards. Be sure to complete your Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) by Wichita State's December 1st priority date to maximize your consideration for these need-based grants. Learn more about grants Loans Loans require repayment over time. Federal loans offer tax-deductible, low, fixed interest rates and flexible payment terms. Payments on federal student loans are deferred while you are enrolled at least half time. Federal Direct Subsidized Loans: Awarded based on financial need, and you are not responsible for the interest while you are enrolled at least half time. Federal Direct Unsubsidized Loans: Not based on financial need and will being to accrue interest once the loans are disbursed. Learn more about loans Work Study Work study is awarded based on financial need. It provides funds for on-campus, part-time jobs to help you offset your educational expenses through a paycheck for the hours worked. Learn more about work study 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©