Skip to main content Academic Computing & Networking Services CSU A-Z: A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Submit search navigation menu Home About ACNS/Telecom Services Committees The Classroom Review Board ITEC Advisory Council (IAC) Information Technology Executive Committee (ITEC) University Charges for Technology Committee (UCFT) IT Groups Fort Collins Community Network (FCCN) Subnet Managers Windows Administrators I Want To Check my email Connect to Wireless Manage & Create Mailing Lists Set-Up Duo Two Factor Authentication Use MS Teams in Online Instruction Download Microsoft Office Request InCommon Certificate Request a Project I Am A Faculty & Staff IT Professional Student Retiree Alumni Duo: Two Factor Authentication Something you know + Something you have Quick Start Videos Check out the videos below to find out how to register and manage your devices and what to expect when using Duo Two Factor Authentication. Register 1st Device Add Devices Manage Devices Using Duo What is Duo and why does the CSU System use it? Duo is a tool that provides two-factor authentication to better protect your account by requiring an additional piece of information beyond your username and password. When you access certain CSU System services – including Microsoft 365 applications (OneDrive, Teams, etc.) and university email accounts, VPN, using both the GlobalProtect desktop agent/client and gateway.colostate.edu – you will be required to use a device that you have (mobile phone, desk phone, or a hardware token) to provide an additional layer of security to your account. This is done by receiving a push authentication request through the Duo Mobile App, a phone call, or entering a generated code. Video: Intro to Duo and Why CSU uses it. Attention iPhone users: See our FAQ page for what to expect with your device when Duo is enabled How Do I Get Started? You can register (any and all) of the following devices for Duo Two Factor Authentication. We recommend that you set up more than one device as a 2nd factor authentication method with Duo. If you lose, misplace or simply forget a device, having a second registered device will save the day. • The Duo Mobile App (Recommended): Download the Duo Mobile App from your smartphone or tablet’s app store. Once registered, this method will allow Duo to push a message to your phone or tablet where you can verify your identity by tapping the screen. The Duo Mobile App also has a one-time code feature that functions even when the device can’t reach a cellular or Wi-Fi network. • Any Phone Number: You can register your cell phone, desk phone, home phone, etc. and the system will call you to validate your identity. • A Hardware Token: (CSU-Fort Collins users only) These can be purchased from RamTech for $23.75 and will be registered to your account at time of purchase. Hardware tokens generate a six-digit code that you can use to authenticate. CSU-FC: Register your first device CSU-P: Register your first device For Support: CSU-Fort Collins: Central IT Support Helpdesk: Morgan Library – 1st Floor Phone: (970) 491-7276 Email: help@colostate.edu Hours & Additional Information Test your account CSU-Pueblo: IT Help Desk: 1st Floor, Library and Academic Resource Center (LARC), Office 130 Phone: (719) 549-2002 Help Desk & Additional Information on Duo Test your account Frequently Asked Questions Register your 1st Device: Step-by-Step Guides Register & Activate Mobile App (Recommended Primary Method) Register and Activate the Duo Mobile App One-Page Quick Guide for steps below Download Duo Mobile App To use a smartphone or tablet for Two-Factor Authentication, the Duo Mobile app must be downloaded and installed on the device. Duo Mobile for iPhone Duo Mobile for Android Duo Mobile for Windows Phone Register a smartphone or tablet To register a smartphone or tablet, CSU Fort Collins users will login to the eID Duo Self Service page with their eName and password. CSU Pueblo users will login to the NetID Two-Factor Authentication (Duo) page with their NetID and password. Note: your screen may differ from the screenshots below if you are registering from CSU Pueblo, the instructions are the same for both campuses. Click on the Register Device link on the right side of the Two-Factor Authentication page. Provide a unique Device Name (Smartphone, tablet, iPhone, Android, etc.,) for the device. *A phone number is not needed for a tablet and it is optional when registering a smart phone. If a phone number is added, users will have the option to receive a phone call from DUO on their smartphone for authentication. Click on the Type dropdown and select DUO mobile app. Click on the Platform dropdown to select the device platform, Apple iOS, Google Android, Windows Phone 7, etc. Google\Android example iPad example Once all necessary device information is entered, click the Save button to save the device information. After you click Save, the page will refresh to the Two-Factor Device Activation page with a barcode displayed. Leave this page open and move to the next step. Activate Duo Mobile App To Activate the DUO mobile app, open the Duo Mobile app on your device and then tap “+ Add” next to the Accounts section. This will bring up the Duo Mobile app’s barcode scanner. Scan the barcode on the Two-Factor Device Activation page with the app’s barcode scanner. When the device activates, the Duo Mobile app will display Colorado State University as an account. On the Two-Factor Device Activation page, click on Return to display your Registered Devices. Register another device To register another device, click on the Register Device link. Test your Account To confirm the successful registration and activation of your device(s), CSU-FC: visit the Pulse Secure Connection page and follow the prompts to log-in and authenticate with Duo. CSU-P: login to the NetID Two-Factor Authentication (Duo) page, then select View/Update > Two-Factor Authentication (Duo) Register to Authenticate with a Phone Call Register to Authenticate with a Phone Call To register a phone to authenticate with a phone call, CSU Fort Collins users will login to the eID Duo Self Service page with their eName and password. CSU Pueblo users will login to the NetID Two-Factor Authentication (Duo) page with their NetID and password. Note: your screen may differ from the screenshots below if you are registering from CSU Pueblo, the instructions are the same for both campuses. Click on the Register Device link on the right side of the Two-Factor Authentication page. Provide a unique Device Name (Office Phone, Home Phone, etc.) for the device and enter the phone number. Click on the Type dropdown and select phone call. Click on the Platform dropdown and select Generic Phone. Once all necessary device information is entered, click the Save button. See the What to Expect: Duo Authentication “Call Me” guide, for details on the authentication experience with this method. Test your Account To confirm the successful registration and activation of your device(s), CSU-FC: visit the Pulse Secure Connection page and follow the prompts to log-in and authenticate with Duo. CSU-P: login to the NetID Two-Factor Authentication (Duo) page, then select View/Update > Two-Factor Authentication (Duo) What to Expect: Duo Authentication When logging into a website that utilizes Two Factor Authentication, users will first login using their CSU credentials. Upon logging in, the Duo prompt will populate allowing users to choose how to verify their identity. If more than one device was registered, make sure to select the one you want to use for this session from the Device dropdown menu. Options for Duo Authentication: Send Me a Push – Using the Duo Mobile App Easiest, fastest method Enter a Passcode – Using the Duo Mobile App or Hardware Token Great when you’re outside of cellular reception Hardware Tokens currently only supported for CSU Fort Collins users Call Me – Using any Registered Phone Number Least reliable option, use only when necessary Expand the sections below for details on what to expect when you authenticate with each method. Send Me a Push Click on the Send Me a Push button to receive a login request using the Duo Mobile App on a smartphone or tablet. Important: If a notification is ever received when you are not trying to log in, click the Deny button. To approve the login request from the push notification, select “Tap to View Actions” then tap “Approve”. To approve the login request in the Duo Mobile App, open the app and tap the Approve button at the bottom of the screen. Once the notification has been approved, you will be logged into the requested website. Enter a Passcode with the Duo Mobile App Click on the Enter a Passcode button to authenticate using a passcode generated from the Duo Mobile App. Open the Duo Mobile App on your device, then tap “Show” next to the Passcode section. The Duo Mobile App will populate a 6-digit code under the Colorado State University account. Enter the 6-digit passcode from the Duo Mobile App into the passcode textbox and then click on the Log In button. Enter a Passcode with a Hardware Token Hardware tokens are available for CSU Fort Collins students, faculty, and staff to purchase for Duo authentication. They are not currently supported at CSU Pueblo. To authenticate using a hardware token, click the ‘Enter a Passcode’ button. Note: Using the Device dropdown menu to select your token is not necessary before entering the passcode. Press the button on your hardware token to generate a new passcode, type it into the space provided, and click on the Log In button. Tokens can get “out of sync” if the button is pressed too many times in a row and the generated passcodes aren’t used for login. Contact the Central IT Support Helpdesk if your token stops working. If you need a hardware token, one can be purchased and configured at RamTech in the Lory Student Center. Call Me Click on the Call Me button to receive a phone call from Duo to your registered device. The status bar at the bottom of the Duo prompt will update at each step of the process. Answer the call and listen to the instructions to authenticate. The Duo Prompt status bar will also display how to approve the request over the phone. Connect to CSU’s VPN (GlobalProtect) Duo Two-Factor Authentication is required when accessing CSU’s VPN, the GlobalProtect secure gateway; whether accessed via the desktop agent/client or the web interface (gateway.colostate.edu). Information for using GlobalProtect can be found on the ACNS Security page. Access: Canvas eID Google Apps Email Office365 Portal O365 & Exchange Help Echo360 Related Groups: IT Technical Support Help Desk RamTech Telecommunications Information Systems Division Information Hub ACNS Admin Login Covid-19 Information Apply to CSU Contact CSU Disclaimer Equal Opportunity Privacy Statement Accessibility Statement © 2022 Colorado State University