Skip to main content Undergraduate Admissions Navigation Academics Admissions FreshmanTransferInternationalTransient, Non-Degree Seeking and Second Bachelor’sDual Enrollment and Early AdmissionAdmitted StudentsRequest InfoCheck Status Cost and Aid Visit FAQs View All FAQsFreshmanApplication ProcessAdmitted StudentsCost, Fees and Financial AidCampus Visits and ToursHousing and Campus Life Resources For High School StudentsFor ParentsFor CounselorsVirtual Info SessionsAdmission FormsJoin Our Mailing ListContact Us Apply International Applicants Join Our Thriving Global Community Skip to Section UCF Is International Home to students from more than 150 countries, UCF welcomes the perspective and diversity that international students bring to our campus. We are a warm and friendly place to call your home away from home. Here, you’ll interact with a caring faculty, gain hands-on experience and discover expert advisors who will help you choose your path and stay on track. University Profile* 68,583 Student Population 66 Florida Counties Represented 50 States Represented 146 Countries Represented 48% Freshman Ethnic Minority Enrollment Top 5 Majors: Engineering, Computer Science, Biology, Biomedical Sciences, Psychology Top 5 States: Florida, New York, Georgia, Pennsylvania, New Jersey Top 5 Countries Outside of the United States: Venezuela, Colombia, China, Haiti, Brazil *Projected for 2021-22 International Admissions Requirements This page contains information for international (F1) students and students presenting international academic credentials for admission to UCF. Steps to Apply: 1.Complete and submit the online application Submitting an application for admission requires a $30 nonrefundable fee in U.S. Dollars. Apply using the UCF Undergraduate Application For all international undergraduate applicants Apply with Common App For First-Time-In-College (FTIC) international applicants 2.Submit required academic documents The academic documents required will vary based upon your entry level. Entry Level: Transfer Entry Level: Freshman A transfer applicant is one who has completed 12 or more semester hours of post-secondary (college or university) credit hours after secondary school (high school) completion. For transfer admission criteria, please visit the Transfer Applicants page. All transfer students must submit: Official transcripts from all U.S. post-secondary schools (colleges and universities), if applicable Official course-by-course evaluation from Josef Silny & Associates or World Education Services for all international post-secondary (college or university coursework, if applicable Official AP, IB, AICE, CLEP and Cambridge AS/A level score reports for exams taken, if applicable. Applicants who have not completed more than 11 semester hours of post-secondary credit after secondary school completion. Official transcripts, graduation certificates and/or leaving exam results for all international and U.S. secondary schools (high schools) attended. Refer to our Country Reference Guide for a list of secondary school credentials required by country. Certified literal translation for any documentation submitted in a language other than English, if applicable All official AICE, AP, Cambridge AS/A level scores, CLEP and IB scores, if applicable Official SAT [code: 5233] or ACT [code: 0735] score 3.Submit proof of English proficiency, if required Students whose first language is not English may be required to demonstrate English proficiency by one of the following means: Proving you’re from a country where English is the only official language Establishing that a prior bachelor’s, master’s or doctoral degree was earned from another accredited institution of higher education (meeting university transfer eligibility requirements) in the United States Establishing that a prior bachelor’s, master’s or doctoral degree was earned from a country where English is the only official language or from a university at which English is the only official language of instruction Submitting a qualifying score (220 or higher for computer-based; 80 or higher for internet-based or 550 or higher for paper-based) on the Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL) or a score of 6.5 or higher on the International English Language Testing System (IELTS) A minimum 520 EBRW rSAT score, 480 Critical Reading SAT score or 20 ACT (English section) Presenting a minimum grade of “B” in both English Composition I and English Composition II, or the equivalent, taken at another accredited institution of higher education (meeting university transfer eligibility requirements) in the United States Completion of four years of English in an American high school in the United States Completion of the UCF English Language Institute (ELI) level 8 or higher with a grade of “B” or better Completion of EAP 2851 with a grade of “C” or better or placement into ENC 1101 An online English proficiency assessment by qualified UCF ELI faculty. The online English proficiency assessment costs $50 USD and will take about 45 minutes to complete. The minimum passing score for this assessment is C1. For information on scheduling, please contact [email protected]. 4.Submit required immigration documentation International applicants must submit immigration-related documents to UCF Global. For a list of required documents, visit UCF Global. Please Take Note Your application will be reviewed once all required academic documentation and proof of English proficiency (if required), as indicated above, have been received. Satisfying minimum requirements does not guarantee admission to UCF. All documentation submitted in a language other than English must be accompanied by a literal translation performed by a certified translator at the issuing institution, government agency, or by a translator certified by the American Translators Association. All documents received by UCF become the property of the university and will not be returned to the applicant or sent to a third party, including any transcript or credential evaluation service. Florida BOG Regulation 6.001 (7) authorizes universities to refuse admission to applicants due to past misconduct. Meeting minimum requirements does not guarantee admission. Start Your Application International Application Deadlines Semester Deadline Fall March 1 Spring September 1 Summer January 1 Apply Now Undergraduate Viewbook Check out the Undergraduate Viewbook for everything you need to know about becoming a Knight. Explore the Viewbook International Admissions FAQs Are international students eligible for financial aid? International students studying in the United States on an F1 or F2 student visa, a J1 or J2 exchange visitor visa or a G series visa are not eligible for federal student aid. Information on financial assistance available to international students can be obtained by visiting the UCF Office of Student Financial Assistance. Do I need to have my international academic credentials evaluated? International high school credentials are evaluated by UCF and do not need to be sent to an external evaluation agency for evaluation. However, international post-secondary (college or university) credentials do need to be sent to either World Education Services or Josef Silny & Associates for a course-by-course evaluation. Does UCF offer any English language learning programs? Yes, The English Language Institute at UCF offers an intensive, student-focused, English learning curriculum based on face-to-face instruction. How do I to submit academic documentation? All documentation must be mailed directly to UCF by your secondary school, ministry of education or examination board in a sealed envelope. Please address mail to: Office of Undergraduate Admissions P.O. Box 160111 Orlando, FL 32816-0111 United States of America -or- Courier Service: Office of Undergraduate Admissions 12585 Gemini Boulevard S. Orlando, FL 32816 United States of America I am graduating from an international high school. What academic credentials do I have to submit? Please refer to our Country Reference Guide for a list of secondary school credentials required by country. If your country is not listed, please contact us at [email protected]. What is the cost of attendance for an international student? For a list of estimated expenses for international students with F-1 or J-1 visas, please refer to the Certification of Finances form issued by UCF Global. All other students can visit our Cost & Aid page or the current fee schedule for estimated cost of attendance. Will my academic documents be returned to me? No. All documents received by UCF become the property of the university and will not be returned to the applicant or sent to a third party, including Josef Silny & Associates or World Education Services. View All FAQs Have additional questions? Please email [email protected] or call +1 407-823-3000. Contact Us Mailing Address P.O. Box 160111 Orlando, FL 32816-0111 Contact Email: [email protected] Phone: 844-376-9160 Fax: 407-823-5625 Business Hours Mon - Fri: 9 a.m. - 5 p.m. Closed Weekends & Holidays Application Deadlines Freshman Applicants Fall: May 1 Spring: November 1 Summer: March 1 Transfer Applicants Fall: July 1 Spring: November 1 Summer: March 1 International Applicants Fall: March 1 Spring: September 1 Summer: January 1 More Resources FAQs Admission Forms Accreditation Annual Security Report Accessibility Request Info Let’s Get Social Facebook Twitter