Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Health Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Our Services Appointments Health Topics Events Forms and Guidelines Our Organization News See All Services What's Open Now Patient Resources Quarantine and Isolation Support Coping Tools Immunization Compliance Top Services Birth Control Education Individual Counseling Primary Care Register with Disability Services Sexual Assault: Get Support STI Testing Support Groups Travel Medicine Urgent Medical Concerns Workshops and Trainings Cost of Service Overview Make an Appointment Same Day Service Emergency and After-hours Support Alcohol Body Image Concerns Marijuana Disabilities Other Drugs HIV Insurance Men's Health Mental Health and Well-Being Anxiety Depression Stress Nutrition Physical Activity Relationships Overview Academic Relationships Friendships Roommates Sexual and Reproductive Health Sleep Transgender and Gender Expansive Health Violence Prevention Prevention Consent What Is Sexual Assault? Supporting a Survivor What Is Relationship Abuse? Stalking What Is Sexual Harassment? Bystander Intervention-Step UP! Women's Health See All Events Sexual Assault Awareness Month Columbia Health Flu Season Information Virtual Naloxone Training About Columbia Health Who We Are Who We Serve Confidentiality, Patient Rights, & Patient Responsibilities Operating Philosophy Video Library Your Feedback Staff Directory Health Units Alice! Health Promotion Counseling and Psychological Services Disability Services Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) Insurance Office Medical Services Sexual Violence Response Columbia Health You are here: Home Gender & Non-Conforming Student Experience at Historical Women’s Ins Events Past Event Gender & Non-Conforming Student Experience at Historical Women’s Ins Share Add to Calendar: Calendar / Outlook Google Yahoo April 14, 2022 7:30 PM - 9:00 PM America/New_York Online 16th Annual Clery Lecture Series: The Gender and Non-Conforming Student Experience at Women’s and Historically Women’s Institutions Join us for the 16th Annual Jeanne Clery Lecture Series. Professor Dean Spade of Seattle University School of Law will discuss how wisdom and experience from the feminist movement to abolish policing and prisons and the movement for queer and trans liberation can guide us as we work to prevent sexual and gender violence on our campuses and beyond. All members of the Columbia and Barnard community are welcome. Register on Zoom to join. About Dean Spade: Dean Spade is a Professor at the Seattle University School of Law. Dean has been working in movements for queer and trans liberation and racial and economic justice for the past two decades. He’s the author of Normal Life: Administrative Violence, Critical Trans Politics, and the Limits of Law (2015). He is the director of the documentary "Pinkwashing Exposed: Seattle Fights Back!" His latest book, Mutual Aid: Building Solidarity During This Crisis (and the Next) (2020), is soon to be published in Italian, Portuguese, Catalan, Korean, Spanish, Thai, Czech, and German. Columbia University makes every effort to accommodate individuals with disabilities. Please notify us in advance if you require closed captioning, sign-language interpretation, or any other disability accommodations. Alternatively, Disability Services can be reached at 212-854-2388 and [email protected]. Contact Information Sexual Violence Response [email protected] Upcoming Events Columbia Health Administration Wallach Hall, Suite 125, Mail Code 4202, 1116 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-2284 Contact Us [email protected] Internal Use Only Login to Access Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close