Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Department of Computer Science About News Future Students Current Students Research People Outreach Giving Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact About Department at a Glance Message from the Chair Program Rankings Faculty Accolades Student Accolades Student/Alumni Spotlights Newsletters Take Action Career Paths Degree Programs Courses Contact Us Follow Us Online FacebookLinkedIn Home Computer Science About Department at a Glance Data is as of Fall 2021, unless indicated otherwise. Students Undergraduate 444 Graduate MS 37 PhD 50 Both undergraduate and graduate students have earned a number of accolades at the local, national, and international levels. Faculty The Department has 22 full-time faculty, 18 of whom are tenured or tenure-track. Our faculty include 2 IEEE Fellows, an ACM Distinguished Speaker, and the first state-endowed chair of excellence in computer science in Tennessee. Faculty have been recognized extensively for their accomplishments. The awards conferred on individual faculty have included the Willard R. Sparks Eminent Faculty Award, Dunavant Professorship, Thomas W. Briggs Foundation Excellence in Teaching Award, College of Arts and Sciences Meritorious Faculty Award, and Early Career Research Award. Research Grant Funding The Department is involved in three major national research initiatives: the Learner Data Institute with University of Colorado - Boulder, University of Wisconsin - Madison, University of North Carolina, University of Pittsburgh, 5 companies including Carnegie Learning, SoarTech, Aptima, WorkBay, and Gooru, and the Army's GIFT team; the MD2K Center of Excellence with Cornell, Georgia Tech, University of Michigan, Northwestern, Ohio State, University of Utah, UCLA, UCSD, UCSF, UMass Amherst, and West Virginia, along with Open mHealth; and Named Data Networking: Next-Phase with Colorado State, University of Arizona, UCLA, UCSD, UIUC, University of Michigan, and Washington University. With millions in active grants, we have the highest per-capita research funding of any department on campus. We were recently ranked 55th among nationwide CS departments in federally funded research expenditures. Interdisciplinary Institutes and Centers Center for Information Assurance We are designated as a National Center of Academic Excellence in Cyber Defense Education and Research (CAE-CDE, CAE-R) by the NSA/DHS. Institute for Intelligent Systems Systems Testing Excellence Program Publications Our faculty and students publish high-quality research in multiple areas of Computer Science. In 2014, they published 34 conference papers, 11 journal papers, and 6 books/book chapters. Our faculty and students have published in top-tier venues in: Mobile Computing: ACM MobiCom, ACM UbiComp, IEEE/ACM Transactions on Mobile Computing Networking: IEEE/ACM Transactions on Networking, IEEE INFOCOM Sensors: ACM SenSys, ACM/IEEE IPSN, ACM Transactions on Sensor Networks Bioinformatics: BMC Genomics, BMC Bioinformatics, ACM BCB Human-Computer Interaction: ACM CHI, ACM UbiComp Evolutionary Computing: ACM GECCO Software Engineering: ACM/IEEE ICSE, IEEE Transactions on Software Engineering, ACM Transactions on Software Engineering and Methodology Machine Learning and Artificial Intelligence: AAAI, NIPS, ICML Computational Linguistics: ACL, COLING Theory: STOC, FOCS, SICOMP, SODA, SoCG, CCC, ITCS, ICALP, PODS Computer Security: ACM CCS History In response to a long standing quest that "There can be no great University without a great computer science department in the 21st century," seed efforts to establish a computer science department started back in the Department of Mathematical Sciences in 1971, where then-assistant professor Jim Jamison spearheaded an effort to offer courses in numerical analysis. This seed eventually bore the fruit of a BS program in computer science established in 1982 under Stan Franklin's chairmanship, during which the program became one of the first in the world to offer a computer literacy curriculum (Stan Franklin, "A Lab for All Seasons," PC Magazine, Dec. 1982). This was followed by hiring a critical mass of computer science faculty in 1984 and subsequent years, during Ralph Faudree's tenure as chair. A graduate concentration in computer science in the MS program was created shortly thereafter, and a new division with five faculty members was created in 1999 with Max Garzon as founding director. The Division had grown to 8 faculty members and established the new MS program in eCommerce and Applied Computer Science when Sajjan Shiva joined as Director of the Division. By 2005, the Division had grown to 12 faculty members and the Tennessee Board of Regents approved the establishment of the Computer Science Department. Sajjan Shiva served as the first chair of the new Department, until 2015 when Lan Wang was selected as current chair. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 2/14/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.