Skip to main content ISU Index Menu iastate.edu Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z ISU Quick Links Menu Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons AccessPlus Canvas CyBox CyMail Outlook Workday More Sign Ons... Department of Entomology Search form Search Main menu Main Menu Home Prospective Students People Research Extension Publications Resources EGSO You are here Home Minor in Global Health The Global Health minor is a transdisciplinary program designed for students who seek a broad and flexible set of skills for understanding contemporary health challenges and broad-based thinking in finding solutions. Humans are at the core of Global Health, which is viewed and addressed through an understanding of disease, disease transmission, health and well-being. Global health incorporates all cultures and places and integrates knowledge of health's social, anthropological, historical, biological, and ecological dimensions. The program cultivates capacities to deal with complex problems across disciplines and social constructs: how to identify the critical issues, ask the right questions, and create solutions that are meaningful, lasting and effective. Requirements of the Global Health minor The Global Health minor will consist of selecting courses that have at their core a focus on health, disease transmission, and social aspects that pertain to health. The minor will require a minimum of 15 credit hours with all students required to take Global Health (VMPM/MICRO/GLOBE 360) and Insects and Our Health (ENT/MICRO 374). The remaining credits to fulfill the minor will come from courses listed in two tracks: Biological sciences of health Social sciences aspect of health Students must select a minimum of three credits from each of the two tracks, and an additional three credits from either track. Students may petition to take courses not on the approved list, providing these courses can be shown to include substantial study related to global health. Required of all Global Health minor students: VMPM/MICRO/GLOBE 360: Global Health (3 cr., F) ENT/MICRO 374: Insects and Our Health (3 cr., S) Biological Science Track HS 350: Human diseases (3 cr., F, S, SS) MICRO 310: Medical microbiology (3 cr., F) MICRO/BIOL/V PTH 353: Introductory parasitology (3 cr., S) FS HN 460: Global nutrition (3 cr.) BIOL 328 Molecular and cellular biology of human diseases (3 cr., F) VDPAM/VMPM 428: Principles of epidemiology and population health (3 cr., S) ENT 374L: Insects and our health laboratory (1 cr., Alt S) Social Science Track ECON/GLOBE 385: Economic development (3 cr.) AGRON/FS HN/ENV S/T SC 342: World Food Issues: Past and Present (3 cr.) FS HN 442: Issues in Food and Society (2 cr.) GLOBE 330x: Global health disparities (3 cr., S) SOC 345: Population and society (3 cr., F) SOC 348: Global poverty, resources and sustainable development (3 cr.) SOC 411: Social change in developing countries (3 cr., S) If you are interested in the undergraduate minor in Global Health, please talk to your academic advisor, and then contact Russ Jurenka rjurenka@iastate.edu who is the advisor for the minor. If you'd like to apply for admission to Iowa State University, see the Iowa State admissions page. Category: Minors Tags: current issues Medical Entomology epidemiology Department of Entomology 1344 Advanced Teaching and Research Building 2213 Pammel Drive Ames, Iowa, 50011 ppemdept@iastate.edu 515-294-7400 Contact us Site Index Site map Feedback Copyright © 2022 Iowa State University of Science and Technology. All rights reserved. Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility