Skip to main content Clemson University Degrees Home Degree Programs MENU Chemical Engineering (B.S.) LEARN MORE ABOUT If you find it fascinating how tiny fibers in a bulletproof vest can stop a speeding bullet, or wonder how biofuels are produced, or you simply have a love of science and math, chemical engineering at Clemson combines your two avenues of interest into one exciting course of study. Chemical engineering uses science, math and engineering principles to solve technical problems that face the world today. This major also offers unique research and study abroad opportunities that give you hands-on experience. Working with chemical and biological systems provides the building blocks of advanced materials, a sustainable environment, nanotechnology, biomedical devices and much more. With a degree in chemical engineering you will be making contributions to the development of mankind. FAST FACTS More than 30 percent of our undergraduate students participate in some type of research during the school year. About half of our undergraduate students co-op at companies such as BASF, Dow Chemical, Kimberly-Clark, Michelin, Milliken, Eastman Chemical, General Electric and ExxonMobil. You can elect to take your senior-level laboratory course in a four-week course in Copenhagen, Denmark. This degree is accredited by the Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology (ABET). We have a student-to-faculty ratio of 15-to-1. The average starting salary for chemical engineering Bachelor of Science graduates is $70,000. WHAT YOU'LL STUDY Freshmen who major in engineering at Clemson are initially admitted into our general engineering program, where you'll have a year to explore many different engineering disciplines, meet faculty from each of our engineering departments and discover which major fits your personal interests and talents. On the admissions application, you will apply as a general engineering major. Chemical engineering courses include a blend of physics, chemistry, biology and mathematics. Combined classroom and laboratory activities provide hands-on learning and small class sizes. To help you further specialize your training, we offer both a concentration in biomolecular engineering and a broad scope of emphasis areas: Environmental Engineering and Science Polymeric Materials Energy Studies Business Management Applied Engineering, Mathematics and Science Biomolecular Science and Engineering Students also have the flexibility to take a minor (with limited exceptions) instead of an emphasis area. Biomolecular Engineering Concentration: This concentration addresses the purposeful manipulation of biological molecules and processes applied to problems and issues in the life sciences, biotechnology and medicine. Learn about various biomolecules, biochemical pathway engineering and cell growth. Combined Bachelor's/Master's Plan: Get a jump-start on either your Master of Science in chemical engineering or your Master of Science in environmental engineering and science while completing your bachelor's. In our dual-degree program, you can apply graduate credits to both degrees. Curriculum Chemical Engineering, B.S. Chemical Engineering: Biomolecular Engineering Concentration, B.S. Popular Minors Business Administration Mathematical Sciences Similar Majors Bioengineering (B.S.) Biosystems Engineering (B.S.) Environmental Engineering (B.S.) Materials Science and Engineering (B.S.) EXPERIENCES BEYOND THE CLASSROOM As a chemical engineering major you'll have numerous outlets for hands-on learning, applying what you've already learned to real-world situations and networking with professionals already practicing in the field. Teamwork Spend a summer working in research teams to create membranes for protein chromatography, energy storage, CO2 capture and water purification, as well as responsive membranes with switchable surface properties and controllable barrier properties. Co-op Our voluntary co-op program creates job opportunities for you when you alternate periods of academic study with periods of related work at a participating business, industry, agency or organization.Learn More » Research You'll be able to conduct computation- and laboratory-based research through the Honors program or through Creative Inquiry teams.Learn More » Travel Experience Copenhagen, Denmark, for four weeks during the summer and offload the demanding senior lab from your schedule. Excellent lab facilities provide an academically rigorous experience to develop your research and communication skills. CONNECT WITH OTHER STUDENTS American Institute of Chemical Engineers (AIChE) PEER WISE AFTER GRADUATION Your college decision isn't really about the next four years. We get it. It's about what doors are opened by your degree and whether those opportunities are what you had envisioned for yourself. Here's a snapshot of what life after graduation looks like for some of our most recent students. WHERE OUR RECENT GRADUATES HAVE GONE KEY 41-100% 21-40% 11-20% 0-10% RECENT EMPLOYERS Process Improvement Engineer Milliken & Company Manufacturing Quality Engineer Pfizer Chemical Engineer Eastman Chemical Company Improvement Engineer Campbell Soup Co. Process Engineer ExxonMobil RECENT POSTGRADUATE STUDIES Ph.D. Chemical Engineering Columbia University Ph.D. Chemical Engineering North Carolina State University Ph.D. Chemical Engineering Georgia Tech Ph.D. Chemical Engineering Massachusetts Institute of Technology Ph.D. Environmental Engineering Colorado School of Mines COMMON CAREER AREAS Administration Design and Construction Project Engineering Control Systems Field Engineering Process Engineering Operations and Production Environmental and Waste Management Development Design Production Sales and Marketing Management Consulting Research and Development Teaching Law Used with permission from the University of Tennessee. FIND OUT MORE Have more questions or want more information? Fill out the form below, which goes directly to the following department contact. If you’d also like to receive general University information from Clemson’s admissions office, please follow the link to the right and sign up to join our mailing list. Christopher Porter CECAS Undergraduate Recruitment Director 864-656-7870 cporter@clemson.edu Department Website College Website Loading... Department Website College Website Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Line Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2015 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on Google+ Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on YouTube Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram Search Clemson University degrees Clemson Degree Programs Search Alphabetical List Schedule a Visit Campus Life Admissions Costs & Financial Aid Similar Majors To Chemical Engineering (B.S.) Bioengineering (B.S.) Biosystems Engineering (B.S.) Environmental Engineering (B.S.) Materials Science and Engineering (B.S.)