Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index Military & Veterans Programs Menu Search TTU Military & Veterans Programs Tutoring Guide Texas Tech University offers a variety of tutoring services across campus to help ensure academic success. Most of the services are FREE and others are available for a charge. Read more about these and other services: SOAR: SOAR ( Support Operation for Academic Retention) provides services for TTU Students as a supplement to classroom and lab instruction, enabling them to achieve academic success and develop lifelong learning skills. The programs below are offered through the SOAR department: The Learning Center: It offers drop-in peer tutoring in subjects such as Math, Physics, Chemistry, Biology, Accounting, and Engineering, and individual academic planning, support and coaching. Online tutoring is also available. Check the website for tutoring schedules. Learn More>> Supplemental Instruction: It offersfree, pear-led review sessions for historically difficult courses. Research indicates students who attend SI sessions on a regular basis earn half to a whole letter grade higher than students who do not attend SI Sessions.Learn More>> PADR: PADR (Programs for Academic Development and Retention) provides academic and personal management skills for success in college and beyond. Learn More>> TSI: TSI (Texas Success Initiative) is a developmental education program mandated by the state of Texas to provide additional support to students who have not demonstrated college-readiness in reading, writing, and mathematics. Learn More>> The University Writing Center: It assists students or faculty in writing education by creating a supportive environment in which writers and their readers can work effectively one-to-one, both face-to-face as well as onscreen and online. Onsite and Online tutoring is available. Undergraduate, Graduate students and Faculty and Staff Main Physical Location: Room 175 English/Philosophy Building Appointments: Call 806.742.2476 Ext. 2 or drop-in Graduate Students and Postdoctoral Researchers-Graduate Student Writing Center Physical Location: Room 43 Administration Building Appointments: Call 806.742.2476 Ext. 1 or drop-in Student Disability Services: It helps to enhance each student's learning through the provision of programs and services for students with a disability. Students must first apply for services. SDS provides reasonable accommodations based on the documented need of the student. Some other services provided can include interpreters, and drop-in tutoring among others.Learn More>> The TECHniques Center is part of SDS and is a fee-for-service program which offers one-on-on tutoring throughout the week with assigned tutors and weekly sessions with an Academic Counselor to meet the needs and promote the retention of undergraduate students with documented evidence of learning disabilities, Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder, and Autism Spectrum disorders. It is the only tutoring program of its kind in Texas! Learn More>> Tutoring & Study Center: (Missouri Club) This is a free tutoring service provided by the Department of Mathematics & Statistics for those TTU students taking lower level math and statistics courses. Main Physical Location: Math Bldg. Room 106 Free Tutoring for Students in Housing: This is a free tutoring service offered to any student that lives on campus. Students may stop by a tutoring lounge Sunday-Wednesday from 7-10 pm for assistance in math, chemistry, biology physics, political science, history, and writing. Tutoring lounges are located in Chitwood/Weymouth, Hulen/Clement, Wall/Gates,Horn/Knapp, Bledsoe/Gordon Murray, and Stangel/Murdough. A full schedule can be found at www.depts.ttu.edu/housing/tutoring. Departmental Tutors: Each academic department has a list of approved tutors to pick from for tutoring, usually for a nominal fee. Contact the department in the subject in which you are needing a tutor. Students using Federal VA Programs of Education: Students using Federal VA Programs of Education under Chapters 30, 32, 33, 35, 1606 (except not chapters 1607 or 31) enrolled at a half-time rate or above may be eligible for reimbursement of money paid for tutorial assistance. The monthly rate may not exceed the cost of tutoring or $100. The maximum amount payable is $1200. There is no entitlement charge for the first $600 under chapters 30, 32, 33 and 1606. There is no entitlement charge under chapter 35. Instructions and (2) forms for this program are available on our Federal Educational Benefits tab. Tutor.com: Tutor.com for U.S. Military is a program provided by the U.S. Department of Defense offering online tutoring at no cost to DoD service members. Visit the following link to see if you are eligible. Contact TTU Contact Contact TTUContact Contact TTU News News for NewsNews for News Events EventsEvents Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock, Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversityMay 6, 2022 10:15 AM Military & Veterans Programs Events & Calendar Military & Veterans Programs Back Events Military & Veterans Programs Back Upcoming Events & Announcements Green Zone TechVet Boot Camp Camo to Corporate Tournament for Heroes Stole & Recognition Ceremony Coffee & Conversations: Afghanistan Programs & Benefits Military & Veterans Programs Back Getting Started Military & Veterans Programs Back Prior to Discharge Start Here Submit MVP Certification Forms FAQ Hazlewood Act Military & Veterans Programs Back Overview Veteran Legacy Children/Spouses-100% Veterans Previous Recipients Federal VA Benefits Military & Veterans Programs Back Federal Educational Benefits Resources Military & Veterans Programs Back Connections Military & Veterans Programs Back Campus Resources Community Resources State Resources Federal Resources Places of Interest in Lubbock and West Texas Useful Links Military & Veterans National Alumni Network (MVN) TTU Parents Association Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Academic Support Military & Veterans Programs Back Veteran Liaisons Tutoring Guide Mentoring Study Abroad for Students Using Veterans Benefits College Credit for Heroes Financial Information Military & Veterans Programs Back Financial Aid Student Business Services Veterans Benefit Estimator MVP Scholarships About MVP Military & Veterans Programs Back Department Info Military & Veterans Programs Back Welcome Message Professional Staff MVP Program Specialists Ratings, Rankings & Awards Stars & Stripes Study Lounge Gallery Press Releases Contact Us Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index