Search | Directories | Reference Tools UW Home > Discover UW > Student Guide UW Bothell Course Descriptions UW Tacoma Course Descriptions Glossary COLLEGE OF ARTS & SCIENCES PHILOSOPHY ETHICS Detailed course offerings (Time Schedule) are available for Spring Quarter 2022 Summer Quarter 2022 Autumn Quarter 2022 ETHICS 207 Issues of Global Justice (5) I&S, DIV Jamie Mayerfeld, Michael I Blake, William J Talbott Introduces issues of global justice. Topics include: global poverty and aid, immigration, transnational governance, gender in global relations, climate change, and cultural relativism. Offered: jointly with PHIL 207/POL S 217. View course details in MyPlan: ETHICS 207 ETHICS 291 Ethics in Science (5) VLPA/I&S Provides an introduction to ethics and research ethics issues in the non-medical sciences. Possible topics include: publication and peer review, intellectual property, and the social responsibilities of scientists. Offered: jointly with PHIL 291. View course details in MyPlan: ETHICS 291 ETHICS 495 Ethics in Practice (2) Stephen M. Gardiner, Michael I Blake, Sara L. Goering, Carina Fourie Culmination of the values-in-society minor. Synthesizes training in ethics with primary discipline. Includes a project of positive social engagement (service learning or research project with fieldwork). Limited to undergraduates completing the minor in values and society. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: ETHICS 495 ETHICS 501 Advanced Topics in Applied Ethics (2-5, max. 10) Stephen M. Gardiner Philosophical study of topics in applied ethics at the advanced level. Topics vary. View course details in MyPlan: ETHICS 501 ETHICS 511 Ethics Matters: An Exploration of Some Moral Qualities (5) Carina Fourie, Sara L. Goering Asks what we fundamentally require of ourselves and others if we are to live together in morally acceptable ways by discussing moral qualities as they appear in various arenas. Topics include: autonomy, respect, integrity, and trust. View course details in MyPlan: ETHICS 511 ETHICS 512 Justice Matters: An Exploration of Justice as a Social Ideal (5) Stephen M. Gardiner, Michael I Blake Asks what makes social policies and institutions morally acceptable, primarily through a discussion about justice and injustice. Topics include: relativism, the sources of competing conceptions of justice and equality, cost-benefit analysis, distributive justice, and beneficence. View course details in MyPlan: ETHICS 512 ETHICS 513 Capstone Workshop (2) Sara L. Goering, Carina Fourie, Michael I Blake, Stephen M. Gardiner Collaborative research workshop. Capstone course for the values-in-society graduate certificate program. Prerequisite: either ETHICS 511, VALUES 511, ETHICS 512, or VALUES 512 Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: ETHICS 513 ETHICS 591 Ethics Matters in Science: Research Questions as Moral Questions (3) Aims to introduce graduate and professional students from a wide range of primarily non-medical scientific backgrounds to some common moral questions that arise in the course of doing scientific research, and to provide a basic philosophical framework for thinking about related issues that arise within their own disciplines or fields. View course details in MyPlan: ETHICS 591 Office of the University Registrar registrar@uw.edu Modified: May 30, 2022