Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Hankamer School of Business MBA Menu Business Home About COVID-19 Updates Faculty Staff News Compare Programs Events Baylor Business Alumni Network Full-Time MBA Admissions Tuition and Financial Awards Student Profile Admitted Students Contact Admissions International Applicants Programs and Course Information MBA - General Degree Plan Concentrations Joint Degrees Program Experiences Student Support Career Management Ask a Student Community Commitment Baylor MBA Blog MBA Video Library Student Involvement Events Visit Us Scheduling Calendar Directions and Parking EMBA Dallas Admissions Tuition and Financial Aid Student Profile Programs and Course Information Concentrations Cornerstone Commitment Program Experiences and Trips Student Support Career Management Alumni and Student Stories Veterans Events Visit Us Location EMBA Austin Programs and Course Information Concentrations Cornerstone Commitment Program Experiences and Trips Student Support Career Management Alumni and Student Stories Veterans Online MBA Admissions Tuition and Financial Aid Student Profile Admitted Students Military Programs and Course Information Business Foundations General MBA Cybersecurity Executive Communication Global Trade and Supply Chain Management Marketing Student Support Events Visit Us Graduate Certificates Admissions Tuition & Financial Aid MBA News Request Info Apply Executive MBA - Dallas Achieve Learn/Life Balance. You’re a business professional with real-world experience, ready to advance your career and grow in leadership capacity. But how do you keep pace with your current career and homelife all while going back to school? You enroll in a program whose core belief is based on balance. We call it the Learn/Life Balance™, and it's how we make earning an elite Baylor EMBA not just aspirational, but achievable. Request Information First Name Last Name Email Mobile Phone Submit By submitting this form, I am providing my digital signature agreeing that Baylor University (Baylor) may email me or contact me regarding educational services by telephone and/or text message including utilizing automated technology or a pre-recorded message at the telephone number(s) provided above. I understand this consent is not a condition to attend Baylor or to purchase any other goods or services. Explore Program at a Glance There are unrivaled benefits to hands on, face-to-face learning, so we’ve created a streamlined approach that is both practical and personalized, directly addressing the areas most critical to sustainability, satisfaction, and success when considering a graduate program. Curriculum Download Fact Sheet Commitment Classes are held one weekend a month (Friday-Saturday) for 21 months. An afternoon start on Fridays helps ensure that students only miss one half-day of work per month. Convenience Classes are conveniently located near Downtown Dallas with free underground parking and 24/7 access to facilities. Class Size Our class size is capped at 36 students, resulting in a tight-knit cohort with maximized faculty-to-student interaction. Cost Competitively priced tuition and scholarship availability equal maximum ROI. Plus, individuals who earn an MBA increase their salaries by an average of 64% within 3 years of graduating. Confidence Our engaged faculty create a collaborative classroom environment where every student's contribution is encouraged. Criteria No GMAT or GRE test scores are required for Baylor EMBA admission. Student have an average of 12 years of work experience but only 5 years are required for admission. By the Numbers #37 2022 Global Executive MBA Rankings, CEO Magazine #60 Best Graduate Business Programs, U.S. News, 2022 #84 EMBA Programs, QS World University Rankings Events See More Events Jul 8 2022 Class Visit: The Innovative Tech Leader Jul 8 2022 Class Visit: Business Law Application Deadlines Apply Now News Read More News Mar. 28, 2022 A Seat at the Table: Female Leadership in Healthcare and Entrepreneurship Meet Keisha Riser - a Baylor Executive MBA alumna with a passion for serving others through both her healthcare career and her entrepreneurial aspirations. Read More Mar. 24, 2022 Healthcare MBA Opens Doors in Dallas and Beyond In this Q&A, Baylor lecturer Glenn Robinson explains why now is the perfect time to pursue an EMBA with a concentration in Healthcare Administration Read More Mar. 3, 2022 7 Digital Marketing Trends to Watch For in 2022 Technology is transforming the practice of marketing at a dizzying pace. Fortunately, MBA students at Baylor’s Hankamer School of Business can rely on their professors to make sense of an evolving profession. Read More Feb. 15, 2022 Baylor Bear named president & CEO of one of America’s 100 largest companies In late February, TIAA — a leading financial services provider that ranks among the 100 largest corporations in America — named one of Baylor’s own as its president and CEO. Read More Master of Business Administration Hankamer School of Business Baylor MBA programs combine rigorous, customized classroom learning and real-world experience in equipping today's business professionals to lead with excellence, integrity, and ingenuity in the global marketplace. Request Information First Name Last Name Email Mobile Phone Select one or more MBA programs: Full-Time MBA Online MBA Executive MBA - Dallas Submit By submitting this form, I am providing my digital signature agreeing that Baylor University (Baylor) may email me or contact me regarding educational services by telephone and/or text message including utilizing automated technology or a pre-recorded message at the telephone number(s) provided above. I understand this consent is not a condition to attend Baylor or to purchase any other goods or services. Full-Time MBAOnline MBAExecutive MBA - DallasApply Now General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Hankamer School of Business About the Business School Directory Events News Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 dallas-emba dallas-emba Business Home About COVID-19 Updates Faculty Staff News Compare Programs Events Baylor Business Alumni Network Full-Time MBA Admissions Tuition and Financial Awards Student Profile Admitted Students Contact Admissions International Applicants Programs and Course Information MBA - General Degree Plan Concentrations Joint Degrees Program Experiences Student Support Career Management Ask a Student Community Commitment Baylor MBA Blog MBA Video Library Student Involvement Events Visit Us Scheduling Calendar Directions and Parking EMBA Dallas Admissions Tuition and Financial Aid Student Profile Programs and Course Information Concentrations Cornerstone Commitment Program Experiences and Trips Student Support Career Management Alumni and Student Stories Veterans Events Visit Us Location EMBA Austin Programs and Course Information Concentrations Cornerstone Commitment Program Experiences and Trips Student Support Career Management Alumni and Student Stories Veterans Online MBA Admissions Tuition and Financial Aid Student Profile Admitted Students Military Programs and Course Information Business Foundations General MBA Cybersecurity Executive Communication Global Trade and Supply Chain Management Marketing Student Support Events Visit Us Graduate Certificates Admissions Tuition & Financial Aid MBA News Request Info Apply