Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Division of Auxiliary Services Auxiliary Services Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links BC Dining Menu Main Nav What's Open? Back Back Close About Overview Meet Our Team Sustainability Culinary Innovation Employment FAQs Feedback Events Wellness Meal Plans Overview Flex Dining Plans Dining Calculator Related Links Meal Plan FAQs Events & Specials Locations & Menus Overview What's Open? Lower Live Carney's Café 129 Chocolate Bar CoRo Café & Market Eagle's Nest Hillside Café Legal Grounds Lyons Hall Stuart Dining Hall The Bean Counter The Loft at Addie's Faculty Dining Room Faculty Dining Room Reservations BC Test Kitchen BC After Dark The Market Concessions Tully Cafe Related Links Events & Specials Sustainability Order Food & Gifts Overview GET Mobile Ordering Dining to Go BC Gifts Heights Catering Luxury Boxes & Lower Lawn Close Directory A to Z Listing Search All Departments in Auxiliary Services Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Home Locations & Menus BC After Dark BC After Dark On Thursday–Saturday nights, Hillside and the adjacent outdoor patio transforms into BC After Dark. Join us under bistro lights for burgers, wings, fries, beer, wine, hard seltzer, and cider. Follow us on social media for updates! BC After Dark FAQs Do I have to be 21+ to eat at BC After Dark? No. Any BC student, faculty, or staff member may dine at BC After Dark. You must be 21+ to purchase beer and wine. Can I reserve a table outside on the patio? No. Seating is first-come, first-served. Will there be options if I have a food allergy, intolerance, or Celiac disease? **Please make a note of food allergies, intolerances or Celiac disease in the comment box when ordering.** We will continue to take all the steps we always have to ensure students with food allergies, intolerances or Celiac disease can navigate safely. Liability and Disclaimer Notice Boston College Dining Services uses soy, tree nuts, peanuts, eggs, dairy, shellfish, wheat, sesame, gluten-containing foods, and other potential allergens in meal preparation. BC Dining staff are trained on and aware of the severity of food allergies and celiac disease, and allergens are identified to the best of our ability. However, manufacturers change product formulation without notifying BC Dining and cross-contact is possible. Of note, manufacturers are allowed to substitute ingredients without notifying the consumer or changing the label under an FDA COVID-19 ruling as of May 2020. Students need to be aware of risks and take responsibility and ask for assistance if necessary. What's Open? Hours of Operation Thursday–Saturday 5:00 p.m. – 12:00 a.m. Schedules subject to change. See What's Open Now. View Today's Menu ***Please make a note of food allergies, intolerances or Celiac disease in the comment box when ordering Sample Food Menu Burgers Veggie Burgers Salads Wings Mozzarella Sticks Hummus Plate Fries Cookies Brownies Sample Beverage Menu Domestic Beers Craft Beers Hard Cider Spiked Seltzer Wine Ice Coffee Bottled Soda Seltzer Water Liability and Disclaimer Notice Boston College Dining Services uses soy, tree nuts, peanuts, eggs, dairy, shellfish, wheat, sesame, gluten-containing foods, and other potential allergens in meal preparation. BC Dining staff are trained on and aware of the severity of food allergies and celiac disease, and allergens are identified to the best of our ability. However, manufacturers change product formulation without notifying BC Dining and cross-contact is possible. Of note, manufacturers are allowed to substitute ingredients without notifying the consumer or changing the label under an FDA COVID-19 ruling as of May 2020. Students need to be aware of risks and take responsibility and ask for assistance if necessary. Events & Specials Pay With Eagle Bucks Cash or Credit Residential Dining Bucks Flex Plans Find Us Leadership Sean Canny Assistant General Manager 617-552-3530 Mark Judd Assistant Manager 617-552-0026 Quick Links What's Open? Today's Menu Order Food & Gifts Catering Add Funds to Dining Plan Back To Top Back To Top Contact BC Dining 129 Lake Street 3rd Floor Boston MA 02135 617-552-2263 bcdining@bc.edu Facebook Twitter Instagram About Wellness Meal Plans Locations & Menus Order Food & Gifts Events & Specials Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College