Skip to main content Information For: Current Students Alumni Harvard Undergraduates Educators Recruiters Media Apply Give to HGSE Search Apply for Degree Programs Apply for Professional Education Donate Give back to HGSE and support the next generation of passionate educators and innovative leaders. Keywords Close Menu Degree Programs Professional Education Faculty & Research Usable Knowledge Keywords About HGSE About the Dean Dean's Welcome Messages from the Dean Commentary and Media Dean's Office History of HGSE Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Our Impact Campus and Facilities Office Directory Virtual Tour Gutman Conference Center Reservation Request Form Capacities and Cost Floor Plan Catering Policies Audio Visual Directions, Parking, and Hotels Map of HGSE Directions to HGSE History of HGSE Buildings Faculty & Staff Directory Work at HGSE Title IX Information Doctoral Degree Programs Doctor of Education Leadership Doctor of Philosophy in Education Brochures Academic Calendar Academic Catalog Doctoral Viewbook Master's Degree Program Master's in Education Programs Education Leadership, Organizations, and Entrepreneurship Education Policy and Analysis Human Development and Education Learning Design, Innovation, and Technology Teaching and Teacher Leadership Concentrations Arts and Learning Early Childhood Global, International, and Comparative Education Higher Education Identity, Power, and Justice in Education Literacy and Languages A Personalized Approach Online Master's in Education Leadership Foundations Brochures Academic Catalog Academic Calendar Academic Year 2020-22 Programs Professional Education About Us Programs Early Childhood K-12 Higher Education Online Programs For Organizations Group and Team Enrollment Custom Programs Admissions Payment & Tuition Assistance Refunds & Withdrawals Policies and Accessibility Campus Experience On-Campus Program Health and Safety Policies FAQs Events Contact Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Centers, Projects and Initiatives Faculty Recruitment Faculty Experts Admissions Introduce Yourself Explore Find the Right Program Brochures Life at HGSE Connect Apply Refer a Candidate Frequently Asked Questions Financial Aid HGSE & Harvard University Consumer Information Tuition & Costs Applying for Aid Incoming Students Incoming International Students Continuing Students Scholarships, Fellowships & Grants Need-Based Grant Awards HGSE Fellowships Additional Fellowships External Fellowships Student Loans Student Work International Students International Applicant FAQ Funding Sources Students with Families Financial Aid Appeals Presentations & Publications Budgeting & Financial Literacy Budget Calculator Registrar News & Events Harvard Edcast Education Now Askwith Education Forum Upcoming Events Submit an Event Usable Knowledge Ed. Magazine Harvard Education Publishing Group Information for Media Education Now Usable Knowledge Usable Knowledge Harvard EdCast Ed. Magazine HGSE Centennial Community Learning Beyond the Classroom Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Organizations and Initiatives Community Events and Action Resources Teaching and Learning Gutman Library Services Alumni Services Collections Special Collections Request for Library Purchase Library Hours Websites for Educators About the Library Facilities & Equipment Contact Information Coronavirus Response Information Directory Calendar Alumni Network & Connect Get Involved Learn & Grow Benefits & Services my.harvard Student Handbook Introduction Welcome to HGSE Preface Commitment to Diversity Part 1: Enrollment Policies Academic Programs and Affiliations Registration and Enrollment Policies Tuition and Fees Financial Aid Student Health Insurance Grading Part 2: Student Supports Advising HGSE Supports University Supports Campus Safety and Security Part 3: Program Policies Academic Governance Doctor of Education (Ed.D.) Program Policies Doctor of Philosophy in Education (Ph.D.) Program Policies Doctor of Education Leadership (Ed.L.D.) Program Policies Master of Education (Ed.M.) Program Policies Part 4: Academic Integrity and Standards of Conduct Resolution on Rights and Responsibilities Academic Standards and Integrity Standards of Conduct in the Harvard Community Committee on Rights and Responsibilities Policies on Harassment and Discrimination Policy on Consensual Romantic Relationships Policy on Physical Violence Policy on Misrepresentation of Status Policy on Illicit Substances Policy on Hazing Policy on Threats Part 5: Copyright and Publishing Policies Copyright Disclosure Use of the Harvard Name Information For Current Students Alumni Harvard Undergraduates Educators Recruiters Media Connect with HGSE Facebook Twitter Linked In LinkedIn Symbols Created with Sketch. Instagram Master's Degree Program Program: Human Development and Education The Human Development and Education (HDE) Program prepares you to support the unique needs and growth of all learners — whether you are interested in exploring a direct service role, starting a nonprofit organization, engaging in clinical or counseling work, or pursuing doctoral research. By linking theories and pioneering research with practice and policy about child, adolescent, and adult development, you will have opportunities to examine different developmental domains — including cognitive, emotional, social, moral, and neurological — as well as design strategies and interventions to promote healthy development. "We know much about the science of human development, but we are just beginning to figure out how to communicate and enact it to actually better the world. Our program helps our students gain a deeper understanding of learning and growth across diverse contexts, as they explore their professional roles in supporting human development for children, families, and communities." Junlei Li, Faculty Co-Chair After completing the HDE Program, you will have a deeper understanding of the following competencies that explore how:  Learning and development are lifelong processes, with a predictable sequence at the population level and significant variation at the individual level  Learning and development are active and interactive, driven by maturity and experience levels  Ecological factors — including families, teachers, schools, communities, neighborhoods, and culture — influence learning and development  Evaluation of evidence and research from human developmental science can inform effective change strategies to lead, design, and implement intervention, prevention, and support efforts  Engagement in continuous learning can emerge from reflective practice, community involvement, and evaluation of intervention, prevention, and support efforts    Curriculum Information The HDE Program is designed to help you gain the knowledge and skills essential to promoting healthy development for all learners. A minimum of 42 credits are required to graduate with an Ed.M. degree from HGSE. The main elements of the 2022–23 academic year are: The Foundations courses (14 credits) are How People Learn, Leading Change, Evidence, and Equity and Opportunity, in which students gain core skills central to the profession of education. This program commences with How People Learn, an immersive online course that runs June–July and requires a time commitment of 10-15 hours per week. You will continue Foundations with Leading Change, Evidence, and Equity and Opportunity on campus in August. The final component of Foundations is an Equity and Opportunity elective, which will take place during terms when electives are available. To fulfill the program requirement, students must take a minimum of 12 credits specific to HDE, including the following: The HDE Program Core Experience (4 credits), is a combination of required coursework, program-wide events, and small group experiences. It is designed to help you develop the capacity to bridge research and practice across human development contexts. Whether your professional trajectory leads you to focus on children, families, communities, or organizations, there are "through lines" (ways of thinking and connecting) from the field of human development that can expand our vision and understanding. For example, understanding individual development within the larger ecological contexts or recognizing human relationships as the driver for many different developmental outcomes. The program experience provides opportunities to discuss and reflect on your insights and professional goals with peers and the teaching team. Research methods and applied professional skills courses (4 credits), you will choose from a list of qualitative, quantitative, and skills-based courses. Course subject matter may include statistics and data science in education and organizations, participatory action research for educational justice, and ethnographic methods. Human development, age/context/domain-specific courses (4 credits), tailor your coursework to your chosen career pathway by selecting from a rich and diverse set of courses that deepen your knowledge in a specific age category, context, or domain. Course subject matter may include early childhood development, developmental psychology, preventative and developmental group counseling, college student development, or language and literacy development. The remaining credits are taken via elective coursework, which includes the opportunity to specialize in a Concentration. Explore our course catalog. Note, all information and courses are subject to change. School Counseling Strand Students can get licensed as a school counselor by taking two years of sequenced coursework and fieldwork through our School Counseling Licensure Pathway. Year one consists of pursuing an Ed.M. in the HDE Program and our School Counseling Strand, which resumes in academic year 2022–23. The School Counseling Strand begins the pathway to Massachusetts licensure in school counseling and prepares K–12 school-based counselors-in-training with the skills necessary to promote positive, healthy academic and social emotional development with an emphasis on prevention and social justice. Year two consists of our Certificate of Advanced Study in Counseling program, which allows students to pursue Massachusetts initial licensure as a school counselor. Through this curricular sequence and field-based placement, graduates will be prepared to enter K–12 schools as counselors, leaders, and advocates. This program will resume in academic year 2023–24. Program Faculty Students will work closely with faculty associated with their area of study, but students can also work with and take courses with faculty throughout HGSE and Harvard. The faculty co-chairs for HDE are Junlei Li and Meredith Rowe. View our faculty directory for a full list of HGSE faculty. Junlei Li Meredith L. Rowe Gretchen Brion-Meisels Hadas Eidelman Catherine Elgin Nadine Gaab Paul L. Harris Nancy E. Hill Stephanie M. Jones James S. Kim Josephine M. Kim Nonie K. Lesaux Pamela A. Mason Dana Charles McCoy Joseph Clark McIntyre Luke W. Miratrix Charles Nelson, III Gabrielle Oliveira Ola Ozernov-Palchik Alexis Redding Mandy Savitz-Romer Robert L. Selman Jack P. Shonkoff, M.D. Catherine Snow Lynneth Solis Paola Uccelli Adriana Janette Umaña-Taylor Richard Weissbourd Jacqueline Zeller Career Pathways The HDE Program prepares you for a variety of career pathways, including: School counselor (K–12)   Teacher Curricula developer College or university administrator   Afterschool program, camp, or youth organization director  Researcher (university centers, nonprofit/for-profit think tank)  Local, state, or federal government program administrator  Field-staff or program manager at domestic or international non-governmental organizations (NGOs) Consultant, trainer, facilitator, technical assistance provider Outcomes Supporting the unique needs of learners is a critical element of our Human Development and Education Program. HGSE’s curriculum offers you the opportunity to gain the insights and preparation you need to promote social-emotional growth. Here are examples of the work our graduates are doing around child, adolescent, and adult development: Classrooms Rich in Belonging, Love, and Joy: Celestina Lee, HDE'22 The Intellectual Contribution Award recipient for Human Development and Education reflects on her time at HGSE and looks toward the future. A Swing and a Hit Matthew Grimes, Ed.M.’21, finds his dream job doing DEI work with the MLB. Cohort and Community You will join an extraordinary cohort of students representing a rich diversity of personal and professional backgrounds. As an HDE student, you will engage in events and professional development opportunities that build community — including discussions about career pathways, conversations with faculty members about their research interests, and other community events. You will find that your cohort members exhibit energy, curiosity, and compassion, as well as a common commitment to understanding the deepest puzzles of development and addressing the greatest practical challenges. This community results in an exhilarating learning environment that forms the basis for lifelong friendships and long-term professional networks. Tell us about yourself so that we can tailor our communication to best fit your interests and provide you with relevant information about our programs, events, and other opportunities to connect with us. Introduce Yourself Admissions Information Learn more about our admissions application requirements and instructions, tuition and financial aid, recorded webinars, download a brochure, and find answers to frequently asked questions. Connect with Admissions If you have additional admissions-related questions, please contact HGSE admissions. Additional HDE Resources Distinctive Features (0:52) Curriculum (0:42) Career Outcomes (0:32) Ideal Candidates (0:34) Connect with Program Staff If you have remaining program-specific questions, please contact HDE Assistant Director Mandy Farhoodi-Moberger. In this section Master's Degree Program Master's in Education Programs Education Leadership, Organizations, and Entrepreneurship Education Policy and Analysis Human Development and Education Learning Design, Innovation, and Technology Teaching and Teacher Leadership Concentrations Arts and Learning Early Childhood Global, International, and Comparative Education Higher Education Identity, Power, and Justice in Education Literacy and Languages A Personalized Approach Online Master's in Education Leadership Foundations Brochures Academic Catalog Academic Calendar Academic Year 2020-22 Programs Master's Degree Program Master's Degree Program Master's in Education Programs Education Leadership, Organizations, and Entrepreneurship Education Policy and Analysis Human Development and Education Learning Design, Innovation, and Technology Teaching and Teacher Leadership Concentrations Arts and Learning Early Childhood Global, International, and Comparative Education Higher Education Identity, Power, and Justice in Education Literacy and Languages A Personalized Approach Online Master's in Education Leadership Foundations Brochures Academic Catalog Academic Calendar Academic Year 2020-22 Programs Sign up for our newsletters to get the latest from the Harvard Graduate School of Education. Sign Up Now Artboard 1 13 Appian Way | Cambridge, MA 02138 Centennial Contact Us Directory Directions Harvard University ©2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College Linked In Symbols Created with Sketch. Youtube RSS Podcast HGSE Publishing Policies & Disclaimers Digital Accessibility Policy Privacy Policy Trademark Notice