Skip to main content Google Tag Manager The University of Virginia SIS Collab Email Jobs Info For Alumni & Friends Current Students Faculty & Staff Parents Search form Search Close Main Menu Main menu About Us Go to About Us Charlottesville & Beyond Facts & Figures Visit Academics Go to Academics Schools Undergraduate Studies Graduate Studies International Studies Continuing & Executive Education Academic Calendar J-Term & Summer Session Undergraduate Majors Online Learning Admission Undergraduate Admission Apply Tuition & Affordability Undergraduate Majors & Programs Clubs & Activities Sports & Recreation Student-Self Governance Housing & Residence Life What’s Next for UVA’s Class of 2022? Arts Athletics Health System Libraries Research You are here Home Libraries X University Library Library Special Collections Rare Book School Pursuit of Knowledge A Library-Centered University When the University of Virginia was founded in 1819, a library – instead of a chapel – was placed at its center. By today’s standards, this seems common practice. But at a time when universities were structured around the church, this was radical. Today, the University of Virginia’s 12 libraries remain central in its mission to advance human knowledge, educate leaders and cultivate an informed citizenry. Inspired by the collecting policies of the Library of Congress – which emphasizes all subjects are important to leadership of the country – the UVA Library collects, preserves, organizes, and shares materials of all varieties, providing unfettered access to an accumulation of knowledge, two centuries in the making. Alderman Library Astronomy Library Charles L. Brown Science & Engineering Library Clemons Library Fine Arts Library Harrison-Small Exhibitions Mathematics Library Music Library Physics Library Robertson Media Center Scholars’ Lab Albert & Shirley Small Special Collections Library Our Facilities Today, the University of Virginia Library is a vital resource for students, faculty and scholars worldwide. With several major facilities, labs and programs the Library offers critical support to academic endeavors at UVA and beyond. At its heart lies Alderman, a sprawling complex housing works in the humanities and social sciences. Beyond that, Clemons—a destination offering 24/5 study access—offers resources in film, television, drama and dance as well as tutoring and advising services. And interspersed throughout Grounds lie other facilities specializing in music, science and engineering, chemistry, astronomy, fine art, American history, mathematics and physics. The University also hosts the renowned Albert & Shirley Small Special Collections Library, a signature collection of 16 million objects including manuscripts, archival records, rare books, maps, broadsides, photographs, audio and video recordings. In addition, there are libraries serving the Darden School of Business, the University Health System, and the UVA School of Law. By the Numbers 12 libraries 463K e-books 16M manuscripts and archives Preserving the Past Digitizing Jefferson UVA is known not only for its extensive library system but also for the work it does in preserving works of scholarship both physical and digital. This has resulted in the preservation of such works as the Jefferson Papers—which provide a crucial link to our history as a nation—and the digitization of rare video from the Civil Rights Era. The UVA Library is also a leader in the creation of digital archives that ensure the safety of scholarship for generations to come. And since 1992, the University has hosted the Rare Book School, an institution dedicated to educating people in the art of caring for and preserving the historical archive. Library Special Collections Rare Book School University of Virginia Instagram Twitter Facebook YouTube Footer Utilities Non-Discrimination Notice UVA Tuition Notice Wise Tuition Notice Consumer Information Accessibility Emergency SIS FOIA Privacy © 2022 By The Rector And Visitors Of The University Of Virginia