Skip to main content Undergraduate Admissions Navigation Academics Admissions FreshmanTransferInternationalTransient, Non-Degree Seeking and Second Bachelor’sDual Enrollment and Early AdmissionAdmitted StudentsRequest InfoCheck Status Cost and Aid Visit FAQs View All FAQsFreshmanApplication ProcessAdmitted StudentsCost, Fees and Financial AidCampus Visits and ToursHousing and Campus Life Resources For High School StudentsFor ParentsFor CounselorsVirtual Info SessionsAdmission FormsJoin Our Mailing ListContact Us Apply Your Future Starts at UCF Your Future Starts at UCF Ready to get started? The fall application deadline for transfer students is July 1, 2022. New Knights, welcome to the UCF Class of 2026! #ChargeOn See Yourself as a Knight Don’t just go to college — get the most out of it. The UCF experience creates opportunities that last a lifetime, from orientation to graduation. Whether you prefer academics and research or campus activities and athletics, we’ll provide you with the tools and support you need to find your place and foster your purpose. From across the nation and around the world, students like you are starting their higher education journeys in the heart of Central Florida. Visit UCF and see what we’re all about. Our campus tours and info sessions are a great way to check out the sights, talk with counselors and current students, and get answers to your questions. Your future starts at UCF. Take the next step to become a Knight. There’s No Limit to What You Can Do at UCF From application to graduation, you’ll be inspired to do amazing things. To think big. To dream even bigger. Learn more about taking the next step to become a Knight. Requirements You’ve worked hard to get here. Let us make it easier for you to take the next step. Costs We believe a college education should be accessible for all students — at a cost you can afford. MyFloridaFuture MyFloridaFuture is a college and career planning tool to help students and parents learn about options within the State University System of Florida. Visit To really appreciate all UCF has to offer, you need to explore, stroll and visit campus. We’re confident you’ll want to call us home. Visit UCF Excited to see UCF for yourself? We’re excited, too. Touring campus is an important part of discovering why we’re the best school for you. And we’ve made it more convenient than ever with in-person, livestreamed and self-guided tour options. Whichever campus tour you choose, we look forward to showing you what it’s like to be a Knight. Visit UCF Find Your Bachelor’s Degree At UCF, passions are ignited. Interested in one of our specialty fields? Take a good look at engineering, hospitality, digital media and biomedical sciences. Search Check out the full list of more than 100 Bachelor’s Programs to chose from. View information on salary, graduate employment, student debt and additional educational opportunities by degree program on the MyFloridaFuture Dashboard. Top 10 Majors* Top 10 Majors* Psychology Health Sciences Computer Science Biology Nursing Mechanical Engineering Biomedical Sciences Finance Digital Media Integrated Business *By Enrollment | Data provided by ikm.ucf.edu. Which Type of Student Are You? Freshman I’m a high school senior, or this will be my first time in college. Transfer I’m currently studying at another college or have earned credits at another school, but I want to attend UCF. International I’m a non-U.S. citizen seeking a bachelor’s degree. Transient, Non-degree or Second Bachelor’s Seeking I’m looking to take classes without working towards a degree at UCF or I wish to pursue a second bachelor’s degree. Dual Enrollment or Early Admission I’m a high school student looking to enroll part time at UCF while finishing high school, or full time at UCF during my senior year. Transfer to a Fully Online Program I’m a college student interested in completing my bachelor’s degree online. Freshman I’m a high school senior, or this will be my first time in college. Transfer I’m currently studying at another college or have earned credits at another school, but I want to attend UCF. International I’m a non-U.S. citizen seeking a bachelor’s degree. Transient, Non-degree or Second Bachelor’s I’m looking to take classes without working towards a degree at UCF or I wish to pursue a second bachelor’s degree. Dual Enrollment and Early Admissions I’m a high school student looking to enroll part time at UCF while finishing high school, or full time at UCF during my senior year. Transfer to a Fully Online Program I’m a college student interested in completing my bachelor’s degree online. Start Your application Today Ready to get started? Take the next step to save your spot at UCF. 1 Check out your application requirements. See what freshmen and transfer students need to apply. 2 Short on time? You can start your application today and come back later to finish. Apply Now Admissions Calendar and Events Part of being successful is having the information you need to make the best decisions. Here are important dates and deadlines for students. Up Next Jul 28 11:30 am Lake County APTitute Looking Ahead No events found. Did you know… Kiplinger’s magazine and Forbes rank UCF among the nation’s best education values. 650+ UCF has hundreds of Clubs and Organizations. We’ve got 16 NCAA Division I Sports. 71% of UCF undergraduate students receive financial aid. 340 National Merit Scholars study here. 225 Degree Programs in nearly every discipline and area of interest. Want to experience what’s going on around campus? Check out our social page Recognition UCF is full of big thinkers, high achievers and award-winning innovators. And others are taking note. Virtual Visit Take a virtual tour of our Orlando campus, and see if UCF is right for you. FAQs Get application information and deadlines, plus answers to all of your questions. Apply Now We’ve made it easier than ever to apply to UCF. Start your application today. Contact Us Mailing Address P.O. Box 160111 Orlando, FL 32816-0111 Contact Email: [email protected] Phone: 844-376-9160 Fax: 407-823-5625 Business Hours Mon - Fri: 9 a.m. - 5 p.m. Closed Weekends & Holidays Application Deadlines Freshman Applicants Fall: May 1 Spring: November 1 Summer: March 1 Transfer Applicants Fall: July 1 Spring: November 1 Summer: March 1 International Applicants Fall: March 1 Spring: September 1 Summer: January 1 More Resources FAQs Admission Forms Accreditation Annual Security Report Accessibility Request Info Let’s Get Social Facebook Twitter