Skip to main content Restrict my search to Police Department Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search University of Houston Police Department About UHPD General Information History of UHPD UHPD Strategic Vision Become a Police Officer Clery Campus Security Authority Am I a CSA? My Responsibility Get More Info Make a Report FAQs APPLY ONLINE Records & Reports Report a Crime Daily Crime Log Annual Security and Fire Safety Report File a Complaint Give a Compliment Hazard Report Safety & Security Staying Safe Crime Prevention Crime Prevention Services How You Can Prevent Crime Crime Prevention Tips Operation ID Vehicle Accidents Duty to Give Info and Render Aid Crash Involving Damage to a Vehicle Striking an Unattended Vehicle Striking a Fixture or Landscaping Immediate Reporting Police Investigation Resources Sensitive Crimes Violent Incidents Sexual Assault Sex Offender Registry Domestic Violence Hate Crimes Harassment Identity Theft Active Shooter Active Shooter Defined Avoid Lockdown & Deny Alert & Notify Defend & Counter Police Intervention Resources Bomb Threats Explosions Shelter In Place Office Security Community Services Security Escort Blue Light Emergency Phones Camera Network Lost and Found Bike Registration Special Events Money Transfers Policies & Training Campus Carry Policy FAQs Secure Storage Process Senate Bill 4 Racial Profiling Police In-Service Training Civil Protests Contact UHPD UH Home Police Department About UHPD Campus Security Authority What is My Responsibility as a CSA? Campus Security Authority Am I a CSA? What is My Responsibility as a CSA? Where Can I Get More Information About CSAs? Make a Report (PDF) Contact UHPD 4051 Wheeler Ave. Houston, TX 77204-6191 (713) 743-3333 or 911 from a campus phone non-emergency email police@uh.edu Campus Security Authorities What is my responsibility as a CSA? CSA’s are encouraged to report all crimes reported to them, on a timely basis, to the University of Houston Police Department (UHPD). However, under the Clery Act, CSA’s are only obligated to report, Clery Act qualifying crimes which occurred on campus, in public areas bordering campus and in certain non-campus buildings owned or controlled (leased) by the University. CSA’s should only report those crimes that have not been previously reported to University Police or another University CSA. The intent of including non-law enforcement personnel in the CSA role is to acknowledge that some community members and students in particular, may be hesitant about reporting crimes to the police, but may be more inclined to report incidents to other campus-affiliated individuals. CSA Crime Reporting When a crime is reported to a CSA, first ask the person if they would like to report it to the UHPD. If so, contact UHPD at (713) 743-3333. If not, for Clery Act qualifying crimes, the CSA must complete and submit, on a timely basis, a Campus Security Authority Crime Report Form. The Report Form can be submitted to UHPD via email to uhdpscsa@central.uh.edu, or via postal mail or in person at the Police building, 4051 Wheeler Avenue Houston, Texas 77204-6191. If the reported crime is made in good faith, meaning that there is reasonable basis for believing that the information is not rumor or hearsay, then the crime is Clery reportable. CSA’s, when interacting with the crime reporting party, need to gather incident information that would provide sufficient detail to properly classify the incident. This means CSA’s need to document reporting party responses or lack thereof. Reporting party identifying information should only be included in the Report Form if the reporting party is willing to provide same. CSA’s should not investigate the crime or attempt to determine whether a crime, in fact, took place. When in doubt, a Report Form should be completed and submitted! What is done with CSA Report Forms? UHPD reviews CSA Report forms and makes a determination if an incident warrants timely warning / emergency notification of the University community and whether it is a reportable crime in the Annual Security Report. The Clery Act Coordinator will consolidate crime data from multiple sources, report qualifying crime data to the federal Department of Education, publish the Annual Security Report and inform the campus community when and where those reports are available. The University of Houston Annual Security Report is published here. Hard copies are available upon request. Crime / Emergency and Non-Emergency Reporting Regardless of your status (CSA or non-CSA), all community members are encouraged to promptly report all campus related criminal incidents and other public safety related emergencies to UHPD. For incidents requiring immediate attention, dial 911 or use one of the “Blue Light” Police Emergency Phones (call boxes) located throughout campus. Non-emergency incidents can be reported by dialing 3-3333 from any campus phone or in person at the Police building, 4051 Wheeler Avenue Houston, Texas 77204-6191. 4051 Wheeler Ave. Houston, TX 77204-6191 UH Emergency Information Call UHPD: 713-743-3333 Campus Map For Emergencies Dial 911 from a campus phone Non-Emergency email: police@uh.edu Security Escorts Lost and Found Bicycle Registration ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies