Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Center for Global Engagement Menu About CGE Main Office Dr. Jeffrey Hamilton Lynae Jordan Robert Leis Holly Joyner Jorge Vielledent International Student and Scholar Services Office Dr. Mark Bryant Grace Semple-Paul, JD Leslie Hicks Timothy Johnson Brandon Hoye Delores Melendez Study Abroad Office Bo White, Ed.D. Kodi Henderson Katie Klingstedt Sophia Ferris Global Gateway Program Events News Study Abroad Why Study Abroad Steps to Study Abroad Choosing a Program Academics Study Abroad Advising Appointment Costs and Funding Application Timeline Parent Information Baylor Study Abroad Programs Types of Programs Programs by Location Areas of Study Explore Programs Internships and Research Abroad Health & Safety I'm Accepted..What's Next? Tips Photo Contest Social Media Takeover Study Abroad Fair Program Director Portal Program Director Development Videos Propose a New Program BearsAbroad GlobalProtect VPN International Travel with Duo Global Safety and Security FAQ International Student and Scholar Services International Students New Student Information F-1 Degree-Seeking Students J-1 Exchange Students Paying Taxes International Scholars Visiting Faculty & Researchers Health Services and Insurance - Scholars J-1 Scholar Guidelines Maintaining Status Programs & Activities Spring 2022 Trips & Special Events Global Friendship Program CGE Ambassadors International Organizations International Student & Scholar Workshops Academic and Language Resources International Student Resource Hub Community Support Page Summer Courses in China Faculty and Staff Resource Tool Kit ISSS Programming Framework Global Baylor Certificate Program Enrollment and Benefits Submission Process Global Engagement Courses Testimonials Intercultural Competence Courses Global Calendar & Events First Abroad Fellows Program Connecting to Global Initiatives Quality Enhancement Plan Global Baylor in the News International Education Week Global Gateway Our Program About Us Cornell Menking Meredith Moore Nate Hutcherson Christine Fabiszewski Matthew Piech Tanya Vernon Debra Wainscott Tracey Jones Amber McKinney Visitor Directions to the Global Gateway Program Current Students IY - Undergraduate MIY - Graduate International Student Academic Support STL 1205 - Academic Success Strategies for International Students New Students On-Campus Study Information Frequently Asked Questions GGP Arrival Information On-Campus Housing & Dining Finances Life at Baylor Academics Faculty & Staff Toolkit Toolkit Global Scholars Why Global Scholars Global Scholars Application Process Starting in Dublin Studying in Dublin, Ireland Course Work Cost Residence Hall in Dublin Global Scholars Community Global Scholars Leadership Register Travel Faculty/Staff Only Travel Faculty & Student Group Travel Student Only Travel Give Baylor>Center for Global Engagement>International Student and Scholar Services>Faculty and Staff Resource Tool Kit>ISSS Programming Framework ISSS Programming Framework Summary International Student & Scholar Services is proud to provide each year a programming portfolio of trips, events and other engagement opportunities for our international student & scholar population. These opportunities can range from excursions to state-wide points of interest, such as the state Capitol and the NASA space center in Houston, to participation in on-campus Baylor traditions such as the Homecoming parade or collaborations with campus partners to provide helpful workshops that enrich the student/scholar experience. Higher education institutions in the United States have an obligation to both its students and the federal government to provide programming that exposes students to the cultural diversity in the USA. Building a Theoretical Framework The mandate for ISSS to provide programming for our student & scholar population is clear. The mandate to determine which programming to provide is much less so. Therefore, ISSS has worked to develop a theory-backed framework around which to construct our program offerings in order to ensure they support holistic development and provide appropriate support for the unique circumstances and challenges presented to our international student & scholar population. By synthesizing the best and most recent research on student thriving and international student success in the US setting, we have developed four primary programming objectives for the ISSS office. These objectives are used to guide the current operations of the office and the development of new programs and functions. Though the research explored highlights international student development, ISSS invites international scholars to all ISSS functions and recognizes scholars as significant members of the Baylor international community. ISSS Programming Objectives By following theory-backed practices and research, ISSS will strive to provide the following opportunities through our program offerings: Celebrate Home Cultures: Students will be given opportunities to celebrate and share the unique aspects of their home cultures, therefore strengthening their ties to their homes and enriching the Baylor community. Foster Intercultural Understanding: Students will be exposed to US culture as well as the unique cultures of their peers in ways that promote dialogue and respect. Provide Holistic Support: Students will be connected to resources and opportunities to thrive in their transition to Baylor, their time at Baylor, and beyond. Promote a Sense of Belonging: In addition to belonging to a distinct a community of international student and scholars, students will be valued as integral parts of the larger Baylor and Waco community. ISSS Programming Overview Please see below for a brief overview of the ways in which different ISSS initiatives meet each of the four different programming objectives. Opportunities to Celebrate Home Cultures Every student, whether they are from Dallas or Dubai, brings an important story and culture with them to campus. ISSS creates ways for international students to celebrate and share their home culture while on campus. Because we believe that Baylor as a whole is most beautiful when it reflects the beauty of its unique individuals, our desire is not for students to leave behind their home culture, but to bring their home with them when they come, thereby enriching the Baylor community. In order to promote this, we create opportunities for students and scholars to share their history, their language, their music, their cuisine, and so much more. Foster Intercultural Understanding As our students prepare to enter an increasingly multicultural workforce and world, developing intercultural competencies are a vital part of a student’s growth. At ISSS, we work to create learning and exposure opportunities for our international students and scholars to engage with US culture as well as the cultures of their international peers. Provide Holistic Support The ISSS office serves as a conduit, connecting our students to people and resources around campus. We seek to be an office and group of staff members who can assist students in any needs that arise during their time at Baylor, from academic advising to physical and mental health, from housing questions to transportation and food needs. ISSS proactively connects students and scholars to the places and people around campus who can meet those needs. Promote a Sense of Belonging A strong sense of belonging is one of the key determinants for college student success. International students in particular can face additional barriers to achieving a sense of belonging when encountering the unique barrier of linguistic, social, and even culinary comprehension. ISSS creates opportunities for students and scholars to develop that sense of belonging, specifically by emphasizing the important part they play as members of the ISSS community, the Baylor community, and the Waco community at large. Additional Resources This framework was not built in a vacuum. Many thanks are owed to scholars in the field of student--and specifically international student--development theory. Please see below for a bibliography of articles and resources International Student & Scholar Services found as instrumental to creating a bedrock foundation upon which to build our ISSS Programming Framework... Ballo, A., Mathies, C., & Weimer, L. (2019). Applying Student Development Theories: Enhancing International Student Academic Success and Integration. Journal of Comparative & International Higher Education, 11(Winter), 18–24. Briggs, P., & Ammigan, R. (2017). A collaborative programming and outreach model for international student support offices. Journal of International Students, 7(4), 1080–1095. Johnson, L. R., Seifen-Adkins, T., Sandhu, D. S., Arbles, N., & Makino, H. (2018). Developing culturally responsive programs to promote international student adjustment: A participatory approach. Journal of International Students, 8(4), 1865–1878. Montgomery, K. A. (2017). Supporting Chinese undergraduate students in transition at U.S. colleges and universities. Journal of International Students, 7(4), 963–989. Museus, S. D. (2014). The culturally engaging campus environments (CECE) model: A new theory of success among racially diverse college student populations. In M. B. Paulsen (Ed.), Higher education: Handbook of theory and research (pp. 189 –227). Rose-Redwood, C., & Rose-Redwood, R. (2018). Fostering successful integration and engagement between domestic and international students on college and university campuses. Journal of International Students, 8(3), 1267–1273. Wu, H., Garza, E., & Guzman, N. (2015). International Student’s Challenge and Adjustment to College. Education Research International, 2015, 1–9. International Student and Scholar Services International Students New Student Information Getting To Waco Living in Waco Banking and Money Baylor Welcome Weekend Food Stores Getting a Cell Phone Getting a Driver's License Health Services Housing Transportation Weather in Waco Working on Campus Global Bears Week F-1 Degree-Seeking Students F-1 Student Guidelines SEVIS Registration for Fall and Spring Terms Suspension and Expulsion Termination of SEVIS Record Document Management Academic Program Completion Insufficient Funds Deferment Post Baccalaureate Study F-1 Visa Renewal Changing to F-1 Status Online Programs and Courses Health Services and Insurance Avoiding Fraud and Scams F1 Students and Summer Enrollment Student Requests Replace or Update I-20 Request Curricular Practical Training (CPT) Post Completion Optional Practical Training (OPT) Pre-Completion Optional Practical Training (OPT) STEM OPT Extension CAP-GAP Extension Leave of Absence Letter Requests On-Campus Employment Reduced Course Load Change of Level Reinstatement of Status Transfer In and Out Travel Authorization Dependents Extend or Shorten Your Program Social Security Number Severe Economic Hardship J-1 Exchange Students Application Process Costs Room and Board Course Selection Health Services and Insurance - Exchange Students Paying Taxes Process Forms and Documents Frequently Asked Questions International Scholars Visiting Faculty & Researchers Health Services and Insurance - Scholars J-1 Scholar Guidelines Maintaining J-1 Status Two Year Residency 12 & 24 Month Bars Travel Procedures Extensions Program Transfer 212e Waiver J-2 Dependents Lecture Requests and Consultations Maintaining Status Programs & Activities Spring 2022 Trips & Special Events Global Friendship Program CGE Ambassadors 2020-2021 CGE Ambassadors 2019-2020 CGE Ambassadors International Organizations International Student & Scholar Workshops Academic and Language Resources International Student Resource Hub Community Support Page Summer Courses in China Faculty and Staff Resource Tool Kit ISSS Programming Framework Center for Global Engagement Hankamer Academic Center, H 160.01 1428 S. 5th St. Waco, TX 76798 One Bear Place #97012 Waco, TX 76798-7012 (254) 710-1461 Global_Baylor@baylor.edu Global_Gateway@baylor.edu ISSS_Support@baylor.edu StudyAbroad@baylor.edu Global BaylorInternational Student and Scholar ServicesRegister Your TravelStudy AbroadGlobal Gateway General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 About CGE Main Office Dr. Jeffrey Hamilton Lynae Jordan Robert Leis Holly Joyner Jorge Vielledent International Student and Scholar Services Office Dr. Mark Bryant Grace Semple-Paul, JD Leslie Hicks Timothy Johnson Brandon Hoye Delores Melendez Study Abroad Office Bo White, Ed.D. Kodi Henderson Katie Klingstedt Sophia Ferris Global Gateway Program Events News Study Abroad Why Study Abroad Steps to Study Abroad Choosing a Program Academics Study Abroad Advising Appointment Costs and Funding Application Timeline Parent Information Baylor Study Abroad Programs Types of Programs Programs by Location Areas of Study Explore Programs Internships and Research Abroad Health & Safety I'm Accepted..What's Next? Tips Photo Contest Social Media Takeover Study Abroad Fair Program Director Portal Program Director Development Videos Propose a New Program BearsAbroad GlobalProtect VPN International Travel with Duo Global Safety and Security FAQ International Student and Scholar Services International Students New Student Information F-1 Degree-Seeking Students J-1 Exchange Students Paying Taxes International Scholars Visiting Faculty & Researchers Health Services and Insurance - Scholars J-1 Scholar Guidelines Maintaining Status Programs & Activities Spring 2022 Trips & Special Events Global Friendship Program CGE Ambassadors International Organizations International Student & Scholar Workshops Academic and Language Resources International Student Resource Hub Community Support Page Summer Courses in China Faculty and Staff Resource Tool Kit ISSS Programming Framework Global Baylor Certificate Program Enrollment and Benefits Submission Process Global Engagement Courses Testimonials Intercultural Competence Courses Global Calendar & Events First Abroad Fellows Program Connecting to Global Initiatives Quality Enhancement Plan Global Baylor in the News International Education Week Global Gateway Our Program About Us Cornell Menking Meredith Moore Nate Hutcherson Christine Fabiszewski Matthew Piech Tanya Vernon Debra Wainscott Tracey Jones Amber McKinney Visitor Directions to the Global Gateway Program Current Students IY - Undergraduate MIY - Graduate International Student Academic Support STL 1205 - Academic Success Strategies for International Students New Students On-Campus Study Information Frequently Asked Questions GGP Arrival Information On-Campus Housing & Dining Finances Life at Baylor Academics Faculty & Staff Toolkit Toolkit Global Scholars Why Global Scholars Global Scholars Application Process Starting in Dublin Studying in Dublin, Ireland Course Work Cost Residence Hall in Dublin Global Scholars Community Global Scholars Leadership Register Travel Faculty/Staff Only Travel Faculty & Student Group Travel Student Only Travel Give