Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Health Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Our Services Appointments Health Topics Events Forms and Guidelines Our Organization News See All Services What's Open Now Patient Resources Quarantine and Isolation Support Coping Tools Immunization Compliance Top Services Birth Control Education Individual Counseling Primary Care Register with Disability Services Sexual Assault: Get Support STI Testing Support Groups Travel Medicine Urgent Medical Concerns Workshops and Trainings Cost of Service Overview Make an Appointment Same Day Service Emergency and After-hours Support Alcohol Body Image Concerns Marijuana Disabilities Other Drugs HIV Insurance Men's Health Mental Health and Well-Being Anxiety Depression Stress Nutrition Physical Activity Relationships Overview Academic Relationships Friendships Roommates Sexual and Reproductive Health Sleep Transgender and Gender Expansive Health Violence Prevention Prevention Consent What Is Sexual Assault? Supporting a Survivor What Is Relationship Abuse? Stalking What Is Sexual Harassment? Bystander Intervention-Step UP! Women's Health See All Events Sexual Assault Awareness Month Columbia Health Flu Season Information Virtual Naloxone Training About Columbia Health Who We Are Who We Serve Confidentiality, Patient Rights, & Patient Responsibilities Operating Philosophy Video Library Your Feedback Staff Directory Health Units Alice! Health Promotion Counseling and Psychological Services Disability Services Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) Insurance Office Medical Services Sexual Violence Response Columbia Health You are here: Home Columbia Health Annual Report Columbia Health Annual Report Academic Year 2020-2021: Progressing on our core mission to advance the well-being of the University community and the personal and academic success of students. View in full screen. Download an accessible version of this report. While the global pandemic forced the entire world to pause, there was no pause for Columbia Health. Our doors—virtual and in-person—remained open throughout, even as protocols and procedures constantly changed. We had to expand the scope of our services to include faculty and staff, and provide support for many other aspects of the University’sCOVID-19 response. This annual report tells the story of Columbia Health this past academic year: how we have contributed to the COVID-19 response, how we adapted our services and processes to meet evolving conditions and student need, how we worked with partners at all levels of the community, how we delivered student-centered care with inclusiveness at its heart, how we used data and research to drive quality and innovation, and what our position as a standalone department at the University means. Expand all Collapse all Accomplishments Core Operations Medical Services completed 22,408 visits with 18,031 unique students. Administered 12,048 flu vaccines and 6,089 other vaccines. Counseling and Psychological Services saw 5,148 students for individual counseling, provided 1,723 consultations for faculty, administrators, parents, and other members of the community concerned about a student, and offered 111 virtual support spaces. 3,274 students registered with Disability Services, 10.4% of the Columbia student community. Disability Services facilitated 30,851 accommodations, a 9.95% increase from the previous year. The team also provided captioning, sign-language, and CART services for 1,017 courses and virtually proctored or administered online accommodations for 14,451 quizzes and exams. Alice! Health Promotion hosted 143 health promotion events for 5,384 attendees. The team also trained 9 students (representing 6 schools on the Morningside campus) for the Columbia Health Peer Ambassador Network. Sexual Violence Response hosted 250 violence-prevention education workshops for 14,588 participants. 13,369 students and 605 dependents were enrolled in the Columbia University Student Health Insurance Plan during the Fall 2020 term. 12,654 students and 653 dependents were enrolled during the Spring 2021 term. Columbia Health negotiated a smaller premium increase for the health insurance plan: 7% compared to 12-20% across the industry in 2020. Columbia Health trained 768 community members in naloxone administration. 5 lives were saved during the academic year. COVID-19 Administered 4,442 COVID-19 vaccines. Completed 300,000+ COVID-19 tests for the community. Answered 2,910 COVID-19 hotline calls (Aug. 2020 - Mar. 2021). Provided support for 2,800+ affiliates through contract tracing efforts. Trained 400 Keeping Our Community Healthy Ambassadors. Provided support for students in quarantine and isolation: Self-care kits Peace & Presence workshops, including Trauma-focused and Restorative Yoga; Movement Medicine; Voice Journey; Drawing & Language; and Visual Arts Chat4Connection virtual support spaces R.O.A.R. Success Drop-in Coaching (Alice! Health Promotion) Take a breath with Alice! Take a (virtual) break with Alice!... and some dogs Virtual acupressure and integrative medicine support Programs were facilitated early or late night to support students in various time zones Columbia Health Administration Wallach Hall, Suite 125, Mail Code 4202, 1116 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-2284 Contact Us [email protected] Internal Use Only Login to Access Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close