Skip to main content Clemson University Degrees Home Degree Programs MENU Agribusiness (B.S.) LEARN MORE ABOUT Agriculture is big business and big opportunities. Eleven percent of total jobs in the United States are connected with the food and agricultural sectors. And in South Carolina, agribusiness is a leading industry, with an annual economic impact of $41.7 billion. These numbers translate to a strong demand and exciting career potential for individuals who have mastered the business and economic skills required to be a leader in agriculture or in the related industries. As an agribusiness major at Clemson, you'll learn how to be that leader. Here, you'll gain the skill set required to secure a high-paying and rewarding job in any area of the food and fiber industry as well as the growing private sectors of national and international agribusiness management, banking, finance, sales, marketing and public relations, among others. Or if you're interested in opportunities with state or federal agencies, you'll be prepared for that as well. FAST FACTS Agribusiness is a leading industry in South Carolina, with a 23 percent growth rate over the last decade and $41.7 billion in annual economic impact. The agribusiness industry directly supports 68,000 jobs in South Carolina. WHAT YOU'LL STUDY An agribusiness degree will provide you with an excellent foundation in applied economic analysis and business management. The focus of your studies will be on the functioning of the agri-food sector and on the economics of decision making within that sector. Through your classes, you'll get a strong, big-picture sense of how business works, learn the ins and outs of agricultural practices, and most importantly, discover how the two work together. As part of that, your classes could include agribusiness economics and management, farm management, data analysis, leadership, marketing and sales, finance, accounting and business skill development. You'll also be required to choose and complete a minor that will complement your interests and career goals. Just as important as classroom work is what we call experiential learning. Employers continue to place a high importance on this, and you'll be strongly encouraged to have at least one internship during your time on campus. In addition, you'll have the opportunity to study abroad and even perform research alongside one of your professors. Our agribusiness faculty and staff are ready and willing to work closely with you outside the classroom to provide guidance on course selection, keep you informed about career and internship opportunities and answer any questions you have. Curriculum Agribusiness, B.S. Popular Minors Adult/Extension Education Animal and Veterinary Sciences Business Administration Communication Studies Environmental Science and Policy Natural Resource Economics Similar Majors Agricultural Education (B.S.) Agricultural Mechanization and Business (B.S.) Animal and Veterinary Sciences (B.S.) Economics (B.S./B.A.) Environmental and Natural Resources (B.S.) EXPERIENCES BEYOND THE CLASSROOM With agriculture serving as the No. 1 industry in South Carolina, there are many opportunities to feel its impact within just a few short steps of the classroom. NETWORK The Agribusiness Club is a student-based, professional organization that aims to expand your understanding of the industry. They sponsor field trips, guest speakers and annual events. PARTNERS Industry is closely partnered with the program and faculty to ensure that students are gaining real-world skills. TOUR You'll regularly be required to get out and see firsthand where our graduates are in the industry and how agriculture takes product from the field or forest to the table or retail store. INTERNSHIPS Students are encouraged to take on internships to aid in choosing a professional career. CONNECT WITH OTHER STUDENTS Agribusiness Association Ag Mech Club Clemson Collegiate FFA Chapter Horticulture Club AFTER GRADUATION Your college decision isn't really about the next four years. We get it. It's about what doors are opened by your degree and whether those opportunities are what you had envisioned for yourself. Here's a snapshot of what life after graduation looks like for some of our most recent students. WHERE OUR RECENT GRADUATES HAVE GONE KEY 41-100% 21-40% 11-20% 0-10% RECENT EMPLOYERS Northeast Marketing Agent Farm Credit East/Crop Growers Sales Rep BWI Companies Sales Associate Mondelez International Agribusiness Consultant South Carolina Small Business Development Center Field Sales Rep TEC Industrial RECENT POSTGRADUATE STUDIES M.S. Plant and Environmental Sciences Clemson University M.Ed. Agricultural Education Clemson University M.S. Agriculture and Resource Economics University of Tennessee COMMON CAREER AREAS AgFinance Analyst Commodity Trader Financial Adviser Investment Broker Insurance Agent Loan Officer Market Research Purchasing Manager Appraisal Claims Processor Production/Processing Management Consulting Logistics Extension County Agent Agribusiness Specialist Agricultural Leadership Sales Management Human Resources Governmental Relations Communications Public Relations Technical Writing Government/Nonprofit State/Federal Conservation Regulatory/Agricultural Inspection Legislation Law Used with permission from the University of Tennessee. FIND OUT MORE Have more questions or want more information? Fill out the form below, which goes directly to the following department contact. If you’d also like to receive general University information from Clemson’s admissions office, please follow the link to the right and sign up to join our mailing list. Madison Cutts Coordinator of Student Recruitment mcutts@clemson.edu Department Website College Website Loading... Department Website College Website Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Line Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2015 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on Google+ Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on YouTube Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram Search Clemson University degrees Clemson Degree Programs Search Alphabetical List Schedule a Visit Campus Life Admissions Costs & Financial Aid Similar Majors To Agribusiness (B.S.) Agricultural Education (B.S.) Agricultural Mechanization and Business (B.S.) Animal and Veterinary Sciences (B.S.) Economics (B.S./B.A.) Environmental and Natural Resources (B.S.)