Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University GSAS Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded I am a... Degree Programs Student Guide Graduate Life Our Community Blog Prospective Student Current Student Faculty & Staff Alumna / Alumnus Admissions MA Programs PhD Programs Coronavirus Information for GSAS Students Financing Your Education New Student Guide Policy Handbook Research Teaching The Dissertation Career Development Convocation Diversity and Inclusion GSAS Writing Studio Graduate Student Center Student Life & Well-Being Alumni Network Dean’s Welcome GSAS at a Glance History Publications Staff Contact Us GSAS You are here: Home Student Guide Policy Handbook Policy Handbook All master's and doctoral students should familiarize themselves with and follow the regulations of the university, the Graduate School, and their individual programs of study. Please be aware that lack of knowledge about university, GSAS and/or departmental rules and policies does not excuse students who fail to comply with these regulations. Although the degree and academic requirements in place normally will not change within any given academic year, other GSAS policies are reviewed and updated regularly. The Graduate School of Arts and Sciences reserves the right to make changes at any time. Key Contacts Office of the Dean 109 Low Library, MC 4306 535 West 116th Street New York, NY 10027 [email protected] (212) 854-2861 Policies and Resources Academic Calendar View important academic dates and deadlines. Registration Registration is the process whereby an eligible student reserves a seat in a particular course or selects an enrollment category. Grading System Learn about the letter grades and other grading systems, including Incomplete, R, and Pass/Fail. Degree Requirements Read about the requirements for the MA, MPhil, and PhD and DMA degrees, and satisfactory academic progress. Summer Session Summer courses that are available to students enrolled in GSAS are offered and administered by the School of Professional Studies (SPS). Transfer Credit Transfer credit is relevant coursework completed before a student’s enrollment in a GSAS degree program that the student submits in partial fulfillment of specific academic requirements for the degree. Transcripts and Certification Transcripts are issued by the Registrar through the Office of Student Services. Change of Program A student who is currently registered in a program at the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences may apply for a change of program. Leaves of Absence, Withdrawals, and Reinstatement Information on absenting yourself from study, either temporarily or permanently, and on returning after interruption. Parental Accommodation PhD and DMA students who become parents are offered a twelve-week period of accommodation. Studying Away from Columbia Students can utilize Columbia's agreements and partnerships with other universities, going there to complete coursework or conduct research. Academic Integrity and Responsible Conduct of Research Graduate students are expected to exhibit the high level of personal and academic integrity and honesty. Good Standing Good standing in the Graduate School involves two components: good academic standing and good administrative standing. Grievance Policy Students in GSAS who believes that they are a victim of misconduct may make use of the mediation and grievance procedures developed by the Graduate School. Dean’s Discipline Dean’s Discipline is the process used to investigate and respond to allegations of academic or behavioral misconduct of a graduate student in GSAS. University Policies Become acquainted with Essential Policies for the Columbia Community. Immunization Requirements New students who fail to comply with the immunization requirements listed below will be blocked from registration and will be reported to the Office of the Dean, which may impose additional sanctions. Time-Off Policy for Doctoral Students on Appointment in the Sciences and Related Research Fields In any given academic year, such students are entitled to two weeks** beyond the eleven (Morningside Campus) or twelve (CUMC Campus) designated University/Federal holidays. Graduate School of Arts and Sciences109 Low Memorial Library, MC 4306, 535 West 116th Street · New York, NY 10027 Phone (212) 854-8903 Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close