Skip to main content Toggle navigation Explore Visit Apply Finance Enroll Search YouTube Facebook Twitter Instagram Home Explore Majors Majors With over 90 undergraduate majors across 12 colleges and schools, we have you covered. Pick one, pick two or even create your own major through our Individual Studies Program and explore a new interest through one of our 80+ minors. Still considering your options? To find the perfect fit for your fearless ideas, take some time to review these additional program types offered at UMD: Certificate and Pre-Professional Programs Combined Bachelor's/Master's Programs Business and Economics Computer, Data and Information Sciences Letters & Sciences Limited Enrollment Programs Students who wish to complete a second major concurrently with their primary major must obtain written permission from the appropriate departments and college(s). Therefore, second majors cannot be declared during the application process. Admitted students are encouraged to discuss their interest in pursuing a second major (a.k.a double majoring) during advising sessions. This can begin as early as New Student Orientation. Specific criteria may differ among departments and college(s). When you apply, your preferred major does not affect your admissibility to the University of Maryland. College of Agriculture and Natural Resources Agricultural and Resource Economics Agricultural and Resource Economics: Agribusiness Agricultural and Resource Economics: Environmental Resource Economics Agricultural Science and Technology: Agricultural and Extension Education Agricultural Science and Technology: Agronomy Agricultural Science and Technology: Environmental Horticulture Animal Sciences: Animal Care and Management Animal Sciences: Combined Ag/Veterinary Medicine Animal Sciences: Science/Pre-Professional Environmental Science and Policy Environmental Science and Technology: Ecological Technology Design Environmental Science and Technology: Environmental Health Environmental Science and Technology: Natural Resources Management Environmental Science and Technology: Soil and Watershed Science Fermentation Science Landscape Architecture Nutrition and Food Science: Dietetics Nutrition and Food Science: Food Science Nutrition and Food Sciences: Nutritional Science Plant Sciences: Plant Biology Plant Sciences: Turf and Golf Course Management Plant Sciences: Urban Forestry School of Architecture, Planning and Preservation Architecture College of Arts and Humanities American Studies Arabic Studies Art History and Archaeology Chinese Cinema & Media Studies Classics Communication Dance English French German Studies History Immersive Media Design Italian Studies Japanese Jewish Studies Linguistics Music: Education Music: Liberal Arts Program Music: Professional Program Persian Studies Philosophy Philosophy, Politics and Economics Religions of the Ancient Middle East Romance Languages Russian Language and Literature Spanish Language, Literature and Cultures Studio Art Theatre Women, Gender, and Sexuality Studies College of Behavioral and Social Sciences African American Studies Anthropology Criminology and Criminal Justice Economics Environmental Science and Policy Geographical Sciences and GIS Government and Politics Hearing and Speech Sciences International Relations Neuroscience Psychology Social Data Science Sociology Robert H. Smith School of Business Accounting Finance Information Systems International Business Management Marketing Operations Management and Business Analytics Supply Chain Management College of Computer, Mathematical, and Natural Sciences Astronomy Atmospheric and Oceanic Science Biochemistry Biological Sciences: Cell Biology and Genetics Biological Sciences: Ecology and Evolution Biological Sciences: General Biology Biological Sciences: Microbiology Biological Sciences: Physiology and Neurobiology Chemistry Computer Science Computer Science: Cybersecurity Computer Science: Data Science Computer Science: Machine Learning Computer Science: Quantum Information Environmental Science and Policy Geology Immersive Media Design Mathematics Mathematics: Applied Math Mathematics: Education Mathematics: Statistics Neuroscience Physics College of Education Art Education Early Childhood and Early Childhood Special Education Elementary Education Elementary/Middle Special Education Human Development Middle School Math and Science Education Secondary Education: English Area of Concentration Secondary Education: Mathematics (Terrapin Teachers) Area of Concentration Secondary Education: Science (Terrapin Teachers) Area of Concentration Secondary Education: Social Studies Area of Concentration Secondary Education: World Languages Area of Concentration A. James Clark School of Engineering Aerospace Engineering Biocomputational Engineering* Bioengineering Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering Civil and Environmental Engineering Computer Engineering Electrical Engineering Embedded Systems and Internet of Things* Fire Protection Engineering Materials Science and Engineering Mechanical Engineering *Offered only at the Universities at Shady Grove location. College of Information Studies Information Science Social Data Science Philip Merrill College of Journalism Journalism School of Public Health Community Health Family Science Kinesiology Public Health Science School of Public Policy Public Policy General Individual Studies Program Letters and Sciences (Undecided/Undeclared) Welcome About UMD Colleges & Schools Limited Enrollment Programs Special Experiences Campus Life College Park & D.C. Admission Representatives Resources & Support Join Mailing List Majors Alphabetically Minors Certificate and Pre-Professional Programs Computer, Data & Information Sciences Business and Economics For a comprehensive look at all undergraduate programs, please review our online catalog. Welcome About UMD Colleges and Schools Majors Limited Enrollment Programs Admission Representatives Join the Mailing List Special Experiences Campus Life College Park and D.C. Resources and Support Explore Terps love a challenge. A problem that needs a solution. A barrier that needs breaking down. You are smart, scrappy and determined. You value diversity, innovation, entrepreneurship and imagination. Ready to start your fearless journey? Be A Terp Calendar Daily Visits Signature Programs Off-Campus Programs Getting to Campus Virtual Visit Campus Map Visit You can only learn so much about a school from a brochure. Even if we tell you how beautiful our campus is, or how fantastic our students and faculty are, you will not know for yourself until you experience it for yourself! Come try on our campus for size! Stop by one of our top-notch athletic facilities. Have a scoop of homemade ice cream at the Dairy. Rub the nose of one of our beloved Testudo statues for good luck. Get all your questions answered. It won't be hard to picture yourself at home here for the next four years. Please visit our updates page for information regarding visit opportunity changes due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Virtual Visit Unable to make it to campus? Explore our beautiful campus from anywhere in the world! Virtual Tour Admission Requirements Admission Review Factors and Process Application Deadlines Application Checklists Application FAQs Submitting Documents Limited Enrollment Programs Apply You have done your research and explored your options, and you know that UMD is the perfect place for you. Now it is time to apply. COMMON APP >> MYCOALITION >> Freshman students applying to UMD can do so using either the Common App or the MyCoalition platform. At this time, transfer students can only apply using the MyCoalition platform. Please visit our updates page for information regarding changes to our application requirements due to the COVID-19 pandemic. State of Maryland Residents Non-Maryland Residents Freshman Merit Scholarships Transfer Merit Scholarships Next Steps Finance Consistently ranked as one of the best values in public higher education, you can rest assured that you will receive an affordable world-class education. College is a major investment for you and your family. The university is here to help. We offer an array of financial aid programs—including scholarships, grants, loans and student employment—as part of our commitment to making an excellent education affordable. ESTIMATED COST OF ATTENDANCE: State of Maryland Residents Non-Maryland Residents Admitted Students Admission Decision FAQs Enrolled Students Housing and Dining Orientation Enroll Congratulations on your admission to the University of Maryland! We are excited to welcome you into our world of fearless ideas. You’ve received your admission letter, checked out your major and started celebrating with family and friends. To make enrollment official, check out information for newly admitted students to get everything you need to start your academic career at UMD. ENROLL (Freshman) ENROLL (Transfer) Search Search keyword or phrase Campus Resources Accessibility Campus Calendar Campus Map Directories Policies and Procedures Student Resources Academic Calendar Registrar Testudo (Student Portal) Technical Support Change Password Division of IT Get IT Support University of Maryland on YouTube University of Maryland on Facebook University of Maryland on Twitter University of Maryland on Instagram University of Maryland on Vimeo Office of Undergraduate Admissions Mitchell Building · 7999 Regents Dr. · College Park, MD 20742 USA Privacy Notice Site Map Terp Resources Web Accessibility ×