Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Counseling Center Menu COVID-19 About Us Confidentiality Contact Us Feedback BUCC Mission Statement Diversity Vision Statement Diversity Meet the Staff Notice of Non-Discrimination Our Interns and Graduate Trainees Records Request Where are we located? POTH Policy Counseling Services Response to Serving Students During the Pandemic Services Baylor Telehealth by Academic Live Care Get Started Here Clinical Services Addictive Behavior Services Are you in crisis? Care Management Services Groups LOTUS Medical Nutrition Services Additional Information about Regina Mastin Office Hours Program of Care Scope of Service Initial Assessments Outreach Around the Table Active Minds at Baylor Outreach Request Form APA Accredited Doctoral Internship Program Letter from the Training Director Adaptation and Flexibility in the APA Internship Program related to COVID-19 APA Accreditation Overview of the APA-Accredited Internship RCT Framework for Training and Supervision Trauma Recovery Supervision Group (TRSG) Diversity Outreach Partnership (DOP) Our Commitment to Diversity Working at a Faith-Based Christian University Application Information & Selection Process Baylor University Our Counseling Center Stipend, Benefits, and Other Resources Internship Admissions, Support, and Initial Placement Data Current and Past Interns Waco & The Heart of Texas Contact Us Maintaining Mental Health Baylor>Counseling Center>About Us>Contact Us Contact Us Our location on the Campus Map To schedule an appointment call: 254-710-2467 or Walk-in Have a question or comment about the Counseling Center? Email us! To schedule an appointment call: 254-710-2467 or use the Walk-in Clinic Hours of Operation: 8:00a.m. until 5:00p.m. Monday through Friday. The Baylor Counseling Center is closed during academic breaks. Walk in Clinic Hours: Monday through Friday 9:00a.m. to 4:00p.m. Walk in Clinic Summer Hours: Monday, Tuesday, Thursday from 1:00p.m. to 4:00p.m. and Wednesdays 9:00a.m. to 4:00p.m. Location: 2nd floor of the McLane Student Life Center, room 277 (Baylor ID is needed for entry into the SLC.) Phone: Call 254-710-2467 for appointments or to speak to a staff member. In case of a CRISIS, call or come by the Counseling Center during our regular office hours. A psychologist or counselor is on call after regular office hours and during weekends. To access the crisis psychologist or counselor call the main Counseling Center phone number 254-710-2467 and someone will be able to assist you. The Counseling Center is closed during academic breaks. Students are advised to contact mental health resources in their hometowns. If you are having a psychological crisis and need assistance in Waco, please call one of the following numbers: Mental Health and Mental Retardation: 254-752-3451 and select Crisis Option DePaul Center: 254-776-5970 911 or local hospital Psychiatric services are available through the Baylor Health Center at 254-710-1010. About Us Confidentiality Contact Us Feedback BUCC Mission Statement Diversity Vision Statement Diversity Meet the Staff Notice of Non-Discrimination Our Interns and Graduate Trainees Records Request Where are we located? POTH Policy Counseling Services Response to Serving Students During the Pandemic We value your input on the services provided by BUCC. Please click here to learn about different options for providing feedback on ways we can improve our services. Visit Us McLane Student Life Center, 2nd Floor 209 Speight Ave Waco, TX 76706 Contact Us 254.710.2467 Counseling_Center@baylor.edu Show More General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Counseling Center Facebook Pinterest Twitter Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 COVID-19 About Us Confidentiality Contact Us Feedback BUCC Mission Statement Diversity Vision Statement Diversity Meet the Staff Notice of Non-Discrimination Our Interns and Graduate Trainees Records Request Where are we located? POTH Policy Counseling Services Response to Serving Students During the Pandemic Services Baylor Telehealth by Academic Live Care Get Started Here Clinical Services Addictive Behavior Services Are you in crisis? Care Management Services Groups LOTUS Medical Nutrition Services Additional Information about Regina Mastin Office Hours Program of Care Scope of Service Initial Assessments Outreach Around the Table Active Minds at Baylor Outreach Request Form APA Accredited Doctoral Internship Program Letter from the Training Director Adaptation and Flexibility in the APA Internship Program related to COVID-19 APA Accreditation Overview of the APA-Accredited Internship RCT Framework for Training and Supervision Trauma Recovery Supervision Group (TRSG) Diversity Outreach Partnership (DOP) Our Commitment to Diversity Working at a Faith-Based Christian University Application Information & Selection Process Baylor University Our Counseling Center Stipend, Benefits, and Other Resources Internship Admissions, Support, and Initial Placement Data Current and Past Interns Waco & The Heart of Texas Contact Us Maintaining Mental Health