Skip to main content Menu Resources Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply or Give Apply Now Make a Gift Brand Brand Guide It is who we are at our very core. It is our past, our present and our future. The Clemson University identity is so basic and so valuable that we guard it closely. Every marketing and communication piece should respect the good name of the brand and enhance the brand in every possible way through consistent use of logos, colors, fonts and other brand-specific directives. Color Palette Primary and secondary brand colors. Logos Visible symbols of Clemson. Photography Ideas and guidelines for best conveying the brand. Typography Fonts and guidelines for their use. Voice What we say and how we say it. Brand Policy In order to protect use of the name "Clemson University," the wordmark, the seal and University tiger designed in 1995, and the academic logo designed in 2009, and other official subordinate graphic symbols, the Clemson University Board of Trustees has determined that the name "Clemson University," the word "Clemson" used in the context of Clemson University, the University seal, the University tiger, the Academic logo, and other authorized symbols shall not be used for any noncommercial official, quasi-official, promotional or similar purpose by any organization, group or activity without the express approval of the Board of Trustees. Further, to ensure consistency in representation of the Clemson Brand, non-authorized logos, wordmarks or symbols may not be used to represent Clemson University or any of its colleges, schools, divisions, departments, programs or offices without the express approval of the Board of Trustees. Lastly, University units using Clemson University funds to produce publications or other communications materials must include approved Clemson branding. The Board delegates to the administration the responsibility for implementation of this policy, including authority to develop and publish guidelines for appropriate use of Clemson University’s name, symbols and logos, with approval of the Administrative Council, with the proviso that the final academic logo design will be approved by the Institutional Advancement Committee. In these cases, "the administration" refers to the Office of University Relations of the Division of Advancement. In keeping with existing procedures, responsibility for monitoring use of symbols created in the Athletic Department will be delegated to the Athletic Department. Adopted by the Clemson University Board of Trustees on February 12, 2009. Academic logo approved on April 17, 2009. For information about the use of the Tiger Paw, contact Tim Match, mtimoth@clemson.edu or 864-656-2911. For information about the use of logos or other graphic symbols, contact Dave Dryden, drydend@clemson.edu or 864-656-2469. Home Positioning Guides Color Palette Logos Logo Usage and Limitations Typography Photography Voice and Style Making It Real Sub Brand Guidelines Alumni Brand Standards Athletics Brand Standards Clemson Forward Brand Standards Development Brand Standards CU-ICAR Brand Standards Student Affairs Brand Standards Additional Resources Social Media Guidelines Web Style Guide Collegiate Licensing Program Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram