Skip to main content SMU Explore SMU Academics Undergraduate Admission Student Affairs About News Athletics Events Calendar Bush Center Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Apply to SMUGIVE NOW Alumni Menu Search Sameer Paroo ’01 represents Asian Pacific Islander Alumni of SMU in the 2021 Homecoming parade – 21 years after appearing as a 2000 Homecoming king candidate. Photo: @sameerparoo Sameer Paroo ’01 represents Asian Pacific Islander Alumni of SMU in the 2021 Homecoming parade – 21 years after appearing as a 2000 Homecoming king candidate. Photo: @sameerparoo News and Stories Mustangs in the Wild Sameer Paroo ’01 rides again Sameer Paroo ’01 rides again Sameer Paroo ’01 is an “M” Award-winning, Toronto-born Mustang who grew up in Orlando and completed high school in Plano, Texas. The avid basketball fan has visited approximately 33 countries since finishing graduate school and has worked in both Nairobi, Kenya, and Vancouver, Canada. In fall 2000, as an SMU senior, he represented the Program Council as a Homecoming king candidate in the Homecoming parade. Twenty-one years later, Sameer had the opportunity to ride in the parade again, but this time as chair of the Asian Pacific Islander Alumni of SMU. We caught up with Sameer to see what’s been happening beyond the Hilltop. Fast Facts Full Name: Sameer Paroo SMU grad year: 2001 Education: Bachelor of Arts in corporate communication and public affairs from Meadows School of the Arts and a minor in economics from Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Additional education: Master of Science in college student counseling and personnel services from Western Illinois University SMU student activities: Indian Student Association, Program Council, Leader Consultant Council, East Asian Student Association, Mustang Corral leader and “M” Award recipient Current SMU affiliation: Asian Pacific Islander Alumni of SMU board chair Q&A What do you do professionally? I’ve always had a passion and drive to work with young people. I have spent the last eight years working in upper management with Global Encounters, a faith-based organization that puts on camps for high school students in East Africa and South Asia. Participants hail from more than a dozen countries, including the United States and Afghanistan. The program teaches sustainable service, development, global citizenship and global leadership through volunteer work and cultural exchange. What do you do to vitalize yourself? First, I would say working out and going on runs. I turn my phone off, and it’s just me and my music for an hour or so. The second thing: I’m an avid basketball fan so being able to watch the game – I really appreciate that time. The third thing is being able to travel. I love to be able to get on a plane, look out the window and realize how this is really amazing that we can do this. The long flights never bother me. What is your favorite book or podcast? I’ve read all of M.G. Vassanji’s books, and every now and then I’ll reread them. He writes a lot about the Indian diaspora in East Africa and their migration to North America. In terms of podcasts, Jonathan Van Ness from Queer Eye has a podcast, Getting Curious, that I listen to. What was your favorite part of your SMU experience? Probably student activities. What SMU allows you to do is feel very empowered to create new experiences. I feel like I spent a lot more time in Hughes-Trigg than in some academic buildings. Through student activities, I was able to get real-life experience. Whether it be event planning, financial management or working with HR and different types of personalities, it really helped grow and build what my style would be as a professional and provided me with a network of friends – lifelong friendships. Do you have any favorite charities or volunteer commitments? The Human Rights Coalition is one that I support quite a bit. Obviously, SMU is on the top of my list. I believe in giving back, whether it be the Crain Leadership Endowment Fund or the Asian Council or one of the impact scholarships. What countries have you visited or lived in? Was one your favorite? My overseas travel really started after grad school. I always had a fascination with going to London and wanted to experience the architecture and, as a fan of The Crown, the monarchy. My travel has been through work or out of curiosity. At last count, I’ve been in 33 or so countries, mainly on the African continent and Asia, including India, Pakistan, Bangladesh, China and Japan. I have worked in East Africa and Vancouver. As far as favorite place, I’m a water guy so I would say Zanzibar. The island is incredible and has one of the best beaches I’ve ever seen. What is your tie to East Africa? Two hundred years ago, my family migrated from a small village in India to Zanzibar. From there, my familial roots moved to the northern part of Tanzania and then to Mombasa, Kenya. My dad was born there. My mom was born in Rwanda and spent most of her time in Congo. My heritage is very much East African and Indian. The best part of going back, especially Nairobi, is that my dad’s cousins still live there. I absolutely adore them. I stay with them and enjoy home-cooked meals – a fusion between East African and Indian food. Kuku paka – chicken and coconut curry with eggs, served over rice – and fried fish curry with a tomato seasoning are two dishes that come to mind. Favorite quote? One that stands out happens to be the quote for our graduating class. It’s from Mahatma Gandhi. “Be the change you wish to see in the world.” In the work that I do, it’s so relevant to be able to empower the kids with that quote, because they have the opportunity to be that change. Aside from the empowerment, there’s a responsibility that exists, because we all have the opportunity to make humanity better. Is there a particular life’s purpose or motivation that drives you? If I have the opportunity, I will always want to work with young people. They have the ability to provide me with perspectives that I may not be familiar with. Selfishly, that is growth for me. They have the ability to change the world that they live in and to really discover their power. If I can help guide, I think for them and the people that they are around, it becomes an exponential movement toward becoming a more “cohesive humanity.” Do you have any reflections on your year as API chair that you would like to share? I am completely humbled by the opportunity to serve over the past year as the chair. My humility is embedded in the conversations that I’ve had with people. So many API alumni are so grateful that this particular affinity group was started. It’s a way for people to come together. It’s a way for more seasoned alums and younger alums to find out what’s happening on campus. The phrase that I’ve heard over and over again is that “it gives us a place where we can come together.” Within the API community, we have a responsibility to continue to give back to the campus and the students. It doesn’t have to be financial. It could be sharing knowledge and time: a mentorship or calling the students that have been admitted. There are so many opportunities to get involved at SMU. When we do, it makes our campus stronger, and it makes our students stronger. To learn more about API of SMU Alumni or volunteer opportunities, visit smu.edu/alumni. Connect with Sameer Apply NowVisit Us Back to top Academics Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Science Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education & Human Development SMU CAPE SMU Libraries The Guildhall Audience Links Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Media Parents Quick Links SMU Ignited: Boldly Shaping Tomorrow COVID-19 Information (Mustang Strong) Bush Center SMU Store Academic Calendar Events Calendar Employment Giving to SMU Virtual Tour Get in Touch Contact Us Maps Directions Compliance Legal Disclosures Report Sexual Harassment Reporting a BIAS Incident HEERF Reporting Emergency Preparedness Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn YouTube © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 Groups and Networks Regional Alumni Networks Alumni Affinity Groups Golden Mustangs SMU Network Facebook Instagram LinkedIn YouTube Update your info Events Upcoming Events 50-Year Reunion Homecoming Distinguished Alumni Awards Taos Cultural Institute SMU Alumni Travel Program Volunteer Opportunities Alumni Board Young Alumni Board Black Alumni Board Hispanic Alumni Board Asian Pacific Islander Alumni Board Hilltop Volunteers Career Mentoring Admission Volunteers Class Ambassadors Regional Chapter Leaders News and Stories Featured Stories Mustangs in the Wild SMU News Class Notes SMU Magazine SMU Stories Resources Hegi Career Center Continuing Education Order a transcript SMU Bookstore Alumni Credit Card Alumni Insurance Program Refer a Mustang SMU Alumni Relations Giving Give now Alumni Giving SMU Giving Day Mustang Crowdfunding News Athletics SMU Store Cox Alumni Dedman Alumni Dedman Law Alumni Meadows Alumni Perkins Simmons Alumni Update your info Submit a class note Give Menu Search Search Submit Popular Searches Current Students Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission Faculty & Staff Majors & Minors Alumni COVID-19 Information (Mustang Strong) Did you know? SMU's singular approach to integrating rigorous learning with hands-on experience will prepare you to achieve your educational goals and expand your world in ways you never imagined. Ours is a community of people forging their own paths. We'd like to help you shape yours. Plan your visit Menu Search