Skip to main content Toggle navigation Search Global dropdown menu Research Support Subject Librarians Reach out to a librarian for specialized help in a discipline. Library Catalog Find books, audio and video, music scores, maps and more. Research Guides Use the best resources we have, picked by librarians. Databases There's a wealth of information to be found through our database subscriptions. Collections Print and digital collections serve as extensions of our teaching and research facilities. Research Services We're available throughout all stages of your research. Quick Links Library Search JSTOR PubMed Make an Appointment Newspapers Journals Collections Program Borrow & Renew Library Catalog Find books, audio and video, music scores, maps and more in the catalog. Borrowing & Requesting Learn how to borrow materials at Dartmouth and from other libraries via BorrowDirect or DartDoc. Tech Loans We've got everything from chargers to a professional portable recording studio. Alumni Access and Resources How to access resources, on and off-campus. Media Discover an extensive range of movies, television series, documentaries, educational programs, audio and more. Off-Campus Access Students, staff, and faculty can access most of our electronic resources off-campus. Quick Links BorrowDirect DartDoc Course Reserves for Faculty Course Reserves for Students Libraries & Spaces Study and Meeting Spaces Book a meeting room for a group or sign up to use a private study room. Hours and Locations Our hours, holiday closings, street addresses and contact information. Baker-Berry Library Our main library houses the humanities, mathematics, music, physical sciences and social sciences collections Biomedical Libraries The Dana and Matthews-Fuller libraries support the disciplines of health and life sciences. Evans Map Room Houses thousands of sheet maps, mapping software, atlases, globes & more. Feldberg Business & Engineering Library Offers support for the Tuck School of Business & Thayer School of Engineering. Jones Media Center Provides facilities & collections for researching, viewing & producing media. Rauner Special Collections Library Includes rare books, manuscripts & more. Sherman Art Library Supports the departments of Art History, Studio Art, as well as the Hood Museum of Art. About Us Hours and Locations Events Latest News Privacy Policy Dean’s Council for Equity and Inclusion Strategic Objectives Visiting & Exhibits Help Library Search Learn about signing into your account, search options and tips, getting to resources and working with citations. Research Support We're committed to partnering with you to enhance and showcase your research. Publishing Support We provide consultation focusing on opportunities in digital publishing and scholarship. Subject Librarians We have a subject librarian for your major who wants to help! Teaching Support We have librarians who specializes in your subject area and can support your students’ learning. Workshops & Events We offer a variety of events to assist you in developing skills ranging from research to programming. Quick Links Contact Us FAQs Off-Campus Access Send Us Feedback Staff Directory Login Students, Faculty & Staff DHMC & Guests Alumni BorrowDirect DartDoc Search Global dropdown menu Research Support Borrow & Renew Libraries & Spaces Help Login Students, Faculty & Staff DHMC & Guests Alumni BorrowDirect DartDoc Records Management Retention Schedule Retrieve a File or Box Electronic Records Training Resources Contact Staff Welcome to Records Management! The maintenance and control of Dartmouth's records is an institutional responsibility. To ensure all recorded information is managed in a way that best serves employee needs while satisfying the administrative, fiscal, historic, and legal requirements of the College, it is the responsibility of the Records Management team to assist departments and offices with: File plan and retention schedule development Physical records storage, retrieval, and destruction Monthly confidential shred Training Digitization planning Shared drive file management Developing filing systems and file-naming conventions In short, we’re here to help staff and faculty with any records related questions whether you are trying to manage legacy paper files or are struggling to organize your office's shared drive. Email Records Management to set up an appointment, training session, or for any questions regarding our services. Watch What Is... Records Management It is essential to understand that all College records are the property of the Dartmouth College Trustees. This means that while we refer to records as belonging to us, or to a particular office or department, they are all part of the College record and must be treated as such. Retention and Disposition Have you ever asked yourself the following questions about a file or document: How long do I have to keep this? Can I throw this away or delete it? In records management terminology, you’ve asked yourself about retention and disposition. Watch What Is... Retention and Disposition training video An approved retention schedule sets out the required retention periods and grants permission to either destroy or transfer the records at the end of that period. The General Retention Schedule (GRS) is the primary source of retention requirements for the records created and received by the College. Access the General Retention Schedule Although the GRS covers many types of records created at Dartmouth, your office or department may create unique records that are not represented in this GRS. Records Management works with offices and departments to create supplemental retention schedules for records not appearing in the GRS. If you do not find an entry in the GRS, please contact Records Management and we will be happy to discuss them with you. The Records Management Policy Committee (RMPC) is a broadly representative body tasked by the Library, as representative of the Board of Trustees, to advise, assist, and support the development and maintenance of a comprehensive records management program at Dartmouth College. This RMPC is charged with approving all retention schedules as well. The committee is composed of representatives from the following departments: Special Collections Records Management Dartmouth Library ITC HR OGC Controller Advancement Risk Management RMS Online Login to RMS Online RMS Online is the system that allows users to access their catalog of records stored off-site at the Records Management Center. Confidential Monthly Shred Boxes of confidential materials for shredding will be picked up on the first Wednesday of every month. There is never a pick-up scheduled for June. There is no cost associated with this service. Please call the Work Control Office at 603-646-2508 or email the Work Control Office. Be sure to indicate where you are located and the number boxes to be picked up. You must contact the Work Control Office at least three working days prior to the pick-up date. All material sent for shredding must be confidential in nature. Non-confidential paper material may be recycled in regular paper recycling bins located across campus. Please do not include trash in this shred material. Remember, shredding is a costly service that is being provided free of charge. If you have questions about what constitutes confidential material, please email Records Management. Instructions for sending material for shred (PDF) Records Management Center Delivery Schedule Records Management makes one delivery run each day. Any requests made before 3:00pm will be delivered the next business day. Requests made after 3:00pm will be delivered in two business days. Due to a staffing crunch we will be reducing our delivery schedule to Monday, Wednesday, Friday until further notice. This means: Records requested on Friday will arrive on Monday. Records requested on Monday will arrive on Wednesday. Records that are requested on Wednesday will arrive on Friday. In the event that you have an urgent need for records to be delivered on a Tuesday or Thursday, we will do our best to accommodate such requests. Records Management Terminology Record Information created, received and maintained as evidence, and as an asset by the College; or its faculty or staff, in pursuit of legal obligations or in the transaction of business. This information, regardless of physical format or characteristic, must be maintained to meet the administrative, fiscal, legal or historical needs of the College. Watch What Is... a Record Official Record The record that is retained in accordance with the approved retention schedule for legal, administrative, fiscal, and/or historical purposes. Administrative Copy An unofficial copy of a record that is maintained near the user for ease of access and reference. Inactive record Once a record has passed it’s useful stage it is considered to be inactive. The inactive period will vary depending on the nature of the record, but generally a record is inactive if it has not been referenced in more than two years. Retention Retention is the function of preserving and maintaining records for continuing use. Records may be retained in the system of origin, or transferred to a separate repository such as an offline system or records center. Watch What Is...Retention Retention Period A retention period is the length of time that records should be retained in an office or records center before they are transferred to archival custody or destroyed. The retention periods chosen for different records should be based on legislative or regulatory requirements as well as on administrative and operational requirements. Disposition Disposition is the actions taken to fulfill the requirements outlined in retention schedules to retain, destroy or transfer records. Note that disposal is not synonymous with destruction, though destruction may be one disposal option. Watch What Is...Disposition Retention Schedule A Retention Schedule is a document that identifies the records of an organization or administrative unit and specifies which records should be preserved as archives and which can be destroyed after a certain period of time. The retention and disposal schedule provides ongoing authorization for the transfer of records from offices to records centers, along with the destruction of obsolete records and the preservation of archival materials. Records Life Cycle The Records Lifecycle is a concept that draws an analogy between the life of a biological organism, which is born, lives and dies, and that of a record, which is created, is used for as long as it is needed for business purposes and is then disposed of either by destruction or by transfer to archival custody. Watch What Is...the Records Lifecycle File Plan A classification scheme that organizes records according to business function, across a department or division. It includes retention schedules and disposition methods, document descriptions, archival value of records, indexing keywords. R.O.T. (Redundant, Obsolete, and Transitory) Information scattered throughout the enterprise that has no value and should not be retained. Records Custodian A single individual who best understands the record systems of their office and is able to make decisions regarding the retention and disposition of their records. Series The level of arrangement of records that brings together documents or files relating to the same function or activity or having a common form or some other relationship arising from their creation, receipt or use. Archival A very small percentage of records will be given an archival designation because they have continuing value to the institution. Most records that are considered archival will receive this designation because they have historical value, but some records will receive this designation because they have continuing fiscal or legal value. Watch What Are...Archives Electronic Record Any record that is created, received, maintained and/or stored on on-premise servers and/or in College-managed cloud services, regardless of the application used to create that record. Examples of electronic records include, but are not limited to, electronic mail, word processing documents, spreadsheets, and databases. Related Rauner Special Collections Library Dartmouth College's Policy Portal ITC Knowledge Base: Communication and Collaboration Email & Phone Records Management dartmouth.records.management@dartmouth.edu (603) 646-1875 Records Management Offices Address Records Management Hinman Box 6218 Suite 105, 56 Etna Rd Lebanon NH 03766 Records Management Offices Hinman Box 6025 Baker 14 Baker-Berry Library Hanover, NH 03755 Our Staff Julia W. Logan Assistant Archivist for Acquisitions Diane L. Preston Records Center Supervisor Vi Welker Records Analyst Peter Carini College Archivist and Records Manager All Records Management Staff Dartmouth Library Baker-Berry Library Book Arts Workshop Evans Map Room Jones Media Center Biomedical Libraries Feldberg Business & Engineering Library Rauner Special Collections Library Records Management Sherman Art Library About Us Strategic Objectives Staff & Departments Subject Librarians Alumni Services Visiting & History Accessibility Library Catalog Careers Friends of the Library More About Us Contact Us 25 North Main Street Hanover, NH, USA 03755 Phone: 603-646-2567 Contact Us Give Us Feedback Connect with Us Facebook Instagram YouTube Footer copyright Dartmouth Copyright © 2020 Trustees of Dartmouth College Privacy