Skip to main content iastate.edu Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons Iowa State University Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Menu Toggle Search Main navigation About Us Resources Campus Climate Principles of Community Free Speech at ISU Land Acknowledgement Land-grant Legacy Principles of Community Respect We seek to foster an open-minded understanding among individuals, organizations and groups. We support this understanding through outreach, increasing opportunities for collaboration, formal education programs and strategies for resolving disagreement. Consideration goes both ways Purpose We are encouraged to be engaged in the university community. Thus, we strive to build a genuine community that promotes the advancement of knowledge, cooperation and leadership. You are at Iowa State University for a reason Cooperation We recognize that the mission of the university is enhanced when we work together to achieve our goals. Therefore, we value each member of the Iowa State University community for their insights and efforts, collective and individual, to enhance the quality of campus life. Teamwork makes the dream work Richness of Diversity We recognize and cherish the richness of diversity in our university experience. Furthermore, we strive to increase the diversity of ideas, cultures and experiences throughout the university community. No two people at Iowa State University are the same -- and that is a good thing Freedom from Discrimination We recognize that we must strive to overcome historical and divisive biases in our society. Therefore, we commit ourselves to create and maintain a community in which all students, staff, faculty and administrators can work together in an atmosphere free from discrimination, and to respond appropriately to all acts of discrimination. Biases. We all have them. Challenge them. Honest and Respectful Expression of Ideas We affirm the right to and the importance of a free exchange of ideas at Iowa State University within the bounds of courtesy, sensitivity and respect. We work together to promote awareness of various ideas through education and constructive strategies to consider and engage in honest disagreements. Don't just tolerate others' perspectives. Hear them. Iowa State University Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Contact Diversity, Equity and Inclusion 2680 Beardshear Hall Ames, Iowa 50011-2103 vpdeioffice@iastate.edu 515-294-8840 Copyright © 1995- Iowa State University of Science and Technology All rights reserved. Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility Consumer information Loading...