Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Allbritton Art Institute Menu About Us Welcome Contact Us Faculty and Staff Initiatives Library & Facilities Tribute Curriculum Course Listings Field Studies Special Opportunities Scholarships & Grants Field Trips Events Past Events Forms AAI Faculty Forms AAI Grant Application Forms AAI Grant Expense Reporting Study Abroad Department of Art & Art History ABOUT THE ALLBRITTON ART INSTITUTE The Allbritton Art Institute promotes the study of art history. For art majors, the Institute fully funds travel to museums, galleries and historic sites all over the globe --- giving students the opportunity to view original works of art. Each year, the Institute brings world-renowned artists and art historians to Baylor. Individual critiques, small group discussions, and public lectures from powerhouses like Frank Stella, Roxy Paine, Petra Chu and Paul Hayes Tucker are all part of your unique experience as a major in Baylor's Department of Art and Art History. LEARN MORE FIELD TRIPS The Allbritton Art Institute conducts regional field trips funding transportation and admissions to museums allowing Baylor students the opportunity to view artwork with faculty and their peers in Dallas, Ft. Worth, Houston, and San Antonio, TX. About Field Trips FIELD STUDIES Institute courses include one or more supervised field study trips each semester. Destinations are leading museums that provide opportunity for direct exposure to important collections and special art exhibitions of the nineteenth and twentieth centuries. About Field Studies Show More General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Allbritton Art Institute Facebook Instagram Twitter Flickr Allbritton Art Institute One Bear Place #97259 Waco, TX 76798-7259 254.710.1826 Email Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 About Us Welcome Contact Us Social Media Faculty and Staff Nathan T. Elkins Dodi Holland Adair McGregor Katie Larson Initiatives Library & Facilities Tribute Curriculum Course Listings Field Studies Special Opportunities Scholarships & Grants Field Trips Events Past Events Forms AAI Faculty Forms Library Guest Speaker Travel Class Field Trips Supplies Student Employee Requests Posters AAI Grant Application Forms AAI Grant Expense Reporting Study Abroad Department of Art & Art History