Skip to main site navigation Skip to main content Open the search panel Open the main menu Search Go Close the search panel Information for… Incoming J.D. Current Students Faculty Staff Media Employers News Events Alumni Giving About Library Login Open the Search panel Admissions Admissions Why Columbia J.D. Admissions Graduate Admissions Academics Academics J.D. Program and Curriculum LL.M. Program and Curriculum Executive LL.M. Program and Curriculum J.S.D. Program and Curriculum Dual and Joint Degrees International Programs Public Interest and Public Service Experiential Learning Courses Registration Services Academic Calendar Executive Education Areas of Study Areas of Study Constitutional Law, Regulation, and Public Policy Corporate, Business, and Transactional Law Criminal Justice Data Analytics Environment and Energy Family, Gender, and Sexuality Intellectual Property and Technology International and Comparative Law Law of the Workplace Leadership Legal History Litigation and Dispute Resolution National Security and Privacy Social Justice and Human Rights Faculty & Scholarship Faculty & Scholarship Faculty Directory Research Centers and Programs Scholarship Archive Workshops, Lectures, and Colloquia Careers Careers Private Sector Careers Public Interest and Public Service Careers Academic Careers Judicial Clerkships Employment Statistics Employment Policies Community Life Community Life Visit Campus Dean’s Welcome Your Campus, Your City Student Life Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Strategic Initiatives Alumni Please refer to our calendar for upcoming virtual events. More in this Section Explore Alumni: Classes of 2020 and 2021 Celebration Reunion Columbia LawLink Upcoming Events Benefits and Services Connect with Classmates Photo Galleries Leadership Councils and Advisory Boards Class Notes In Memoriam Medal for Excellence Virtual Speaker Series Jack B. Weinstein: Pioneer in Judging and Justice Lions of Law: Alumni Profiles Stay connected to your community—no matter where you are. Attend events with your classmates, contribute to your class gift or give back in other ways, and return to campus for Reunion. And don’t forget to access your exclusive benefits and services! Office of Development and Alumni Relations Contact us for important information related to development, giving, alumni events, benefits, and services. 435 West 116 Street, Box A-2, New York, NY 10027 212-854-2680 Send an email Related Links Contact Us Lions of Law: Alumni Profiles Read More Winter Luncheon 2020 Read More The Campaign for Columbia Law Read More Related News and Stories Read All Stories More in The Press Alumni News Reimagined Reunion 20/21 Hits High Note After Reunion 2020 was postponed due to COVID-19, a reimagined, virtual “double Reunion” was designed to rekindle connections for classmates—in the cloud. Alumni News Classes of 2020 and 2021 Cross the Stage and Celebrate Together Alumni Spotlight Wise Words From Alumni to the Class of 2022 Students News The 28th Annual Paul Robeson Conference and Gala Admissions Why Columbia Visit 435 West 116th Street New York, NY 10027 212-854-2640 Contact Us Social Media (Administrative Title) Twitter LinkedIn Facebook Instagram Admissions Academics Areas of Study Faculty & Scholarship Careers Community Life Information for… Incoming J.D. Current Students Faculty Staff Media Employers Login News Events Alumni Giving About Library Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Donate © Copyright 2022 The Trustees of Columbia University in the City of New York.