Cornell Center for Materials Research | An NSF MRSEC Diversity Research PREM Seed: Collaborative Research and Education in Energy Materials (CREEM) IRG-1 Mechanisms, Materials, and Devices for Spin Manipulation IRG-2 Structured Materials for Strong Light-Matter Interactions IRG-3 Atomic Membranes for 3D Systems Seed Projects – Exploratory Research Acknowledging CCMR Funding Science Slams Facilities Becoming a CCMR Facility User Instruments CCMR FOM FAQs CCMR Shared Facility Policies Shared Facility User Fees, NDAs, etc. Industry CCMR Symposium Facilities 101 CCMR Industrial Programs CCMR Invest and Invest-NY for Industry Partners JumpStart Program for NY State Small Businesses CCMR Analytical Facilities CAT Projects with NY State Industry Partners MEng Projects With NY State Industry Partners Student Internships Education Remote Learning Resources Lending Library of Experiments Ask a Scientist K-12 Student Programs Community Programs Educational Resources Graduate and Undergraduate Programs Teacher Programs About Accessibility Leadership Administrative Staff Shared Facility Staff Faculty Membership News Directions and Travel Information History Internal Site Map Home⁄ Any Company – Any Challenge Any Company – Any Challenge CCMR Symposium CCMR Facilities 101 CCMR Industrial Programs Quick Links Press releases Words from Our Industry Partners - clips and interviews COVID-19 Manufacturers awardees In the News Success Stories Highlights: CCMR & Industry Events For Startups and Entrepreneurs Job Opportunities Beyond the CCMR Industry@CCMR Staff Donna Howell, Industrial Partnerships Director, T. 607 255 8809 John Sinnott, Industrial Partnerships Manager, T. 607 255 7070 Any Company – Any Challenge World Leading Experts – State of the Art Equipment Mark your Calendar Apply For Your Fall 2022 JumpStart Project Today! The Industrial Partnerships Program – solving real-world challenges with a science-based, collaborative approach. World Class Capabilities Access renowned faculty and state of the art equipment. Solve short-term and long-term technical challenges. Let us help you find an expert today. FACULTY RESEARCH AREAS | FACILITIES Streamlined Solutions Specific funding programs address the needs of large, small, and start-up businesses from New York State (NYS) and beyond. CCMR PROGRAMS and MATCHING FUNDS Long-term Industry Investment Delivering meaningful results through changing company needs and growth for our industry partners from NY State and beyond. INDUSTRY PARTNERS | NYS SMALL BUSINESSES | FACILITIES USERS Calendar of Events: SEE ALL EVENTS Video Highlights: VIEW Impacts: SUCCESS STORIES | PRESS RELEASES | HIGHLIGHTS We Can Help You: Move past technical roadblocks Develop prototypes and innovative products Optimize a manufacturing processes Develop new technologies Validate technologies Evaluate technical investments Develop new and or sustainable materials Characterize/ Image materials Conduct QA/QC Explore new markets Train current workforce Recruit employees and interns What our partners say: “I would like to communicate how valuable this collaboration has been to the advancement and commercialization of our technology. Working with Professor David Muller and Dr. Lena Kourkoutis, Professor Hailstone of our group was able to better characterize the compositional distribution of dopant elements in our go-to-market , 2.5 nm nano-particle combustion catalyst using the advanced electron microscopy facility at CCMR. Given this incredibly small particle size, this work could only have been conducted at the Cornell facility. With the knowledge gained form this analysis, we were able to substantially improve not only the manufacturability of our catalysts but also their performance. Again, Cerion Enterprises, LLC is delighted with the results of this collaboration and will continue the investigative work on other nano-particle compositions with Cornell.” Dr. Kenneth J. Reed, CTO, Cerion Enterprises, Rochester “The independent testing of Mesha’s Hybrid Ultracapacitor (HUC) by Cornell confirmed the device characteristics and was an important step in the process toward commercialization. To have a program like Jumpstart available to a small company like Mesha, which allows us to collaborate with an organization offering the resources available at Cornell is something that I feel is important to not only Mesha, but other companies like Mesha who are attempting to bring new technologies into the marketplace.” Thomas Pleban, President, Williamsville, New York “This project and the resulting device allows us to move forward to not only base line our exiting material, but test new materials in search of improvements to comfort and performance. This will allow us to make substantial improvements to our existing cuff material, which will result in increased differentiation with legacy products and ultimately increased sales.” Greg Post, SensGard LLC., Fairport, NY “Through our collaboration with CCMR and Professor Hover’s students, Taylor Concrete was able to find a workable solution, in an accelerated time frame, that we would not have been able to achieve on our own. Professor Hover’s expertise in concrete chemistry and the students’ out of the box solutions in creating practical simulations of our manufacturing processes in their lab saved valuable time and resources. “ Richard O’Connor, C3M, CDT Vice President, Taylor Concrete Products, Inc., Watertown “We have found our participation in the CCMR program and its leveraging of resources, knowledge and time of commitment to be of considerable value and I would not hesitate to recommend its support in benefit and service to the larger economic community.” Harrick Plasma, Ithaca NY “To be able to work with fiber scientists in the Department of Fiber Science and Apparel Design to improve the performance of a new product we are developing for the aviation maintenance industry was a fantastic experience made possible by the CCMR. Not only we were able to work collaboratively to meet the goals of our project but we laid the groundwork for future collaborations which have already begun through a successful grant application to the New York State Energy Research and Development Authority (NYSERDA) with our Cornell partners.” Gail Hickman, Innovative Dynamics Inc., Ithaca NY “The CCMR program has helped us to build the prototype using Cornell’s richful material research resources, in addition to understand some fundamental questions in Lionano’s material property. We are very greatful for the input and help from the CCMR team and look forward to more opportunities working with them.” Dr. Yingchao Yu, CEO, Lionano, Boston MA “Haledyne, as an early stage start-up company, would not normally have access to the type of talent and resources supplied by the CCMR program. Haledyne will undoubtedly reapply for future awards with the same program.” Bill StuartCOO, Haledyne “Before we started the project, we were manufacturing between 2,500- 3,000 cookies per day. In large part due to the frosting drying times, we are now manufacturing 25,000 cookies per day. A large part of that is manufacturing 300 pallets of cookies for Costco for Christmas (which would have been 600 pallets if we had the capacity). This would not have been possible without the decreased drying times. I greatly enjoyed working with the CCMR and would choose to do so again if the opportunity presented itself.” Michael Ricci, Quality Director, The Decorated Cookie Co. Syracuse, NY ” Rapid Cure Technologies’ (RCT) participation in the CCMR program and direct work with Prof. Giannelis and his team was a productive, worthwhile experience. Financial support from multiple sources, coupled with Cornell’s extensive R&D centers, provided ample resources to evaluate the feasibility of utilizing the NIMs technology as a “primer” for UV curable coatings on LSE plastics. All of us at RCT look forward to the opportunity to continue our work with Prof. Giannelis and the CCMR to optimize the NIMs technology for use with environmentally friendly UV curable chemistries.” Dan Montoney, CTO, Rapid Cure Technologies, Syracuse “Having participated in two JumpStart activities over the past 5-years, I find the program highly useful to small companies that have limited resources available for investigating novel materials and processing approaches. The recent experience with Prof. Chris Ober’s group was rewarding and provided useful insights on how we can adopt the teachings to our product development needs.” Robert Miller, CTO Paper Battery Company, Troy “I think the key thing that the CCMR staff does is to help in navigating Cornell, starting with a first introduction. In terms of laboratory facilities, once you start to work with CCMR, the network expands very easily and very quickly. So you really get all you need pretty efficiently, people that might be able to take what I’m doing, help me expand it, grow it, extend it into different areas. A CCMR partnership helps bring value early on, accelerating your growth. We have leveraged $5000 worth of JumpStart matching support into $200,000 worth of federal money in the course of about six months, and we are now looking to leverage that into about a million dollars of funding for next year.” Les Fritzemeier, President, Wakonda Technologies, Rochester “The CCMR enabled ELIA Life Technology to collaborate with Cornell University Professor Hod Lipson. Through the project, we were able to lay the ground work for the development of a potentially invaluable tactile printer for the blind. The work we conducted with Professor Lipson has enabled us to apply for Small Business Innovative Research (SBIR) Phase I (and eventually Phase II grants) and to present our research findings to the Solid Freeform Fabrication Symposium in August 2008. None of the above advances or research opportunities would have been possible without Cornell University.” Andrew Chepaitis, President, Elia Life Technology, New York “The JumpStart program made it possible for American Aerogel Corporation (AAC) to integrate and test its carbon aerogel material as a cathode support structure in lithium sulfur rechargeable batteries. The program gave access to faculty research experts whose input was instrumental to the initial development and characterization of AAC’s technology. This collaborative work, and the resulting feedback, provides AAC with a strong position to pursue next phase business and funding opportunities that will enable its technology to be brought to market. “ Todd Norldblom, Grant Manager, American Aerogel, Rochester “I also want to express my gratitude to Michele van de Walle for starting the process by connecting Bill Schaff and myself and bringing all the players together. If it wasn’t for Michele’s persistence working to find the proper match for my needs, we never would have gotten off the ground. I’ve enjoyed working with the CCMR because they have their priorities straight, make things, good thing happen by bringing people, ideas, technologies together with minimal bureaucracy and paper work.” Kevin McGuire, President, Tailored Lighting Inc., Rochester “We have developed a patented technology for a noninvasive test for dairy cow insemination. Our technology hinges on pigments extracted from flowers that change color if the timing for insemination is ideal. We have shown the technology is broadly applicable, it works on all mammals. Though $5,000 in matching funds from the JumpStart program may seem insignificant, the award connected us to some major players in helping us engineer our product. We work on a dime and we are making big changes with almost no capital input.” Dorothee Goldman, CTO, Oratel Diagnostics, Rochester “The Jumpstart program has provided a valuable yet low cost way to collaborate with the state of the art Cornell materials program in developing novel new medical Therapeutics. Student collaboration has brought fresh insight while also providing valuable learning experiences. We were very excited to have had the opportunity to participate in the program and are looking forward to continuing our work with faculty collaborators Drs. Frey and Ashdown in the future.” Bryant Guffey, CEO Zetroz, Ithaca “Our collaboration with Prof. Coates centered around the synthesis of precisely-controlled polymer architectures that served as model compounds in our efforts to enhance our knowledge of the theoretical framework explaining and predicting the role of polymer tie chains on the mechanical performance of articles produced from semi-crystalline polyolefins. The materials that Prof. Coates synthesized for ExxonMobil allowed our researchers to advance our understanding of how semi-crystalline polyolefins might be commercially produced with specific microarchitectures that would allow for enhanced mechanical properties.” Chris Curry, ExxonMobil Research & Engineering “We have been working with Cornell University for several years, and we appreciate the fruitful and free scientific discussion. In the program, we have focused on different catalysts and monomers, in order to have access to original polymers. Pr. Coates and his team have strong skills in organometallic synthesis, catalysts and the corresponding reactivity. Mixing closely this strong knowledge with our background in chemistry and materials science, we hope to get access to new composites.” Julien THUILLIEZ – Manufacture MICHELIN “Corning Incorporated has long been a visitor to Cornell’s excellent materials analysis capabilities and a collaborator with Cornell faculty. In the last few years, access to Cornell’s electron microscope capabilities has been critical to a growing number of research and development programs to the point where we just acquired a new instrument of our own but access to the Cornell experts and equipment continues. Corning will continue to partner with Cornell as we encounter new technology needs, and we look forward to the interactions with faculty. Beyond Corning Incorporated, I think Cornell’s accessibility to New York technology businesses is very valuable to the state’s economy. By providing experts and technology that are out of reach for small businesses and embryonic businesses, Cornell’s resources can be a critical factor in those that need world class support to emerge as successful businesses.” Dr. Ralph Truitt, Division V.P. and Research Director, Characterization & Materials Processing, Science & Technology “For several years, Pall, an established company in the filtration and separations industry, has found the talented researchers of CCMR to be an unending source of technology licensing opportunities. The resources in their extensive facilities are also an important way for us to leverage specialized testing and characterization needs.” Dan Henkel, Director, New Technologies, Pall Corporation, Cortland, NY. “The CCMR is a great resource for the startup ecosystem. It provides critical expertise to help advance products, in our case, therapeutics to the clinic. We feel that without resources like the CCMR, it would be very challenging for small enterprises to innovate.” “In past years, Ultralife participated in the CCMR programs. The CCMR service provided a critical value to our business, especially in the area of new product development. The state-of-art facility, expertise of the staff and advanced programs such as symposium and funding opportunity at the CCMR greatly benefited the regional industrial partners including Ultralife. The CCMR provides not only high level scientific service to the partners, but also a platform for the collaboration between university and industry, as well between the partners.” “Small businesses like Xallent continue to technologically thrive in New York State based on the utilization of the state-of-the-art resources provided by centers like the CCMR. In recognition of CCMR’s steady support for small businesses and the entire research community, I highly recommend your office to award the center with a matching grant.” “To the benefit of small NYS businesses like ours, the CCMR provides leading-edge technical solutions for optimizing prototypes and devices, as well as usage of state-of-the- art instruments available in the CCMR Shared Facilities to industry partners to analyze and characterize materials and optimize manufacturing and R&D processes. High-tech local companies such as Zymtronix greatly benefit from the CCMR’s technical expertise and from its sophisticated instruments, helping them spend less on in-house equipment and more on employees, collaborators and idea development.” “Believes CCMR is a vital asset to the local, advanced manufacturing community and regional economy.” “The CCMR gave us access to world-class resources, among the most advanced in the world, that we would otherwise not have access to. This program not only benefits small to medium sized businesses, but also the researchers and students participating in them. Researchers can apply their breakthrough technologies with local companies which helps the local economy and students gain “real world” experience before joining the workforce. This is truly a “win-win” program for all parties involved.” “As a start-up company we could not have afforded the equipment and expertise available to us through the CCMR if we had to build those facilities and hire the scientists ourselves. Plus, the collaborative nature of working with the CCMR gave us better direction than we could get from a more expensive commercial laboratory.” “In our development process and manufacturing cycle we have benefited from the expertise of the CCMR facility managers and from using the instruments available in the CCMR facilities greatly. They have allowed us detailed analysis beyond our in house Laboratory capabilities with a very fast tum around and high level of communication. Companies such as Golden Paints benefited from the CCMR’ s technical expertise, and from its sophisticated instruments.” “Harrick Plasma participated in two industrial projects with CCMR. Having immediate access to the CCMR facilities and the technical expertise of Cornell professors were invaluable. As a small company, it would have been prohibitively expensive for us to conduct these studies on our own.” “The CCMR Shared Facilities offer state-of-the-art instruments and expertise to industry partners to enable/compliment their materials characterization capabilities to optimize manufacturing and R&D processes. Companies such as IBM as well as companies form all around the State benefit from the CCMR’s technical expertise, and its sophisticated instruments.” “Working with the CCMR has been very beneficial to the research efforts at Metglas. I enthusiastically support their Industrial Collaboration Program.” “The services provided by CCMR are a valuable asset in promoting technology growth and innovation for New York State because CCMR welcomes partnerships with small companies and does everything it can to support and promote technology development. early stage, start-up-company. Oratel Diagnostics llc is now ready for product production and commercialization. Our progress began with CCMR.” “CCMR has assisted our research and development staff to keep up to date with ongoing and cutting edge research through the various seminars and interactions that it provides. More importantly, CCMR helps us navigate current research and connects us with its network of scholars and resources. Access to CCMR’s instrumental facilities has also facilitated our research and analytical groups in evaluating new technologies and equipment in a meaningful and cost effective way.” “As a small business with limited resources, we absolutely need to leverage our R&D efforts through public – private partnerships such as those promoted and provided for by the CCMR Industrial Partnerships program. Without such opportunities, we are not likely to be able to grow our business or even maintain our long term competitive advantages through continuous product improvements and new product offerings these partnership programs afford.” About Mission Leadership Staff Directory History Charter News Events Facilities Becoming a New User Shared Facility Policies User Fees CCMR FOM FAQs Instruments Research Acknowledging CCMR Funding Submit Publications Education Programs Educational Resources Industry Programs Resource Links Site Map Cornell Center for Materials Research 627 Clark Hall of Science Cornell University Ithaca, NY 14853 T 607.255.4272 | F 607.255.3957 © 2016 CCMR. Materials from the CCMR website may not be used without permission. Support for the CCMR is provided through the NSF Grant DMR-1719875, part of the NSF MRSEC Program. Additional support is provided by Cornell University, the State of New York, and by industrial sources. Powered By: AcademicsWeb