Skip to content Columbia University Irving Medical Center Find People Events Faculty and Staff Resources Give Now Search About Us About Us Facts and Figures Explore CUIMC Events Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion at CUIMC Community Development and Alumni Explore CUIMC Leadership and Administration A-Z Listing Affiliated Hospitals Campus Map and Directions Campus Resources Contact CUIMC Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion At CUIMC, we are committed to continuous improvement in providing culturally inclusive medical education and clinical care. Learn About Our Commitment Education Education Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Mailman School of Public Health School of Nursing College of Dental Medicine VP&S Columbia Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons is dedicated to developing the next generation of leaders in medicine Learn About Our Academic Programs Research Research The Louisa Gross Horwitz Prize Columbia Technology Ventures Research Administration Columbia Clinical Innovation Lab Patient Care Patient Care ColumbiaDoctors Children's Health Columbia Primary Care Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Digital Health Services at Columbia Find a Doctor Search for a provider by specialty, expertise, location and insurance. Schedule an appointment online. Find a Doctor News News For the Media Share Your News CUIMC Update CUIMC Celebrates Columbia Medicine Read the latest news stories about CUIMC faculty, research, and events Explore Our News COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Information for Patients COVID-19 Campus Safety for Employees and Students COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students COVID-19 Information and Resources for Clinical Staff COVID-19 Vaccine Information Learn about COVID-19 vaccine availability and requirements for employees and students at CUIMC Get the Latest Information Neurology Topics Campus News Research Medical School Public Health Cancer Mental Health Infectious Diseases Neurology Neuroscience Education Heart Health Pediatrics View All Topics Search All News Keywords News Subtopics: Alzheimer's Epilepsy Parkinson's Stroke Top Stories Missing Link Between Alzheimer’s and Vascular Disease Found? A gene called FMNL2 may explain why people with hypertension, diabetes, heart disease, or obesity have a greater risk of developing Alzheimer's disease. Topic Alzheimer's Transient Ischemic Attacks May Be Brief But Need Serious Attention A transient ischemic attack (TIA) is a stroke that usually lasts under five minutes and resolves on its own, but just because the symptoms disappear, does not mean a TIA should be ignored. New Initiative to Develop Personalized Therapies for People with Rare Genetic Forms of ALS A new initiative led by Columbia University and the n-Lorem Foundation will develop personalized therapies for individuals with "nano-rare" genetic forms of ALS and treat them for free, for life. Topic Campus News Genetic Testing for Parkinson’s Disease: What You Need to Know Parkinson’s patients and their families are increasingly turning to genetic testing to learn more about their disease or risk of passing it on. But testing is complex, and counseling is advised. Topic Campus News Latest News Smell Test Identifies People Who May Benefit from Alzheimer’s Drug November 13, 2017 A new study suggests a smell test can identify people with mild cognitive impairment–often a precursor to Alzheimer’s–who may benefit from cholinesterase inhibitors. Topic Alzheimer's For Zika Virus, Infecting Brains Isn't A New Trick November 8, 2017 New Zika research from Columbia University suggests that high rates of microcephaly in Brazil were not caused by new mutations in the virus, as previously believed. Topic Infectious Diseases Drugs Can’t Stop Alzheimer’s. A New Model of the Disease Explains Why. October 3, 2017 Scientists propose a new model for Alzheimer's disease that may explain the high failure rate of recent clinical trials. Topic Alzheimer's ALS: Cellular Process First Prevents, Then Accelerates Disease September 18, 2017 A cellular defense against protein aggregates suppresses ALS in early stages but later hastens spread of the disease, a study in mice suggests. Topic Neuroscience Bone-Derived Hormone Reverses Age-Related Memory Loss in Mice August 29, 2017 Age-related memory loss was reversed by boosting blood levels of osteocalcin, a hormone produced by bone cells, in mice. Topic Medical School Memories “Lost” to Alzheimer’s May Be Retrievable August 21, 2017 Memories "lost" to Alzheimer's disease may just be hard to retrieve, suggests a new study by neuroscientists at Columbia University Irving Medical Center. Topic Alzheimer's Coming Soon: A Targeted Therapy for Migraine Headaches July 26, 2017 Columbia neurologist Denise Chou, MD, explains a new breakthrough in headache medicine: the first targeted preventive therapy for migraine. Topic Medical School Brain Aging May Be Accelerated By ‘Inflammatory’ Diet July 17, 2017 A new study suggests how nutrients found in brain-healthy foods can reduce inflammation and lower Alzheimer's risk. Topic Alzheimer's Parkinson’s Is Partly An Autoimmune Disease, Study Finds June 21, 2017 Researchers have found the first direct evidence that autoimmunity plays a role in Parkinson’s disease. Topic Parkinson's Stroke Risk Factors for Pregnant Women with Preeclampsia Uncovered May 25, 2017 Certain women with preeclampsia are more likely to have a pregnancy-related stroke, finds a new study led by Columbia neurologists. Topic Stroke Pages first previous … 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 … next last Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian About Us Careers News Education Patient Care Research Resources at CUIMC Columbia University Irving Medical Center 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Back to top