Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Information For Current Students Faculty Search BC.edu Links Classical Studies Menu Main Nav Classical Studies Classical Studies Contact Back Back Close About Overview Facilities & Opportunities Contact Giving Open Positions People Undergraduate Overview Major Minors Study Abroad Graduate Overview M.A. in Classics M.A. in Latin Courses What is Classics? Close Contact Directory A to Z Listing Search Morrissey College Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Current Students Faculty BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Classical Studies Home Undergraduate Major Undergraduate Major Minors Study Abroad Major Requirements The major in Classics requires 30 credits (usually ten courses), under three headings: Nine credits (three courses) in Latin and/or Greek, in any combination, at the advanced (300) level. Nine credits (three courses) in the area of ancient civilization and culture (readings in English). Recommended in particular are Classical Mythology and the sequences in Greek and The City of Rome or Greek and Roman History. Twelve credits (four courses) consisting of any course the department offers, except for elementary Latin (CLAS 1010/1011) and modern Greek (CLAS 1060/1061, 1070/1071). Note: A student may, with departmental permission, substitute one advanced reading course in Latin or Greek for one of the required courses in ancient civilization and culture. Elementary Ancient Greek can count towards the major but elementary Latin may not. Placement Incoming students should seek departmental advice on placement in language courses. If you have studied Latin in high school, it may, depending on the extent of your preparation, be appropriate to start college either at the intermediate, advanced intermediate, or advanced level. The right choice is highly individual. If you want to study both Latin and Greek, it is advisable to begin Greek no later than the second year, presuming that you already have some Latin. Course Availability Courses at the intermediate level in Latin and Greek are taught every semester. At the advanced level two courses in Latin authors and one course in a Greek author are typically offered each term. These can sometimes be supplemented by independent projects, depending on faculty availability to supervise them. In the area of civilization courses, i.e., those whose reading is in English translation, four or five are usually taught each term. Back To Top Back To Top Classical Studies Stokes Hall S260 617-552-3661 Facebook Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences Gasson Hall 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 About Undergraduate Graduate Faculty & Research Departments Contact Departments Art, Art History, and Film Biology Chemistry Classical Studies Communication Computer Science Earth and Environmental Sciences Economics Engineering English German Studies History Mathematics Music Philosophy Physics Political Science Psychology Romance Languages and Literatures Slavic & Eastern Languages and Literatures Sociology Theatre Theology Give to Classics Apply Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College