Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Division of Auxiliary Services Auxiliary Services Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links BC Dining Menu Main Nav What's Open? Back Back Close About Overview Meet Our Team Sustainability Culinary Innovation Employment FAQs Feedback Events Wellness Meal Plans Overview Flex Dining Plans Dining Calculator Related Links Meal Plan FAQs Events & Specials Locations & Menus Overview What's Open? Lower Live Carney's Café 129 Chocolate Bar CoRo Café & Market Eagle's Nest Hillside Café Legal Grounds Lyons Hall Stuart Dining Hall The Bean Counter The Loft at Addie's Faculty Dining Room Faculty Dining Room Reservations BC Test Kitchen BC After Dark The Market Concessions Tully Cafe Related Links Events & Specials Sustainability Order Food & Gifts Overview GET Mobile Ordering Dining to Go BC Gifts Heights Catering Luxury Boxes & Lower Lawn Close Directory A to Z Listing Search All Departments in Auxiliary Services Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Home About Culinary Innovation About Meet Our Team Sustainability Culinary Innovation Employment FAQs Feedback Events Culinary Innovation Boston College Dining serves over 22,000 meals daily to students, faculty, and guests. With so many palates to please, our chefs and culinarians recognize the importance of continuing to introduce diverse and delicious dishes to our menus. Through our culinary innovation program, BC Dining is committed to delivering fresh flavors, creative recipes, and engaging events to the entire BC community. Our FRESH to Table program—launched in 2017—hosts educational cooking demonstrations with producers and chefs that introduce new menu items and promote healthy, regional, socially just, and sustainable food choices. We regularly stage themed culinary showcases that feature dishes from different countries and cultures. To offer students an opportunity for indulgence, we host experiential pop-up events throughout the year. The BC Test Kitchen accepts recipe suggestions, experiments with new dishes, and incorporates diner feedback. Global Flavors, Engaging Events photo by Christopher Huang photo by Christopher Huang photo by Christopher Huang Photos of the Tapas and Salad Bar areas of Stuart Hall dining room on the Newton Campus. photo by Christopher Huang photo by Christopher Huang photo by Christopher Huang photo by Christopher Huang Photos of the Tapas and Salad Bar areas of Stuart Hall dining room on the Newton Campus. photo by Christopher Huang photo by Christopher Huang photo by Christopher Huang photo by Christopher Huang Photos of the Tapas and Salad Bar areas of Stuart Hall dining room on the Newton Campus. photo by Christopher Huang « » BC's Very Own Bakery Boston College Dining Services has always produced its baked goods through our in-house bakery. The bakery is located on Middle Campus behind Eagle's Nest. The Bakery collaborated with the BC Baking Club and Boston Bakes to produce beautifiul cupcakes to support the fight to end breast cancer. Proceeds went to the Dana Farber Foundation for Breast Cancer. We provide the desserts for all of our on-campus catered events. The BC Bakery is well-known for its tasty cupcakes. We produce a huge variety of desserts every day on campus. Executive Pastry Chef Tim Fonseca improves existing recipes, creates new recipes, and increases awareness of the bakery. Quick Links What's Open? Today's Menu Order Food & Gifts Catering Add Funds to Dining Plan Back To Top Back To Top Contact BC Dining 129 Lake Street 3rd Floor Boston MA 02135 617-552-2263 bcdining@bc.edu Facebook Twitter Instagram About Wellness Meal Plans Locations & Menus Order Food & Gifts Events & Specials Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College