COVID-19 UH Updates skip to Main Content Home Directory MyUH Work at UH Apply Twitter Facebook Instagram Flickr Youtube Campuses dropdown menu column 1 Overviews Universities Mānoa Hilo West Oʻahu column 2 Community Colleges Hawaiʻi Honolulu Kapiʻolani Kauaʻi Leeward Maui Windward column 3 Distance Learning UH Education Centers Continuing Education Community Colleges Attend dropdown menu column 1 Overview Degrees and Programs column 2 Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition UH System dropdown menu column 1 About UH Strategic Directions Policies and Procedures Title IX column 2 Leadership Board of Regents System Offices A-Z Stewardship of Maunakea column 3 UH News Emergency Post-Pandemic Hawaiʻi and UH column 4 Support UH UH Foundation UH Alumni Relations Make a Gift Financial Aid UH System » Tuition » Financial Aid Financial AidScholarshipsHow to ApplyFAQAdmin & Committee Resources There are many federal, state and private resources available to help fund your education at any one of our 10 campuses. Financial aid offices at each campus have professional staff members to administer these programs and advise students and families regarding the financial aid and scholarship opportunities available to them throughout the UH System. Begin by filling out the U.S. Department of Education’s Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA). Once you have been accepted into a University of Hawaiʻi program, contact your campus’ financial aid office. Additional types of financial assistance may be available. Campus Financial Aid Offices and Numbers Mānoa (808) 956-7251 Hilo (808) 932-7449 West Oʻahu (808) 689-2900 Hawaiʻi (808) 934-2712 Honolulu (808) 845-9116 Kapiʻolani (808) 734-9537 Kauaʻi (808) 245-8360 Leeward (808) 455-0606 Maui (808) 984-3277 Windward (808) 235-7449 Scholarships Tuition Information Installment Payment Plan System Office of Student Affairs Refunds Emergency Aid Federal Financial Aid The Federal government has many types of grants, scholarships, work study and loan programs available to those who qualify. Requirements All UH campuses use the U.S. Department of Education’s Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) to determine eligibility for federal and most campus-based financial aid programs. These programs are awarded exclusively by the financial aid office at the individual UH campuses. Check with the financial aid office where you plan to attend for more information on availability of funds, eligibility, deadlines and required forms. Federal Scholarships and Grants For information about the opportunities listed here, please visit the Federal Student Aid website. Federal Pell Grant Federal Supplemental Educational Opportunity Grant Teacher Education Assistance for College and Higher Education (TEACH) Grant Federal Work Study Under the Federal Work Study Program, you can work part-time to earn money for your education. The FWS Program provides part-time employment while you are enrolled in school, helps pay your educational expenses, is available to undergraduate and graduate students, available to full-time or part-time students, administered by schools participating in the FWS Program and encourages community service work and work related to your course of study, whenever possible. Loans Federal Direct Stafford Loans Federal Direct Parent Loan for Undergraduate Students (PLUS) Last modified: March 21, 2022 2444 Dole Street Honolulu, HI 96822 An equal opportunity/ affirmative action institution Use of this site implies consent with our Usage Policy copyright © 2022 University of Hawaiʻi Twitter Facebook Instagram Flickr YouTube Contact UH If required, information contained on this website can be made available in an alternative format upon request. Get Adobe Acrobat Reader Calendar Directory Emergency Information MyUH Privacy Statement Work at UH About UH Attend Campuses Degrees and Programs Leadership Offices Back To Top Submit