Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Search form Search Explore Brown University Search Global Navigation Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Data Science Initiative Home About Executive Committee Faculty Postdocs Staff Campus Advisory Board Affiliated Faculty Jobs @ DSI Academics Research Resources News Events Site Navigation Home About Executive Committee Faculty Postdocs Staff Campus Advisory Board Affiliated Faculty Jobs @ DSI Academics Master's Degree Apply Curriculum Student Experience Career Outcomes FAQ Doctoral Certificate Fifth-Year Master's Degree Certificate in Data Fluency Data Science Fellows Research DSI-Funded Research Data Science Research @ Brown TRIPODS Programs People Resources Activities & Opportunities Learning Resources Data Science and COVID-19 News Events Fair February Data Science Research Seminar Series Faculty for Faculty Research Talks Decoding Pandemic Data: A Series of Interactive Seminars Past Events Faculty Karianne Bergen Assistant Professor, Data Science Initiative and Earth, Environmental, and Planetary Sciences [email protected] Karianne Bergen is an Assistant Professor in the Data Science Initiative and Department of Earth, Environmental & Planetary Sciences, effective January 2021. Her work has focused on machine learning for pattern recognition and discovery in large, complex sensor data sets, with recent applications to earthquake monitoring. Her research interest is in scientific machine learning,... Read More Linda Clark Lecturer and Director of Undergraduate Studies, Data Science Initiative and Sheridan Center [email protected] Dr. Linda Clark holds a joint appointment with the Data Science Initiative and the Sheridan Center for Teaching and Learning at Brown. Dr. Clark is responsible for developing an introductory Data Science Fluency undergraduate course, a Data Science Fellows course, and supporting the work of faculty integrating data science and... Read More Roberta De Vito Assistant Professor, Data Science Initiative and Biostatistics [email protected] Roberta De Vito is an assistant professor in the Department of Biostatistics and the Data Science Initiative at Brown University with a strong passion for developing innovative statistical models and tools for health problems. Her work aims broadly on developing and advancing methods for the analysis of high-dimensional, heterogeneous data sets to identify and... Read More Deborah Hurley Adjunct Professor of the Practice of Computer Science [email protected] Deborah Hurley is Principal of the science and technology policy consulting firm she founded in 1996. She is: Adjunct Professor of the Practice of Computer Science and Associate Faculty Director, Data Privacy, Executive Master in Cybersecurity, at Brown University; Fellow, Institute for Quantitative Social Science, and Global Innovation Policy Fellow, Technology and Entrepreneurship Center... Read More Andras Zsom Assistant Professor of the Practice, Data Science Initiative, Director of Industry and Research Engagement, Director of Graduate Studies [email protected] Andras Zsom started to work at Brown in 2015 at the Center for Computation and Visualization. During his time at CCV, he managed a team of data scientists and worked with university administrators, faculty members, postdocs, and graduate students on various data science and machine learning problems. He started teaching DATA1030: Hands-on Data Science as a part-time faculty in 2019 and... Read More Shekhar Pradhan Lecturer (starting July 1, 2022) Shekhar Pradhan holds a Ph.D. in computer science from the University of Maryland, College Park, and a Ph.D. in philosophy from the University of Illinois, Urbana-Champaign. He has taught computer science, data science, and philosophy at a number of universities, most recently at Columbia University in their Applied Analytics program. He has also founded three start-ups over the years,... Read More Suresh Venkatasubramanian Professor of Data Science and Computer Science [email protected] Suresh Venkatasubramanian is a Professor (Research) of Data Science and Computer Science at Brown University. Suresh's background is in algorithms and computational geometry, as well as data mining and machine learning. His current research interests lie in algorithmic fairness, and more generally the impact of automated decision-making systems in society. Prior to Brown University, Suresh... Read More About Executive Committee Faculty Postdocs Staff Campus Advisory Board Affiliated Faculty Jobs @ DSI Donate to DSI Inquire about our Master's Program Sign Up for Our Newsletter Data Science Initiative Data Science Initiative Brown University Box 1891 164 Angell Street 3rd Floor Providence, RI 02912-1891 Phone: 401-863-6959 Email [email protected] Twitter Twitter Facebook Facebook Brown University Giving to Brown Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA 401-863-1000 Contact Us Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility All Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top