Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Apply Visit Give Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links Menu Main Nav Back Back Close About BC Overview President's Message Mission & History Facts & Figures Notable Alumni Campuses, Maps & Directions Trustees & Leadership Related Links Diversity BC Fact Book Office of University Communications BC Media & Publications Office for Institutional Diversity Admission Overview Apply Questbridge Applicants International Applicants Homeschooled Applicants Transfer Applicants Transfer Credit Veteran and ROTC Applicants Test-Optional Policy 2022-23 Early Decision vs. Regular Decision First-Year Admission Profile Visit Discover BC Hotels, Directions, and Parking Contact Admission Affordability Majors & Minors Morrissey College Majors Choosing BC Related Links Undergraduate Tuition & Financial Aid Financial Aid Office Graduate Admission Offices Academics Overview Schools & Colleges Majors & Minors Libraries Professional & Continuing Education Excellence & Innovation Academic Advising Related Links Academic Calendar Office of the Provost Academic Advising Center Core Curriculum Student Services Campus Life Overview Diversity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Student Organizations Sports & Recreation Arts & Culture Related Links Student Affairs McMullen Museum Robsham Theater Research Overview Research Centers & Institutes Undergraduate Research Opportunities Faculty Awards & Grants Graduate Fellowships Research Support Related Links Vice Provost for Research Sponsored Programs Research Integrity and Compliance Technology Transfer and Licensing Jesuit, Catholic Overview Catholic Intellectual Tradition Jesuit Resources Related Links Division of Mission & Ministry Campus Ministry Center for Student Formation The Church in the 21st Century Center Close Directory A to Z Listing Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Choosing BC HOME Admission Choosing BC In This Section Admission Overview Apply Visit Affordability Majors & Minors Choosing BC Why Choose Boston College? At Boston College, your education is measured in more than academic credits. It's a journey of personal, intellectual, and spiritual growth, of connections made and truths discovered. At Boston College you will be challenged to think—critically, ethically, and compassionately. You will put your knowledge, beliefs, and talents into action. "Go set the world aflame." St. Ignatius of Loyola, founder of the Society of Jesus We challenge you to discover who the world is calling you to be. Our innovative curriculum is taught by a committed faculty dedicated to classroom exploration and invested in your success. We believe a foundation in the liberal arts is the best preparation for lives of meaning and impact. Our rigorous academic programs will challenge you alongside tomorrow’s leaders. 93% of our faculty hold doctoral degrees Take a walk down Linden Lane. Sit and study in Gargan Hall. Few places in the country rival the beauty and vibrancy of our campus. Guided by professors who are leaders in their fields, our undergraduates earn prestigious academic awards and fellowships and engage in invaluable research opportunities. We’re annually among the top producers of Fulbright Scholars. Your relationship with BC lasts a lifetime. We have one of the most powerful and connected alumni networks in the world. That unique camaraderie will mentor and support you throughout your career. Boston is home to 35 institutions of higher education and more than 152,000 college students At Boston College, we have the best fans. Why BC? Visit and Find Out Back To Top Back To Top 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Jobs at BC Give Connect With Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube LinkedIn Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College