Skip To Main Content Report an Accessibility Barrier The Department for Disability Support Services Search | Menu Search Resources Email Canvas Banner PiratePort PirateID IT Help Videoconferencing Engage Work Request Directory Maps Virtual Tour A-Z Index Academic Calendar Event Calendar Catalog PRR Catalog A-Z Recently Updated Interim Repealed About Policy Sources University Policy Committee Help PRRs> Academic Affairs> Accreditation, Assessment and Other Academic Matters> Summer School, Campus - Version 1 Summer School, Campus Version 1 (Current Version) Print All Versions: Version 1 Policy REG02.07.07 Title Summer School, Campus Category Academic Affairs Sub-category Accreditation, Assessment and Other Academic Matters Authority Provost and Senior Vice Chancellor for Academic Affairs History Placed in University Policy Manual after EXPEDITED REVIEW, transitioned without substantive change from prior version, January 29, 2013. Contact Director, Office of Continuing Studies, 328-9317 Related Policies Additional References University Of North Carolina Semester Credit Hour Enrollment Change Funding Model Budget Manual, Office of State Budget and Management 1. INTRODUCTION 1.1 On-campus instruction offered during the summer months is counted as summer school and is not fundable on the Student Credit Hour (SCH) model. 1.2 Tuition rates for summer instruction are priced independently of regular term rates. The per-SCH rate is calculated by taking the appropriate annual regular term charge (approved by the UNC Board of Governors) and dividing by 24 (undergraduate) or 18 (graduate) to yield the per-SCH rate. Summer school instruction does not receive state support, therefore revenue generated must support the total cost of operating summer school instruction. According to the OSBM Budget Manual, expenditures, revenues, and FTE must be accounted for in the fiscal year in which the session is completed. 1.3 Summer School SCHs are assigned to the fiscal year in which the last class day occurs: first summer session instruction and SCHs typically belong to the fiscal year ending during the summer in question, and the second and long summer sessions‰ instruction and SCHs typically belong to the fiscal year beginning during the summer in question. 2. RESOURCES 2.1 Immediately after the conclusion of the summer terms on campus, an analysis is done of resource allocation, use of those resources, and SCH production by the colleges and schools during the prior summer. 2.2 Based on that analysis, preliminary enrollment projections and resource availability for the next summer are developed. 2.3 The number of FTE and the proportion of the operating funds allocated to the academic units are directly based on the proportion of the SCHs produced by the colleges and schools during the prior summer. 2.4 Allocation of FTE is based on the assumption that the positions will be used to deliver classes scheduled in campus 008 and the resultant revenue will be realized. 2.5 The colleges and schools may use 5% of the FTE allocated for administrative stipends 3. CLASS SCHEDULE 3.1 In concert with the Registrar‰s request for the next summer‰s class schedule, allocations of FTE and operating funds are sent to the colleges and schools. 3.2 Minimum class sizes of 15 for graduate classes and 20 for undergraduate classes are required. 4. FACULTY 4.1 The faculty are paid 16.67% of their 9-month base for a six-hour load in a session of summer school. In the campus summer school, faculty can earn up to 1/3 of their 9-month base if they teach a full load in both sessions. 5. PAYROLL 5.1 One week after the class schedule for the next summer is due to the Registrar, the units are to submit a preliminary payroll. 5.2 Final payrolls are due at the end of the first week of classes and submitted in time for faculty to be paid on either June 30 or July 31, dependent on which session they are teaching in. East Carolina University E 5th Street | Greenville, NC 27858 | 252-328-6131 ©2022 | Terms of Use | Accessibility | Report a Barrier