Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Department of Journalism and Strategic Media About B.A. Program M.A. Program People Syllabi Student Resources News Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Student Media Journalism and Strategic Media students can put their skills to work as part of student media on campus. LEARN BY DOING Creative Mass Media students Ally Goins-Williams, Morgan Postelle and Kix Patterson interview Keith Bowers, assistant professor of biology, as part of a multimedia project for the Meeman Biological Station . About Us Like all JRSM professors, Prof. Pam Denney teaches skills relevant to careers in media. Innovative Our students not only learn the skills of today's media, but they put those skills into practice. COLLABORATIVE Journalism and Strategic Media students collaborate on community projects, including news reporting, strategic media campaigns and creative media development in our classes. PreviousNext Take Action Apply to our Undergraduate Program Apply to our Master's Program Contact Us AEJMC 2022 Southeast Colloquium Follow Us Online FacebooktwitterYoutubeLinkedn Nationally Ranked # 2 TheBestSchools.org Best Online Bachelor’s in Public Relations View All Rankings Home JRSM Journalism and Strategic Media: Training tomorrow's media innovators Our programs prepare students for careers in advertising, journalism, public relations and visual media. The Department of Journalism and Strategic Media offers hands-on training by faculty members with professional experience on the cutting edge of digital media. Our undergraduate media programs are accredited by national accrediting bodies—the Accrediting Council on Education in Journalism and Mass Communications and Public Relations Society of America, for the public relations major. We also offer an on-campus and online graduate program with emphases in integrated strategic media, news and storytelling, visual media and mass media research. Real-World Education We provide hands-on training to future media professionals not only to succeed in the current industry but also to innovate the field into the future. Students in our majors gain real-world experience through our in-class instruction and internship and practicum programs, which makes our students highly competitive in the ever-changing media job market. During their time at UofM, our students work with local and national firms and outlets to hone their journalism and strategic media skills. Our graduates work in various media outlets from advertising and public relations agencies to legacy newspapers and from major non-profit organizations to online media startups. Innovative Curriculum We know the media world is an ever-changing industry innovation, in the field and in our curriculum, is the key to future success. That's why our curriculum is designed to offer students the most up-to-date and inventive educational experience possible. Our curriculum reflects the converged media environment we live in with classes focused on social media engagement, multimedia production, crisis communication, sports journalism, branding, analytics and evaluation, audience analysis and segmentation, for example. Our Undergraduate Majors Advertising Students learn to write and design ads, conduct market research, buy media and create campaigns working with real-life professional clients. Journalism Students develop skills for 21st-century reporting while focusing on writing, digital media, and broadcasting in our multiplatform curriculum. Public Relations Students learn to be the link between organizations and public through writing, publishing and strategic planning skills. Our Graduate Program We offer four emphases in our master's of art in journalism and strategic media program. Students are able to select the emphasis that most meets their professional and academic goals. Students may choose one of our professional emphases—news and storytelling, integrated strategic media, or visual media, to gain hands-on experience in one of those areas to further their current media career or to gain entrance into the field. Students may also choose the mass media research emphasis, designed to help the student to eventually pursue a doctorate degree in a related field. News and Storytelling Reporting, Editing, Multimedia, Entrepreneurship News is exciting, interesting and important happenings that affect people's lives. The courses students take help them become writers, photographers social media/web publishers. Integrated Strategic Media Advertising, Public Relations, Branding, Social Media ISM courses prepare students to perform a variety of skills applicable to advertising and public relations. You will improve your writing, editing, visual media learn about audience research and messaging strategies. Visual Media Design, Layout, Photography, Multimedia Visual Media courses teach the tools of mass communication, including photography, videography design, to reach an audience with a message. Mass Media Research Research and theory of mass communication Students especially interested in research or in eventually pursuing a doctorate will complete a thesis and focus their coursework in theory and research about mass communication. We Want to Hear from You Whether you are a future media professional, an alumnus of the Department of Journalism and Strategic Media, or someone just looking for more information, we hope you will take the time to explore our website, follow us on social media or visit the department in person. We can't wait to meet you. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 9/9/21 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.