COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: English, Major MajorEnglish All Programs Fairmount College of Liberal Arts and Sciences English Language and Literature A Bachelor of Arts (BA) degree in English from Wichita State is ideal for double majoring in a related program, such as history, philosophy, communication or a foreign language. As a well-rounded graduate, you'll have the writing, critical thinking, creativity and communication skills for success in many different fields—from advertising and law to marketing and journalism. Learn how English is the right fit for you. Request Info Start Your Application Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the program To be admitted into the Fairmount College of Liberal Arts and Sciences, you must first be admitted to Wichita State. For WSU's admission requirements, and to apply, click the link below. Admission requirements Inside the Program Dodge City senior wins $55,000 Walsh English Scholarship to attend WSU As an English major you have the opportunity to win scholarships to further your education. Carissa DeVoss won the 2016 Walsh English Scholarship worth $55,000 over four years; the largest English scholarship at WSU. DeVoss chose to major in English so she could emphasize her passion for creative writing and theater. Curriculum The literature track consists of a 21-credit-hour core, including one genre course, historical surveys of world, British and American literature, and 12 credit hours of elective courses in topics like African-American literature, the major plays of Shakespeare or studies in comparative literature. View the curriculum Careers A degree in English from Wichita State will equip you with skills that lead to diverse career options in the public and private sectors—from advertising agencies and the film industry to non-profits and academia. Learn more about careers in this field Similar Programs English (Minor) Creative Writing Communication - Journalism Communication - Strategic Communication 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©