Search | Directories | Reference Tools UW Home > Discover UW > Student Guide UW Bothell Course Descriptions UW Tacoma Course Descriptions Glossary SCHOOL OF DENTISTRY PERIODONTICS Detailed course offerings (Time Schedule) are available for Spring Quarter 2022 Summer Quarter 2022 Autumn Quarter 2022 PERIO 449 Directed Studies in Periodontics (*) See DPHS 449 for course description. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: PERIO 449 PERIO 550 P-Directed Studies in Periodontics (*, max. 6) See DPHS 449 for course description. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: PERIO 550 PERIO 561 Periodontal Case Management (2-, max. 8) Didactic presentation of clinical periodontics to provide a comprehensive view of the field and a grasp of modern therapeutics. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: PERIO 561 PERIO 566 Practice Management (1) Aspects of setting up and administering a private periodontal practice. Financing, insurance, office design, equipment, employees, professional forms, marketing strategies, and patient management. Prerequisite: PERIO 561. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: S. View course details in MyPlan: PERIO 566 PERIO 574 Periodontal Microbiology (2) Viral, bacterial classification; physiology; toxicity mechanisms reviewed. Formation and composition of plaque and calculus, and chemical methods of control discussed. Specific microbial floras of acute and chronic gingivitis, early onset forms of periodontitis, and adult periodontitis studied. Principles of antibiotic use reviewed. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: PERIO 574 PERIO 575 Immunologic Aspects of Oral Diseases (2) Acquaints students with basic concepts of immunology and immunopathology. Topics include elements of innate and acquired immunity, genetic bases of antibody structure and function, immunopathologic mechanisms, transplantation immunology, immunologic manifestations in mucocutaneous oral lesions, caries and periodontal disease, principles of vaccination, and critical evaluation of the dental stem cells potential for oral tissue engineering. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: PERIO 575 PERIO 576 The Molecular and Cellular Biology of the Periodontium (2) Nucleic acid, protein, and carbohydrate biochemistry reviewed. Roles of collagens and proteoglycans in gingival tissues and the organization of oral epithelia discussed. Structures of human and animal periodontal lesions compared. Cellular and molecular inflammatory and immunological mechanisms in periodontal disease discussed. History, classification, and epidemiology of periodontal diseases described. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: PERIO 576 PERIO 577 Review of Literature (2, max. 16) Concise review of the scientific periodontal literature with specific focus on studies of periodontal diagnosis, wound healing, periodontal regeneration, microbiology, and implant procedures. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PERIO 577 PERIO 578 Implant Literature Review (1) Verardi Reviews several topics related to dental implantology such as: history of dental implants, osseointegration, properties of materials, bone healing, bone augmentation procedures, success rates, pathogenesis of implant failures, and aesthetics in implantology. Discusses the relationship between surgical and restorative treatment phases. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: PERIO 578 PERIO 580 Foundations in Implant Dentistry (1) London, Raigrodski Details the core surgical and prosthetic considerations in dental implant patient care. Topics include case planning, anatomy, radiography, surgery, componentry, occlusion, and applications for implant dentistry. Offered: S. View course details in MyPlan: PERIO 580 PERIO 582 Periodontic Treatment Planning Seminar (1-, max. 12) Weekly seminar involved with the presentation, discussion, and tentative solution of moderate to complex problems in diagnosis and treatment. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PERIO 582 PERIO 585 Periodontal Therapy Seminar (1-, max. 12) Weekly seminar utilizing the case review method and dealing with the treatment of moderate to advanced periodontal disease. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PERIO 585 PERIO 586 Longitudinal Evaluation of Periodontal Therapy (1-, max. 9) Helps to develop in-depth knowledge and analytical skills in estimating prognosis, assessing comprehensive treatment plans, evaluating long-term treatment outcomes, and evidence-based clinical decision making. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: PERIO 586 PERIO 592 Prescription Surgery (1-, max. 3) Clinical course in periodontal surgery in which surgical procedures are performed on prescription basis for patients undergoing therapy in the undergraduate dental clinic. Exposes student to a wider spectrum of patients and simulates an environment in which the student can encounter the problems in communication and patient management that occur in the private sector. View course details in MyPlan: PERIO 592 PERIO 600 Independent Study or Research (*-) Prerequisite: permission of Graduate Program Adviser. View course details in MyPlan: PERIO 600 PERIO 651 Surgical Periodontics - Selective (2) This course gives students a greater exposure to comprehensive periodontal diagnosis and treatment planning with an evidence-based rationale, increased exposure to periodontal surgical procedures, and an overview of the specialty as a whole. Pre-approval from the Periodontics Department is required for this course. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PERIO 651 PERIO 655 Peer Mentor Periodontics - Selective (1, max. 12) Senior dental students participate as Peer Mentors for 1st and 2nd year dental students in various pre-clinical Periodontics courses. This experience builds upon, enhances and refines the students in Peer Mentoring. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PERIO 655 PERIO 659 P-Periodontics Extended Learning (*, max. 4) Supplemental work in periodontics to correct an area of student deficiency. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: PERIO 659 PERIO 660 Clinical Periodontics ([2-6]-, max. 60) Clinical experience in diagnosis and treatment of periodontal disease. View course details in MyPlan: PERIO 660 PERIO 661 Advanced Root Preparation (1) Daubert Advanced skill development in the use of the periodontal probe, gracey curettes, files and instrument sharpening. Includes laboratory sessions on dentoforms leading up to treatment of initial therapy patients. Offered: S. View course details in MyPlan: PERIO 661 PERIO 662 Stomatology Clinic (1, max. 4) The diagnosis and treatment of oral and perioral lesions including history taking, biopsies, hematological laboratory tests and chemotherapy. Periodontal therapy in medically compromised patients in the hospital setting. Microscopic review of biopsy specimens. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PERIO 662 PERIO 663 Pre-Prosthodontics Clinical Periodontics (*) Clinical diagnosis and treatment of periodontal disease for nonperiodontics student. Prerequisite: permission of department chairperson. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: PERIO 663 PERIO 665 Clinical Practice Teaching (*, max. 9) Supervised experience in teaching clinical periodontics to undergraduate dental students. View course details in MyPlan: PERIO 665 PERIO 685 Hospital Periodontics (1) Preparation in periodontics to practice in hospital situations, including experience in operation of nitrous oxide analgesia, general anesthesia, intravenous premedication, treating of out- and inpatients. View course details in MyPlan: PERIO 685 Office of the University Registrar registrar@uw.edu Modified: May 30, 2022