Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Undergraduate Admissions and Orientation Start Here The UofM Experience Visit Connect Apply Admitted Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact The UofM Experience Academics Campus Life UofM Campuses City of Memphis Take Action Request Information Apply to UofM Campus Visits and Events Contact Us Follow Us Online FacebooktwitterYoutube Home Undergraduate Admissions and Orientation UofM Experience Campuses Your Education. Your Way. Because the University of Memphis has more than one location, students can take classes at either of our 2 primary campuses and select courses are available at our satellite campuses. Or, choose to study online for all or part of their education through UofM Global. University of Memphis - Central Campus Located in a quiet residential neighborhood in the heart of Memphis, the Central Campus offers all the amenities of a major urban research university. Founded in 1912, we welcome more than 22,000 students to campus every year. UofM is consistently ranked as one of the safest large campuses in Tennessee, and with multiple housing options and plenty of places to eat, the campus can quickly become your home away from home. You can cheer on many of our athletic teams right here on campus or support the arts with multiple museums and performing arts opportunities. UofM Lambuth The University of Memphis Lambuth is located on a tranquil 57-acre campus in the heart of Jackson, TN. We are proud to be the only comprehensive, four-year public university in the city. Benefit from small class sizes and experienced faculty members who enable hands-on learning in a close-knit community. To go to college at UofM Lambuth is to be part of the broader Tiger Nation and have the advantages of a major research university to access anytime. You can attend classes at Lambuth or any other UofM location, including online and at our Memphis campus. Through these blended strengths, your talents and potential will be fully developed. Explore UofM Lambuth > UofM Global We bring the classroom to you. Since 1995, UofM Global has been supporting students as they balance careers, budgets, families, friends, health and safety during their educational journey. Our programs are developed by UofM faculty for UofM students. You even have an advisor ready to help you every step of the way, just like you would on campus. Plus, you gain access to all the resources of a Tier II research university. Your diploma and transcripts look exactly the same as those earned by on-campus students, because your degree and accumulated knowledge is exactly the same. This allows you to earn a regionally accredited degree from a nationally ranked university wherever you are in the world! If you've got high-speed Internet, you can earn a degree from anywhere. It's that simple. Go Global > Satellite Campus Millington: At the Millington Center, the course schedule and delivery format is designed with the working student in mind, including shorter terms, evening and weekend courses, and hybrid courses. Conveniently located within easy access from Memphis, north Shelby County, south Tipton County and west Crockett County, the newly renovated Millington Center, includes a park-like setting and state-of-the-art classroom technology. Learn more > Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 4/7/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.