Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Human Resource Management Certificate (Graduate) You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Human Resource Management Certificate (Graduate) Apply Request More Info Human Resource Management Certificate (Graduate) Admissions Human Resource Management Graduate Certificate Deepen your understanding of contemporary best practices, international staffing and strategic rewards systems with the Human Resource Management Graduate Certificate from Temple University’s Fox School of Business. This 12-credit graduate program is designed for working human resource (HR) professionals and backed by an accomplished, dedicated faculty. The Human Resource Management Graduate Certificate is ideal for current human resource practitioners seeking to enhance their careers with new strategies and cutting-edge knowledge; and certified human resource professionals who wish to maintain their credentials through continuing education credits. Human Resource Management Graduate Certificate students benefit from an innovative curriculum that allows them to earn the continuing education credits and educational experience necessary to advance their career in the field. Choosing between a certificate and an MS in Human Resource Management. In comparison with the Master of Science in Human Resource Management, the graduate certificate offers a compact academic program with added schedule flexibility at a lower cost. Certificate students also benefit from the same professional and networking advantages as other graduate students. Students looking to invest in a more comprehensive program that allows for extended research and practice opportunities should explore the Human Resource Management MS. Request Information Learn more about the Graduate Certificate in Human Resource Management. Apply Now Ready to apply? Submit your graduate application. Request Information Apply Delivery Method Certificate courses are conducted online. They combine activities, assignments, readings and video lectures with a weekly collaborative web-conferencing session with faculty and classmates. Classes & Curriculum You must complete 12 credit hours (four courses) in order to earn the certificate. Topics covered in the curriculum include talent acquisition, talent management and total rewards. See a full list of Human Resource Management Graduate Certificate courses. Related Graduate Degrees Business Administration MBA Business Administration PhD Human Resource Management MS Related Graduate Certificates Business Analytics Healthcare Innovation Management Innovation Strategy Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Graduate Certificate offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $1,218.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,276.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Careers Graduates of the Human Resource Management Graduate Certificate program will be prepared to continue their studies or take the next step in their HR career. Future positions students will be equipped to pursue include compensation analyst, corporate recruiter, corporate trainer and employee relations specialist. Alumni Employers Temple University maintains strong ties with employers, both within the city of Philadelphia and beyond, who’ve employed, or currently employ, former Temple students. Graduates from the Department of Human Resources have gone on to work for a variety of employers, including Amazon, ARAMARK, Brooksource, Comcast Corporation, Day & Zimmermann, Dietz & Watson, Frank Recruitment Group, Independence Blue Cross, Target Corporation and Vanguard. Program Contact Kelly Grace is the program contact for the Human Resource Management Graduate Certificate. Email: kelly.grace@temple.edu Accreditation The Fox School of Business is accredited by the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB). The school has maintained AACSB accreditation since 1934. BU-HRM-GRAD Additional Program Information School/College Site Go back to AcademicsMore in Human Resource Management Certificate (Graduate) Admissions Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info