Skip to main content Academic Computing & Networking Services CSU A-Z: A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Submit search navigation menu Home About ACNS/Telecom Services Committees The Classroom Review Board ITEC Advisory Council (IAC) Information Technology Executive Committee (ITEC) University Charges for Technology Committee (UCFT) IT Groups Fort Collins Community Network (FCCN) Subnet Managers Windows Administrators I Want To Check my email Connect to Wireless Manage & Create Mailing Lists Set-Up Duo Two Factor Authentication Use MS Teams in Online Instruction Download Microsoft Office Request InCommon Certificate Request a Project I Am A Faculty & Staff IT Professional Student Retiree Alumni Microsoft Teams The information posted here is intended to help faculty use Microsoft Teams in support of online instruction (students, go here). Need more help? Expand instructions to see the steps, to click to a PDF with screen captures, and to watch videos which show the process. Create, record, and share class sessions Prepare and share your lecture materials in three steps: create a meeting of a special type called a “Teams Meeting,” record that meeting, and then share it. Your students don’t need special software and this expands their capability to receive instruction. Instructors, you do not need an actual Team, nor special installed programs, to do these steps. Create a Teams meeting using the Office 365 portal Navigate to the Office 365 portal, at https://portal.office.com Log in with your ID in the format ename@colostate.edu Select the Outlook App in the list of apps In the Outlook app, click on the Calendar icon located on the bottom left side of the screen In the Outlook calendar, click on the New Event button on the upper left side of the screen In the event window, provide a unique title Note: It is recommended to title the event the name of your Canvas course with the date of the recording IMPORTANT: you must select Teams meeting – this appears either in the Add online meeting dropdown, or on the main event window as a toggle control in the right third of the screen Enter in the date with a start and end time of when you anticipate the meeting to be over Note: The end time is important, as the video will not save until the end time has passed Note: no attendees need to be added if you’re scheduling a Teams meeting for the purpose of pre-recording a classroom session Click Save on the top left of the screen when all settings have been entered See these instructions in PDF format with screen captures of important steps for more information. Video of these steps. Start and record the Teams meeting Navigate to the Office 365 portal, at https://portal.office.com Log in with your ID in the format ename@colostate.edu Select the Teams in the list of apps. If you don’t see Teams, click All Apps and then find Teams in the list. Click the Calendar App Icon on the left of the Teams screen Click the meeting created for this recording (see “Create a Teams Meeting using the Office 365 Portal” on this page) Click the Join button in the upper right corner. When the meeting starts, choose options to enable/disable your webcam and microphone. Click the Join Now button to start the Teams meeting. If your webcam and microphone are not working correctly, click on the Devices link to choose your Speakers, Microphone, and Camera. To share your screen, click on the Share icon from the meeting controls menu. On the Share your Screen window, there are options to share your entire screen, an application window, or an individual Chrome tab. Click on the appropriate tab, choose the screen/application/tab to share, and then click on the Share button. Note: if you have a Mac, you will have to give these apps some permissions to share your screen. See “Sharing Permissions for Mac” near the bottom of this page. To stop sharing your screen, click on the Stop Sharing icon from the meeting controls menu. To record a Teams meeting, go to the meeting controls, click on the More actions button (3 dots), and select Start recording. Note: if the meeting controls are not visible, move your mouse cursor. To stop a recording, go to the meeting controls, click on the More actions button (3 dots), and select Stop recording. To end the meeting, go to the meeting controls and click on the Hang up button (phone icon). The recording is then processed (which could take awhile) and saved to Microsoft OneDrive, and then it’s ready to play. A link to the recorded meeting (which will be in Microsoft OneDrive) will appear in your chat history visible from Teams. See these instructions in PDF format with screen captures of important steps for more information. Video of these steps. Add captions and share/post a meeting recorded in Teams to Canvas A recording of a Teams meeting must be processed (which could take awhile) and saved to Microsoft OneDrive, before it can be shared. Navigate to the Office 365 Portal at https://portal.office.com Log in with your ID in the format ename@colostate.edu Select the OneDrive App in the list of apps. If the OneDrive app is not appearing, click on the view all apps icon and search for OneDrive on the top of the page. In OneDrive, find and click on the “Recordings” folder. Click on the video you want to share. Click the share icon to the right of the file name or the “Share” button on the top menu bar. Live Captioning must be enabled during the meeting for a recording to have closed captioning within OneDrive. Teams Meeting recordings in OneDrive currently only supports English closed captions. Adding captions to a meeting recording after the meeting is currently not supported. See our Teams OneDrive Recording FAQ page for more information. Sharing: All invited participants automatically receive a link to the recording in their Chat history within Microsoft Teams. To share with just your class(es), click the “Share” button on the top menu bar, then type your course name as it appears in Canvas: Semester-DEPT-CourseNum-SectionNum (e.g., 2020SP-CO-150-006). Autocomplete will help you but you must start typing the semester, and so forth. Tip: you may also highlight and copy the course name from Canvas, and paste it into the text box If you have a cross-listed course, type your course name (2020SP-FIN-100). A special grouping of all sections with the same instructor will be shown, appearing as Semester-DEPT-CourseNum-(Instructor eName)-ALL SECTIONS. Choosing this entry will share the video with all cross-listed sections in a single action. Note: use step 2 only if all sections that you are the instructor in are cross-listed together into a single course. If all of the sections are not cross-listed into a single course, you will have to select each section individually. If the courses are Aries Cross-listed courses, each section will have to be added to OneDrive individually. Note: the above special groupings are kept up-to-date as registration changes; if you created your own team for your class, do not choose that one for sharing or late-adds will not be able to participate. Click “Send” once you have typed the name of the individual, course group or distribution list you wish to share with. Alternatively, if you would like to just copy/paste a link to the recording, click the “Copy Link” button on the bottom left of the Share window. This link can be inserted into a canvas page as an external link, or added into a Canvas module as an external link, or emailed directly to your students. See these instructions in PDF format with screen captures of important steps for more information. Managing videos in Microsoft OneDrive Does the name of the recorded meeting in OneDrive match the title of the meeting recorded in Outlook? No. You can rename the recorded meeting by accessing it in Microsoft OneDrive. Look for the “Recordings” folder. Right click the recording you want to edit and click “Rename”. How do I find a Teams meeting that was recorded and then saved to OneDrive? A Teams meeting recorded to Microsoft OneDrive can usually be accessed using the “Chat” history within Teams. If a recorded meeting isn’t viewable as a link from your chat history in Teams, or if you need to access a past recorded meeting, you can do so directly from Microsoft OneDrive using the steps below. Navigate to https://portal.office.com Enter your eID as ename@colostate.edu as shown and click “Next” Enter your eID password and click “Sign In” Once signed in, click the “OneDrive” app icon (blue cloud) from the list of apps on the left navigation panel Click on the “Recordings” folder to find all of your Teams Meeting recordings Select the recording by clicking on it Hint: To rename or edit share settings for the recording, right click on the recording and click “Share” and/or “Rename” Upload other video types to Microsoft OneDrive If you have created other video types than just recorded Teams meetings, you can also upload those to share via Microsoft OneDrive. Navigate to https://portal.office.com Log in with your eID username and password. Select OneDrive from the list of apps. It should open in a new tab when clicked. Click on “Upload” and select “File or Folder” from the dropdown menu. Drag and drop or browse to the file that you would like to upload. Once the video is uploaded, you can begin naming it, setting permissions etc. Share the newly uploaded video or file the same way you share any other content from OneDrive. Select “Share” from the top menu bar or right click on the file and select “Share”. You can then choose to share with an individual, a course group or a distribution list. Tips and Tricks for Secure Microsoft Teams Sessions Managing Attendees One of the first things you can do to create a safe virtual meeting space is manage who has access to the Teams meeting. To limit who can attend a meeting or to prevent people from forwarding an invite, refer to Change participant settings for a Teams meeting | Microsoft Support for more information. When opening up Microsoft Teams meetings to individuals outside of CSU, please note that these individuals can create their own usernames. You can generate an Attendance Report in Microsoft Teams. Refer to Microsoft Teams meeting attendance report | Microsoft Docs for more information. Managing the Meeting & Chat When possible, it is recommended to have a secondary person who is monitoring the room. This person should have host abilities in order to mute, cut video, or even remove someone from the room. Begin meetings or classes by setting room expectations around behavior and chat use. The chat should be monitored. Only the individual who made a post in the chat can edit or delete their post. Disruptive Behavior If someone becomes disruptive during a meeting, note the behavior and address the behavior if possible. Report any behavior that may violate the Student Conduct Code to the Student Resolution Center. Report any mental health, wellbeing, or safety concerns to Tell Someone. Report any employee behavior to the appropriate supervisor. Other Topics Hold office hours with a Teams meeting Note: This process is recommended for hosting Open Office hours. For instructions how to pre-record a lecture, please refer to the other sections higher on this page. Navigate to the Office 365 Portal at https://portal.office.com Log in with your ID in the format ename@colostate.edu Select the Outlook App in the list of apps. In the Outlook app, click on the Calendar icon located on the bottom left side of the screen. In the Outlook calendar, click on the New Event button on the upper left side of the screen. In the event window, provide a unique title. Note: It is recommended to title the event as “Office Hours” with the date of the recording. Optional: Invite attendees. To use this an an open office hours, leave the Invite attendees blank. To invite individual students, search for the students by typing in their name. This name-search function will work just as it would in an outlook email. IMPORTANT: In the Add online meeting dropdown, you must select Teams meeting. Enter in the date with a start and end time. Click Save on the top left of the screen when all settings have been entered. Navigate to the meeting in the outlook calendar. Click on the meeting name, right click on the Join Teams meeting text, then choose Copy link address. Video of these steps. Sharing permissions for Mac To enable screen sharing on a Mac running macOS Catalina/version 10.5.x, remember to grant permissions at System Preferences -> Security & Privacy -> under the Privacy tab in the Screen Sharing section. If using the web version of Teams in Chrome, grant permission to Google Chrome. If using the stand alone MS Teams app, grant that app access. A key sharing point: if you share your entire desktop from the Teams meeting, intending to then use another app (such as Powerpoint), it is crucial that you also grant access to that app (such as Powerpoint). The PDF below has the screen captures and instructions detailing this key point: See these instructions in PDF format with screen captures of important steps for more information. Share Microsoft Whiteboard from inside active Teams meeting (Advanced) – Microsoft Whiteboard is a tool, included in the online portal, which can be used as a freeform digital canvas. If you are already recording a Teams meeting you can include this in what your viewers see. Start and begin recording a Teams meeting, as described in the steps above. Share your entire desktop: click the share button in the action panel of the Teams meeting near the bottom of your screen. (You might have to move your mouse around to reveal the action menu.) The share button will bring up the share menu. Select Screenshare your Desktop. Do not select Microsoft Whiteboard, even though you see it here. On the window that pops up, select your entire screen by clicking on the small image of your desktop, and then push the “Share” button. Now that you are sharing your screen, click back to the tab with Microsoft Office Home (the portal tab), or open a new tab and navigate to https://portal.office.com Find and click the Whiteboard app in the list. You may have to click the “All Apps” icon first to find Whiteboard. When you click on Whiteboard it should open in a new tab. If asked to log in, you should be able to gain access by simply clicking your username. All the actions that you take in Whiteboard will be shared in the Teams meeting since you are sharing your whole screen. When you are finished with Whiteboard, switch tabs back to your Teams meeting and stop sharing your screen. Your Teams meeting will continue, but you will just no longer be sharing your entire desktop. Definitions and Tips What's the difference between Teams and OneDrive? Microsoft OneDrive is an Enterprise Sharing service where people can upload, view, and share content securely both within and outside of an organization. You can share recordings of classes, meetings, presentations, training sessions, or other videos that aid your team’s collaboration. More information about OneDrive. Microsoft Teams is a collaboration and chat platform designed to simplify group work; it integrates with other Microsoft services and allows users to access shared files and calendars, do collaborative editing, and experience easy switching between voice, video, and text chat. Individual teams can be created with various users; inside a team different channels can be created, which are hubs for threaded conversations. Who can use Teams? Teams is available to anyone with an eID. Please note that creating, hosting, and recording Microsoft Teams meetings does not require you to be in any Team or have any special software installed. Sections here illustrate how to do those actions, and how to share the links with your students. What web browser should I use? We recommend using Chrome to access Teams. Optionally, you can use the downloadable Teams client software for PC or Mac. Prereqs You do NOT need a Team to create, store, and share recorded class sessions with your class You do NOT need software (e.g., the Teams app) You SHOULD use the Chrome browser (firefox and Safari cause problems) Student? Visit Microsoft-Teams-Students. Top Topics Having trouble with Safari or Firefox? Please use the Chrome browser Do I need a “Team” for each class? No, actual Teams do not need to be created for these topics! Do I need the “App” installed? No, please use the Chrome browser and access via the office portal. Using the web version is the most consistent across mac and PC. Power users may install and use the app; the steps will be similar but not identical. Access: Canvas eID Google Apps Email Office365 Portal O365 & Exchange Help Echo360 Related Groups: IT Technical Support Help Desk RamTech Telecommunications Information Systems Division Information Hub ACNS Admin Login Covid-19 Information Apply to CSU Contact CSU Disclaimer Equal Opportunity Privacy Statement Accessibility Statement © 2022 Colorado State University