Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Explore Brown University Search Global Navigation Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Department of Sociology Home News People Programs Courses Undergraduate Programs Ph.D. Program Master's in Social Analysis and Research 5th-Year MSAR Apply Now On The Market Colloquia Diversity & Inclusion Apply Now Site Navigation Home News People Faculty Office and TA Lab Hours Ph.D. Students Master's Students Staff Programs Courses Undergraduate Programs A.B. in Sociology Sc.B. in Social Analysis and Research Organizational Studies Track (S/OS) Honors Transfer Credit Department Undergraduate Group (DUG) Ph.D. Program Funding Ph.D. Year by Year Awards Student Resources Student Publications Student Placements Master's in Social Analysis and Research Student Placements 5th-Year MSAR Apply Now On The Market Colloquia Diversity & Inclusion Apply Now Applications FAQ Courses for Fall 2022 Social Forces: An Introduction to Sociology Social forces constrain and empower us, bond us together and push us apart. Sociology explores the workings of societies large and small: nations, organizations, communities, families, and other groups. How do societies shape action and identity, and why are social pressures so hard to defy? How do societies distribute wealth and power, and why do inequalities so often coalesce around race, ethnicity, class, and gender? How do established practices persist, and when do movements arise to challenge them? Examining such themes across a range of issues and topics, this course provides a springboard for future study throughout the social sciences. SOC 0010 S01 Primary Instructor Kennedy An Environmental Sociology for a Rapidly Warming World Environmental problems are rooted in societies’ complex and changing relationship with the natural world. Understanding those environmental problems, let alone solving them, requires careful investigation of nature-society interactions. Through lectures, readings, discussion, and written work, students will examine the social and historical foundations of contemporary environmental problems and societal efforts to address or resolve those problems. Building on these foundations, we will explore the social dimensions of three (interrelated) “environmental grand challenges”: curbing climate change, preparing for and responding to environmental disasters, and building sustainable cities. Through all of these challenges, questions of environmental inequality and environmental racism loom large. SOC 0250 S01 Primary Instructor Frickel Who Am I? A study of self in contemporary society. We examine the structural and situational forces that shape the self and their impact on personal development, orientations to the world, and interpersonal behavior; we investigate the development of the self as a way of being in the world that makes everyday doings and, ultimately society, possible. Enrollment limited to 19 first year students. Instructor permission required. SOC 0300D S01 Primary Instructor Elliott Theory and Practice of Engaged Scholarship Efforts are underway across university and college campuses -- in the United States and globally -- to increase opportunities for engaged learning and research. What is engaged scholarship and how does it challenge (and/or complement) more traditional concepts of scholarship and disciplinary knowledge? What are the ethical, practical, and other challenges associated with community-engaged scholarship? The course will use case studies, field work, team projects, and guest speakers from diverse disciplines and sectors to investigate these and other questions. Limited to 40 students per section. SOC 0310 S01 Primary Instructor Hernandez International Migration This course introduces the research and policies related to international migration, a phenomenon involving the dynamic movement of people across borders. The class provides the theoretical and empirical tools required to understand immigration's main theories and empirical debates. The course examines why people migrate and how and why immigrants settle where they do. Additionally, the class examines the structural forces influencing the experiences of immigrant groups in American society and the consequences of international migration for both immigrants and native-born citizens in the United States. Through readings, research, and discussions, students acquire skills needed to objectively analyze how immigration patterns people's lives and simultaneously shapes the boundaries of inclusion and exclusion in society. SOC 0315 S01 Primary Instructor Lopez Sanders Classical Sociological Theory How is modern society organized? What holds society together and what drives social change? Why is there such a large gap between the "modern" ideal of formal equality and the reality of factual inequality? Why do differences of class, race and gender persist? What is power and who has it? These questions have motivated generations of sociologists, but many of the arguments continue to be informed by the foundational classical theorists: Karl Marx, Max Weber, Emile Durkheim and W.E.B Du Bois. Looking at the transformations around them – the rise of capitalism, the modern nation-state, rational bureaucracy, the spread of colonialism, the decline of religion, struggles for emancipation and much more – they developed arguments that allow us to better understand ourselves, our actions, and the contemporary political, economic and social transformations around us. We explore the defining contributions of these theorists and link them to current debates and theories on systemic racism, gender/sex struggles, global inequalities, social movements and democracy. SOC 1010 S01 Primary Instructor Itzigsohn Introductory Statistics for Social Research Introduction to descriptive and inferential statistics: measures of central tendencies and variability, sampling, tests of significance, correlation, and regression. Also includes the use of computers in data analysis. Knowledge of elementary algebra is assumed. Enrollment is limited to 144 students. SOC 1100 S01 Primary Instructor Lindstrom SOC 1100 C01 Schedule Code C: Discussion Section/Conference SOC 1100 C02 Schedule Code C: Discussion Section/Conference SOC 1100 C03 Schedule Code C: Discussion Section/Conference SOC 1100 C04 Schedule Code C: Discussion Section/Conference SOC 1100 C05 Schedule Code C: Discussion Section/Conference SOC 1100 C06 Schedule Code C: Discussion Section/Conference Focus Groups for Market and Social Research This course introduces students to a range of qualitative research methods commonly used in market and social science research. It is designed to provide students with a skill set that will allow them to conduct and design market and social research that gets below the surface of the traditional survey. Focus groups, ethnographic observation and user-centered research are widely used in product design, communications, marketing and entrepreneurship research. Students will learn and practice all of the methods introduced in the course by conducting a semester-long research project, will gain insight into which methods are most appropriate for particular research needs. SOC 1117 S01 Primary Instructor DiCarlo Migrants, Refugees and the Mediterranean The Mediterranean Sea is one of the deadliest bodies of water on the planet to cross. It is also one of the most frequently crossed for migrants and refugees. This course examines the history, the origins, the destinations, and the definitions of human population flows across the Mediterranean. We will explore push and pull factors as well as sending and host country classifications of people as they cross from one side to the other. We will focus in particular on the tensions between sending and host countries from individual, societal and institutional levels. SOC 1128 S01 Primary Instructor DiCarlo Market Research in Public and Private Sectors Introduction to data and research methods for private and public sector organizations. Data used in market research include trends in the population of consumers, economic trends, trends within sectors and industries, analyses of product sales and services, and specific studies of products, promotional efforts, and consumer reactions. Emphasizes the use of demographic, GIS, and other available data. SOC 1260 S01 Primary Instructor Spearin Macro-Organizational Theory: Organizations in Social Context Macro-Organizational Theory focuses on the organization and its social/economic environment. This class will explore various definitions of the organization’s environment, and the many types of macro-level organizational structures in which sets of organizations interact, function, compete, and cooperate. Important questions to be asked include the following: -What is an organizational environment and how do organizations “deal” with what is outside of their boundaries? -How are the boundaries of organizations defined/recognized/function? -How do environments influence organizational strategy and performance? -What are the major theories for assessing macro-level organizational phenomena? -What are the many ways in which organizations relate to other organizations? SOC 1315 S02 Principles and Methods of Geographic Information Systems An introduction to the fundamental principles and methods of geographic information systems (GIS). Topics include (a) handling different types of geographic datasets, (b) geo-analytical and modeling tools in GIS, (c) conceptual and theoretical aspects of GIS application development, and (d) errors and uncertainty analysis of GIS applications. Laboratory assignments and the project work provide hands on experiences in GIS. Enrollment limited to 16 juniors and seniors. SOC 1340 S01 Primary Instructor Mwenda Comparative Urban Political Economy For the first time, most people across the globe live in cities. Inequalities within both nations and cities are increasingly similar across national boundaries. This course ask how the politics of formal and informal institutions in cities produce and change inequalities of shelter, work, race, and other social identities, across urban space. We analyze cases from across the globe, along with a range of social science methods and theoretical perspectives. SOC 1871X S01 Primary Instructor Logan Race and Ethnic Relations, Identity, and Inequality This course provides an overview of perspectives used in sociological studies of race and ethnicity. It focuses on race and ethnic relation, boundaries, and inequalities through empirical research on interracial or interethnic contact opportunities and racial, ethnic change and variation in interracial or interethnic relationship, romance, and marriage. The goal of the course is to deepen the understanding that racial/ethnic boundaries are rigid, yet may be crossed, blurred, or shifted over time and across generations. SOC 1872C S01 Primary Instructor Qian Cities of the Global South This course covers key phenomena and concepts of social life in cities through a transnational comparison of cases that span beyond the typical focus on the US. Instead, we focus on cities as global phenomena – the world population now being mostly urban for the first time ever – with issues of urban structure, connections, and subjectivities only fully comprehensible through perspectives that surpass a domestic lens. To do this, we will focus on cities in the “global South.” Our goal is to understand many of the key issues that mediate the urban experience, including inequalities, infrastructure, security, violence, and citizenship. SOC 1873C S01 Primary Instructor Ball Senior Seminar Advanced seminar for sociology and social analysis and research (SAR) concentrators. Participants examine methods for analyzing, writing, and presenting capstone and thesis material and apply peer review techniques in assessing each other's work. Culminates in presentation of capstone or thesis to the department. Required for all sociology and social analysis and research (SAR) concentrators. SOC 1950 S01 Primary Instructor Pacewicz Individual Research Project Supervised reading or research. Specific program arranged in terms of the student's individual needs and interests. Required of intensive concentrators; open to others only by written consent of the Chair of the department. Section numbers vary by instructor. Please check Banner for the correct section number and CRN to use when registering for this course. SOC 1970 S01 Primary Instructor Chorev Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research SOC 1970 S02 Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research SOC 1970 S03 Primary Instructor Rauscher Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research SOC 1970 S04 Primary Instructor Elliott Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research SOC 1970 S05 Primary Instructor Gonzalez Van Cleve Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research SOC 1970 S06 Primary Instructor Suchman Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research SOC 1970 S07 Primary Instructor Heller Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research SOC 1970 S08 Primary Instructor Henry Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research SOC 1970 S09 Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research SOC 1970 S10 Primary Instructor Itzigsohn Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research SOC 1970 S11 Primary Instructor Lindstrom Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research SOC 1970 S12 Primary Instructor Logan Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research SOC 1970 S13 Primary Instructor Roberts Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research SOC 1970 S14 Primary Instructor Lopez Sanders Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research SOC 1970 S15 Primary Instructor Pacewicz Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research SOC 1970 S16 Primary Instructor Vanwey Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research SOC 1970 S17 Primary Instructor Spearin Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research SOC 1970 S18 Primary Instructor Short Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research SOC 1970 S19 Primary Instructor Qian Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research SOC 1970 S20 Primary Instructor Frickel Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research SOC 1970 S21 Primary Instructor White Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research SOC 1970 S22 Primary Instructor Kennedy Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research SOC 1970 S23 Primary Instructor DiCarlo Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research SOC 1970 S24 Primary Instructor Jackson Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research SOC 1970 S25 Primary Instructor Schrank Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research SOC 1970 S26 Primary Instructor Mwenda Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research SOC 1970 S27 Primary Instructor Ozkazanc-Pan Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research SOC 1970 S28 Primary Instructor Wetts Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research SOC 1970 S29 Primary Instructor Shih Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research SOC 1970 S30 Primary Instructor Carter Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research Senior Honors Thesis Under the direction of a faculty advisor, students construct and carry out a research project. The written report of the research is submitted to the advisor for honors consideration. A second reader selected by the thesis advisor certifies that the thesis is of honors quality. Please check Banner for the correct section number and CRN to use when registering for this course. SOC 1980 S01 Primary Instructor Rauscher Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research SOC 1980 S02 Primary Instructor Jackson Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research SOC 1980 S03 Primary Instructor Qian Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research SOC 1980 S04 Primary Instructor Elliott Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research SOC 1980 S05 Primary Instructor Gonzalez Van Cleve Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research SOC 1980 S06 Primary Instructor Suchman Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research SOC 1980 S07 Primary Instructor Heller Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research SOC 1980 S08 Primary Instructor Henry Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research SOC 1980 S09 Primary Instructor DiCarlo Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research SOC 1980 S10 Primary Instructor Itzigsohn Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research SOC 1980 S11 Primary Instructor Lindstrom Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research SOC 1980 S12 Primary Instructor Logan Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research SOC 1980 S13 Primary Instructor Frickel Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research SOC 1980 S14 Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research SOC 1980 S15 Primary Instructor Lopez Sanders Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research SOC 1980 S16 Primary Instructor Chorev Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research SOC 1980 S17 Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research SOC 1980 S18 Primary Instructor Short Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research SOC 1980 S19 Primary Instructor Pacewicz Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research SOC 1980 S20 Primary Instructor Spearin Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research SOC 1980 S21 Primary Instructor White Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research SOC 1980 S22 Primary Instructor Kennedy Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research SOC 1980 S23 Primary Instructor Roberts Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research SOC 1980 S24 Primary Instructor Schrank Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research SOC 1980 S25 Primary Instructor Vanwey Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research SOC 1980 S26 Primary Instructor Wetts Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research SOC 1980 S27 Primary Instructor Candipan Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research SOC 1980 S28 Primary Instructor Carter Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research SOC 1980 S29 Primary Instructor Mwenda Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research Multivariate Statistical Methods I Introduction to probability, descriptive statistics and statistical inference. Coverage of the linear model, its assumptions and potential biases. Emphasis on hypothesis testing, model selection and interpretation through application with real data. SOC 2010 S01 Primary Instructor Jackson Classical Sociological Theory This is a graduate-level course requires students to engage in detailed analysis and critical review of sociological thought of the 19th and early 20th centuries. The class will introduce students to the critical thinking, methodological innovation, and historical imagination of sociological theory by reading the original texts of the forefathers of sociology, including Karl Marx, Max Weber, Emile Durkheim and others. SOC 2040 S01 Primary Instructor Itzigsohn Ethnography: Theory and Practice This course is designed to introduce graduate students in sociology and related fields to the study and practice of ethnographic methods. We will discuss various qualitative methodological approaches, but we will concentrate on observational and interview-based research. In addition to considering some of the epistemological issues these methods raise at the theoretical level, students will also have the opportunity to learn by doing. The overall goal of this course is to cultivate and enhance students’ skills in ethnographic data analysis and interpretation, and to employ these skills in the writing of a scholarly paper or book chapter. SOC 2250 S01 Primary Instructor Lopez Sanders Cultural Theory and Methods This course introduces graduate students to the sociology of culture (understanding social influence on cultural formations) and cultural sociology (understanding cultural influences on social processes). As we consider different theoretical areas of the field, we will discuss the best methodological approaches in cultural theory. We consider how one formulates a research questions and puts evidence together in order to investigate specific instances of the culture-society interaction. We discuss the distinctions between culture, institutions and organizations. SOC 2260T S01 Primary Instructor Gonzalez Van Cleve Sociology Paper Writing Seminar This is a special seminar for graduate students in Sociology on the art of writing research papers for publication. The goals of the course are to: 1) learn the process of writing by drafting or redrafting a complete research paper, one section at a time 2) participate in the process of critical peer review 3)become knowledgeable about the process of submission/publication in peer-reviewed journals in Sociology and related social science fields 4) become more familiar with the often hidden processes of journal review , publication ethics, and interpreting/responding to editorial decisions SOC 2460 S01 Primary Instructor Diamond Teaching Practicum in Sociology This course is designed for sociology graduate students whose funding has prohibited a teaching assistantship but who need to complete the departmental teaching requirement. The instructor for this course will default as the department chair but it is the graduate student's responsibility to identify an instructor to work alongside. This partnership must be approved by the director of graduate study. SOC 2500 S01 Primary Instructor Barnes Causal Analysis “Does premarital cohabitation protect marriage?” “Does reducing class size improve elementary school education?” “Is there racial discrimination in the market for home loans?” We often use associations to claim causal effects. This course provides a broad introduction to causal analysis. We will address causal inference from observational and quasi-experimental research designs. Topics include instrumental variables estimation, difference-in-difference models, regression discontinuity, matching, propensity scores, heterogeneous treatment effects, and fixed effects models. The prerequisite of this course is SOC 2020 or equivalent. SOC 2960Y S01 Primary Instructor Qian Sociology of Education This course provides an overview of Sociology of Education, covering substantive, theoretical, and methodological issues in the field. Beginning with classical theories of education, the course will then provide an overview of the relationship between education and society, with a focus on its role in reducing and reproducing inequality. We will discuss causes and consequences of educational inequality, paying particular attention to education and the labor market. In the process, we will engage with ascriptive forms of stratification, including race and ethnicity. The focus of the course is education in the U.S., but we will occasionally incorporate international comparisons. SOC 2961E S01 Primary Instructor Rauscher Preliminary Examination Preparation For graduate students who have met the tuition requirement and are paying the registration fee to continue active enrollment while preparing for a preliminary examination. SOC 2970 S01 Schedule Code E: Graduate Thesis Prep Reading and Research Section numbers vary by instructor. Please check Banner for the correct section number and CRN to use when registering for this course. SOC 2980 S01 Primary Instructor Gonzalez Van Cleve Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research SOC 2980 S02 Primary Instructor Ozkazanc-Pan Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research SOC 2980 S03 Primary Instructor Roberts Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research SOC 2980 S04 Primary Instructor Elliott Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research SOC 2980 S05 Primary Instructor Rauscher Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research SOC 2980 S06 Primary Instructor DiCarlo Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research SOC 2980 S07 Primary Instructor Heller Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research SOC 2980 S08 Primary Instructor Henry Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research SOC 2980 S09 Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research SOC 2980 S10 Primary Instructor Itzigsohn Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research SOC 2980 S11 Primary Instructor Lindstrom Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research SOC 2980 S12 Primary Instructor Logan Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research SOC 2980 S13 Primary Instructor Frickel Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research SOC 2980 S14 Primary Instructor Wetts Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research SOC 2980 S15 Primary Instructor Candipan Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research SOC 2980 S16 Primary Instructor Jackson Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research SOC 2980 S17 Primary Instructor Kennedy Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research SOC 2980 S18 Primary Instructor Short Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research SOC 2980 S19 Primary Instructor Lopez Sanders Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research SOC 2980 S20 Primary Instructor Spearin Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research SOC 2980 S21 Primary Instructor White Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research SOC 2980 S22 Primary Instructor Chorev Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research SOC 2980 S23 Primary Instructor Schrank Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research SOC 2980 S24 Primary Instructor Suchman Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research SOC 2980 S25 Primary Instructor Vanwey Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research SOC 2980 S26 Primary Instructor Pacewicz Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research SOC 2980 S27 Primary Instructor Qian Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research SOC 2980 S28 Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research SOC 2980 S29 Primary Instructor Carter Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research Directed Research Practicum - MSAR Students Only The Directed Research Practicum (SOC 2982) is a one semester course taken in conjunction with an on- or off-campus research internship. The course consists of a directed reading of methodological texts and research articles selected by the student and the faculty director that are of direct relevance to the methodological issues and challenges encountered in the internship. The student and faculty director will meet on a weekly basis to review the readings, assignments, and discuss how the methods on paper “come to life” during the internship experience. Faculty directors need not be involved with the actual internship work (i.e. the internship is off-campus or with an on-campus office), unless the student is working on the faculty member’s research project. SOC 2982 S01 Primary Instructor Barnes Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research SOC 2982 S02 Primary Instructor Candipan Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research SOC 2982 S03 Primary Instructor Carter Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research SOC 2982 S04 Primary Instructor Chorev Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research SOC 2982 S05 Primary Instructor DiCarlo Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research SOC 2982 S06 Primary Instructor Diamond Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research SOC 2982 S07 Primary Instructor Elliott Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research SOC 2982 S08 Primary Instructor Frickel Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research SOC 2982 S09 Primary Instructor Gonzalez Van Cleve Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research SOC 2982 S10 Primary Instructor Heller Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research SOC 2982 S11 Primary Instructor Henry Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research SOC 2982 S12 Primary Instructor Itzigsohn Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research SOC 2982 S13 Primary Instructor Jackson Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research SOC 2982 S14 Primary Instructor Kennedy Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research SOC 2982 S15 Primary Instructor Lindstrom Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research SOC 2982 S16 Primary Instructor Logan Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research SOC 2982 S17 Primary Instructor Lopez Sanders Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research SOC 2982 S18 Primary Instructor Pacewicz Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research SOC 2982 S19 Primary Instructor Qian Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research SOC 2982 S20 Primary Instructor Rauscher Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research SOC 2982 S21 Primary Instructor Roberts Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research SOC 2982 S22 Primary Instructor Schrank Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research SOC 2982 S23 Primary Instructor Short Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research SOC 2982 S24 Primary Instructor Spearin Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research SOC 2982 S25 Primary Instructor Suchman Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research SOC 2982 S26 Primary Instructor Vanwey Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research SOC 2982 S27 Primary Instructor Wetts Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research Dissertation Preparation For Sociology PhD graduate students who have met the residency requirement and are continuing research on a full time basis. SOC 2990 S01 Schedule Code E: Graduate Thesis Prep Programs Courses Undergraduate Programs Ph.D. Program Master's in Social Analysis and Research 5th-Year MSAR Apply Now Department of Sociology Department of Sociology Brown University Box 1916 Maxcy Hall, 108 George Street Inner Campus – Lower Green Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-2367 Fax: 401-863-3213 Email [email protected] Twitter Twitter Facebook Facebook Brown University Giving to Brown Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA 401-863-1000 Contact Us Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility All Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top