Skip to Main Content Brown University News from Brown Site Navigation Featured Events For Journalists Search Menu Topics Arts and Humanities Date June 11, 2021 2021-06-11 Media Contact Jill Kimball [email protected] 401-863-5450 All News Share Facebook Twitter Linkedin Email Brown alumna captures Pulitzer Prize for study of McDonald’s franchises in Black America Marcia Chatelain, who graduated from Brown with a master’s and Ph.D. in American civilization, won the 2021 prize for the history category for her book “Franchise: The Golden Arches in Black America.” Photo: Georgetown University PROVIDENCE, R.I. [Brown University] — Brown University alumna Marcia Chatelain won a Pulitzer Prize in history for her book “Franchise: The Golden Arches in Black America,” a study of how McDonald's restaurants have assisted many Black entrepreneurs yet in other ways harmed African Americans. The Pulitzer Prize board recognized Chatelain and other 2021 prize winners in a Friday, June 11, virtual presentation. The board called Chatelain’s book “a nuanced account of the complicated role the fast-food industry plays in African American communities [and] a portrait of race and capitalism that masterfully illustrates how the fight for civil rights has been intertwined with the fate of Black businesses.” Chatelain earned a master’s and Ph.D. in American civilization from Brown, graduating with the Class of 2008. She received a bachelor’s degree from the University of Missouri in 2001. Today, she is a professor of history and African American studies at Georgetown University. In January 2020, the author told a National Public Radio reporter that her book “really explores the relationship between Black America and McDonald’s, to help us understand [that] where other parts of our society has failed, McDonald’s has unfortunately had to pick up the slack.” “Franchise,” she explained, explores the double-edged sword of the national fast-food chain. African Americans are more likely to eat fast food than any other racial group in the U.S., according to the U.S. Centers for Disease Control, partly because those restaurants are hyper-concentrated in some of the country’s lowest-income and most segregated areas. That might seem like bad news, given that countless studies have shown increased rates of obesity and heart disease in those who regularly eat at fast-food restaurants. But for some Black Americans, the opportunity to own a McDonald’s franchise has paved the way to financial independence and even wealth. Chatelain said that McDonald’s moved into more low-income, heavily Black neighborhoods in the wake of racial unrest in American cities in the late 1960s and early 1970s. As white Americans left urban areas and settled in suburbs, many shops closed or relocated. McDonald’s saw those empty storefronts as opportunities to open new franchises with low overhead, expanding its customer base and gaining the trust of surrounding communities by installing local residents as owners. “I think what McDonald’s has provided is an opportunity for some, at the expense of far too many... not just [because of] the health effects,” Chatelain told NPR. “I think any time we have communities that have to rely on a business to be the place of refuge, to be the place for Wi-Fi, to be the sponsor of youth sports, to be the place where the youth job program happens, for the college scholarships to emanate from, then we have a problem.” Tags Awards and Fellowships Related news: Arts and Humanities John Hay Library acquires Puerto Rican playwright’s personal papers May 11, 2022 A new collection of drafts, notes and correspondence from playwright José Rivera gives scholars a window into one artist’s process and provides new perspective on the lived experiences of Latin Americans. Read Article Open details for John Hay Library acquires Puerto Rican playwright’s personal papers Arts and Humanities Kent Kleinman appointed faculty director of the Brown Arts Institute April 27, 2022 Kleinman, who currently serves as provost at Rhode Island School of Design, will lead the development and implementation of academic programs within Brown University’s Arts Institute. Read Article Open details for Kent Kleinman appointed faculty director of the Brown Arts Institute Arts and Humanities Brown music historian weighs in on racism, Russia and Wagner’s legacy April 18, 2022 Michael Steinberg, a professor of music and history at Brown, has curated a new exhibition on Richard Wagner, one of the 19th century’s most influential and problematic cultural figures, in Berlin. Read Article Open details for Brown music historian weighs in on racism, Russia and Wagner’s legacy Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Snapchat Twitter YouTube Social Media Directory © Brown University Brown University For You Current Students Faculty Staff Parents & Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Featured Events For Journalists Topics Arts and Humanities Environment Health and Medicine News and Events Science and Technology Social Sciences Student Life University Initiatives Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events For You Give to Brown All of Brown.edu People News Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Brown alumna captures Pulitzer Prize for study of McDonald’s franchises in Black America Open details for Brown alumna captures Pulitzer Prize for study of McDonald’s franchises in Black America Bookmark this Page