Skip to site alert. Skip to content Columbia School of Nursing Students Alumni Faculty Contact Us Search Make a Gift About Us About Us Message From the Dean Leadership Faculty Our Culture News Events Facts and Figures Accreditation Make a Gift Contact Us Our Culture Diversity and Cultural Affairs Civility Statement Social Justice and Health Equity and Anti-Racism Commitment Sustainability Our History Jonas Partnership Join Our Team Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Learn about our commitment to social justice and health equality and anti-racism. View Our Progress Academics Academics A Columbia Nursing Education Admissions at a Glance Academic Programs Courses Financial Aid Continuing Nursing Education Helene Fuld Health Trust Simulation Center Academic Programs Doctor of Nursing Practice Doctor of Nursing Practice in Nurse Anesthesia Doctor of Philosophy Masters Direct Entry Program For Non-Nurses Masters in Advanced Clinical Management and Leadership Online Prerequisites for Entry to Nursing Transgender Non-Binary (Trans NB) Health Care for Advance Practice Nurses and PAs Palliative Care Throughout the Lifespan for Advanced Practice Registered Nurses (APRNs) Admissions at a Glance Learn more about Admissions at Columbia Nursing, including important dates and deadlines, and how to apply to all of our programs. Learn More About Admissions Research Research Research Faculty and Postdoctoral Fellows Research Areas of Focus Research Centers and Programs Training Programs Research Resources Research Centers and Programs Center for Health Policy Center for Improving Palliative Care for Vulnerable Adults with MCC Precision in Symptom Self-Management Center Center for Healthcare Delivery Research and Innovations Center for Research on People of Color Center for Sexual and Gender Minority Health Research Linking to Improve Nursing Knowledge Research Areas of Focus Explore the research areas of focus conducted by our faculty, postdocs, and students. View Our Focus Areas Patient Care Global Health Global Health Global Opportunities for Students Global Research International Visitors WHO Collaborating Center Contact Global Opportunities for Students Global opportunities for clinical practicum and research may be available for MDE and doctoral students at Columbia Nursing. Get More Information You are here Home > Academics > Academic Programs > Doctor of Nursing Practice Doctor of Nursing Practice Adult-Gerontology Acute Care Nurse Practitioner Adult-Gerontology Primary Care Nurse Practitioner Family Nurse Practitioner Midwifery Pediatric Primary Care Nurse Practitioner Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner Sub-Specialty Programs Admissions Tuition and Fees Competencies FAQ Doctor of Nursing Practice Apply Now to the Doctor of Nursing Practice Doctor of Nursing Practice Program Length of Program: 2.5 years Application Deadline: January 31, 2022 Decisions Posted: March 2022 Program Start Date: June 2022 The Post-Baccalaureate Doctor of Nursing Program (DNP) prepares nurse clinicians (RNs) or advanced practice nurses (APRNs) to provide fully accountable and comprehensive care to patients. With the increasing scope of clinical scholarship in nursing and the growth of scientific knowledge in the discipline, doctoral level education is required for independent practice. The DNP program prepares nurses to conduct complex diagnostic and therapeutic interventions, make use of sophisticated informatics and decision-making technology, and assimilate in-depth knowledge of the biophysical, psychosocial, behavioral, and clinical sciences. The Post-BS DNP specialties are: Adult-Gerontology Acute Care Nurse Practitioner Program (AG-ACNP) Adult-Gerontology Primary Care Nurse Practitioner Program (AG-PCNP) Family Nurse Practitioner (FNP) Program Midwifery Program Pediatric Primary Care Nurse Practitioner (PNP) Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner (PMH) There are currently multiple points of entry to the DNP program: Registered Nurses with a BS degree The Post-BS DNP is a three-year, full-time program for registered nurses interested in advanced practice that includes a clinical immersion. This program prepares students as Advanced Practice Nurses (APRNs) in an area of specialty. Students graduate with the knowledge, skills, and attributes necessary for comprehensive care with patients across sites and over time, while also serving as leaders, educators, and innovators in the profession. Graduates are eligible for state licensure and professional certification in their area of specialty. The following two entry points require a transcript evaluation for advanced standing upon enrollment. Registered Nurses with an MS degree The program for RNs with an MS degree is a three-year, full-time program that includes a clinical immersion. This program prepares students as Advanced Practice Nurses (APRNs) in an area of specialty. Students graduate with the knowledge, skills, and attributes necessary for comprehensive care with patients across sites and over time, while also serving as leaders, educators, and innovators in the profession. Graduates are eligible for state licensure and professional certification in their area of specialty. Advanced Practice Nurses with an MS Degree Advanced Practice Nurses with an MS Degree Please note, this program is no longer taking applications. The program for RNs with an MS degree and advanced practice nurses is a six-semester, full-time program that includes a clinical immersion. Students graduate with the knowledge, skills, and attributes necessary for comprehensive care with patients across sites and over time, while also serving as leaders, educators, and innovators in the profession. What is it like to be a DNP student at Columbia Nursing? View Our Student Profiles View Our Student Profiles Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian ColumbiaDoctors About Us Academics Research Patient Care Global Health Contact Us Students Alumni Intranet Careers Columbia University School of Nursing 560 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Back to top