Search | Directories | Reference Tools UW Home > Discover UW > Student Guide UW Bothell Course Descriptions UW Tacoma Course Descriptions Glossary COLLEGE OF ARTS & SCIENCES GENDER, WOMEN, AND SEXUALITY STUDIES Detailed course offerings (Time Schedule) are available for Spring Quarter 2022 Summer Quarter 2022 Autumn Quarter 2022 GWSS 200 Introduction to Women Studies (5) I&S, DIV Feminist analysis of the construction and enforcement of gender differences and gender inequalities in various contexts. Emphasis on the intersection of race, class, sexuality, and nationality in the lives of women. Topics include feminist theory, motherhood, popular culture, sexual autonomy, racism, and activism in the United States, Asia, Latin America. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: GWSS 200 GWSS 202 Introduction to Critical Feminist Data Studies (5) I&S, DIV Historical and contemporary data - re-examines their purposes at micro, meso, macro, and global scales. Reading narratives presented by the data and contextualizing them as historical and current sites of power. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: GWSS 202 GWSS 206 Philosophy of Feminism (5) I&S, DIV Philosophical analysis of the concepts and assumptions central to feminism. Theoretical positions within the feminist movement; view of the ideal society, goals and strategies of the movement, intersections of the sex-gender system with other systems of oppression. Offered: jointly with PHIL 206/POL S 212. View course details in MyPlan: GWSS 206 GWSS 230 Feminism and Democracy in Transnational Perspective (5) I&S, DIV Christine Keating Explores feminist approaches to democratic theory and practice. Examines the following questions from a transnational perspective: What are feminist critiques of the gendered and racialized marginalization and subordination that often mark democratic politics? How do feminists from across the globe analyze issues such as citizenship, participation, and justice? What are models of more egalitarian polities and how might they be fostered? Recommended: GWSS 200. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: GWSS 230 GWSS 235 Global Feminist Art (5) VLPA/I&S Introduces feminism as a way of thinking about visual art practice in terms of social hierarchy, aesthetic form, and ideology. Explores how feminist artists working in diverse locations and cultural traditions challenge, at the local and global level, artistic conventions and representations of gender, sexuality, race, class, and nationality. Offered: jointly with ANTH 235. View course details in MyPlan: GWSS 235 GWSS 241 Hip Hop and Indie Rock (5) VLPA/I&S Habell-Pallan Introduction to pop music studies. Examines how archives, oral histories, and new media transform stories about music. Traces rhythms, tempos, and genres including blues, gospel, estilo bravio, punk, son jarocho, and disco that influence hip hop and indie rock, contextualizing their relation to gender, race/ethnicity, class, locality, and nation. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: GWSS 241 GWSS 244 Indigenous Feminisms (5) I&S, DIV Ross Reconceptualizes and examines the formation of feminisms within a transnational indigenous framework. Topics include indigenous knowledge production, sovereignty, analyses of genders and sexualities, violence, poverty, the politics of reproduction, cultural identities, media, and environmental and social justice. View course details in MyPlan: GWSS 244 GWSS 251 Introduction to Gender and Popular Culture (5) I&S/VLPA Habell-Pallan Introduction to critical examination of gender, race/ethnicity, and sexuality in music, film, television, and the internet. Explores cultural meanings and social uses of popular culture by various communities in local and global contexts. Analysis of commercial and independent pop culture. Examination of popular culture forms varies depending on instructor. View course details in MyPlan: GWSS 251 GWSS 255 Masculinities: Contestation, Circulation, and Transformation (5) I&S, DIV Looks at different ways that masculinity is understood and represented historically and contemporarily. While primarily U.S. based, also attends to how different styles of masculinity travel via immigration and media. Explores the relationship between men, masculinity, and other social movements (e.g. anti-violence, gay rights). View course details in MyPlan: GWSS 255 GWSS 256 Feminist Exploration Series (2-5, max. 6) I&S Explores special topics developed and presented by an upper division Gender, Women, and Sexuality Studies major under the supervision of a faculty member. Prerequisite: GWSS 200. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: GWSS 256 GWSS 257 Psychology of Gender (5) I&S, DIV Ann Culligan Major psychological theories of gender-role development; biological and environmental influences that determine and maintain gender differences in behavior; roles in children and adults; topics include aggression, cognitive abilities, achievement motivation, affiliation. Offered: jointly with PSYCH 257; AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: GWSS 257 GWSS 262 Gender and Sport (5) I&S, DIV Considers the relationship between sports and society. Focuses on how sports shape cultural ideas of masculinity and femininity. Examines how assumptions about professional and amateur athletes reflect and challenge social norms about gender, sexuality, race, and class. Other topics include student athletes, the business of sport, and non-normative athletic bodies. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: GWSS 262 GWSS 264 Introduction to Queer Cultural Studies (5) I&S, DIV Examines the cultural practices in literature, film, and art that articulate and give meaning to bodies, sexualities, and desires. Teaches critical thinking about identity, power, inequalities, and marginality. Offered: jointly with ENGL 256. View course details in MyPlan: GWSS 264 GWSS 272 Introduction to Gender and Fandom (5) I&S/VLPA, DIV Regina Y Lee Examines gender, race, and sexuality in transformation of cultural products by online fandoms, in both domestic and transnational contexts, across a wide variety of media. View course details in MyPlan: GWSS 272 GWSS 283 Introduction to Women's History (5) I&S Includes units on American, European, and Third World women that examine centers of women's activities, women's place in male-dominated spheres (politics), women's impact on culture (health, arts), and the effect of larger changes on women's lives (technology, colonization). Offered: jointly with HSTCMP 283; A. View course details in MyPlan: GWSS 283 GWSS 290 Special Topics in Women Studies (5, max. 15) I&S, DIV Focuses on issues relevant to gender, women, and sexuality in contemporary and/or historical frames. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: GWSS 290 GWSS 299 Women Studies Colloquium (2) I&S Introduces the discipline of Gender, Women, and Sexuality Studies to new and potential majors and minors. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: GWSS 299 GWSS 300 Gender, Race, and Class in Social Stratification (5) I&S, DIV The intersection of race, class, and gender in the lives of women of color in the United States from historical and contemporary perspectives. Topics include racism, classism, sexism, activism, sexuality, and inter-racial dynamics between women of color groups. Prerequisite: GWSS 200. Offered: jointly with AES 322. View course details in MyPlan: GWSS 300 GWSS 302 Feminist Theories and Methods (5) I&S Explores tools for conducting research, using feminist, anti-racist, and anti-imperialist frameworks. Focus on qualitative research methods includes ethnographic interviews, discourse and visual analyses, radical archival research. Students craft viable research questions; identify and access relevant resources; and plan, organize, and write complex and nuanced research proposals. Prerequisite: either GWSS 200 or GWSS 206. View course details in MyPlan: GWSS 302 GWSS 305 Feminism in an International Context (5) I&S Women and feminism from global theoretical perspectives. Critical theoretical ways of thinking about feminism. How women are differently situated throughout the world. How they are represented affects women's agency. Focus on how race and gender affect one another. Representations of and by women throughout the world. View course details in MyPlan: GWSS 305 GWSS 310 Women and the Law (5) I&S, DIV Examines how law addresses women, how the courts have made attempts to address women of color, poor women, lesbians, and women with disabilities. Topics include constitutional construction of equality, employment discrimination, reproductive rights, regulation of sexuality, families and motherhood, sexual harassment, violence against women, and international women and human rights. View course details in MyPlan: GWSS 310 GWSS 313 Women in Politics (5) I&S, DIV Theoretical, historical, and empirical studies of women's participation in political and social movements. Women's diverse efforts to improve their political, social, and economic status. Policy issues of particular concern to women. Women's political experiences in household, local, regional, national, and international arenas. Offered: jointly with POL S 313. View course details in MyPlan: GWSS 313 GWSS 315 Gender, Race, Sexuality, and Medicine: From the Plantation to the Clinic (5) I&S, DIV Bettina A Judd Interdisciplinary humanities-based approach toward the intersection of gender, race, and medicine. Scientific constructions of race, gender, and sexuality. Examines the role medicine has played in social orientations to race, gender, and sexuality. Legacy of slavery, and medical institutions. Recommended: courses and topics related to American Ethnic Studies, Gender, Women & Sexuality Studies, Pre-Med, Public Health, Anthropology, Sociology, and Nutrition. View course details in MyPlan: GWSS 315 GWSS 321 History of African American Women and the Feminist Movement (5) I&S, DIV "Feminist Movement" from early nineteenth century to present. Treats relationship between black and white women in their struggle for independence, at times together and at times apart. Discusses the reasons, process, and results of collaboration as well as opposition. Examines recent and contemporary attempts at cooperation. Offered: jointly with AFRAM 321. View course details in MyPlan: GWSS 321 GWSS 328 Gender and Sexuality in China (5) I&S, DIV Explores gender and sexuality in China's process of modernization, from the late Qing dynasty through the building of the Republic, Communist revolution, and post-Mao economic reform. Examines, through historical, anthropological, and cultural studies scholarship, the centrality of these social constructs in terms of family, state, labor, body, and ethnicity. Offered: jointly with ANTH 328/JSIS A 328. View course details in MyPlan: GWSS 328 GWSS 330 LGBTQ+ Politics in Transnational Perspective (5) I&S, DIV Christine Keating Queer politics and its varied landscape of activism and advocacy. Using an intersectional and interdisciplinary approach, students analyze various aspects of LGBTQ+ politics with a focus on questions of movement geographies, coalition, transnational activism, community-building, and intersections with other progressive movements. Recommended: GWSS 200. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: GWSS 330 GWSS 332 Black Feminist Geographies (5) I&S, DIV Kemi Adeyemi Stereotypes about blackness, gender, and sexuality are enmeshed with how we think, feel, and move about the landscapes we move through - and black people are often seen threatening presences that "need" to be policed, contained, and completely erased. This course considers how black feminist approaches to geographic space reveal ways that these restrictive understandings of blackness, gender, and sexuality are refused and redefined. Offered: jointly with GEOG 332. View course details in MyPlan: GWSS 332 GWSS 333 Gender and Globalization: Theory and Process (5) I&S, DIV Ramamurthy Theoretical, historical, and empirical analysis of how current processes of globalization are transforming the actual conditions of women's lives, labor, gender ideologies, and politics in complex and contradictory ways. Topics include feminist exploration of colonialism, capitalism, economic restructuring policies, resistance in consumer and environmental movements. Offered: jointly with JSIS B 333. View course details in MyPlan: GWSS 333 GWSS 334 Gender, Sex, and Religion (5) I&S, DIV M. AHUVIA The Bible and its interpreters invented the gender categories and hierarchies that readers take for granted. Employs academic approaches that illuminate the construction of those categories and explores the debates within Judaism and Christianity as well as within academia today about gender, sex, sexuality, and religion. Offered: jointly with RELIG 334; Sp. View course details in MyPlan: GWSS 334 GWSS 335 Sex, Gender, and Disability (5) I&S, DIV Examines ways that disability, sex, and gender are connected as socially constructed categories. Topics include the ways in which the sexuality of people with disabilities is experienced and represented, the intersection of disability and gender inequality, and how the field of disability studies relates to and can transform other theoretical approaches to gender and sex. Offered: jointly with CHID 335/DIS ST 335. View course details in MyPlan: GWSS 335 GWSS 339 Social Movements in Contemporary India (5) I&S, DIV P. RAMAMURTHY Covers issues of social change, economic development, and identity politics in contemporary India studied through environmental and women's movements. Includes critiques of development and conflicts over forests, dams, women's rights, religious community, ethnicity, and citizenship. Offered: jointly with ANTH 339/JSIS A 339. View course details in MyPlan: GWSS 339 GWSS 341 Native Women in the Americas (5) I&S Historiography, sociology, biography, autobiography, and fiction about native women in the United States and Canada. Offered: jointly with AIS 341. View course details in MyPlan: GWSS 341 GWSS 345 Women and International Economic Development (5) I&S, DIV P. RAMAMURTHY Questions how women are affected by economic development in Third World and celebrates redefinitions of what development means. Introduces theoretical perspectives and methods to interrogate gender and development policies. Assesses current processes of globalization and potential for changing gender and economic inequalities. Offered: jointly with ANTH 345/JSIS B 345. View course details in MyPlan: GWSS 345 GWSS 350 Women in Law and Literature (5) I&S/VLPA, DIV Representations of women in American law and literature. Considers how women's political status and social roles have influenced legal and literary accounts of their behavior. Examines how legal cases and issues involving women are represented in literary texts and also how law can influence literary expression. Offered: jointly with CHID 350. View course details in MyPlan: GWSS 350 GWSS 351 Women of Color as Cross-Cultural Artists (5) VLPA/I&S, DIV Habell-Pallan Provides a historical context for artistic forms produced by racialized women. Examines the cultural production of Chicanas and Latinas in relation to that of Native American, African American, East and South Asian American , and Arab American women as well as those women of mixed heritage in the U.S. View course details in MyPlan: GWSS 351 GWSS 353 Feminist Anthropology (5) I&S, DIV Explores the history and contemporary practice of feminist ethnography at the interdisciplinary intersection of anthropology and gender studies. Examines how the inclusion of women, as subjects and researchers, has influenced anthropological knowledge production, and how the cross-cultural imperative of anthropology has influenced understandings of gender, sexuality, and race. Offered: jointly with ANTH 353; W. View course details in MyPlan: GWSS 353 GWSS 355 Men and Masculinity (5) I&S Critical study of systematic responses of men to feminist movements, including conservative, pro-feminist, men's rights, mythopoetic, and religious responses. How men of color and gay men view these various men's movements and their issues. Special attention given to philosophical problems such as nature of oppression, human nature, justice, and masculinity. View course details in MyPlan: GWSS 355 GWSS 357 Psychobiology of Women (5) NW, DIV Kenney Physiological and psychological aspects of women's lives; determinants of biological sex; physiological and psychological events of puberty; menopause; sexuality; contraception, pregnancy, childbirth, and lactation; role of culture in determining psychological response to physiological events. Offered: jointly with PSYCH 357. View course details in MyPlan: GWSS 357 GWSS 374 Introduction to Transgender Studies (5) I&S, DIV Amanda L Swarr What does it mean to look beyond a simplistic binary of "man" and "woman"? With definitions of sex and gender as a starting point, we blur these contested categories, complicating them with sexuality, race, class, ability, history, and location. View course details in MyPlan: GWSS 374 GWSS 383 Social History of American Women to 1890 (5) I&S, DIV Yee A multi-racial, multicultural study of women in the United States from the seventeenth century to 1890 emphasizing women's unpaid work, participation in the paid labor force, charitable and reform activities, and nineteenth century social movements. Uses primary materials such as diaries, letters, speeches, and artifacts. Offered: jointly with HSTAA 373; W. View course details in MyPlan: GWSS 383 GWSS 384 Social History of American Women in the Twentieth Century (5) I&S Analyzes major themes in the history of women in North America from 1890 through the 1990s. Themes include family and community formation, social activism, education, paid and unpaid labor patterns, war, migration, and changing conceptions of womanhood and femininity in the twentieth century. Offered: jointly with HSTAA 374. View course details in MyPlan: GWSS 384 GWSS 385 Women and Activism in the U.S., 1820-1990s (5) I&S Analyzes how U.S. social reform movements between the 1820s and the 1990s shaped discourses of gender, race, class, nation, and citizenship. Social movements include temperance, anti-prostitution, prision reform, dress reform, reproductive rights, eugenics, suffrage/anti-suffrage, abolitionism, labor, the "mothers' movement," civil rights, QBLTQ movement and dis/abilities, and evangelicalism. View course details in MyPlan: GWSS 385 GWSS 389 Race, Gender, and Sexuality in the Media (5) I&S, DIV Introduction to media representations of gender, race, and sexuality. Offered: jointly with AES 389/COM 389. View course details in MyPlan: GWSS 389 GWSS 390 Intermediate Topics in Gender, Women, and Sexuality Studies (5, max. 15) I&S, DIV Exploration of various topics and issues relevant to the study of gender, women, and sexuality. Recommended: GWSS 200. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: GWSS 390 GWSS 391 Collaborations in Feminism and Technolgoy (5) I&S, DIV Christine Keating Examines feminist theories of technology and social change, ways that activists have used technology to build coalitions across diverse contexts, and links between the "do it yourself" approach to social movement and open-source ethics in technology cultures. Course topics include: identity and subjectivity; technological activism; gender, race and sexualities; place; labor; ethics; and the transformative potentials of new technologies. View course details in MyPlan: GWSS 391 GWSS 392 Asian American and Pacific Islander Women (5) I&S, DIV Explores the intersection of race, ethnicity, gender, class, and sexuality in the lives of Asian American and Pacific Islander women. Examines how forces such as immigration, colonialism, sovereignty, labor, family, gender roles and relations, community, war, homeland politics, transnationalism, and social movements shaped and were shaped by these women. Offered: jointly with AAS 392. View course details in MyPlan: GWSS 392 GWSS 405 Comparative Women's Movements and Activism (5) I&S Comparative cultural, national, and historical study of women's movements and activisms. Critically analyzes multiple arenas of women's movements and resistance. Topics include feminist anti-racism, pre-nationalism and nationalism, economics, electoral politics, women's and human rights, and international/transnational feminisms. Prerequisite: either GWSS 305, or SOC 364. View course details in MyPlan: GWSS 405 GWSS 409 Queer Health (5) I&S, DIV Examines the relationship between Western biomedicine and Queer theory. Critically analyzes the modes of thinking, caring, being, and expressing that emerge as a result of the "merger" of these two fields with contradicting views of gender, sex, health, wellbeing, and sexuality. Offered: jointly with ANTH 409. View course details in MyPlan: GWSS 409 GWSS 417 The Politics of Talent Development (5) I&S Investigation of the psychological, cultural, socioeconomic, and political factors that enhance or inhibit the development of exceptional ability, focusing principally, but not exclusively, on women and girls. Pays special attention to issues of race, class, gender, geography, and an individual's orientation to the mainstream of her culture. View course details in MyPlan: GWSS 417 GWSS 420 Gender and Sexuality in India (5) I&S, DIV Priti Ramamurthy Traces histories and debates in feminist and queer studies in India. Approaches gender and sexuality as configurations -- multiple, contested, and always in flux. Explores how gender and sexuality are produced, experienced, and fought over at specific moments. Recommended: GWSS 200. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: GWSS 420 GWSS 427 Women and Violence (5) I&S, DIV Ginorio Multi-disciplinary explorations of the continuum of violence which affects women's lives, ranging from experience in personal settings (family violence) to cultural or state policies (prisons, wars). Violence against women explored in the context of societal, political, and state violence. View course details in MyPlan: GWSS 427 GWSS 428 Feminist Understanding of Victims (5) I&S, DIV Explores the meanings of the term "victim" within popular, religious, psycho-social, and feminist discourses and the implications these have for victims, people and institutions that serve victims, and scholars who are concerned with these questions. Examines the tensions between activist and academic understandings of the impact of "backlash". Prerequisite: GWSS 200. Instructors: Ginorio View course details in MyPlan: GWSS 428 GWSS 429 Scandinavian Women Writers in English Translation (5) VLPA, DIV Selected works by major Scandinavian women writers from mid-nineteenth-century bourgeois realism to the present with focus on feminist issues in literary criticism. Offered: jointly with SCAND 427. View course details in MyPlan: GWSS 429 GWSS 435 Gender and Spirituality (5) I&S Exploration of ways in which gender informs spiritual teachings and practices of different groups in ancient and contemporary times, with particular attention to the relationship between spiritual beliefs and the construction of social, psychological, and political realities. View course details in MyPlan: GWSS 435 GWSS 438 Jewish Women in Contemporary America (5) I&S, DIV Friedman Examines how Jewish women's identities are socially constructed and transformed in contemporary America, using social histories, memoirs, and ethnographies to analyze scholars' approaches to Jewish women's lives. Topics include the role of social class, religion, migration, the Holocaust, and race relations in Jewish women's lives. Offered: jointly with JEW ST 438. View course details in MyPlan: GWSS 438 GWSS 440 Reading Native American Women's Lives (5, max. 10) I&S, DIV Seminar based on social science writings, autobiographies, biographies, and fiction written by, with, or about indigenous women of the United States and Canada. Offered: jointly with AIS 440. View course details in MyPlan: GWSS 440 GWSS 442 Images of Natives in the Cinema and Popular Cultures (5) VLPA/I&S, DIV D. HART, L. ROSS Cultural examination of images of Native people in cinema and popular culture based on social science writings and films by or about Natives in the United States and Canada. Offered: jointly with AIS 442. View course details in MyPlan: GWSS 442 GWSS 444 Criminality and "Deviance" in Native Communities (5) L. ROSS Seminar based on social science writings and biographies written by and about incarcerated Natives and "deviance" in Native communities in the United States and Canada. Offered: jointly with AIS 444. View course details in MyPlan: GWSS 444 GWSS 445 Feminist science (Fiction) Studies (5) I&S/VLPA Regina Y Lee This course addresses science fictional narratives to trouble and transform the human, the inhumane, the scientific apparatus, and the natural world. Students examine gender, race, sexuality, and ability, alongside relevant scientific documents and feminist theory, to better understand both science and fiction through feminist lenses. Recommended: Recommended: GWSS 200 or equivalent View course details in MyPlan: GWSS 445 GWSS 446 Global Asia (5) I&S, DIV Explores how Asia has been constructed through transnational interactions such as imperialism, anti-colonialism, tourism, diaspora, and global capitalism. Topics include the cultural construction of similarity and difference, politics of representation, and political economy of global circulations of people and things. Prerequisite: one 200-level ANTH course. Offered: jointly with ANTH 442/JSIS A 452; W. View course details in MyPlan: GWSS 446 GWSS 447 Economics of Gender (5) I&S, DIV Microeconomic analysis of the sources of gender differences in earnings, labor force participation, occupational choice, education, and consumption. Economic theories of discrimination, human capital, fertility, and intrahousehold resource allocation. Economics of the family in developed and developing countries. Prerequisite: minimum grade of 2.0 in ECON 300. Offered: jointly with ECON 447. View course details in MyPlan: GWSS 447 GWSS 450 Language and Gender (5) VLPA/I&S, DIV Survey of the theoretical trends, methods, and research findings on the relationship between language and gender. Focus on power relations in gendered language use. Extensive study of research based on conversational analysis. Prerequisite: LING 200; either LING 201, LING 203, or ANTH 203. Offered: jointly with ANTH 450/LING 458. View course details in MyPlan: GWSS 450 GWSS 451 Latina Cultural Production (5) VLPA/I&S Explores the expressive culture of Chicana/Mexican American/Latina women in the United States. Cultural and artistic practices in home and in literary, music, film, spoken word, performing and visual arts. Focuses on how Chicana/Latina writers and artists re-envision traditional iconography. View course details in MyPlan: GWSS 451 GWSS 452 Advanced Gender and Pop Culture (5) VLPA/I&S, DIV Shirley J Yee, Michelle Habell-Pallan How "the popular" as a gender, racialized, and class-based phenomenon is produced, circulated, consumed, and resisted in local, national, and transnational contexts. Readings from history, literature, and feminist interdisciplinary studies. Recommended: GWSS 200. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: GWSS 452 GWSS 453 Lesbian Lives and Culture (5) I&S An exploration and overview of lesbianism in historical, social, cultural, and interpersonal contexts. Prerequisite: either GWSS 200 or GWSS 206. View course details in MyPlan: GWSS 453 GWSS 454 Women, Words, Music, and Change (5) VLPA/I&S, DIV Comparative analysis of use of myths, tales, music, and other forms of expressive culture to account for, reinforce, and change women's status and roles. Offered: jointly with ANTH 454. View course details in MyPlan: GWSS 454 GWSS 455 Contemporary Feminist Theory (5) I&S, DIV Raises the question of how political contexts condition the way some ideas become theory. Emphasizes the present crises in thinking about a transnational feminism. Prerequisite: GWSS 200. View course details in MyPlan: GWSS 455 GWSS 456 Feminism, Racism, and Anti-Racism (5) I&S, DIV Examines meaning of racism and feminism in women's lives in an international context. Building upon an analysis of racial hierarchies and institutionalized racism, explores strategies used by women engaged in feminist and anti-racist activism. Prerequisite: GWSS 200. View course details in MyPlan: GWSS 456 GWSS 457 Women in China to 1800 (5) I&S, DIV Gender in Chinese culture, women's situations in the patrilineal family system, and the ways women's situations changed as other dimensions of China's political system, economy, and culture changed from early times through the nineteenth century. Offered: jointly with HSTAS 457. View course details in MyPlan: GWSS 457 GWSS 458 Ideologies and Technologies of Motherhood (5) I&S, DIV Examines how motherhood is culturally constituted, regulated, and managed within various ideological and technological milieus. Uses ethnographies from anthropology and case studies from feminist legal theory. Topics include slave mothers, surrogate mothers, lesbian mothers, transracial mothers, co-mothers, teen mothers. Prerequisite: GWSS 200. Offered: jointly with ANTH 484. View course details in MyPlan: GWSS 458 GWSS 459 Gender Histories of Modern China, Eighteenth to Twentieth Centuries (5) I&S Emergence of modernist social, political, intellectual gender formations in social activism, revolutionary writing, scientific ideologies, economic globalization. Stresses gender difference in colonial modernity, revolutionary movement, communism, post-socialist market society. Relates modern Chinese women to global flows, new division of labor, local and regional experience. Offered: jointly with HSTAS 459. View course details in MyPlan: GWSS 459 GWSS 460 Feminist Oral History Research Methodology (5) I&S, DIV Priti Ramamurthy How to create feminist oral histories. Gain practical and technical skills. Includes preparing an interview guide, conducting interviews, learning to transcribe, contextualize, and move from the transcript to interpretation and analysis. Addresses issues of consent, research protocols, and archiving feminist oral histories. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: GWSS 460 GWSS 462 Isak Dinesen and Karen Blixen (5) VLPA The fiction of Isak Dinesen (pseudonym for Karen Blixen) reevaluated in light of current issues in literary criticism, particularly feminist criticism. Close readings of selected tales, essays, and criticism. Offered: jointly with SCAND 462. View course details in MyPlan: GWSS 462 GWSS 464 Queer Desires (5) I&S, DIV Swarr Explores desire and the politics of sexuality as gendered, raced, classed, and transnational processes. Intimacies and globalization, normality and abnormality, and power and relationships are sites of inquiry into the constitution of "queerness." Students interrogate queer and sexuality studies, using varied media - films, activist writings, and scholarly articles. View course details in MyPlan: GWSS 464 GWSS 466 Gender and Architecture (3) I&S/VLPA Examines gender in the experience, practice, and theory of architecture and urban space with a focus on modern typologies: skyscraper, home, convent, bachelor pad, street, and closet. Draws from architectural and art history, social studies, design practice and theory, comparative literature, film studies, and queer theory. Offered: jointly with ARCH 466. View course details in MyPlan: GWSS 466 GWSS 468 Latin American Women (5) VLPA/I&S, DIV J. ROBLES RIVERA The elaboration of discourses of identity in relation to gender, ethnicity, social class, and nationality, by women writers from South America, Mexico, Central America, and the Caribbean. Testimonial literature, literature and resistance, women's experimental fiction. Prerequisite: either SPAN 303 or SPAN 316; SPAN 321. Offered: jointly with SPAN 468. View course details in MyPlan: GWSS 468 GWSS 474 Trans/Gender Queries (5) I&S, DIV Swarr Writings by and about people who fall outside common conceptions of "women" and "men." Looks beyond this dualism in contemporary and historical global concepts, locating the emerging field of transgender studies in feminist studies and asking what the category "transgender" enables and obscures. View course details in MyPlan: GWSS 474 GWSS 476 Women and the City (5) I&S, DIV Explores the reciprocal relations between gender relations, the layout of cities, and the activities of urban residents. Topics include: feminist theory and geography (women, gender, and the organization of space); women and urban poverty, housing and homelessness; gender roles and labor patterns; geographies of childcare; and women and urban politics. Offered: jointly with GEOG 476. View course details in MyPlan: GWSS 476 GWSS 483 Topics in U.S. Women's History (5, max. 10) I&S Selected topics in United States women's history from the nineteenth and twentieth centuries. Prerequisite: either GWSS 200, GWSS 283, or GWSS 383. Instructors: Yee View course details in MyPlan: GWSS 483 GWSS 485 Issues for Ethnic Minorities and Women In Science and Engineering (3/5) I&S Addresses issues faced by women and ethnic minorities in physical sciences and engineering. Focuses on participation, barriers to participation, and solutions to those issues for women and ethnic minorities in physical sciences and engineering. Offered: jointly with PHYS 451. View course details in MyPlan: GWSS 485 GWSS 486 Representing Beyond the Binaries: Mixing Race, Gender, and Sexuality in the Media (5) I&S, DIV Joeseph Cultural studies approach to examining the mixed formations that race, sexuality, and gender take in the contemporary United States media. Draws upon multi-disciplinary scholarship in examination of the media. Offered: jointly with AES 490/COM 490. View course details in MyPlan: GWSS 486 GWSS 487 Advanced Psychobiology of Women (5) I&S/NW Intensive reading on current issues relevant to women's psychology and physiology. Prerequisite: minimum 2.0 grade in PSYCH 357/ GWSS 357. Instructors: Kenney Offered: jointly with PSYCH 487; W. View course details in MyPlan: GWSS 487 GWSS 488 Women and/in Science (5) I&S, DIV Ginorio Explores science as a method of inquiry and as a profession while also expanding knowledge about women through the use of biographies of women scientists, discipline-based and feminist critiques, and the psycho-social concept of socially defined identities. View course details in MyPlan: GWSS 488 GWSS 489 Black Cultural Studies (5) I&S, DIV Examines how images of blackness have been (re)constructed through identity formation and entrenched inequality. Topics include black women's bodies, black men's bodies, blackface minstrelsy, black queer studies, black power, and black hybridities. Offered: jointly with AES 489/COM 489. View course details in MyPlan: GWSS 489 GWSS 490 Special Topics in Women Studies (5, max. 15) I&S, DIV Seminar on topics relevant to the field of gender, women, feminist, sexuality and nation in contemporary and/or historical contexts. Students have the opportunity to engage with theories and methodologies that shape the field. Recommended: either GWSS 200, GWSS 302, or previous coursework in feminist studies. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: GWSS 490 GWSS 493 Senior Thesis (2-5, max. 15) I&S Students conceptualize a topic, conduct primary and secondary research, and write a major paper or project that engages methodologies and theories in interdisciplinary women's studies. Students work independently with a faculty member. View course details in MyPlan: GWSS 493 GWSS 494 Women Studies Capstone (5) I&S Provides graduating seniors with the opportunity to demonstrate facility with writing, critical thinking, documentation of scholarly work, research/gathering of information, and the ability to disseminate ideas to intended audiences via the creation of a capstone project. Prerequisite: GWSS 200; GWSS 302; a minimum grade of 2.0 in one additional graded 300-level GWSS course; and a minimum grade of 2.0 in one additional graded 400-level GWSS course. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: GWSS 494 GWSS 495 Tutoring Women Studies (5) Students train to serve as tutors in designated courses. Facilitate weekly group discussions, assist with writing assignments, explain course materials. Prerequisite: GWSS 200; GWSS 300. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: GWSS 495 GWSS 496 Global Feminisms: International and Indigenous Communities (5-12, max. 24) I&S Participation in academic study abroad programs related to Gender, Women, and Sexuality Studies, emphasizing globalization and study in international contexts or indigenous communities within the United States. Prerequisite: GWSS 200; GWSS 300. View course details in MyPlan: GWSS 496 GWSS 497 Fieldwork in Women Studies (1-15, max. 15) Internship in local feminist-oriented agencies or projects. Includes a seminar component linking internship to scholarly literature and small group discussion. Supports in-depth exploration of social issues and skill development. Prerequisite: GWSS 200; GWSS 300. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: GWSS 497 GWSS 499 Undergraduate Research (1-5, max. 10) Independent study and research supervised by a faculty member with appropriate academic interest. Prerequisite: GWSS 200; GWSS 300. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: GWSS 499 GWSS 500 Feminist Social Theory (5) Interdisciplinary feminist critiques of modern social theory's gendered, racialized, and sexed presumptions. Deconstructs social theory's liberal and Marxist traditions to address global and transnational feminist agendas. Considers Marxist feminism, feminist psychoanalysis, affect studies, decolonial and anti-colonial feminisms, queer theory; Indigenous, Black, Latinx, and women of color feminisms. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: GWSS 500 GWSS 501 Feminist Formations (5) Examines the relationship among: (1) feminist thought, as it emerges in everyday spaces and grassroots movements; (2) feminism as an intellectual formation; and (3) Gender, Women, and Sexuality Studies as an institutional site. Focuses on locations and conjunctures at which this relationship emerges, as well as how feminist knowledge travels and is transformed over time. View course details in MyPlan: GWSS 501 GWSS 502 Cross Disciplinary Feminist Theory (5) Raises questions about how feminism becomes theory and what the relation of feminist theory is to conventional disciplines. Readings exemplify current crises in feminism (e.g., the emergence of neo-materialism; critical race theory; citizenship; identity; transnational and migrancy and questions of post-colonialism) to consider disciplinization. View course details in MyPlan: GWSS 502 GWSS 503 Feminist Research and Methods of Inquiry (5) Explores appropriate research methodologies for interdisciplinary work. Asks how scholarship is related to feminism as a social movement and to the institutions in which we work. Focuses on how similar objects of study are constituted in different disciplines for feminist scholars. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: GWSS 503 GWSS 504 Philosophies and Techniques of Teaching (5) Acquaints students with professional and educational issues of college teaching. Students design a course, including a daily outline, reading materials, evaluation instruments, course activities, assessment plans. Includes weekly teaching exercises as well as videotaping an actual class. Prerequisite: experience as a TA or equivalent. Priority given to Women Studies graduate students. View course details in MyPlan: GWSS 504 GWSS 505 Feminist Publishing (5) Seminar on feminist academic publishing. Students revise a scholarly paper in preparation for submission to an academic journal and provide critical commentary on other students' scholarly work. Also addresses general and specific issues related to the profession of academic publishing. View course details in MyPlan: GWSS 505 GWSS 510 Documentary Film/Video Research Methods in Native Communities (5) D. HART, L. ROSS Seminar exploring theoretical, methodological, and aesthetic issues when researching documentary film and video projects in Native American communities. Utilizes readings, screening, discussions, and a major research project to explore issues of documentary representation, ethics, and historiography. First part of a two-quarter documentary production sequence. Offered: jointly with AIS 501. View course details in MyPlan: GWSS 510 GWSS 520 Gender and Sexuality in India (5) Priti Ramamurthy Traces genealogies and debates in feminist and queer studies in India. Approaches gender and sexuality as configurations -- multiple, contested, and always in flux. Explores how gender and sexuality are produced, experienced, and fought over at specific moments. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: GWSS 520 GWSS 526 The Study of Lives in Feminist Research: Narrative and Visual Approaches (5) Examines the study of others' lives by feminist researchers using ethnography, oral history, biography, photography, and documentary film. Explores the craft, goals, and ethics involved in these forms of representation. Includes workshop critique of research project in development. View course details in MyPlan: GWSS 526 GWSS 528 Gender and Sexuality in China (5) Explores gender and sexuality in China's process of modernization, form the late Qing dynasty through the building of the Republic, Communist revolution, and post-Mao economic reform. Examines, through historical, anthropological, and cultural studies scholarship, the centrality of these social constructs I terms of family, sate, labor, body, and ethnicity. Offered: jointly with ANTH 528/JSIS A 528. View course details in MyPlan: GWSS 528 GWSS 534 Gender, Sex, and Religion (5) M. AHUVIA Delves more deeply into foundational texts of the Bible, Judaism, and Christianity, while paying closer attention to historiographic trends in the field of gender and feminist studies of religion. With JSIS C 334/GWSS 334. Offered: jointly with RELIG 534; Sp. View course details in MyPlan: GWSS 534 GWSS 539 Social Movements in Contemporary India (5) P. RAMAMURTHY Covers issues of social change, economic development, and identity politics in contemporary India studied through environmental and women's movements. Includes critiques of development and conflicts over forests, dams, women's rights, religious community, ethnicity, and citizenship. Offered: jointly with ANTH 539/JSIS A 531. View course details in MyPlan: GWSS 539 GWSS 541 Research Seminar: Feminist Geographies (5) Explores major research themes in feminist geographies. Particular attention to the concept that gendered identities and spaces are discursively (re)produced. Emphasizes recent feminist scholarship that emphasizes difference, as well as the intersections between gender, "race," ethnicity, sexuality, age, nationality, class, and other social identities and divisions. Offered: jointly with GEOG 541. View course details in MyPlan: GWSS 541 GWSS 542 Gender, Music, Nation (5) Habell-Pallan Music criticism and music studies as a site of feminist intellectual practice. Explores the ways gender and race/ethnicity shape musical discourse as well as narrative constructions of nation in regional and transnational contexts. Considers the influence of feminist theory, queer studies, performance studies, and cultural studies on music scholarship. View course details in MyPlan: GWSS 542 GWSS 545 Transnational Sexualities (5) Swarr Focuses on transnational processes such as colonialism and globalization, imperialism, and consumerism. Analyzes attempts to both codify and undermine universal queer subjects. Participants theorize sexual practices, discourses, and histories through explorations of tourism, HIV/AIDS, immigration, and other interstices of transnational intimacies. View course details in MyPlan: GWSS 545 GWSS 555 Feminist International Political Economy (5) Ramamurthy Provides overview of feminist engagements with international political economy. Topics include: feminist critiques of classical political economists; inter-war internationalisms, anti-colonial nationalisms and feminisms; feminist development studies; post colonial; ' third world' and transnational feminisms; feminist critiques of globalization, governmentality, and neoliberalism. View course details in MyPlan: GWSS 555 GWSS 564 Queer Desires (5) Swarr Explores desire and the politics of sexuality as gendered, raced, classed, and transnational processes. Intimacies and globalization, normality and abnormality, and power and relationships as sites of inquiry into the constitution of "queerness." Students interrogate queer and sexuality studies using varied media - films, activist writing, scholarly articles. View course details in MyPlan: GWSS 564 GWSS 572 Transnational Chicana Feminist Theory (5) Examination of the body of knowledge and scholarship produced under the rubric "Transnational Chicana feminist theory." Analyzes the ways Chicana feminist theory dynamically engages intellectual, poetic, and aesthetic traditions. Considers how Chicana feminist theory functions within and between disciplinary frameworks. Explores transnational roots and routes of Chicana feminist theory. View course details in MyPlan: GWSS 572 GWSS 575 Feminist New Media Studies (5) R. Lee Examines the raced and gendered stakes in the construction of online lives as disembodied, and provides feminist frameworks for intersectional and transnational analyses of online engagement. Explores methodological variations and ethical stakes of critical theory, autoethnography, and creative academic work to clarify knowledge claims made by these analytical forms. Prerequisite: Graduate standing; otherwise, permission of the instructor View course details in MyPlan: GWSS 575 GWSS 577 Women of Color in Academia (5) Ginorio Through scholarship and identifications, "women of color" in academia are often positioned to question and redefine academia, education, and the established boundaries between academia and other communities. Discussion focuses on understanding institutional sites and forms of knowledge production and validation in academia in the United States. View course details in MyPlan: GWSS 577 GWSS 580 Black Queer Sexuality Studies (5) Kemi Adeyemi Historical formation and embodied experience of black queerness. Examines racialized sexuality as object of analysis, transformed over time within and across Black, Feminist, and Queer Studies. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: GWSS 580 GWSS 581 Queer and Trans History (5) L. MARHOEFER Studies development of queer and trans history as subfields and interdisciplinary thought that has shaped them (critical race theory, queer theory, trans studies). Surveys foundational works of theory that have influenced historians (and other scholars) as well as important books and articles in the two interrelated historical subfields. Examines the role of intersectional analysis in the subfields as well as generative debates among historians. Offered: jointly with HSTCMP 581. View course details in MyPlan: GWSS 581 GWSS 589 Gender, Race, and Communication (5) Analysis of the role of media in the construction of reality, production processes, and their influence on media representation of women and people of color. Offered: jointly with COM 567. View course details in MyPlan: GWSS 589 GWSS 590 Special Topics (1-5, max. 15) Offered by visitors or resident faculty as a one-time in-depth study of special interest. View course details in MyPlan: GWSS 590 GWSS 593 Feminist Doctoral Research Workshop (5) Swarr Designed to meet the needs of graduate students writing dissertation prospectuses on feminist subjects within any discipline. Students start with a drafted prospectus and revise their work together. Topics addressed include IRB applications, CV preparation, and dissertation funding. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: GWSS 593 GWSS 595 Graduate Student Colloquium (2, max. 12) Forum for graduate students to share their research ideas and progress, general examination preparation issues, and teaching concerns. Prerequisite: Gender, Women, and Sexuality Studies graduate students only. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: GWSS 595 GWSS 596 Preceptorial for Women Studies Graduate Students (5, max. 15) Graduate student and faculty member work collaboratively in developing or revising course content and pedagogical approach on a specialized area. View course details in MyPlan: GWSS 596 GWSS 597 Fieldwork in Women Studies (2-5, max. 15) Supervised ethnographic and other on-site research by Gender, Women, and Sexuality Studies graduate students. Gender, Women, and Sexuality Studies graduate students only. View course details in MyPlan: GWSS 597 GWSS 598 Directed Readings in Women Studies (*, max. 35) Selected topics for individualized or small group study. View course details in MyPlan: GWSS 598 GWSS 599 Graduate Research Colloquium (2, max. 6) Kenney A colloquium in which Gender, Women, and Sexuality Studies graduate students and faculty present and discuss their research at various points in its development. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: GWSS 599 GWSS 600 Independent Study or Research (*-) Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: GWSS 600 GWSS 700 Master's Thesis (*-) Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: GWSS 700 GWSS 701 Master's Practicum ([1-10]-, max. 10) Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: GWSS 701 GWSS 800 Doctoral Dissertation (*-) View course details in MyPlan: GWSS 800 Office of the University Registrar registrar@uw.edu Modified: May 30, 2022