COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW WSU News Alyssa Calbert Wichita State's varsity Esports room in the Heskett Center is outfitted with seven Cybertron gaming towers (Core i7 processors with RTX 2070 graphics cards), Corsair mechanical keyboards and Respawn gaming chairs, new black and gray paint and TV screens for video reviews. July 03, 2019studentsesportsCampus Life Fast-growing varsity Esports program, gaming lab put WSU on the map By Paul Suellentrop Wichita State's Esports varsity team is growing as it enters its second semester. In addition to the varsity facilities, the Heskett Center is remodeling a room into a gaming lab for all students. The Heskett Center offices and team room are equipped with gaming equipment and screens for competition and practice. Esports coordinator Tyler Levesque plans to add League of Legends and Counter-Strike teams to boost the number of students to around 30. Cameron Tredway knew about collegiate Esports powers such as the University of North Texas and the University of California, Irvine. He didn’t plan on competing against them. Tredway’s place in the world of competitive Esports changed quickly last semester, and he is pleased to see Wichita State jumping in to a growing fusion of sports and entertainment with its new varsity team. “It’s very, very accessible for people to be able to watch Esports these days,” said Tredway, a junior industrial engineering major from Wichita. “It’s spreading very quickly. Even ESPN has been airing the Overwatch league on some of their channels.” One moment, Tredway played Overwatch with the Shocker Gaming Club. A few discussions later, he played on Wichita State’s varsity Esports team under the direction of Tyler Levesque. “I had just heard there was a gaming club and I wanted to play with them,” Tredway said. “All of a sudden, Tyler comes in and says, ‘Hey, guys, I’m your coordinator for the semester . . . and you’re entered in two tournaments.” Levesque, Wichita State’s Esports coordinator, moved fast during his first semester, putting together two teams and arranging practices on the fly. When his Esports students return in the fall, the program will look and feel much different. “Schools with Esports programs have been around for a while now, maybe three, four, five years,” Levesque said. “One of the first lessons we learned was that people take this very seriously.” The varsity Esports room in the Heskett Center is outfitted with seven Cybertron gaming towers (Core i7 processors with RTX 2070 graphics cards), Corsair mechanical keyboards and Respawn gaming chairs, new black and gray paint and TV screens for video reviews. “The students have the ability to come in and sit down, study, go over game-play,” Levesque said. “We talk about, ‘This is where you were positioned on the map. You should have been here. This is what happened.’” Last semester, the varsity team consisted of two teams (Overwatch and Rocket League) with 12 students. Next semester, it will add two more teams (Counter-Strike and League of Legends) and jump to around 30 students. While there no scholarships now, Levesque said there are plans to add them. “It’s all about locating and seeing what (game) has the most support within the collegiate scene,” he said. An in-house student media team is working on content such as videos, graphics and streaming matches in a partnership with WSU TV. I know the talent we have as part of the program and I think we can really make some waves.Tyler Levesque Esports coordinator Also in the Heskett Center, a gaming lab is under construction in a room formerly used for cardio workouts. That lab is available for students to use outside of varsity competition. Levesque plans for 15-20 computers and wants to use the room for tournaments and Shocker Gaming Club events. “We’re excited to give Esports a home in the Heskett Center,” Levesque said. “Just like you would walk in to scan your ID for going to work out in the weight room, it’s the same sort of process. If I want to play Fortnite, League of Legends, Overwatch . . . any time the Heskett Center is open you walk into the new gaming lab.” Perhaps most important, the varsity team will have regular practice times, twice a week for two hours each practice. Last semester, class and work schedules made it difficult to establish a routine. “Our first semester was all about diving into it and doing it,” Levesque said. “We learned a lot. We learned how to compete. What the students did was great in terms of building a foundation for the future.” Practices often consist of scrimmages against other universities, followed by a video review of tactics. Those sessions help communication and technical skills, said Joe Mazzara, a junior audio production major from Detroit. He is president of the Shocker Gaming Club and a volunteer assistant coach with the varsity team. “They became personally comfortable and now they’re getting more in-game knowledge of each other and playing off each other way better,” Mazzara said. The highlights of last semester’s competition included wins over North Texas and Texas Tech and competitive matches against other established programs. “We beat schools that have been participating in collegiate Esports for a while,” Levesque said. “I know the talent we have as part of the program and I think we can really make some waves moving into next semester.” Varsity Esports Wichita State's varsity Esports team competes against other universities as part of the National Association of Collegiate eSports. Learn more About Paul Suellentrop Paul Suellentrop joined Wichita State University Strategic Communications in 2017 after working for 17 years at The Wichita Eagle. He writes about applied learning and covers Wichita State athletics through his GoShockers.com blog, The Roundhouse. Read more stories like this Related Stories Talent Pipeline Beyond the Classroom: Anllir Ramirez-Tenorio Access and Affordability Beyond the Classroom: Keegan Staats WSU Foundation Woolseys give $1.3 million to fulfill vision for Wayne and Kay Woolsey Hall Talent Pipeline Beyond the Classroom: Alia Michaelis 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©