Skip to site alert. Skip to content Obstetrics & Gynecology Appointments News Events Donate Search About Us About Us Divisions Faculty News Events Subscribe Contact Office of Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Divisions Family Planning and Preventive Services General Obstetrics & Gynecology Gynecologic Oncology Gynecologic Specialty Surgery Integrated Women’s Health Maternal Fetal Medicine Reproductive Endocrinology & Infertility Women’s Mental Health @ Ob/Gyn Women's Genetics Education Education Obstetrics and Gynecology Residency Fellowships Medical Student Program AuduBon-Bons Diversity in Medicine Visiting Scholars Program Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging Obstetrics and Gynecology Residency Application Information Residency Prospectus Clinical Curriculum Research Curriculum Simulation Curriculum Conferences and Didactic Sessions Residency in NYC Resident Wellness Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging Meet Our Residents Recent Graduates Residency Application Information Get all the details on the Ob/Gyn residency application process, requirements, interview and timeline. View Application Information Research Research Research Areas Labs Clinical Trials Research Support Reproductive Sciences Research Faculty The Edmée Firth Prize for Outcomes Research in Ovarian Cancer Research Areas Comparative Effectiveness Contraception Developmental Origins of Adult Health and Disease (DOHaD) Environmental Influences on Child Health Outcomes (ECHO) Fetal Sequencing Consortium Genetics Gynecologic Cancer Lymphatic Development and Maintenance Maternal Child Research Oversight Committee (MaCRO) Maternal Mortality Preeclampsia Preterm Birth Patient Care Patient Care ColumbiaDoctors Ob/Gyn Our Centers Our Doctors Our Locations Provider Resources During COVID-19 Telehealth Your Care During COVID-19 Our Centers Columbia University Fertility Center Center for Prenatal Pediatrics Mothers Center Specialized Treatment Programs Appointments Schedule an appointment - online, over the phone, or via email – to see an Ob/Gyn specialist virtually or in person. View Patient Care Options COVID-19 and Women's Health Read Our Frontline Report COVID-19 and Women's Health Patients Find A Doctor Our Locations Columbia University Fertility Center Clinical Trials Contact Us Faculty Divisions and Services Research Administration Residents/Fellows Obstetrics and Gynecology Residency Application Information Meet Our Residents Fellowships Meet Our Fellows Ranked #11 in Gynecology Ranked #6 in National Institutes of Health funding Ranked #1 in New York State and #5 in the Nation Call 855-756-2496 for an appointment or a referral. 855-756-2496 News Behind the Mask: June Y. Hou, MD May 4, 2022 #BehindtheMask is a series that spotlights the faculty, staff, and trainees in our department. Today, meet June Hou, MD. Endometriosis: A Holistic Approach March 25, 2022 Learn more about treatment for endometriosis, such as fertility-sparing surgeries and optimization of medical therapies. Columbia faculty and fellows present at SGS 2022 Annual Meeting March 28, 2022 Faculty, fellows, residents, and medical students from Columbia University presented at 2022 Meeting for the Society of Gynecologic Surgeons. Society of Gynecologic Oncology hosts first hybrid meeting March 24, 2022 Numerous faculty and trainees from Columbia University presented at this year's Society of Gynecologic Oncology 2022 Annual Meeting. Uma Reddy appointed Vice Chair of Research for Columbia Ob/Gyn January 21, 2022 The Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology at Columbia University Irving Medical Center is pleased to welcome Uma M. Reddy, MD, MPH as our new Vice Chair of Research. Topic Obstetrics-Gynecology View All News Meet our Department Play video Events Ob/Gyn Grand Rounds Thursday, June 2, 2022 7:30 AM to 9:30 AM Venue College of Physicians and Surgeons, 630 W. 168 St., New York, NY 10032 Amphitheater 1 Ob/Gyn Grand Rounds Thursday, June 9, 2022 7:30 AM to 9:30 AM Venue College of Physicians and Surgeons, 630 W. 168 St., New York, NY 10032 Amphitheater 1 Ob/Gyn Grand Rounds Thursday, June 16, 2022 7:30 AM to 9:30 AM Venue College of Physicians and Surgeons, 630 W. 168 St., New York, NY 10032 Amphitheater 1 View All Events Referring Physicians Have a patient that you’d like to be seen by our specialists? Refer them to our team. Referring Physicians Donate Your donation helps us provide life-saving and life-improving care to women of all ages. Donate Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian ColumbiaDoctors About Us Education Research Patient Care Our Doctors Contact Us Our Faculty Make a Gift Subscribe Columbia University Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology 622 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Back to top