Harvard Health Publishing Harvard Health Publishing Search Search Close Shopping Cart Customer Service Content Licensing About Us Login Open mobile menu Menu Free HealthBeat Signup Shop Subscriptions Special Health Reports Online Courses Pay Subscription Bill Common Conditions Staying Healthy Resources Blog COVID-19 Updates Close menu Close Main Content Common Conditions Staying Healthy Resources Blog Helpful Links Customer Service Content Licensing About Us Login Free Healthbeat Signup Subscriptions Special Health Reports Online Courses Pay Subscription Bill Recent Blog Articles Considering pregnancy and have lupus? Plan ahead Some men whose prostate cancer progresses can safely delay treatment Heart-healthy habits for children and teens lengthen lives Monkeypox: An unfamiliar virus spreading fast — sound familiar? Diabetes: Does a long-term study reinforce or change approaches to prevention? War anxiety: How to cope Can we prevent depression in older adults by treating insomnia? Want to try veganism? Here's how to get started Vitamin B6 flies under the radar: Are you getting enough? The formula shortage is hurting families: What parents should know and do / Harvard Health Publishing Nutrition The truth about nutrient deficiencies Nutrient deficiencies are uncommon with a broad and varied diet. But aging, hormonal factors, or diet can leave women short of four key vitamins and minerals: vitamin D, iron, vitamin B12, and calcium. Various tests can reveal nutrient deficiencies, including blood panels. Vitamin D and fish oil supplements may help prevent autoimmune diseases. Multivitamins are usually unnecessary, except in cases where age, pregnancy, digestive challenges, or certain medications interfere with the ability to get adequate nutrition. Read Article Staying Healthy Social isolation and loneliness add up to higher heart risks Staying Healthy Acetaminophen might worsen high blood pressure Mind & Mood A high-fiber diet may reduce the risk of dementia Harvard Health Publishing Resources Harvard Health Online Subscribers Harvard Health Newsletters Health A to Z Diagnostic Tests and Surgical Procedures Health Decision Guides Ask Harvard Medical School Video Series Log in to Access Your Subscription Editorial Features Birth Control Center Harvard Health Blog Harvard Prostate Knowledge HHP Medication Safety Watch Products FREE Email Newsletters Online Learning Courses Special Health Reports Print Subscriptions Digital Subscriptions Harvard Medical School Faculty Contributors Howard E. LeWine, MD Chief Medical Editor, Harvard Health Publishing Robert H. Shmerling, MD Senior Faculty Editor, Harvard Health Publishing Claire McCarthy, MD Senior Faculty Editor, Harvard Health Publishing Deepak L. Bhatt, MD, MPH Editor in Chief, Harvard Heart Letter Mallika Marshall, MD Contributing Editor Lauren Elson, MD Contributor View all Experts License Harvard Health Content Knowledge Is the Best Medicine The source of information makes a difference. Harvard Health Publishing provides trustworthy, evidence-based health content with the authority you demand and the impact you need. Contact Us Free Healthbeat Signup Get the latest in health news delivered to your inbox! Newsletter Signup Sign Up Footer Harvard Health Publishing Facebook Twitter Linkedin YouTube My Account Customer Service Log in Order Now Online Learning Courses Digital Subscriptions Special Health Reports Print Subscriptions More About Us Permissions Content Licensing Topics © 2022 by The President and Fellows of Harvard College Do not sell my personal information | Privacy Policy Scroll To Top Close Thanks for visiting. Don't miss your FREE gift. The Best Diets for Cognitive Fitness, is yours absolutely FREE when you sign up to receive Health Alerts from Harvard Medical School Sign up to get tips for living a healthy lifestyle, with ways to fight inflammation and improve cognitive health, plus the latest advances in preventative medicine, diet and exercise, pain relief, blood pressure and cholesterol management, and more. I want to get healthier Close Health Alerts from Harvard Medical School Get helpful tips and guidance for everything from fighting inflammation to finding the best diets for weight loss...from exercises to build a stronger core to advice on treating cataracts. PLUS, the latest news on medical advances and breakthroughs from Harvard Medical School experts. BONUS! Sign up now and get a FREE copy of the Best Diets for Cognitive Fitness I want to get healthier Close Stay on top of latest health news from Harvard Medical School. Plus, get a FREE copy of the Best Diets for Cognitive Fitness. Sign me up