Skip to main content Toggle subitems Main navigation Meet Princeton Toggle sub-items In Service of Humanity Facts & Figures History Honors & Awards Contact Us Visit Us Our Faculty Our Students Our Alumni Our Staff Our Leadership Academic Freedom and Free Expression Academics Toggle sub-items Studying at Princeton Library Areas of Study Humanities Social Sciences Engineering Natural Sciences Advising Academic Calendar Course Tools Learning Abroad Career Development Continuing Education Innovative Learning Research Toggle sub-items Engineering & Applied Science Humanities Natural Sciences Social Sciences Interdisciplinary Approach Dean for Research Office External Partnerships Facilities & Labs One Community Toggle sub-items Lifelong Connections Student Life Arts & Culture Athletics Living in Princeton, N.J. Housing & Dining Activities & Organizations Cultural & Affinity Groups Health & Wellness Religious Life Serving the Public Good Families Admission & Aid Toggle sub-items Affordable for All About Financial Aid Current Undergraduate Financial Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission For International Students Utility menu News Events Work at Princeton Services & Resources Work-Life Balance Links for Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Giving Search Sites & People × Social Sciences Research Seeking Solutions, Serving Humanity Across a range of disciplines, Princeton's social scientists shape and challenge our view of the world. Research Profiles Ali Valenzuela . Ali Valenzuela studies American electoral politics and political behavior while mentoring a range of University students. Learn More Rund Abdelfatah . A journey to explore the complex identity of southern Spain to conduct research for her senior thesis pushed Rund Abdelfatah to re-examine how she thinks about her own identity. Learn More Stephen Kotkin . Decades of researching and teaching about Soviet and Russian history have led Stephen Kotkin to write a comprehensive biography of Josef Stalin. Learn More Sara McLanahan . The Fragile Families and Child Wellbeing Study, led by sociologist Sara McLanahan, has changed the way researchers view unmarried parents and led to a range of other important findings. Learn More Matthew Karp . Princeton historian Matthew Karp explores the broad power proponents of slavery held over the foreign policy of the United States and how they saw the United States as the world's most powerful champion of slavery. Learn More Dennisse Calle . For her senior thesis, Dennisse Calle tracked the emergence of Cuban consumerism through the Internet alternative known as El Paquete. Learn More Princeton School of Public and International Affairs The Princeton School of Public and International Affairs is a major center at the crossroads of scholarship and governance. The school's diverse group of undergraduate and graduate students represent different backgrounds and life experiences, each with a demonstrated interest in public policy. Learn More Princeton Institute for International and Regional Studies Established in 2003, the Princeton Institute for International and Regional Studies (PIIRS) is the University’s international and regional studies center — promoting research, learning and dialogue on world cultures and issues of global importance. Learn More University Center for Human Values Established in 1990, the center fosters ongoing inquiry into important ethical issues in private and public life and supports teaching, research and discussion of ethics and human values throughout the curriculum and across the disciplines. Learn More Social Science Research Social science research happens in academic departments, as well as centers such as: Bendheim Center for Finance Center for Health and Wellbeing Kahneman-Treisman Center for Behavioral Science and Public Policy Office of Population Research Research at Princeton Engineering & Applied Science Humanities Natural Sciences Social Sciences Interdisciplinary Approach Dean for Research Office External Partnerships Facilities & Labs Contact links Contact Us Accessibility Advanced People Search Media Inquiries Website Feedback Visiting links Plan a Visit Maps & Shuttles Varsity Athletics Giving to Princeton Academic links Library Academic Calendar Student Links Faculty & Staff Links Footer social media Facebook Twitter Instagram Snapchat LinkedIn YouTube Social Media Directory Equal Opportunity and Nondiscrimination at Princeton University: Princeton University believes that commitment to principles of fairness and respect for all is favorable to the free and open exchange of ideas, and the University seeks to reach out as widely as possible in order to attract the ablest individuals as students, faculty, and staff. In applying this policy, the University is committed to nondiscrimination on the basis of personal beliefs or characteristics such as political views, religion, national or ethnic origin, race, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, pregnancy, age, marital or domestic partnership status, veteran status, disability, genetic information and/or other characteristics protected by applicable law in any phase of its education or employment programs or activities. In addition, pursuant to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 and supporting regulations, Princeton does not discriminate on the basis of sex in the education programs or activities that it operates; this extends to admission and employment. Inquiries about the application of Title IX and its supporting regulations may be directed to the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, Office for Civil Rights, U.S. Department of Education or to the University's Sexual Misconduct/Title IX Coordinator. See Princeton’s full Equal Opportunity Policy and Nondiscrimination Statement. Princeton University Princeton, NJ 08544 Operator: (609) 258-3000 © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Subfooter links Copyright Infringement Privacy Notice