Skip to main content Restrict my search to Police Department Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search University of Houston Police Department About UHPD General Information History of UHPD UHPD Strategic Vision Become a Police Officer Clery Campus Security Authority Am I a CSA? My Responsibility Get More Info Make a Report FAQs APPLY ONLINE Records & Reports Report a Crime Daily Crime Log Annual Security and Fire Safety Report File a Complaint Give a Compliment Hazard Report Safety & Security Staying Safe Crime Prevention Crime Prevention Services How You Can Prevent Crime Crime Prevention Tips Operation ID Vehicle Accidents Duty to Give Info and Render Aid Crash Involving Damage to a Vehicle Striking an Unattended Vehicle Striking a Fixture or Landscaping Immediate Reporting Police Investigation Resources Sensitive Crimes Violent Incidents Sexual Assault Sex Offender Registry Domestic Violence Hate Crimes Harassment Identity Theft Active Shooter Active Shooter Defined Avoid Lockdown & Deny Alert & Notify Defend & Counter Police Intervention Resources Bomb Threats Explosions Shelter In Place Office Security Community Services Security Escort Blue Light Emergency Phones Camera Network Lost and Found Bike Registration Special Events Money Transfers Policies & Training Campus Carry Policy FAQs Secure Storage Process Senate Bill 4 Racial Profiling Police In-Service Training Civil Protests Contact UHPD UH Home Police Department Policies & Training Civil Protests Police Department About UHPD Records and Reports Safety & Security Community Services Policies & Training Campus Carry Senate Bill 4 Racial Profiling Statement In Service Training Civil Protests Contact UHPD Contact UHPD 4051 Wheeler Ave. Houston, TX 77204-6191 (713) 743-3333 or 911 from a campus phone non-emergency email police@uh.edu Civil Protests UHPD is committed to assisting the University in its goal of fostering a learning environment where free inquiry and expression are encouraged. The University expects that persons engaging in expressive activities will demonstrate civility, concern for the safety of persons and property, respect for University activities, respect for those who may disagree with their message, and compliance with University policies and applicable local, state and federal laws. NOTE: See MAPP 13.01.01, Freedom of Expression, for specific details regarding demonstrations on campus. Preparation for Civil Protests UHPD will assign officers as appropriate to monitor scheduled Civil Protest. Additional officers will be called in to assist as necessary. Upon receiving a call regarding an unscheduled civil protest, an officer will be dispatched to the location of the protest to determine the circumstances surrounding the unscheduled event. The officer will advise the on-duty Patrol Sergeant, who in turn will advise a member of the Command Staff of the situation. Additional officers will be assigned as deemed necessary. Dispursal Order In all non-riotous civil protest situations, the decision to allow the protest to continue, and under what circumstances, will be made by a member of the University Administration. If the decision is made to allow the protest to continue, an officer will remain to monitor the protest. If the decision is made to not allow the protest to continue, a member of the University Administration will advise the protest leaders) that they need to disperse in accordance with the provisions of MAPP 13.01.01. If the group refuses to disperse after being informed to do so, UHPD Officers, either alone or with the assistance of additional, non-UHPD Police Officers, will take whatever enforcement steps, up to and including making physical arrests, necessary to disperse the crowd. Notifications UHPD is responsible for all notifications in the event of a civil protest. Publicity The University’s response to all press inquiries regarding Civil Disorders shall be coordinated through University Media Relations. 4051 Wheeler Ave. Houston, TX 77204-6191 UH Emergency Information Call UHPD: 713-743-3333 Campus Map For Emergencies Dial 911 from a campus phone Non-Emergency email: police@uh.edu Security Escorts Lost and Found Bicycle Registration ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies