Skip to main content Toggle Tools navigation Toggle Site Navigation Toggle Search University of Cincinnati UC Home Support UC Directories UC Tools Canopy & Blackboard Catalyst OneStop Student Email Faculty / Staff Email Shuttle Tracker UCFileSpace UC Flex/ESS IT Help UC VPN Concur Success Factors Enter a search term to search UC pages or the directory. Search String University of Cincinnati Transfer Advising Major/College Change Advising Find Your Major Non-Matriculated Advising Events Meet Our Team About Contact an Advisor Instagram Twitter Home Major/College Change Advising Major/College Change Advising If you are changing your major or college, including transitioning from UC Blue Ash or Clermont College to Clifton Campus, the following information will help you guide you through the process. If you have any questions related to this process, please contact our advising team. Exploring majors? Are you thinking about changing your major, but don’t know where to start? The My Majors tool allows students to complete a short assessment and receive results specific to UC’s majors. Take this first step to finding your best fit major and then reach out to our advising team to talk more about your options. Find your major Changing majors? We can help you find the most direct path into your next academic program. Don’t have a plan b? No problem, we can help you start the process toward identifying an alternative major at UC. How to change your major/college Step 1: Find your desired major and check its admission criteria. Step 2: Access the Change of College form on the Registrar's Office website by clicking the button below. Follow the instructions on the page and submit the form. Step 3: Once you have submitted the form, the faculty and staff of your desired major will evaluate your academic record and inform you about the transition process. If you have any questions regarding the application procedure, please contact our advising team. Change of College form Transition Scholarships and Awards If you are graduating with an associate degree from UC Clermont or UC Blue Ash and planning to complete an on-campus bachelor’s degree program at the Clifton campus, you may be eligible for a Transition Scholarship or Transition Award. These are not available for enrollment in programs designated as online/distance learning. Students enrolling in an on-campus Clifton program after completing an associate degree from UCC or UCBA and have a minimum GPA of a 3.0 are eligible to apply for both the Transition Scholarship and Transition Award. If you have completed your UCBA or UCC associate degree and have a minimum GPA of a 2.5 you are eligible to apply for the Transition Award. Applications are available each semester in Scholarship Universe (accessible through Catalyst). Scholarships and Awards are awarded based upon funding and terms of availability. For more information, login to Catalyst and click on the "scholarship" tile to see all opportunities in Scholarship Universe. Resources for Transition Students Academic Student Campus Accessibility Resources Learn how the Accessibility Resources Office empowers students with disabilities through accommodations and support services. Career Education Resources for your career planning, such as job search preparation, profile assessment, and coaching. Learning Commons Academic tutoring, writing assistance, and supplemental instruction for students, with both individual and group options. Majors & Programs Search among more than 250 undergrad majors and programs, and learn more about admission requirements and courses. One Stop Student Services The portal for all things related to registration, student records, student accounts, financial aid, and collections. African American Cultural and Resource Center The center helps prepare students to become effective leaders, and plays a key role in the mission of the university. Bearcat Card The Bearcat Card is both your student ID and a pre-paid debit card that can be used at over 400 locations on and off-campus. Ethnic Programs & Services The center enhances the cultural, ethnic and racial awareness of the entire university community and supports the needs of students of color. LGBTQ Center An inclusive campus community that welcomes people of all sexual orientations and gender identities and provides support, resources, and advocacy. Off-Campus Housing Fellow transfer students are looking for roommates. Sign up and find your new home today! Student Activities and Learning Development Get involved on campus with more than 500 student organizations, as well as activities and cultural programs for students. Student Health Insurance Learn more about the SHI eligibility requirements, coverage, enrollment, charges, and deadlines. Veterans Programs & Services Find out how you can use your VA benefits at Cincinnati and learn more about veteran-specific activities and programs. Athletics There's something for everyone in Athletics, whether it's Division I athletics, club or intramural sports, or recreation. Bookstore Our campus bookstore offers everything from school supplies to light dorm room furniture. In-store and online. Campus Recreation Center Everything you need for your workout at a student discount, including fitness equipment, courts, and pools. Food Services Find information on meal plans, dining centers, and Food Service's contribution to sustainability. Housing Residence hall communities are safe and convenient low-stress environments that encourage and promote student success. Libraries Ten libraries, including digital collections, textbook reserves, remote online access, and more are available to you at no cost. Parking View parking maps, buy your parking pass, and get updates about event parking. Motorist assistance is also available. Public Safety Get more information on public safety and emergency response resources, including police, fire, and safety services. Shuttle Services Cincinnati’s free campus shuttle bus system provides over a half-million rides annually. View routes and schedules. Transfer & Transition Advising Center 120 University Pavilion 2618 McMicken Circle Cincinnati, OH 45221 Phone: 513-556-9000 Alerts Clery and HEOA Notice Notice of Non-Discrimination eAccessibility Concern Privacy Statement Copyright Information © 2018 University of Cincinnati This website offers many PDF files for download, which require Adobe Reader to view.