Skip to main content Navigation Academics Admissions Research Locations Student Life Alumni & Giving Athletics Apply Now Emerging Media, BFA Communicate Ideas Visually by Applying the Creative Process to Your Work Program at a Glance Program Bachelor College(s) College of Arts and Humanities Department(s) Visual Arts & Design, Schl of 4 Years In State Tuition Out of State Tuition $212.28 per credit hour $748.89 per credit hour Learn more about program tuition and fees. Merge Art and Technology to Create and Deliver Impactful Design The BFA in Emerging Media program — offered by the School of Visual Arts and Design — combines art, storytelling, and technology to create impactful design and industry standard outcomes. Your coursework will provide you with a solid foundation in techniques and theory in one of the specialized tracks: Character Animation, Experimental Animation or Graphic Design. While taking a wide variety of courses aligning classroom learning with personal and professional goals, you’ll gain a broad understanding of related disciplines, including arts, humanities, and technology, as well as hands-on experience working on real projects. Emerging Media graduates are employees at renowned fortune 500, media, design and production companies across the nation. The first two years of the degree are spent as an Emerging Media Pending major, taking Common Program Prerequisite courses, along with General Education Program courses, and Basic Level Core requirements. Students who are admitted into one of the following tracks must be admitted to UCF before beginning coursework: Students who are admitted into one of the following tracks must be admitted to UCF. Character Animation Track This track of studies encompasses all aspects of the production process, from story creation to film completion, while working as part of a team. You’ll gain first-hand knowledge about tools and industry practices for computer-generated animated filmmaking. Upon graduation, you’ll be ready to enter a career in positions such as an animator, modeler, rigger or texture artist in the film, television, streaming or computer game industries. Experimental Animation Track Explore creative expression through innovative and hybrid analog and digital art practice. You’ll engage in classic, current, and widely varied techniques and artistic mediums in this track, making narrative or non-narrative creative works. By graduation, you’ll have developed a unique creative vision that culminates in completing a BFA thesis project and exhibition/screening. Much like Character Animation, Experimental Animation students will be prepared with the necessary tools to enter their creative industry of choice. Graphic Design Track Learn about the art of visual communication, stressing the professional aspects of design by using a blend of art, communication, and business. Throughout the course study for this track, you’ll combine technology with aesthetics in the production of typographic and publication design, identity systems, packaging, film and broadcast graphics, posters, interactive and web design. Highlights Animation Career Review ranked the emerging media program No. 2 in their 2021 Top Public Animation Schools in the U.S. report. The Emerging Media BFA, Graphic Design Track is ranked on of the Top 50 Public Graphic Design Schools in the U.S. in 2021 by Animation Career Review. The demand for special effects artists and animators is projected to grow 4 percent — as fast as average — through 2029. The median annual pay for special effects artists and animators is $78,000. Undergraduate Application Deadlines Freshmen Transfers International Fall May 1 Spring November 1 Summer March 1 Fall July 1 Spring November 1 Summer March 1 Fall March 1 Spring September 1 Summer January 1 Ready to get started? Apply Today Start Your Application Today Ready to get started? Take the next step to save your spot at UCF. 1 Check out your application requirements. See what freshmen and transfer students need to apply. 2 Short on time? You can start your application today and come back later to finish. Apply Today Course Overview History of Western Art I & II Explore painting, sculpture and architecture from the Prehistoric Era through the Renaissance and then from the Baroque through the 20th century. Design Fundamentals - Two Dimensional & Three Dimensional Discover two-dimensional design problems, including problems in black and white and basic color theory. In Design Fundamentals Three Dimensional, learn about and use the various sculptural media. Drawing Fundamentals I & II Get an introduction to problems in drawing methods and media with an emphasis on description techniques. Introduction to Computer Art Learn about the principles underlying the generation and display of graphical pictures by computer. Topics include graphical software packages and graphics systems. Emerging Media Skills You’ll Learn Integrate the domains of art, storytelling and technology in projects working with multidisciplinary teams. Practice and apply various techniques and theory in experimental animation, character animation or graphic design. Gain a theoretical and working understanding of the historical meanings and studio applications of the human image. Respond to the ever-changing technical and creative job markets, emerging fields and contemporary exhibition modalities and venues. Career Opportunities 3D Artist Graphic Designer Multimedia Designer Animator Illustrator Creative/Art Director Concept/Preproduction Artist Motion Graphics Artist VFX Artist Video Game Artist Themed Design Show More Career Opportunities School of Visual Arts and Design News Check out more stories Visual Arts UCF Student Adds Magical Touch to Disney’s 50th Anniversary From a childhood dream to her dream job, Ana Beltran ’19 brings imagination to life through animation. Alumni UCF Grad Helps Bring Visions to Life for FX Network As an art director and visual effects supervisor, Michael Viscione ’08 blends creativity and technology to create viewer experiences for big-budget shows. Science & Technology UCF Based Limbitless Solutions and Orlando Health Arnold Palmer Hospital for Children Launch Clinical Trial The trial will focus on the effectiveness of Limbitless’ video game technology that helps prepare children to use their 3D printed prosthetics Visual Arts 12 Animated, Fantasy and Superhero Films Made by UCF Grads UCF animation alumni worked behind the scenes on some of the biggest movies from the last decade. Degree Search College of Arts and Humanities programs Bachelors Emerging Media (BFA) University of Central Florida Colleges Burnett Honors Business Community Innovation and Education Engineering and Computer Science Graduate Studies Health Professions and Sciences Medicine Nursing Optics and Photonics Sciences Undergraduate Studies Hospitality Management University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida