Skip to main content Menu Resources Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply or Give Apply Now Make a Gift Clemson University Barnes & Noble Bookstore Clemson University Barnes & Noble Bookstore Services The Clemson University Bookstore offers a host of different services to help serve you in your Clemson experience. These services include: Shopping Visit the Official University Book Store. Bookstore App Click here to visit the iTunes store and download the Clemson Bookstore App. Download the bookstore app to order textbooks and merchandise, track your shipments, get reminders on bringing back rental textbooks and more. Graduation Supplies The bookstore is proud to introduce Clemson's first ever graduation gown made entirely from recycled material. The gown is made from 23 10 oz. plastic bottles. The "Green Weaver" gown looks and feels elegant, and is quite comfortable. $3 of every recycled gown purchase will be donated to the Clemson University sustainability effort. Clemson's sustainability program information can be found here. Class rings are purchased through the Alumni Center. Contact Randy Boatwright at 864-656-5671 to order your ring. Honor stoles are ordered through Omicron Delta Kappa. Contact them at clemsonhonorstoles@gmail.com. Order Cap and Gown Purchase Announcements Faculty Textbook Ordering Faculty and Department Administrators - We’re excited to introduce the Adoption & Insights Portal (AIP), your source for researching, adopting and sharing insights about textbooks and course materials. AIP will be replacing Faculty Enlight going forward. In partnership with the Clemson University, we are introducing this new portal to help us achieve our goals of student success and retention by ensuring course material adoptions for all future semesters are submitted at a 100% submission rate by our adoption deadline. We will be holding a training session for those who would like further guidance on using the new system on an as needed basis. Submitting your adoptions early and directly to the bookstore, ensures that students will get the right course materials for their course at the most affordable price. With the new platform faculty and department administrators can: Save time with the one click re-adopt feature Research and adopt course materials in one convenient place Compare estimated student price and available formats before adopting Review affordable alternatives to your selection, like OER and BNC OER+ Courseware Learn about affordable options for your students like Price Match and First Day Receive 24/7 support As a part of this launch, we have also integrated the platform with the campuses Single Sign On (SSO) technology. You can conveniently access AIP from here. Please see the Adoption video. Please reach out to your Bookstore Manager with any questions or comments. Student Textbook Reservation Textbook Order Form (Links to Clemson Barnes & Noble site for secure purchasing). Textbook Price Match Buy Back Books Check back at this site on Monday, 3/23/2020, for instructions on rental returns and textbook buyback. Book Signing Event Book signing Requests: Must be requested at least one month in advance (unless with manager approval) Must be emailed to store manager for approval (kherr@clemson.edu) Must have Title and ISBN for each requested Title Must have exact date, start time and end time of the event Any after event sales must be requested in advance for manager approval. Must have a breakdown of audience (students, faculty, local teachers and interested public, at least 75% non-students ) Please note that: Student only events are not accepted. Book sales are to be done 45 minutes before the event. We only bring in five (5) copies per Title (unless with manager approval). We only bring in books that can be returned back to publishers (unless with manager approval). We only take credit cards as form of payment (no cash). If you are unable to find what you need, please contact our store manager for further information. Home Bookstore Services Employment Refunds Contact Us Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram