Skip to main content University of Texas at Austin Home UT iSchool Menu University of Texas at Austin Home The University of Texas at Austin UT iSchool Make a Gift Search Search Search Search About Expand Vision & Core Values History & Tradition Diversity & Inclusion News & Events Jobs at the iSchool Contact Us Programs Expand Admissions Class Schedules Course Offerings Undergraduate Informatics Program Master of Science in Information Studies School Librarian Certificate Program Master of Science in Information Security & Privacy Dual Degree Programs PhD in Information Studies Certificate of Advanced Study Postdoctoral Fellowships People Expand Faculty, Staff, & Students Alumni Student Organizations Advisory Council Information Commons International Students iSchool Committees CARE Counselor Research Expand Research Areas Grants & Awards Labs Information & Culture Visiting Scholars Careers Expand Students Alumni Employers HireUTexas Giving Expand Endowments Donate Online Student Giving Home Careers : Alumni Alumni alt="Career coaching for alumni" Alumni Stay connected to the iSchool and find career resources. Want to get involved with the iSchool? Follow the iSchool on LinkedIn, Instagram, Twitter, Facebook, and Youtube to find out about our future career events and connect with alumni, students, and staff. It is always wonderful to have our alumni return to share their career experiences with current students in iSchool events such as the Alumni Career Panels. Need career help? Register online as an alum with HireUTexas! Please note that current students and graduates within the past 12 months are our primary clientele. However, we do understand that the information landscape is constantly changing and presenting new, exciting opportunities for employment! Individual appointments with alumni past 12 months of graduation will be made if time allows. Looking for an iSchool candidate? Contact the Career Development Office to post an internship or job opportunity where the iSchool community can apply to. Find iSchool talents that match your team quicker! Contact Us Stay connected with UT through Texas Exes Maintain your membership with the Texas Exes Alumni Association. The Exes have a host of networking benefits including a directory, a LinkedIn Group, and regional events. Look up alumni on the Ex-Students' Association directory. Some services with the Texas Exes require membership and fees may be associated. Resources Submit your report HireUTexas UT iSchool 1616 Guadalupe St, Suite #5.202 Austin, Texas 78701-1213 Facebook Twitter LinkedIn YouTube Instagram Contact Us News & Events Email Lists Faculty and Staff Information Indigenous Land Acknowledgment Login UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2022