Skip to Main Content For coronavirus information for the UCLA community, please visit the Ashe Center website and UCLA’s information page. Symptom Monitoring Immunization Requirements AfterHours PATIENT PORTAL Search WebsiteSearch Search WebsiteSearch COVID-19 Services Insurance Fees About Contact Symptom Monitoring Immunization Requirements AfterHours PATIENT PORTAL Shine Inside and Out: Student Health at UCLA The Arthur Ashe Student Health and Wellness Center (The Ashe Center) is devoted to providing quality, accessible, state-of-the-art healthcare and education to support the unique development of UCLA students. (Learn more about The Ashe Center) COVID-19: Testing, Vaccines and Other Services COVID-19 Hotline Students who develop symptoms should contact The Ashe Center immediately to determine the need for diagnostic testing and treatment. COVID-19 Testing Information on COVID-19 testing in our center, within the campus community (community screening), and more. COVID-19 Vaccines COVID Vaccination is available to all students at The Ashe Center. Schedule on the Patient Portal. COVID-19 Screening Experiencing COVID-19 symptoms? Schedule a telehealth appointment through the Patient Portal today Student Health News & Announcements Mandatory indoor masking to resume at UCLA due to rise in COVID-19 cases (5/26/22) What You Need to Know from COVID Task Force: Universal indoor masking reinstated Food and/or drink service strongly discouraged at indoor gatherings Required weekly COVID-19 testing and daily symptom monitoring to continue It is important for us to respond to the current trends so that we can reduce the risk of infection without disruption to in-person learning and campus activities, including commencement celebrations. To stay ahead of the curve, our campus is taking several proactive measures, which are outlined on the UCLA COVID site below. More info from UCLA's COVID site Bruin Health Pharmacy Summer Supply Notice Bruin Health Pharmacy is now accepting requests for summer medication supplies. Note: All requests should be submitted at least 3 business days prior to the day you need your medication. For more information, call or visit Bruin Health Pharmacy today. Planned Closures & Hours Updates Upcoming Holiday Closure (5/30/22) The Ashe Center will be closed on Monday, May 30, 2022, in observance of the Memorial Day university holiday. If you have COVID-19 symptoms such as fever and cough, receive a positive test result, or have had close contact with someone who tested positive please do the following: (1) Isolate yourself and stay at home; (2) Call The Ashe Center COVID-19 Hotline at (310) 206-6217 immediately. Please note: Processing of COVID self-tests via the campus vending machines may be affected by the university holiday. #BruinBound: Student Health & Wellbeing at UCLA Video Learn about resources at UCLA that ensure the health and well-being of students. The Ashe Center — the patient-centered medical home for students that offers same-day, urgent and virtual visits — will discuss the UC Student Health Insurance Plan (UCSHIP), review fees and plan benefits and explain the UCLA immunization requirements. Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS) and the Resilience in Your Student Experience (RISE) Center will discuss resources to foster and support resilience, connection, mental health and well-being for our Bruin community. Bruin Bound: Congrats to our new admits! Student Health Event Spotlight Loading events... Full Calendar of Student Health Events Join Our Newsletter We're launching a periodic newsletter featuring student health updates for students, staff, and parents/ families in our Bruin community. Be one of the first to sign up today! Sign me up today! Report Sexual Misconduct How to Report Make a report of sexual harassment and notice of nondiscrimination Get Help Now If you or anyone you know is experiencing a life threatening situation call 911. Ashe Student Health & Wellness Center (24hr Nurse Line) Available AfterHours 310-825-4073 (Option 2) When We Are Closed After Hours Options COVID Hotline 310-206-6217 LiveHealth Online Counseling & Psychological Services (CAPS) (24hr Crisis Line) Available 24/7 310-825-0768 Concerned About a Bruin? Community Resources Rape Treatment Center at Santa Monica UCLA Medical Center 424-259-6000 UC Police Department (UCPD) 310-825-1491 CSO Evening Escorts (From Dusk until 1am) 310-794-WALK (9255) National Suicide Prevention Lifeline 800-273-TALK (8255) UCLA Basic Needs UCLA LGBT Campus Resource Center Direct Support for LGBTQIA Bruins Student Health Advisory Committee Bruin Connections In the News Daily Bruin: Editorial Board discusses campus safety, basic needs at meeting with Chancellor Block April 14, 2022 The Daily Bruin Editorial Board meets with Chancellor Gene Block quarterly to ask questions and discuss topics and administrative policies affecting campus and students. At the March 29 meeting, Block discussed issues of campus safety, accessibility, future online learning and COVID-19, basic needs and equity and racial justice. Daily Bruin: UCLA supplies free menstrual products in restrooms regardless of gender April 17, 2022 As the first institution in the University of California system to provide free menstrual products, UCLA is stocking them in more than 50% of restrooms – above the amount recommended by the bill. The university is providing these products in men’s, women’s and gender-neutral restrooms, the email stated. The committee first established menstrual product boxes in the Arthur Ashe Student Health and Wellness Center and then expanded to residential buildings, said Camille Sumilang, co-director of BruiNecessities and a third-year psychobiology student. Quick Links UCSHIP Plan Brochure 2021-22 What is UCSHIP? The UC Student Health Insurance Plan (UCSHIP) is a systemwide health insurance plan providing enhanced benefits to all enrolled UCLA students. Learn more in the Insurance section of our website. Make an Appointment Access The Ashe Center Patient Portal to make an appointment, message your primary care provider (PCP), and more. Submit Patient Feedback The Ashe Center wants feedback on your patient experience. Your feedback can be anonymous or you can include your personal information on our secure survey site to give us the opportunity to respond to you, personally. Extension Services and Partners U See LA Optometry An Extension of The Ashe Center, located in Ackerman Union (B-Level) Bruin Health Pharmacy An Extension of The Ashe Center, located in Ackerman Union (A-Level) Campus Smiles at The Ashe Center Comprehensive, full-service dentistry now at The Ashe Center, 2nd Floor Entrance Contact Ashe Center 221 Westwood Plaza Los Angeles, CA 90095 310-825-4073 Contact Stay in the know Facebook @uclastudenthealth Instagram @uclaashecenter StudentHealth Mobile App \n Accessibility \n UCLA \n Student Affairs \n Maps, Directions, Parking \n Academic Calendar \n University of California \n Terms of Use \n