Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Parking Services Parking right arrow down arrow Locations right arrow down arrow Maps Visitors right arrow down arrow Maps Uptown UC Blue Ash UC Clermont 1819 Innovation Hub UC Reading Victory Parkway Students right arrow down arrow Uptown UC Blue Ash UC Clermont Leased Properties Parking Permits Faculty & Staff right arrow down arrow Uptown UC Blue Ash UC Clermont 1819 Innovation Hub Victory Parkway UC Reading Value Pass Mobile Pay Instructions Citations right arrow down arrow View Account Events right arrow down arrow Events Calendar Football Basketball College-Conservatory of Music Event & Meeting Planners Other Event Prepaid Parking Instructions Athletic Events Prepaid Parking Resources right arrow down arrow Policies How-To Videos Alternative Transportation FAQ Home » About UC » Parking Services » Events » Other Event Prepaid Parking Instructions Set Navigation title in component Events Calendar Football Basketball College-Conservatory of Music Event & Meeting Planners Other Event Prepaid Parking Instructions Athletic Events Prepaid Parking Other Events Prepaid Parking Pre-Event Purchase Instructions Guest Login Not Required When pre-purchasing online, YOU MUST PRINT YOUR PARKING PASS from the Payment Receipt Page and present it to the facility attendant on event/game day. Emailed permit must be printed or downloaded within 14 days of email receipt. Refunds are not available for pre-paid event parking. The parking facility attendant WILL NOT HAVE A RECORD of who has purchased a pass, nor will anyone affiliated with the host team. Go to the website for Pre-Purchase Parking Click EVENTS from the options at the top of the screen.  Choose the event you are attending. Select the game or match you will be attending. Choose the facility you wish to park in. Click Add to Basket Click EVENTS at top of page if you wish to add parking for another game; otherwise, Select Payment Method Enter Email Address Click Pay Now Follow prompts to complete the transaction. Payment Receipt Page will appear.  Choose Click Here to Print Permit. Print page and bring with you to the game. Emailed permit must be printed or downloaded within 14 days of email receipt. A receipt will be sent via email Parking Services University of Cincinnati 4 Edwards Center 51 Corry Boulevard Cincinnati, OH 45221-0624 513-556-2283 parking@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Parking Services University of Cincinnati 4 Edwards Center 51 Corry Boulevard Cincinnati, OH 45221-0624 513-556-2283 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top