Skip to main content Skip to main navigation George W. Truett Theological Seminary Menu About Greetings from the Dean Who We Are History What We Believe Accreditations & Affiliations Campuses Houston San Antonio Faculty Jared E. Alcántara, Ph.D. Andrew Arterbury, Ph.D. Dustin D. Benac, Th.D. Kimlyn J. Bender, Ph.D. Stephanie Boddie, PhD Brian C. Brewer, Ph.D. R. Robert Creech, Ph.D. David E. Garland, Ph.D. Scott M. Gibson, D.Phil. Angela Gorrell, Ph.D. Joel C. Gregory, Ph.D. Rebecca Poe Hays, Ph.D. Grear Howard, D.Min. Angela Reed, Ph.D. Stephen B. Reid, Ph.D. Todd D. Still, Ph.D. Michael W. Stroope, Ph.D. W. Dennis Tucker, Jr. Ph.D. Preben Vang, Ph.D. Joel Weaver, Ph.D John B. White, Ph.D. David Wilhite, Ph.D. Gaynor Yancey, DSW Terry York, D.M.A. Books by Truett Faculty Staff Denisha Akpan Arbra Bailey Maxcey Blaylock Jack Bodenhamer Bridgette Boggess Keith Bruce, D.Min. John K. Burk, Ph.D. Julie Covington Jackie Diaz Nancy Floyd Malcolm Foley, Ph.D. Rusty Freeman, D.Min. Brian Gamel, Ph.D. Karen Green Matt Homeyer, D.Min. Grear Howard, D.Min. Jennifer Howell, Ph.D. Melissa Lambeth Jenn Martinez-Ayala Nancy Plotts Paul Putz, Ph.D. Jo Ann Sharkey Reinowski Ben Simpson Jon Sisk Evan Taddia J. David Tate Cindy White Audrey Yadon News The Cord Magazine Board of Advocates Contact Us Need More Info About Truett? Map & Parking Departmental Directory Academics Degree Programs Master of Divinity (M.Div.) Master of Arts in Christian Ministry (M.A.C.M.) Master of Theological Studies (M.T.S.) Master of Arts (M.A.) in Theology, Ecology, and Food Justice Master of Arts (M.A.) in Theology and Sports Studies Master of Arts (M.A.) in Contextual Witness and Innovation Doctor of Ministry (D.Min.) Ph.D. in Preaching M.Div./Juris Doctor (J.D.) M.Div./Master of Business Administration (M.B.A.) M.Div./Master of Education (M.Ed.) M.Div./Master of Music (M.M.) M.Div./Master of Social Work (M.S.W.) M.T.S./Master of Social Work (M.S.W.) Academic Catalog Faculty Advanced Standing Admissions Apply Master's Degrees Doctor of Ministry PhD in Preaching Request More Information Why Truett? Culture & Community Affordability Academics Baylor University Visit Truett Truett Preview Personal Visit Virtual Visit Group Visit Truett on the Road Map & Parking Recruitment Team Tuition & Financing Scholarships Baylor Students Transfer Students Incoming Students New Student Orientation Advanced Standing Programs & Centers Black Church Studies Program Program Pillars Leadership Faith & Sports Institute About the Faith & Sports Institute Graduate Degree Programs Online Certificate Program High School Retreat Research & Resources Kyle Lake Center for Effective Preaching National Preaching Conference African American Preaching Conference Boomers & Beyond Conference Additional Resources 12 Most Effective Preachers Survey Office of Ministry Connections About the OMC Staff Ministry Positions Post a Ministry Position Additional Resources Ministry Position Administrative Tools Online Certificate Program Program Overview Enrollment Online Courses Seminar Courses Current Students Staff Testimonials FAQ Request More Info Program for the Future Church Who We Are What We Do Our Team Support Us Connect with Us Spiritual Formation Program Spiritual Formation Courses Spiritual Direction Training Program Personal Counseling Spiritual Direction for Baylor Students Spiritual Direction for the Truett Community Plan a Personal Retreat Theology, Ecology, and Food Justice Program About Degree Program Partnerships News Truett Church Network Center for Ministry Effectiveness Ministry Resident Program Truett Pastors Conference Wesley House of Studies Students Academic Services Registration Advising Degree Planning Substitutions & Waivers Graduation Transfer Students Advanced Standing Look Up Classes Academic Complaints Scholarship Services Mentoring Program How Do I Begin Currently Mentoring Financial Wellness Resources Online Tools Final Exam Schedule Lifelong Formation Truett Student Employment Code of Conduct Student Organizations Campus Resources Events & Resources Conferences & Lectures Dobbs Lecture Drumwright Lectures Parchman Lectures TB Maston Lecture Willson-Addis Lecture E.K. Bailey Preaching Celebration Science & Christian Ministry Conference African American Preaching Conference National Preaching Conference Summer Intensive with N.T. Wright Texas Baptist Women in Ministry Conference Athletics, Race, and Christianity (ARC) Talks Women's World Day of Prayer Racism in the White Church Truett Chapel Events Friends of Truett Dinner 20th Anniversary Campus Celebration Building Reservations Room Reservations Wedding Reservations Truett Faculty & Staff Resources Technology Support Media Library Truett Chapel African American Preaching Conference Dobbs Lectures Media Library E.K. Bailey Memorial Preaching Event Fall Preaching Convocation Parchman Lectures Preacher's Workshop Media Page Willson-Addis Media Library Archives Other Recordings Lenten Devotional Guide 2022 Continuing Education Course Catalog Alumni Continuing Education Tools & Benefits Employment Events Calendar Student Recruitment Giving to Truett Make a Gift Baylor>George W. Truett Seminary>Programs & Centers>Online Certificate Program>Testimonials Testimonials “Jesus tells us to build our house on a strong foundation; this program helps strengthen that foundation. I personally cannot see how anyone could go through this program and not be enriched, enlightened, and excited about the ministry.” Donnie Truitt, Lay Pastor, Cowboy Church of Young County “In the beginning I was terrified, especially not knowing what to expect from this program. After my first chapter, my attitude changed from being a scared perfectionist to having confidence in myself. As the course was moving along, I finally found myself ready and excited for the next chapter instead of dreading class like I did when I was in school. "The [Online Certificate Program] allows you to not only take care of your personal issues that come along everyday in our lives with work, family, friends, church and so on. But they make it easy for you to pick up where you left off. I had a friend that lost her son and I went to be by her side for about a week to help her and to comfort her. That week I was with her, I never thought about my studies at all because I had come to peace knowing it was there waiting for me. Once I got back, it was like I had never left for that entire week.” Terri Davidson, Layperson "The Certificate of Ministry has allowed me to expand significantly my knowledge of the Bible, ministry, and approach to studying and interpreting the Scriptures. Further, it has opened doors to preaching more effectively, filling pulpits on a supply basis, and becoming an Endorsed Chaplain. "During the Preaching Seminar, I was amazed at the broad range of ministry represented by the fellow attendees. Listening to the testimonies about their varied ministry venues convinced me of the value of the Certificate of Ministry approach in our world. I thank God for this user-friendly and inexpensive approach to obtaining Biblical credentials and training, for those of us who can’t, for many valid reasons, attend seminary full-time." Richard Baggett, BGCT Endorsed Chaplain “I had [previously] enrolled in a non-credit correspondence course on Missions through another Christian university. I received a very small booklet of written information and was asked to take four scantron based quizzes in order to complete the class. While I did learn some basic facts about famous missionaries and Biblical mandates, the course was not challenging or engaging in any meaningful way. I was therefore very excited when I saw that Baylor had the Online Certificate Program and enrolled quickly." "I have been very impressed throughout the first course. As an instructional designer, it is great to see how well organized and planned it is, but it is from the perspective of a student that I have been especially happy with the experience. Above all else, the class has given me the opportunity to really think and ponder issues. I love the way the quizzes are really opportunities for reflection and that there are a variety of materials and activities to help guide us in the growth process – the book, the Scripture readings, the video intros, the soul exercises, and the discussion posts all work together. The class feels 'fresh' in its approach, and I think the value of courses like these far outweigh those of traditional correspondence ones. I also feel connected because I can see other students who are in the journey with me and learn from them as well.” Dr. Becky Parton, Instructional Designer, Baylor University “The Online Certificate Program has been a major game changer in my ministry. The courses have allowed me to grow in ways that I could not have imagined when I was contemplating enrollment. I have found myself drawn into the studies and my confidence has increased dramatically due to the lessons learned." "I have laughed, I have cried, I have become frustrated, and I have found comfort as well as joy through my learning. I feel more confident while teaching and preaching the Word of God. While there are many benefits to these courses, three that stand out in my mind are: The ability to work at my own pace. The coursework can be completed around 'life.' The best method of study for me is to dedicate at least one hour each morning to my coursework. However, if I should not be able to study for a few days, that is fine. I am not penalized and can pick up where I left off. Access to the instructor. I have found it very easy to reach Rev. Tate via email and even phone. We have had great dialog that has supplemented my course work and added to my learning. Fair feedback. There is frequent feedback on assignments. Correction is positive, even when my quiz answers might demonstrate a misunderstanding, and I am encouraged to review and resubmit assignments as necessary. I expect to continue learning and growing as a direct result of the Certificate Program, and I expect to become a better representative for the Kingdom of Heaven as a result." Rev. Gerald Armbrister, Second Sweet Home Missionary Baptist Programs & Centers Black Church Studies Program Program Pillars Leadership Faith & Sports Institute About the Faith & Sports Institute Our Team Staff Team of Advocates Graduate Degree Programs Sports Ministry (M.Div., M.A.C.M.) Download Program Flyer Life in the Program Course Offerings Career Options FAQ Scholarships Sports Studies (Online M.A.) Online Certificate Program Course Offerings FAQ Program Overview Program Benefits & Testimonials Register High School Retreat Students Mentors Partners FAQ Research & Resources FSI Research Initiatives FSI Team of Collaborators Resources Faith & Sports Forum Sports Ministry Chapel FSI in the News Kyle Lake Center for Effective Preaching National Preaching Conference African American Preaching Conference Featured Speakers 2021 Conference Information Conference Schedule Parking & Location Information 2021 Featured Speakers Steering Committee FAQ Sponsorships Boomers & Beyond Conference Conference Schedule Additional Resources 12 Most Effective Preachers Survey Survey Results About the Survey Media Event Related Media 1996 Survey Office of Ministry Connections About the OMC Staff Ministry Positions Post a Ministry Position Additional Resources Ministry Position Administrative Tools Online Certificate Program Program Overview Our Certificates Foundation Certificate Primary Certificates Certificate of Community Development & Ministry Advanced Certificates Continuing Education Certificate Checklist Enrollment Online Courses Seminar Courses Current Students Make a $125 Payment Download Course Catalog Elective Options Current Announcements Extension Payment Certificate Request Form Course Directory Staff Testimonials FAQ Request More Info Program for the Future Church Who We Are What We Do Our Team Support Us Connect with Us Spiritual Formation Program Spiritual Formation Courses Covenant Group Placement Questionnaire FAQs Spiritual Direction Training Program Continuing Education Academic Credit Program Overview FAQ Personal Counseling Spiritual Direction for Baylor Students Spiritual Direction for the Truett Community Plan a Personal Retreat Theology, Ecology, and Food Justice Program About Degree Program Partnerships News Truett Church Network Center for Ministry Effectiveness Ministry Resident Program Truett Pastors Conference Why Attend? Hotels Conference Schedule Wesley House of Studies George W. Truett Theological Seminary 1100 South 3rd Street Waco, TX 76706 254.710.3755 Apply Visit Request Information Why Truett? Give General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 About Greetings from the Dean Who We Are History What We Believe Accreditations & Affiliations Campuses Houston San Antonio Faculty Jared E. Alcántara, Ph.D. Andrew Arterbury, Ph.D. Dustin D. Benac, Th.D. Kimlyn J. Bender, Ph.D. Stephanie Boddie, PhD Brian C. Brewer, Ph.D. R. Robert Creech, Ph.D. David E. Garland, Ph.D. Scott M. Gibson, D.Phil. Angela Gorrell, Ph.D. Joel C. Gregory, Ph.D. Rebecca Poe Hays, Ph.D. Grear Howard, D.Min. Angela Reed, Ph.D. Stephen B. Reid, Ph.D. Todd D. Still, Ph.D. Michael W. Stroope, Ph.D. W. Dennis Tucker, Jr. Ph.D. Preben Vang, Ph.D. Joel Weaver, Ph.D John B. White, Ph.D. David Wilhite, Ph.D. Gaynor Yancey, DSW Terry York, D.M.A. Books by Truett Faculty Staff Denisha Akpan Arbra Bailey Maxcey Blaylock Jack Bodenhamer Bridgette Boggess Keith Bruce, D.Min. John K. Burk, Ph.D. Julie Covington Jackie Diaz Nancy Floyd Malcolm Foley, Ph.D. Rusty Freeman, D.Min. Brian Gamel, Ph.D. Karen Green Matt Homeyer, D.Min. Grear Howard, D.Min. Jennifer Howell, Ph.D. Melissa Lambeth Jenn Martinez-Ayala Nancy Plotts Paul Putz, Ph.D. Jo Ann Sharkey Reinowski Ben Simpson Jon Sisk Evan Taddia J. David Tate Cindy White Audrey Yadon News The Cord Magazine Board of Advocates Contact Us Need More Info About Truett? Map & Parking Departmental Directory Academics Degree Programs Master of Divinity (M.Div.) Master of Arts in Christian Ministry (M.A.C.M.) Master of Theological Studies (M.T.S.) Master of Arts (M.A.) in Theology, Ecology, and Food Justice Master of Arts (M.A.) in Theology and Sports Studies Master of Arts (M.A.) in Contextual Witness and Innovation Doctor of Ministry (D.Min.) Ph.D. in Preaching M.Div./Juris Doctor (J.D.) M.Div./Master of Business Administration (M.B.A.) M.Div./Master of Education (M.Ed.) M.Div./Master of Music (M.M.) M.Div./Master of Social Work (M.S.W.) M.T.S./Master of Social Work (M.S.W.) Academic Catalog Faculty Advanced Standing Admissions Apply Master's Degrees Doctor of Ministry PhD in Preaching Request More Information Why Truett? Culture & Community Affordability Academics Baylor University Visit Truett Truett Preview Personal Visit Virtual Visit Group Visit Truett on the Road Map & Parking Recruitment Team Tuition & Financing Scholarships Baylor Students Transfer Students Incoming Students New Student Orientation Advanced Standing Programs & Centers Black Church Studies Program Program Pillars Leadership Faith & Sports Institute About the Faith & Sports Institute Graduate Degree Programs Online Certificate Program High School Retreat Research & Resources Kyle Lake Center for Effective Preaching National Preaching Conference African American Preaching Conference Boomers & Beyond Conference Additional Resources 12 Most Effective Preachers Survey Office of Ministry Connections About the OMC Staff Ministry Positions Post a Ministry Position Additional Resources Ministry Position Administrative Tools Online Certificate Program Program Overview Enrollment Online Courses Seminar Courses Current Students Staff Testimonials FAQ Request More Info Program for the Future Church Who We Are What We Do Our Team Support Us Connect with Us Spiritual Formation Program Spiritual Formation Courses Spiritual Direction Training Program Personal Counseling Spiritual Direction for Baylor Students Spiritual Direction for the Truett Community Plan a Personal Retreat Theology, Ecology, and Food Justice Program About Degree Program Partnerships News Truett Church Network Center for Ministry Effectiveness Ministry Resident Program Truett Pastors Conference Wesley House of Studies Students Academic Services Registration Advising Degree Planning Substitutions & Waivers Graduation Transfer Students Advanced Standing Look Up Classes Academic Complaints Scholarship Services Mentoring Program How Do I Begin Currently Mentoring Financial Wellness Resources Online Tools Final Exam Schedule Lifelong Formation Truett Student Employment Code of Conduct Student Organizations Campus Resources Events & Resources Conferences & Lectures Dobbs Lecture Drumwright Lectures Parchman Lectures TB Maston Lecture Willson-Addis Lecture E.K. Bailey Preaching Celebration Science & Christian Ministry Conference African American Preaching Conference National Preaching Conference Summer Intensive with N.T. Wright Texas Baptist Women in Ministry Conference Athletics, Race, and Christianity (ARC) Talks Women's World Day of Prayer Racism in the White Church Truett Chapel Events Friends of Truett Dinner 20th Anniversary Campus Celebration Building Reservations Room Reservations Wedding Reservations Truett Faculty & Staff Resources Technology Support Media Library Truett Chapel African American Preaching Conference Dobbs Lectures Media Library E.K. Bailey Memorial Preaching Event Fall Preaching Convocation Parchman Lectures Preacher's Workshop Media Page Willson-Addis Media Library Archives Other Recordings Lenten Devotional Guide 2022 Continuing Education Course Catalog Alumni Continuing Education Tools & Benefits Employment Events Calendar Student Recruitment Giving to Truett Make a Gift