Skip to main content Clemson University Degrees Home Degree Programs MENU Mathematical Sciences (B.S./B.A.) LEARN MORE ABOUT Even though the term “mathematician” may conjure visions of windowless rooms filled with number crunchers, the reality is quite different. Demand is high for the analytical and critical skills that you will develop as a mathematical sciences major. In 2016, data scientist was named the best job by CareerCast.com, citing a promising employment outlook and lucrative opportunities in the up-and-coming profession. Mathematical sciences graduates have careers in a wide range of industries, specialties and work environments in business, engineering, government (e.g., National Security Agency), industry, science and many other professions. At Clemson, an undergraduate study in traditional mathematics, applied mathematics, computational math or actuarial science/financial mathematics, as well as statistics and operations research will quickly prepare you for these career opportunities. FAST FACTS We offer both a B.A. and a B.S. degree in mathematical sciences. The B.S. has a biology concentration, which is great for students interested in attending medical school. Job areas for mathematical sciences majors that may not be immediately obvious are cryptography/cryptanalysis, city planning, epidemiologist, foreign exchange trader, technical writer and air traffic controller. Our department has about 250 undergraduate and 125 graduate students and more than 80 faculty members. Our combined bachelor's/master's plan could save you a year in earning both degrees. Mathematicians made a median salary of $103,010 in 2017. WHAT YOU'LL STUDY From developing your iPhone® to quantifying global warming rates and climate change, mathematics is an unseen part of our everyday lives. Even though it might not be readily visible to the general public, mathematical scientists have been responsible for some of the most striking changes in science and technology today. At Clemson, you can choose to receive either a Bachelor of Science or a Bachelor of Arts in mathematical sciences. Bachelor of Arts The Bachelor of Arts option requires a few more liberal arts classes and includes a minor, but it does not require lab science course work. Typically secondary education math majors follow this degree program. Bachelor of Science In the Bachelor of Science program, you can choose among several focused coursework options. There are six emphasis areas that provide an introduction to a specific area where mathematics is used, and they are: Actuarial science/financial mathematics. Applied and computational mathematics. Computer science. Operations research/management science. Statistics. Abstract mathematics. Biology Concentration (B.S.) — For students interested in going on to medical school, the mathematical sciences biology concentration is a great fit. This coursework allows students to take more biology courses to fulfill science requirements. Combined Bachelor’s/Master’s Plan: In our dual-degree program, up to 12 hours of classwork can be used for both your bachelor’s and master’s degrees in mathematical sciences. This is a great choice if you want to get a graduate degree since it saves a year over the usual sequencing of the two degrees separately. Curriculum Mathematical Sciences, B.A. Mathematical Sciences, B.S. Mathematical Sciences: Biology Concentration, B.S. Popular Minors Economics Education Financial Management Similar Majors Physics (B.S./B.A.) Secondary Education (B.A.) EXPERIENCES BEYOND THE CLASSROOM The School of Mathematical and Statistical Sciences has several research, educational and pre-professional opportunities for student involvement locally, throughout the U.S. and even abroad. Future Actuaries The Clemson Society of Future Actuaries provides a better understanding of the actuarial profession (risk management), assistance in preparing for actuarial exams and interaction with actuarial students and faculty. Research Students are challenged with research discoveries that originate from their own curiosity, from a professor's challenge or from the pressing needs of the world around them. These team-based investigations are led by a faculty mentor.Learn More » REU The Research Experience for Undergraduates program is typically funded by National Science Foundation grants. Like summer jobs, students are paid to work with mathematical science researchers. Learn More » SIAM The Society for Industrial and Applied Mathematics is an organization for students, professors and professionals interested and involved in mathematics and its applications to the real world. Learn More » Study Abroad Our undergraduates have two incredible opportunities to study math in Moscow and Budapest. Both programs offer semester-long, 12-credit opportunities, and the program in Budapest also offers a six-week summer program. Learn More » CONNECT WITH OTHER STUDENTS COSMIC Association for Women in Mathematics AFTER GRADUATION Your college decision isn't really about the next four years. We get it. It's about what doors are opened by your degree and whether those opportunities are what you had envisioned for yourself. Here's a snapshot of what life after graduation looks like for some of our most recent students. WHERE OUR RECENT GRADUATES HAVE GONE KEY 41-100% 21-40% 11-20% 0-10% RECENT EMPLOYERS Data Analyst Ally Financial Actuarial Analyst Lincoln Financial Group IT Technical Associate TIAA Financial Planning Analyst Global Lending Services Business Technology Analyst Deloitte RECENT POSTGRADUATE STUDIES Ph.D. Mathematics University of Chicago Ph.D. Computer Science Cornell University Ph.D. Mathematics Louisiana State University Ph.D. Mathematics University of Tennessee Ph.D. Mathematics Georgia Institute of Technology COMMON CAREER AREAS Banking, Insurance, Finance Credit Lending Risk Management Investment Banking Financial Analysis Actuarial Science Securities Research Research and Development Budget Analysis Industry Software Engineering Software Development Systems Analysis Information Systems Market Research Operations Research Analysis Quality Control Cryptanalysis and Cryptography Forensic Analysis Science Epidemiology and Medicine Genomics Mathematical Biophysics Biostatistics Climatology Computational Biology Education Government Military Intelligence Used with permission from the University of Tennessee. FIND OUT MORE Have more questions or want more information? Fill out the form below, which goes directly to the following department contact. If you’d also like to receive general University information from Clemson’s admissions office, please follow the link to the right and sign up to join our mailing list. Sharetta Bufford Recruiter 864-656-3296 Email Department Website College Website Loading... Department Website College Website Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Line Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2015 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on Google+ Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on YouTube Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram Search Clemson University degrees Clemson Degree Programs Search Alphabetical List Schedule a Visit Campus Life Admissions Costs & Financial Aid Similar Majors To Mathematical Sciences (B.S./B.A.) Physics (B.S./B.A.) Secondary Education (B.A.)