Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu Division of Student Affairs Office of Financial Aid Main Navigation Undergraduate Show Extended Applying FAFSA Dream Act Cost of Attendance Disbursement Parent FAQs Maintaining Eligibility SAP Repeated Coursework R2T4 | Withdrawing Unit Cap Type of Awards Pell Grant FSEOG TEACH Grant Cal Grant California Dream Act Service Incentive Grant California Emergency Grant Chafee Grant SUG EOP Grant MCS Subsidized & Unsubsidized Parent Plus Dream Loan Federal Work Study Scholarships Credential Show Extended Applying FAFSA Dream Act Cost of Attendance Disbursement Parent FAQs Maintaining Eligibility SAP Repeated Coursework R2T4 | Withdrawing Unit Cap Type of Awards Pell Grant TEACH Grant Cal Grant California Emergency Grant Federal Work Study SUG Golden State Teacher Grant Subsidized & Unsubsidized Parent Plus Scholarships Dream Loan Graduate Show Extended Applying FAFSA Dream Act Cost of Attendance Disbursement FAQs Maintaining Eligibility SAP Repeated Coursework R2T4 | Withdrawing Unit Cap Type of Awards Golden State Teacher Grant TEACH Grant SUG Unsubsidized Graduate Plus Federal Work Study Scholarships Dream Loan Special Groups Show Extended Study Abroad Year Round Students Summer Forms & Appeals Contact Us Parent FAQs Consumer Information Disbursement FA Terms & Conditions FAFSA Dream Act Freshmen Guide Transfer Guide CSUF Net Price Calculator Cal Grant Funded by the State of California and administered by the California Student Aid Commission (CSAC). A Cal Grant is money for college you don't have to pay back. To qualify, you must apply for the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) or California Dream Act Application (CDA) by the deadline and meet the eligibility and financial requirement as well as any minimum GPA requirements. There are three kinds of Cal Grants - A, B and C. Your eligibility is based on your FAFSA or CDA responses, your verified Cal Grant GPA, the type of California Universities/Colleges you listed on your FAFSA or CDA and whether you're a recent high school graduate. CSUF students are awarded one of two Cal Grant types: A or B. IMPORTANT NOTE - All Cal Grant Recipients are responsible to review their Cal Grant on WebGrants4Students to complete any requirements needed as it can delay your Cal Grant from processing at CSUF. Basic Eligibility Requirements Submit the FAFSA or CDA application and GPA verification by March 2 Be a U.S. citizen or eligible noncitizen or meet AB540 eligibility criteria Be a California resident for 1 year Attend a qualifying California University or College Not have a bachelor's or professional degree Have financial need at the institution of your choice Have family income and assets below the minimum levels (Determined by the California Student Aid Commission) Be enroll or plan to enroll in a program leading to an undergraduate degree or certificate Be enroll or plan to enroll at least half-time Have registered with the U.S. Selective Service , if required to do so Not owe a refund on any state or federal grants or be in default on a student loan Not be incarcerated Maintain the Satisfactory Academic Program standards as established by the institution. Recipients who do not meet the standards are ineligible for a Cal Grant payment and will not use eligibility during the terms they are ineligible for payment. Cal Grant High School Entitlement Award Eligibility Requirements Who is considered for a High School Entitlement Award Current High school seniors and last year's high school graduates Students who meet the general Cal Grant eligibility requirements Deadline to Apply Deadline is March 2nd of each award year How to Apply Submit a high school GPA to the California Student Aid Commission by March 2nd Complete the FAFSA or CDA by March 2nd Create an account at WebGrants for Students after you submit your FAFSA or CDA for your award status Once you submit your completed FAFSA/CDA and high school GPA you will be considered for the appropriate Cal Grant award based on GPA, financial need and university/college of attendance. Cal Grant A - Eligibility Requirement For low to middle income students Must have a minimum high school GPA of 3.00 Must have minimum need of $7,242 May be used for an academic program that is 2-4 years in length Can only be used for tuition and fees If awarded at a California Community College, will be held in reserved up to two years until student transfers to a tuition charging institution Cal Grant B - Eligibility Requirement For low income students Must have a minimum high school GPA of 2.00 Must have minimum need of $700 May be used for an academic program that is at least 1 year in length Includes an additional annual Access Award amount (living expenses) Sophomore through Senior years the student will receive the tuition award fees plus Access Award at tuition charging institution Cal Grant Transfer Entitlement Award Eligibility Requirements Who is considered for a Transfer Entitlement Award Student who plan to transfer directly from a CA Community College to a 4-year University that offers a bachelor degree in the award year. There cannot be a gap in enrollment between attendance at the California Community college and the 4-Year University Students who are under the age of 28 by December 31 of the award year Students who meet the general Cal Grant eligibility requirements Student who graduated from CA high school after Jun 30, 2000 and were California residents (or if you applied through the Dream Act application, living in California) at the time of high school graduation OR Students that did not graduate from high school, but were a California resident on their 18th birthday (if you applied through the Dream Act application, living in California) on their 18th birthday Deadline to Apply Deadline is March 2nd of each award year How to Apply Complete a FAFSA or CDA by March 2nd Submit a CA Community College GPA based on 24 completed units to the California Student Aid Commission by March 2nd Once you are preliminarily awarded you must complete a Transfer Entitlement Certification form at WebGrants for Students Once you submit your completed FAFSA or CDA and CA Community College GPA you will be considered for the appropriate Cal Grant awarded based on GPA, financial need and university /college of attendance. Cal Grant A - Eligibility Requirement For low to middle income students Must have a minimum CA Community College GPA of 2.40 Must have minimum need of $7,242 May be used for an academic program that is 2-4 years in length Can only be used for tuition and fees Cal Grant B - Eligibility Requirement For low income students Must have a minimum CA Community College GPA of 2.40 Must have minimum need of $700 May be used for an academic program that is at least 1 year in length Includes an additional annual Access Award amount (living expenses) Sophomore through Senior years the student will receive the tuition award fees plus Access Award at tuition charging institution Cal Grant Competitive Awards Eligibility Requirements Who is considered for a Transfer Entitlement Award Student who are no awarded a Cal Grant Entitlement award. Student who meets the general Cal Grant eligibility requirements. Students who complete the FAFSA . Deadline to Apply CA Community College, CSU, UC or eligible Private College Students March 2nd. CA Community College Students Only September 2nd. How to Apply Complete a FAFSA by the stated deadline. Submit a verified GPA to the California Student Aid Commission by the stated deadline. This is a competitive award and limited to 25,750 awards each academic year. Students who are awarded a competitive award must claim their awards electronically using WebGrants for Students. Students are selected for this award based on information from their FAFSA and their GPA. These awards are not currently available to Dream Applicants. Students are scored based on information provided on their FAFSA and their GPA. Scoring components include: GPA, parent education level, access equalizer, student or parent household status, family income and household size. 12,875 competitive awards are offered to students who meet the March 2 filing deadline. 12,875 competitive awards are offered to students who are enrolled at a California Community College for the fall term and have a GPA reported by the September 2 filing deadline. California Community College Students with 12 units or more may qualify for an augmented Cal Grant B Access award. Amount will vary depending upon number of qualifying students. Check with your CCC campus to see if you qualify for the increased Access Award. Cal Grant A - Eligibility Requirement For low to middle income students Must have a minimum GPA of 3.00 Must have minimum need of $7,242 May be used for an academic program that is 2-4 years in length Can only be used for tuition and fees If awarded while attending a California Community College, it will be held in reserved up to two years until student transfer to a 4-year institution Cal Grant B - Eligibility Requirement For low income students Must have a minimum GPA of 2.00 Must have minimum need of $700 May be used for an academic program that is at least 1 year in length Offers an award amount to assist with tuition and fees, also includes an additional annual Access Award amount (living expenses) Sophomore through Senior years the student will receive the tuition award fees plus Access Award at tuition charging institution Cal Grant Award Amount at CSUF Award Type Amount Cal Grant A and B* Fee $5,742 Cal Grant B Access * $1,648 * First-Year Student (Freshmen) recipients of Cal Grant B, are only awarded the Cal Grant B Access. Sophomore through Seniors Cal Grant B recipients are awarded both Tuition and Access. Cal Grant Award Life Time Limits** There is a limit to the number of years you can receive funding. You can check your status on WebGrants for Students to determine your time-frame. Once an eligible student receives a Cal Grant award, he/she can receive the award for up to four years or less. The California Student Aid Commission (CSAC) determines your eligibility limit. ** Remember to maintain your entitlement eligibility for Cal Grant -- all recipients should complete their financial aid application by March 2nd. Awarding Requirement Complete FAFSA or CADAA by March 2nd Financial Aid verification completed, if required California Student Aid Commission Awarded you a Cal Grant Verify your High School Graduation -- Check on WebGrants for Students Transfer Students should complete the G6 Form -- Check on WebGrants for Students CSUF received students Cal Grant information on Roster Meet CSAC eligibility requirements Meet Satisfactory Academic Progress (SAP) Disbursement for Cal Grant Enrollment Status Number of Units Enrolled Percentage of Disbursed Amount Full-Time 12 or more units 100% Three-Quarter-Time 9-11 units 75% Half-Time 6-8 units 50% Less-Than-Half-Time 1-5 units 0% CAL GRANT GPA VERIFICATION INFORMATION This site is maintained by Office of Financial Aid. Last Published 4/8/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact financialaid@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.10 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.