Search | Directories | Reference Tools UW Home > Discover UW > Student Guide UW Bothell Course Descriptions UW Tacoma Course Descriptions Glossary COLLEGE OF EDUCATION COLLEGE OF EDUCATION SPECIAL EDUCATION Detailed course offerings (Time Schedule) are available for Spring Quarter 2022 Summer Quarter 2022 Autumn Quarter 2022 EDSPE 304 Disability and Ableism in Education (3) I&S, DIV Covers the topics of disability and ableism specifically focused on educational contexts. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: EDSPE 304 EDSPE 414 Issues and Trends in Inclusive Early Childhood Education (3) I&S Integrates basic principles and practices of serving young children with disabilities and their families in homes, communities, and early learning programs. Through interactions with readings, videos, peers, and local experts, students examine real-world challenges related to high quality, inclusive experiences for young children and their families. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: EDSPE 414 EDSPE 415 Foundations in Reading and Dyslexia (3) I&S, DIV Roxanne F. Hudson Provides an overview of theoretical foundations of reading and the characteristics, causes, and treatments of dyslexia. Addresses information about the history of dyslexia, perspectives of people with dyslexia, educational policies and laws related to dyslexia, and educational and technological supports for success in reading and writing text. Recommended: either EDSPE 304, or familiarity with children with disabilities from an educational perspective; and either EDPSY 302, or familiarity with the different ways children develop. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: EDSPE 415 EDSPE 422 (dis) Ability, Education, and the Arts (5) VLPA, DIV Cultural perspectives on disability and education, as interpreted through arts-based inquiry. View course details in MyPlan: EDSPE 422 EDSPE 427 Introduction to Applied Behavior Analysis (5) I&S/NW I. SCHWARTZ Presents an introduction to the science of behavior known as applied behavior analysis. Focuses on basic behavioral principles (e.g., reinforcement), defining behaviors, measuring behaviors, effective strategies to teach new skills, and the ethics involved in behavior change programs. Offered: WSp. View course details in MyPlan: EDSPE 427 EDSPE 435 Introduction to Autism Spectrum Disorders (5) I&S, DIV Provides an overview of the characteristics, causes, treatments, and controversies about autism spectrum disorder (ASD). Addresses information about the history of the disorder, assessment strategies, and types of interventions. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: EDSPE 435 EDSPE 460 Early Literary Instruction (3) Covers the theory and educational practices in early literacy including emergent literacy development, risk factors for poor literacy outcomes, methods to promote language needed for literacy, phonemic awareness, word identification. Emphasizes instructional strategies useful in childcare settings, preschools, early intervention, and programs for students with developmental disabilities. View course details in MyPlan: EDSPE 460 EDSPE 499 Undergraduate Research (*) Students developing studies under this rubric should be advised that a report or a paper setting forth the results of their investigations should be regarded as a basic part of the program. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: EDSPE 499 EDSPE 500 Practicum ([1-6]-, max. 20) Practicum in the field under the direction of a faculty member. Prerequisite: enrollment in a special education program, approved plan of study, and permission of the instructor. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: EDSPE 500 EDSPE 501 Foundations of Inclusive Education (3) Selma M Powell, Carly Roberts Provides an overview of the history and legal mandates of special education and implications for inclusive schools. Using a disability studies in education lens, provides an overview of these foundational issues in special education, so teacher candidates understand the complexities of students, families, and schools and can facilitate inclusive, equitable learning experiences for all students. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: EDSPE 501 EDSPE 502 Collaboration: Working with Parents and Professionals (3) Provides students with knowledge and skills for working collaboratively with other professionals, family members, and paraeducators. Focus is on the role of the special educator in forming and sustaining school, family, and community partnerships. View course details in MyPlan: EDSPE 502 EDSPE 503 Classroom Management for Elementary School Educators ([1-3]-, max. 8) Examines how to set up effective classrooms to facilitate learning and the development of social behaviors. Focuses on strategies for effectively managing whole group (classroom) and individual behavior of students in the context of public schools. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: EDSPE 503 EDSPE 504 Special Education and the Law (3) Brown Overview of major state and federal laws affecting the operation and management of special education programs in public schools. Emphasis upon procedural and substantive rights of children with disabling conditions. Offered: jointly with EDLPS 516. View course details in MyPlan: EDSPE 504 EDSPE 505 Curriculum Development of Students with Moderate to Severe Disabilities (4) Addresses issues and practices in the development of appropriate curriculum, accessing the general education curriculum, and meaningful assessment for students with moderate to severe disabilities in educational settings. Topics include: assessing general education curriculum, inclusion, and development of Individualized Educational Plans (IEPs), assessment using environmental strategies, and identifying students' needs for assistive technology. View course details in MyPlan: EDSPE 505 EDSPE 507 Inclusive Instructional Methods for Learners with Extensive Support Needs: Shifts in Paradigms and Practice Part II (4) Carly Roberts Using a disability studies in education lens, provides the knowledge and skills necessary to design, adapt, implement and evaluate instructional plans for students with intellectual and developmental disabilities. Emphasizes strategies for successful and meaningful participation in inclusive environments. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: EDSPE 507 EDSPE 510 Behavioral Measurement and Management in the Classroom (3) Response measurement in the classroom; use of data analysis for instructional decisions and behavior management for children with disabilities. View course details in MyPlan: EDSPE 510 EDSPE 511 Methods of Applied Behavior Analysis Research (3) Scott A Spaulding Characteristics of applied behavior analysis are presented: direct, daily measurement, and the systematic investigation of important variables. Representative studies from various applied situations are discussed in terms of dependent and independent variables, research design, reliability, validity, and data analysis. Prerequisite: EDSPE 571 or equivalent preparation. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: EDSPE 511 EDSPE 513 Assessment and Planning for Inclusive Education (3) Katie Lewis Focuses on the principles, administration, and interpretation of a variety of assessments. Includes opportunities to choose appropriate assessments; administer formal and informal assessments accurately; and interpret assessment results to inform instructional decisions. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: EDSPE 513 EDSPE 514 Fundamentals of Reading and Writing for Students with Disabilities (4) R. HUDSON Emphasis on fundamentals of reading and writing processes, assessment, and instruction for students with disabilities. Helps students apply what is learned to their work with students with disabilities in classrooms. Prerequisite: EDC&I 460. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: EDSPE 514 EDSPE 515 Problems and Issues in Special Education (3, max. 9) Intensive examination of the issues pertinent to special education, such as legislation, interdisciplinary functions, and the role of special education in general education and placement practices. View course details in MyPlan: EDSPE 515 EDSPE 517 Practicum in Research Design and Analysis in Special Education (1-4, max. 24) Critical analysis of current research in special education and related fields serves as background for designing applied research projects. Projects are examined, evaluated, and revised in seminar discussion. Prerequisite: EDPSY 490 and EDSPE 591 or equivalent and permission of instructor. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: EDSPE 517 EDSPE 518 Seminar in Special Education Research (1-4, max. 20) Designed for doctoral students in special education during their first year of residency. Each candidate selects a dissertation problem and submits a proposal. Topics such as the procurement of subjects, the reporting and communication of research findings, and the evaluation of research are stressed. The seminar leads to the evolution of a viable dissertation proposal. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: EDSPE 518 EDSPE 519 Inclusive Instructional Methods for Learners with Extensive Support Needs: Shifts in Paradigms and Practice Part I (3) Carly Roberts Provides students with the knowledge and skills necessary to manage extensive support needs for learners with moderate to severe disabilities. Emphasis on the adaptations necessary for meaningful participation across a variety of environments, as well as collaboration with support staff, related service providers, and families. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: EDSPE 519 EDSPE 520 Seminar in Applied Special Education (1-12, max. 20) Designed for graduate students in special education. Focus on contemporary topics relating to the application of the theoretical constructs to special education. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: EDSPE 520 EDSPE 523 Fundamentals of Math for Children with Disabilities (3) Provides educators with basic elementary math content and techniques for teaching elementary students with disabilities in inclusive settings. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: EDSPE 523 EDSPE 524 Functional Behavioral Assessment (3) Provides a solid foundation in the theory and practice of functional behavioral assessment (FBA). FBA is a required practice under special education law and considered a best practice for students with challenging behavior. View course details in MyPlan: EDSPE 524 EDSPE 525 Autism and Other Social, Communication, and Developmental Disabilities (3) Focuses on the identification, etiology, education, and outcomes of individuals with Autism Spectrum Disorder and related social, communication, and developmental disorders. Offered: SpS, even years. View course details in MyPlan: EDSPE 525 EDSPE 526 Techniques for Instructing Social Behaviors for Elementary Students with Mild Disabilities (3) Provides prospective and practicing teachers with foundational theory and knowledge to select specific techniques to promote social competency in elementary children with mild disabilities. Discusses research related to use of these techniques and interventions. Develops schoolwide, classroom, and individual plans for teaching social skills. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: EDSPE 526 EDSPE 527 Application of Behavioral Principles (3) Presents principles of applied behavior analysis. Focuses on the use of principles in classroom, home, and community settings to influence learning. Emphasis on the use of data collection and progress monitoring the use of principles and outcomes for learning. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: EDSPE 527 EDSPE 528 Inquiry and Methods in Writing Instruction (3) Covers methods of assessment and teaching written composition, spelling, and handwriting to children and youth with, and without, disabilities. Particular attention is given to how to establish a strong writing program in elementary classrooms and how to teach writing strategies. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: EDSPE 528 EDSPE 529 Ethics and Professionalism in Applied Behavior Analysis (5) Examines ethical issues and responsibilities regarding service provision to people with disabilities. Prepares behavior analysts to be ethical and professional practitioners. Prerequisite: enrolled in the ABA program, or permission of the instructor. Offered: S. View course details in MyPlan: EDSPE 529 EDSPE 530 Readings in Applied Behavior Analysis (1/2, max. 20) Provides opportunities to read, discuss, and review core concepts from applied behavior analysis (ABA). Covers the conceptual underpinnings of ABA and discusses examples of application of the principles. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: EDSPE 530 EDSPE 531 Planning Comprehensive Behavioral Interventions (3) Gives special educators the knowledge and skills they need to develop comprehensive behavior plans to address challenging behavior in children with disabilities in their classrooms. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: EDSPE 531 EDSPE 532 A Tiered Approach to Inclusive Education (3) Prepares educators to work in inclusive educational environments. Explores evidence based instructional strategies, discusses ways to use behavior analytic strategies to promote inclusion, and explores strategies to collaborate with general education teachers. Students also learn how to write high-quality Individualized Education Plans. View course details in MyPlan: EDSPE 532 EDSPE 533 Concepts and Principles in Applied Behavior Analysis - A (3) Teaches students to act and think as behavior analysts. Explores basic principles, procedures, and terminology of applied behavior analysis. Prerequisite: students must be enrolled in the ABA program or have permission of the instructor. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: EDSPE 533 EDSPE 534 Concepts and Principles in Applied Behavior Analysis - B (3) Trains students to act and think as behavior analysts. Explores basic principles and procedures of applied behavior analysis. Prerequisite: students must be enrolled in the ABA program or have permission of the instructor. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: EDSPE 534 EDSPE 535 History and Philosophy of Applied Behavior Analysis (3) Theory and philosophy of applied behavior analysis, including historical perspectives. How radical behaviorism serves as the philosophy of behavior analysis. Also, how applied behavior analysis serves as the applied science of behavior analysis. Prerequisite: either enrollment in the ABA program, or permission of instructor. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: EDSPE 535 EDSPE 536 Assessment in Applied Behavior Analysis A (3) Addresses concepts of behavioral assessment in the classroom and applied settings. Topics include the rationale for using different types of indirect and direct assessment methods, understanding assessment application and interpretation, and current barriers and recommendations for striving toward culturally responsive assessments. Students learn to conduct behavioral assessments and analyze assessment results in order to create a treatment plan. Prerequisite: either enrollment in the ABA program, or permission of instructor. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: EDSPE 536 EDSPE 537 Assessment in Applied Behavior Analysis B (3) Provides an overview of functional behavior assessment (FBA) of behaviors targeted for decrease using applied behavior analysis. Emphasis is placed on identifying the function(s) of behavior and the implementation of FBA procedures in applied settings. Provides graduate students with the practical skills needed to assess challenging behavior in order to support all learners in school, community, clinic and home settings. Prerequisite: either enrollment in the ABA program, or permission of instructor. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: EDSPE 537 EDSPE 539 Ethics and Professionalism in Applied Behavior Analysis A (3) Examines ethical issues and responsibilities regarding service provision to people with disabilities. Prepares behavior analysts to be ethical and professional practitioners. First in a two-quarter sequence. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: EDSPE 539 EDSPE 540 Fieldwork Seminar (1-2, max. 16) Provides an opportunity for self-evaluation and reflection on practice as well as assist students with working with children with disabilities and their families in the field. Linked to a required fieldwork experience in a special education setting. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: EDSPE 540 EDSPE 541 Education of Children with Behavior Disorders (3) Introductory course covering characteristics of and educational practices for children with emotional/behavioral disabilities. Reviews theory, definitional issues, models, assessment, and instructional methods for educating children with emotional and behavioral disorders. Students develop a working knowledge of educational approaches for teaching students with emotional/behavioral disabilities. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: EDSPE 541 EDSPE 542 Advanced Single Case Research Methodology (3) Ilene S Schwartz, Angel Fettig, Scott A Spaulding Covers advanced topics in single-case research methods, including measurement, analysis, and synthesis. Centers around critical analysis, discussion, and synthesis of single-case research. Prerequisite: EDSPE 511 and EDPSY 490, or equivalent; recommended: EDSPE 518; EDLPS 525; and EDLPS 526. Offered: W, even years. View course details in MyPlan: EDSPE 542 EDSPE 545 Instructional Modifications for the Education of Children with Mild Disabilities (3) In-depth analysis and application of several modifications of instructional techniques necessary for the education of students with mild disabilities. View course details in MyPlan: EDSPE 545 EDSPE 546 Seminar in Educating Children with Behavior Disorders (3, max. 9) Advanced-level seminars focus on contemporary research topics relating to the effective education of children with serious behavior disorders. Students analyze and review research pertinent to the chosen topics and prepare a scholarly manuscript for dissemination. View course details in MyPlan: EDSPE 546 EDSPE 548 Special Topics in the Education of the Learning Disabled (3, max. 12) In-depth analysis of empirical findings in the specialty of learning disabilities with focus on the synthesis of research findings and their application to the educational environment. A paper suitable for publication required. Prerequisite: course in learning theory, introductory course in learning disabilities, or equivalent preparation. View course details in MyPlan: EDSPE 548 EDSPE 549 Ethics and Professionalism in Applied Behavior Analysis B (3) Examines ethical issues and responsibilities regarding service provision to people with disabilities. Prepares behavior analysts to be ethical and professional practitioners. Second in a two-quarter sequence. Prerequisite: enrolled in the ABA program, or permission of the instructor. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: EDSPE 549 EDSPE 552 Evidence-Based Instructional Strategies in Applied Behavior Analysis (3) Explores a wide variety of behavior change procedures to increase behaviors. Students will utilize behavior analytic concepts to increase behaviors for individuals with disabilities across a wide variety of settings, populations, and target behaviors. Students will also write comprehensive instructional programs across the four stages of learning and make data-based decisions to support behavior change. Prerequisite: students must be enrolled in the ABA program or have permission of the instructor. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: EDSPE 552 EDSPE 553 Supervision in Applied Behavior Analysis (3) Provide students with an overview of supervision within the field of Applied Behavior Analysis. Through readings, discussions, assignments and role plays, students will learn the critical components and importance of high quality behavior analytic supervision. In addition, students will have the opportunity create evidence based supervision plans and practice providing positive and constructive feedback. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: EDSPE 553 EDSPE 554 Behavior Analysts in the Schools (3) Applied behavior analysts work in a number of settings, including public schools. There is a special set of knowledge and skills that behavior analysts must acquire to improve their ability to work collaboratively in schools. Issues around school law, policy, school culture, instruction, school based behavioral assessment and the most effective strategies to collaborate with professionals in public schools will be addressed. Recommended: prior knowledge about ABA. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: EDSPE 554 EDSPE 560 Early Learning in Home, School, and Community (3) Successful early childhood education (birth to age 8) depends upon partnerships with children's families and communities. This course delves deeply into formal and informal learning environments (e.g., home, child care, after school programs) to understand environmental influences on children's development, learning, and well-being and practices and policies that better support family and community engagement and children's positive outcomes. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: EDSPE 560 EDSPE 561 Educational Assessment of Young Children with Special Needs (3) Special standardized and educational measurement and evaluation procedures for use with young children with a variety of disabling conditions. Observation, ecological assessment, and programming strategies are discussed in combination with practical application of the skills within an educational framework. View course details in MyPlan: EDSPE 561 EDSPE 562 Curriculum and Assessment for Young Children with Disabilities (3) Examines recommended practices and meaningful curricula for young children with disabilities. Covers theoretical models an approaches to curricula for preschoolers with disabilities. Includes discussion of definitional issues, theoretical frameworks, curriculum models, and application of recommended instructional and assessment practices within an early childhood educational framework. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: EDSPE 562 EDSPE 563 Collaborating with Families and Educational Teams (4) Meeker Explores issues, theories, models, research, and recommended practices related to family-professional partnerships and collaborative teaming in education. Explores the dynamics of interactions with families and other team members including roles and responsibilities, decision-making, communication, and collaboration. Focuses on families and teaming in special education. Prerequisite: students must be enrolled in the ABA program or have permission of the instructor. Offered: AW. View course details in MyPlan: EDSPE 563 EDSPE 564 Infants and Toddlers with Disabilities and Other Special needs (3) Sandall Examines early intervention policies, programs, and practices for infants and toddlers with disabilities and other special needs. Topics include theoretical, philosophical, and learning and research base for early intervention. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: EDSPE 564 EDSPE 565 Approaches to Early Childhood Education (3, max. 9) Provides an overview of basic early childhood content in math, science, social studies, physical education, and the arts. Includes active exploration and demonstration of ways to adapt and embed these concepts into thematic units and early childhood classroom routines. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: EDSPE 565 EDSPE 566 Theorizing Intersectional (In)Justice: Ableism and Racism In Education (3) Maggie Beneke Explores intersectional social processes that contribute to the construction of disability and race in education and U.S. society. Discusses how children, youth, and families at the intersections of multiple oppressions experience education, as well as how children, youth, and families resist these positionings. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: Sp, even years. View course details in MyPlan: EDSPE 566 EDSPE 571 Measurement in Applied Behavior Analysis (3) Addresses concepts of behavioral measurement and data-based decision making in applied settings. Students learn how to choose behaviors for measurement, write observable and measurable behavior objectives, design discontinuous and continuous measurement systems, graph practical data using an AB design, visually analyze data using proposed decision-making rules, and make data-based decisions about interventions. Prerequisite: enrolled in the ABA program or permission of instructor. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: EDSPE 571 EDSPE 590 Advanced Topics in Applied Behavior Analysis (1-3, max. 20) Focuses on theoretical concepts that are foundational to the science of behavior analysis. Emphasizes core principles foundational to the philosophy of behavior analysis, behavior-analytic interpretations of traditional concepts in behavioral psychology, and key writings in behavior analysis. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: EDSPE 590 EDSPE 599 Independent Studies in Education (*) Independent studies or readings of specialized aspects of education. Registration must be accompanied by a study prospectus endorsed by the appropriate faculty adviser for the work proposed. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: EDSPE 599 EDSPE 600 Independent Study or Research (*-) Registration must be accompanied by a study prospectus endorsed by the appropriate faculty adviser for the work proposed. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: EDSPE 600 EDSPE 601 Internship (1-10, max. 20) Prerequisite: graduate standing and permission based on prearrangement of internship placement and approval by adviser. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: EDSPE 601 Office of the University Registrar registrar@uw.edu Modified: May 30, 2022