Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Scheidt Family Performing Arts Center Grand Opening Weekend Make a Gift Take Your Seat Naming Opportunity Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Scheidt Music Center PreviousNext Take Action Grand Opening Make a Gift Take Your Seat Naming Opportunity Rudi E. Scheidt School of Music Home Music Center Our New Destination for The Arts Is Underway The University of Memphis and the entire Mid-South are eagerly awaiting the completion of the Scheidt Family Performing Arts Center at the Rudi E. Scheidt School of Music. Not only will the Center provide much-needed facilities for School initiatives, but it will also allow us to continue building upon our relationships with other arts programs in the region by hosting many of their performances on our campus. The project's design team, Memphis-based firms Archimania and Fleming Architects, and Chicago-based theater designer Schuler Shook, are nearing completion with an expected opening date of fall 2022. Your Support Will Change The Face Of Music In Memphis The new Scheidt Family Performing Arts Center will be equipped with world-class facilities that can support its role as the largest and most comprehensive school of music in the region. The 82,000-square-foot Music Center boasts state-of-the-art facilities, including a 900+ seat concert hall, expanded stage space, exceptional acoustics, dedicated rehearsal spaces and classrooms and modern music laboratories. The overall goal is to raise $1 million to ensure students move into the new Scheidt Family Music Center with all the resources they need to succeed. A portion of the funding will be used to equip the Scheidt School of Music with the most up-to-date technology and recording equipment that supports advances such as real-time synchrony with musicians from around the world. Gifts will also be used to purchase instruments and create a borrowing program that will give students who cannot afford instruments the ability to borrow one for a limited time. Strike a Chord: Scheidt School of Music Drive for Excellence Matching Grant Fund The Rudi E. Scheidt School of Music recently launched Strike a Chord: Scheidt School of Music Drive for Excellence Fund at the University of Memphis. Together, Susan Arney, Rudi Scheidt Jr., Elkan Scheidt and Helen Gronauer, all children of the late Honey and Rudi E. Scheidt, committed, $500,000 to create a matching fund to secure donations to support students who will be learning and performing in the new Scheidt Family Music Center. For questions about how to be a part of our continued success, please contact Meredith Powers. Make a Gift to the Scheidt Family Performing Arts Center > News & Updates Strike a Chord: Scheidt School of Music Drive for Excellence Fund Launches with Matching Grant The Scheidt Family Commits $500,000 to create a matching fund to secure donations to support students who will be learning and performing in the new Scheidt Family Music Center. Read More > If you love music get ready to sit up, sit back, and sit proudly! The curtain is about to rise on our beautiful new Scheidt Family Music Center on Central Avenue. Celebrate your love of music or surprise family and friends by naming a seat. Read More > Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 5/5/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.