Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Student Support You are here Home About News & Media Temple's Impact Student Support Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Preferred Name Use Pronoun Use and Gender Identity Temple Thought Leaders Housing & Dining Health & Wellness COVID-19: Keeping Our Community Safe & Healthy COVID-19 FAQ Testing & Tracing Vaccines Academics, Tuition & Aid Temple HEERF III Grant Student Housing & On-campus Life Work-life for Faculty & Staff Faculty Teaching Information Return Scenario Planning Temple Community Health Advisory Group University Communication Vaccination Rates and Active COVID-19 Cases at Temple University International Campuses and Programs City Life Philadelphia Visiting Temple Accommodations Dining Options Religious Services Information FAQs Safety Main Campus and Philadelphia Safety FAQ Contact Temple RAVE Temple Guardian App Community Programs and Research University News Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Campus Life Arts and Culture Clubs and Organizations Housing, Dining and OWLcards Parking and Transportation Safety Student Banking Student Centers Wireless, Computers and Phone Academics Advising and Academic Support Courses and Calendars International Students Libraries Registration, Grades and Books Schools and Colleges Health and Wellness Athletics and Fitness Health and Counseling Tuition and Financial Aid Financial Aid Tuition and Billing Careers and Internships Career Center Internships Student Jobs Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees Presidential Search President University Leadership Board of Trustees Updates Past Presidents 2019 State of the University History & Traditions Russell Conwell Temple Traditions Acres of Diamonds Honorary Degrees Past Honorary Degree Recipients Temple Health News & Media Media Mentions Temple University Wallpapers Temple's Impact Career in Charitable Change Fueled by Temple Experiences Advancing Breast Cancer Research Leaders in HIV Research 21st-century Learning Temple Firsts Paving the Way Medical & Community Support Student Support Contact members of Strategic Marketing and Communications Offices Public Information Facts About Temple Faculty & Staff Resources Working at Temple Calendars and Time Off Holiday Schedule Careers at Temple Human Resources Performance and Training Business Services Catering Exception Policy Double Tree Catering/ Conferences Contact Frequently Asked Questions Trademark Licensing Policy Corporate Responsibility Logo and Graphics Guide Guidelines for Trademark Use The Student, Faculty and Staff Guide to Ordering Licensed Temple Products Becoming Licensed Trademark and Licensing FAQ Where to Buy Temple Gear University-approved Hotels Club Quarters DoubleTree Hotel Hilton Garden Inn Hilton Philadelphia at Penn's Landing Loews Hotel Sonesta Philadelphia The Conwell Inn Campus Services Computers, Email and Phones Conferences and Meetings Health Sciences Center Form Main Campus Meeting Space Howard Gittis Student Center Form Documents & Insurance Facilities and Space ID Cards Parking and Transportation Faculty Resources Calendars, Schedules and Grades Courses and Curricula Instructional Resources Faculty Senate and News Research and Grants Finance and Travel Accounting and Budget Employee Banking and Finance Tuition Remission Travel and Expenses Wellness and Safety Fitness and Health Safety and Alerts Campus Development Frequently Asked Questions Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Data Integrity and Data Verification Unit In-scope Materials Quick Reference Guide Rankings Data Overview and Updates Additional Resources Frequently Asked Questions FAQ: Fox School of Business MBA rankings Enterprise Risk Management Key Terms and Definitions Helpline Frequently Asked Questions Resources Compliance With the Four Pillars Who We Are Libraries Charles Library Temple’s students are at the core of all that we do. Our students embody the grit and determination we’re known for. They are resilient when faced with unanticipated change and we are proud of them for acclimating to a new normal and learning environment. Our students’ well-being and education are our top priorities. We’re committed to providing the support and resources they need so everyone can access their classes in all circumstances, stay connected with faculty and peers, and be an integral part of the Temple experience from anywhere, even as the world changes around us. Students have had to face many challenges in recent months. A tuition increase should not be one of them.” Richard Englert, Temple University Chancellor Tuition and Financial Aid Temple remains dedicated to helping make a college education affordable for all. In April 2020, Chancellor Richard M. Englert announced his proposal to freeze base tuition for both in-state and out-of-state students for the 2020–2021 academic year, to help lessen the economic impact COVID-19 has had and help give our students some certainty in uncertain times. The proposal was approved at the university’s May 2020 Board of Trustees meeting. In addition to freezing undergraduate and graduate tuition, the board approved a tuition freeze for Temple’s James E. Beasley School of Law, Lewis Katz School of Medicine and School of Podiatric Medicine. Read the University Announcement Watch CBS3 Philly's Coverage We communicated on May 6 that the Coronavirus Aid, Relief and Economic Security (CARES) Act became available to Temple students who are eligible based on their 2019–2020 Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA). Learn answers to common questions from students about the CARES Act. Read the University Announcement Staying Informed, Safe and Healthy In March 2020, Temple transitioned to remote learning for all students. In a few short weeks, the university adapted to an alternative learning environment to keep classes and coursework on track. As part of this effort, we swiftly created a hub for the university’s COVID-19 updates to serve as a resource for our community. Our Plans for Fall 2020 The university’s COVID-19 resources now emphasize efforts to plan our return to campuses, including how we are looking to the future for the fall term; important information for parents, returning and incoming students, faculty and staff; how our international campuses are responding; and all university communication. In the video below, Sarah Powell, director of emergency management, and Mark Denys, senior director for student and employee health services, review the university’s return plans, including how we’ll safeguard our community’s health. Video Transcript Hello, there. This is Sarah Powell, Director of Emergency Management at Temple University and today I’m joined by Mark Denys, who is the Senior Director for Student and Employee Health Services at Temple. We’re going to be doing an overview for you about the planning effort that is involved in returning to campus operations. So first of all, I want to really share our goals, which is to number one safeguard the health and safety of everyone in our community. The second is that we want to focus on how we safeguard our institution—Temple University. And finally, how do we continue to provide for the mission critical educational practices that we are here to do and provide? The return team is made up of over 150 people, and we have a number of teams that are focused on specific areas of mission continuity, including academic instruction. Operations, student life, business continuity and research. These teams all report up to a team of leads, who report to the Steering Committee and the Steering Committee is actually the same group of people who formed the early Incident Management Team. For the very beginning of this year—in January—when we started to look at the the spread of the global pandemic and what became the global pandemic. Vice President Bill Bergman leads our effort and provides a bridge to the Cabinet and the Office of the President. So the key triggers that I really want to make sure to emphasize for all of you is that everything that we do is going to be determined by the public health situation at the time as well as government guidelines and mandates that we may receive. So the spread of the virus in our local communities is of critical importance and that may change over time. That will continue to require us to adjust what we're doing accordingly. The load on the local health care system as a very important metric that we have to continue to track and those new hospital admissions for COVID-19 can sometimes be a better indicator of community spread than even the new positive cases that are tested in the community. Because a lot of that has to do with the availability Of COVID-19 acute disease testing, of course. The availability and the efficacy of serological testing for antibodies can also provide us additional information and assistance, but that science is not quite there yet. We also are tracking the availability of effective antivirals for COVID-19. The government guidance and mandates provides us with a lot of instruction, really, on what we’re able to do and not do. For example, right now in southeast Pennsylvania, we’re in a red phase. And we are not permitted to do any in person instruction under a red phase, though we have been recently permitted to do some clinical work for our students in the medical school and other allied health professions. We are hoping in the next week or so to move into a yellow phase, which will give us more permission for some of our activity and then hopefully, we will enter into a green phase in short order. So I’m going to pass this to Mark Denys to talk about our public health pillars. Mark Denys: Thank you, Sarah. So you’re going to hear throughout this presentation about many different scenarios for returning back to campus. There’s going to be four main themes that will be follow through, no matter what scenario we find ourselves in. None of these should be a surprise to anyone. They’ve been things that have been in the news for the last several months as we’ve gone our way through this pandemic. The first of those is face coverings. Wearing masks. Masks will be available to everyone: students, faculty and staff. They will be required to wear them when they’re in public spaces and they can't follow social distancing Also social distancing - and you'll find this throughout the presentation, whether we're talking about academics, talking about building safety, bringing employees back, we are trying to really lower the number of people on campus. Lower the density on campus so that we continue following social distancing everywhere we go. Hand hygiene is critical. Being able to wash your hands or use hand sanitizer anytime that you touch a surface and never touching your face without washing your hands. We’ll be installing hand sanitizer, and all the building lobbies and all the floors of different buildings. Then finally health monitoring everyone needs to make sure that they’re following what their body’s telling them, are they having any of the symptoms of, if they are feeling sick. We want people to stay home. Don’t go to class; don’t come to work. We really need to reduce the possibility of infecting any other people. One of these strategies alone isn’t enough. We really need to use all four of these public health pillars and precautions as a layered approach. And when used in conjunction, we believe we can do things very safely and really reduce the risk throughout campus. There’s additional things we’re going to be doing on campus. The first of those is Covid-19 testing. That situation with testing is changing constantly with more and more testing and supplies becoming available. Our plan is going to involve Temple University Health System. The Philadelphia Public Health Department, the local partners, whether it’s urgent care. Some of the drugstores, as well as doing testing on site, on campus within temple student and employee health. We really feel like we'll be able to do a robust amount of testing so that we can identify any potential spikes in cases. And then be able to isolate and quarantine them quickly so that we can reduce the spread of any possible disease. There are a couple of ways that we do that. Contact tracing. We’re going to be developing our own internal contact tracing unit at Temple for temple employees, faculty, staff, students. So that if anybody tests positive on our campus, we’re going to have our own group of contact tracers to be able to identify anybody that they've come in close contact with. So that we can put them into quarantine and make sure that they don’t infect any other people. This is going to be a very robust system and a robust unit. We’re going to be working in conjunction with the Philadelphia public health department. And utilizing all the technology that we possibly can to make this as safe an environment as we possibly can. Serological testing. As Sarah mentioned, for antibody testing, the science isn’t quite there yet. But again, we’re hoping to learn a lot more in the next month or two before we start coming back to campus in large numbers in August and September, so hopefully the situation with antibody testing will be better by then. Isolation and Quarantine We talked about that with the contact tracing. We’re going to have a number of rooms set aside in housing so that we can isolate any students from the residence halls that become sick. We’ll be able to isolate them so that they reduce the number of people they can potentially infect. Building safety. I’ll talk about some more specifics about that in a second. Travel Restrictions: we’re still in a restricted travel situation and we will be for the foreseeable future. As well as occupancy restrictions. That goes along with a social distancing—really reducing the density on campus so that we can follow social distancing in the safest way we possibly can. So talking a little bit more about some of the building safety protocols will be doing: I mentioned that we can do, we’re going to be installing hand sanitizer in all the lobbies and and all the floors of each building. Those efforts are already underway. Social distancing barriers such as sneeze guards that will be at all the front facing security desks and other registration desks that people are constantly coming towards. Various touchless features—with water fountains, we’re disabling certain features that are high touch areas. [We’re] installing floor decals and other signage to help remind people to wear masks. Stay six feet apart and really all of these health pillars that we’re trying to reinforce with everyone. There’s going to be signage in all the buildings to that effect. Additionally, the ventilation and making sure that our ventilation practices and all our buildings are as efficient as possible as they possibly can be. So that we’re protecting everybody on campus to the greatest of our ability. In addition to that Sarah is going to talk about a few things on the academic front and talk a little bit more about the phases that we’re going into for moving back to campus. Sarah Powell: So once again, thank you so much Mark. I want to just drive home here that the key to our success is going to be this combination of precautions. So using all of these different measures to layer upon each other so that we can enhance our risk mitigation as much as we possibly can. We’ve already really started with phase one and essential employees have come back to campus. We have about 250 essential employees on campus today in our facilities maintenance and housekeeping areas and then we’re in the process right now of very carefully. And with much consideration expanding essential research. So the office and the Vice President for Research has really been doing a fantastic job of very, very carefully, bringing researchers back so that we can continue our essential grant-funded work. Phase three is really the start of summer II. So the summer II session is going to enable us to undertake what we think of as a pilot. We have 25 classes. Almost all of which, 24 of which, are in allied health professions like physical or occupational therapy, and we are permitted by the state to do in person instruction for those allied health programs. So, we will be able to look at a very limited number of buildings, five buildings, with these 25 classes and minimal in person instruction there to really make sure that we layer all of these risk mitigation techniques one upon the other and that we really can learn about the best way to do each one. How do we make sure that there's adequate flow of people in the hallway? What's the safest [strategy] for all of our members of our community? Phase four is when students begin to really return to off campus housing and to repopulate the surrounding neighborhoods August one is the start of most of those leases. And we add that as a target date for our on campus COVID-19 testing site. Finally, phase five is the beginning of our fall semester. And of course, as I mentioned before, we will be guided by what we’re permitted to do by our governor in all of our locations. This is also true of international locations that will also be guided by the governments in those places. So one approach to strategy is to engage in the process of creating scenarios, and scenarios enable us to anchor our planning and really deeply consider all the different variables we could face. You don’t want to have too many scenarios or you get quickly overwhelmed. But these four scenarios are really in line with what we expect to see not just now and not just in fall but possibly over the next 18 months or until that there is an effective vaccine or when there’s an effective vaccine. We also are lining them up now with what we think the government guidelines may or may not be as connected with those different scenarios. So, as you can see on the right hand side here, we're really in a comprehensive remote right now. And what we want to make sure, in the future, is that if we have to return to a comprehensive remote with almost all or nearly every bit of our instruction online. We have it done in a very intentional and planned way. That we’re utilizing the best pedagogical practices for instructional design and we’re really making sure that the quality of that instruction is as high as possible. We do expect to be entering into an essential only phase and that kind of scenario would say that yes, we may still have restrictions in terms of the number of people in a space. But we may at least be able to have the in person classes that have to be conducted in person. For example, laboratory science, Studio Art, Theatre, music—the kinds of things that really can’t be done quite as well remotely as we would like. We may have takeout meals only and it’s questionable right now, whether in an “Essentials Only” we would be able to do any sports or recreation indoors. However, under the governor’s guidelines we would expect to be able to see individual activity outside where there’s increased ventilation. Restricted semester would be an expansion. In fact, [it is] probably our most challenging scenario to plan for. And then finally a “Reasonably Normal” would kind of accord, at least, with the governor’s Green Phase, and even though we can expect to see no mass gatherings of a large size until there’s a COVID-19 vaccine. But we would still see face coverings, more in-person classes and additional recreational sports activity permitted. Scheduling around these kinds of scenarios is incredibly challenging. It’s important to remember that there's actually 603 programs with over 15 - actually 5500 core selections, and believe it or not, 195,000 individual course registrations to deal with. As you can see by the chart on the left, there’s a red H that sort of emerges from that grid. That’s our scheduling grid for all of the courses. And you can see that most people prefer to take their courses between 10 o’clock in the morning and two o’clock in the afternoon, which isn’t very surprising. Because of the sheer number of course selections that we have. It’s very difficult to do a lot of change that grid, but we we will have to do some changes, possibly in the future to make sure that we consider all of the different needs that we might have. Social distancing measures and classrooms is a particularly challenging issue. How do we keep six feet of space between students? And what kinds of classrooms an we even use in this kind of situation? So, for example, a classroom for 90 people may only fit actually 15 people [with social distancing]. Or another classroom that typically fits 40 people we might be able to use for groups of less than 10 and each one of those 10 people may need to stay six feet apart. So how do we consider all of the availability in terms of rooms and space as well as maybe creative ways to use spaces that we aren’t able to use for classroom instruction. We know there could be a small three-person recitation group that meets in a classroom typically for 40. When we’re not able to use that as a as an instruction space in a kind of classical sense. Cleaning and disinfection plays into this situation as well and other technological solutions will always be part of the equation as well. What can we do on Canvas? What can we do on Zoom to enhance the learning experience? How do we mitigate our risk in the most considerate ways? So the academic teams are listed on the left here, teaching and learning. People who are focused on placements and practical things like student teaching. We have folks devoted to considering the issues of enrollments, international students and international travel risk. As well as our clinical practices or programs that have students working in clinical rotations. So we know that experiential learning is a critical part of education and we have to think about how do we prioritize the kinds of things that must be done in person. And make sure that we still maintain that health and safety barometer that we need to. Student life integrates extremely closely with the academic life. In fact, they're really intertwined. Because many of what students have shared with us is that that meaningful, connected experience is really what they gain the most from their college experience and especially their undergraduate time. We need to make sure that we continue the programs, services and activities that the students need while still maintaining health and safety, and that includes things like Disability Resources and Tuttleman counseling, [and] all kinds of different student facing services. Our dean of students, Stephanie Ives, heads up the student life team and she’s very focused also on how do we promote safe and compliance student behavior which is going to be such an important and vital aspect of everything we do. Mark’s going to share what we're doing in terms of housing now. Mark Denys: So with our housing, some of the same themes we’ve been talking about throughout the presentation will follow suit occupy occupancy density is one of the key factors. Fortunately, at Temple, most of our residence halls have apartment or suite style rooms. We only have two residence halls that have communal bathrooms. In consultation with the CDC, as well as other organizations, the communal bathrooms are really the area to address. They’ve suggested in recommendations that places lower the density to lower the use of those communal bathrooms. So in our residence halls, Johnson and Hardwick, [we] will be moving towards single room only in those two halls in order to lower the density and to maintain things as safely as possible. We’re also going to be having a bank of rooms so that we can isolate any students that get sick. So if they're in the residence halls, and they get sick, we will be able to move them into a different location to avoid them getting anybody close to them or their roommates sick. This will be done in conjunction with our contact tracing unit to make sure that we’re making sure everybody is safe as they possibly can. There’s also going to be a procedure for any vulnerable population to identify the risk that they have. And make sure that they can get single room housing as well. So for anybody that is in a high risk category, we want to make sure that we're protecting them, the most vulnerable, [every way] that we possibly can. Grab and Go dining. As of right now, that is the plan—to have grab and go dining available through Aramark. These are all the different risk mitigation strategies that we're going to be using within housing. There is a large education component as well, just to make sure that we’re really hammering home the four pillars of health, to make sure everybody’s following all of those pillars throughout their experience in housing. Room selection has been live since April 1 so there are some challenges, but some people that are already currently in double rooms. So we’re going to be working through that process throughout the summer to make sure that everybody has the appropriate housing that they need. I’ll talk a little bit about our workforce and some of the things that we’ve learned with the people, the essential employees, that have been on campus. As Sarah mentioned earlier, we’ve had about 250 on campus. We’re bringing on additional essential employees. And then once Philadelphia does move into the yellow phase, we're planning on bringing more employees onto campus, but we need to make sure that we're doing this in a very safe, regimented manner with certain criteria being met, so that we can make sure everyone is safe, is as safe as possible, when they come back. There’s still going to continue to be a combination of working in person and working remotely. Those who are working remotely and working effectively may continue to do so. Those who really need to be on campus and can perform their jobs better on campus—they may be coming onto campus. You know there are some folks that are essential that have to be here on campus. There’s going to be a combination of some maybe there are campus, one day, but the remote another day. It’s really being flexible, making sure that we lower the density in our offices in our buildings so that we can follow the six feet of social distancing and really make sure that we can continue to perform the high quality work that everybody does here at Temple. It’s going to be different. Coming back to temple in the fall is going to look different. It’s going to be evolving and it’s going to be changing but we believe that we can bring folks back to campus in a very solid safe and responsible manner. Sarah Powell: What are the things that we have long recognized with anything in public health is that a robust social marketing campaign often has to accompany a desire to change behavior. And so we’re really working hard on developing a universitywide campaign that’s focused on communication and education. More importantly, to help foster compliance with our public health measures and emphasize our communal responsibility to one another. When we wear a face covering, we’re doing it, not for ourselves and our own protection, but for the protection of others—from us, especially if we have the potential to be asymptomatic and not even be aware that we are sick. So this emphasis on our personal responsibility and a responsibility to larger temple community is a very, very important part of what we’re doing and how we hope to fight COVID-19 together. While continuing to achieve our goals and education research work and our service to this community. I really believe, and Mark really believes, and the whole planning team believes [that] we are capable of doing this and we look forward to seeing At least a portion of our of our community on campus this fall, and certainly into the future months. Thank you so much, and I hope that we are able to talk again soon. https://www.temple.edu/coronavirus Planning a Safe Return Learn more about how Temple is planning a safe and thoughtful return to our campuses. Learn more about the university's response to the COVID-19 pandemic. Staying Connected In the days following our shift to online learning, our social media channels facilitated questions and answers from students about the pandemic and our current operations. At this time, you can find in our Instagram highlights all of our posts that respond to these questions, titled “COVID-19.” Visit Temple's Instagram Resources and Services Although university operations have moved online, many of Temple’s student support services remain active. Cherry Pantry, our food pantry that provides emergency food for students, continues to operate in the Temple University Police Substation. Tuttleman Counseling Services offers online counseling for students to help them navigate through the impact of COVID-19. Temple’s Career Center offers resources and guidance on searching for job opportunities remotely. Temple Made Day Class of 2020 Over the past few months, our commitment to honoring and acknowledging our graduating class’s accomplishments remained a top priority. The Temple Made Day Class of 2020 website, which launched on May 7, 2020, is a celebration of our students—all members of our largest class in history—and how proud we are for their hard work, achievements and determination throughout their time here. Temple Made Day features video messages of support and empowerment submitted by notable alumni, faculty, family members, classmates and the graduates themselves. We can’t wait to see what they do as new alumni. Read and watch local and national coverage of Temple Made Day. 6ABC Action News NBC 10 Philadelphia BET Virtual Experiences for Future Owls We want to stay connected with our future Owls no matter where they are. In March 2020, we launched our Virtual Visit so prospective students can explore life at Temple and learn more about the university and our undergraduate admissions process—even when they can’t be on campus. These innovative resources feature information sessions with our admissions team and provide an in-depth look at Main Campus. Watch our virtual information sessions and join our virtual tour. Information Sessions Tour Student Experiences Learn how our graduating students faced the challenges presented to them head-on, created new opportunities for themselves and kept their eyes on the horizon in otherwise difficult situations. Brooke Mead ’20 Boyer College of Music and Dance Brooke Mead thought she might never get to perform her final viola performance. Then the Philadelphia Orchestra came calling. Read the Associated Press Article Megan Platt ’20 Klein College of Media and Communication Megan Platt is one of many Class of 2020 graduates seeking to celebrate their academic accomplishments in a newly digital world. Watch NBC Philadelphia Coverage Mikayla Riddick ’20 College of Liberal Arts Mikayla Riddick, who is a member of the university’s ROTC program, is staying resilient in light of the changes she experienced during her final semester. Read the CBS3 Philly Article Angelica Van Houten ’20 Klein College of Media and Communication In an increasingly uncertain world, Temple University students have found new and innovative ways to celebrate their many accomplishments—even if that means a party in the backyard. Read the 6ABC Article Medical and Community Support Learn more about Temple’s medical and community support efforts. Medical Support Temple’s Impact News and Media Home Go back to AboutMore in Temple's Impact Career in Charitable Change Fueled by Temple Experiences Advancing Breast Cancer Research Leaders in HIV Research 21st-century Learning Temple Firsts Paving the Way Medical & Community Support Student Support Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community.