Skip to main content Restrict my search to Police Department Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search University of Houston Police Department About UHPD General Information History of UHPD UHPD Strategic Vision Become a Police Officer Clery Campus Security Authority Am I a CSA? My Responsibility Get More Info Make a Report FAQs APPLY ONLINE Records & Reports Report a Crime Daily Crime Log Annual Security and Fire Safety Report File a Complaint Give a Compliment Hazard Report Safety & Security Staying Safe Crime Prevention Crime Prevention Services How You Can Prevent Crime Crime Prevention Tips Operation ID Vehicle Accidents Duty to Give Info and Render Aid Crash Involving Damage to a Vehicle Striking an Unattended Vehicle Striking a Fixture or Landscaping Immediate Reporting Police Investigation Resources Sensitive Crimes Violent Incidents Sexual Assault Sex Offender Registry Domestic Violence Hate Crimes Harassment Identity Theft Active Shooter Active Shooter Defined Avoid Lockdown & Deny Alert & Notify Defend & Counter Police Intervention Resources Bomb Threats Explosions Shelter In Place Office Security Community Services Security Escort Blue Light Emergency Phones Camera Network Lost and Found Bike Registration Special Events Money Transfers Policies & Training Campus Carry Policy FAQs Secure Storage Process Senate Bill 4 Racial Profiling Police In-Service Training Civil Protests Contact UHPD UH Home Police Department About UHPD FAQ Police Department About UHPD History Become a UHPD Police Officer Campus Security Authority FAQ APPLY ONLINE Records and Reports Safety & Security Community Services Policies & Training Contact UHPD Contact UHPD 4051 Wheeler Ave. Houston, TX 77204-6191 (713) 743-3333 or 911 from a campus phone non-emergency email police@uh.edu Frequently Asked Questions If you don't find to your question here contact us directly at 713-743-3333 or email police@uh.edu. For questions about campus carry, please visit our Campus Carry - SB11 Frequently Asked Questions. What do I do if I receive a citation? There are a few different forms of citations that you may recieve on campus. If you receive: UH Parking or Traffic Citation - If you receive a citation you can either pay the citation fee or appeal the citation within 21 calendar days of issuance. Warning Citation - the officer, and your copy of the citation, will provide instructions on what you need to do, if anything. Harris County traffic citation - the officer, and your copy of the citation, will indicate if you are required to appear, and where to appear in court for the offense charged. What exactly is the University Police Department's jurisdiction? Can you stop somebody off campus? The primary jurisdiction of a peace officer commissioned under the Texas Education Code includes all counties in which property is owned, leased, rented, or otherwise under the control of the institution of higher education or public technical institute that employs the peace officer. In keeping with our commitment to providing a safe environment for the UH community, you will see our officers enforcing traffic laws on the city streets near campus. What happens to someone who is arrested by UHPD? We maintain a temporary holding facility but not a jail, so an arrestee will only be at our facility for the length of time it takes an officer to do initial investigation and processing. When a person is arrested and charged with a crime, they are generally transported to the Harris County Joint Processing Center. If a person is arrested on warrants from another agency, they will generally be handed over to that agency. Of course, not all arrests are the same. If you have a friend or family member who you know has been arrested by a UHPD officer, give us a call at 713-743-3333, and we will try to provide you with information as to where they are or where they are headed. What are the alcohol rules on campus? Of course state laws will apply; minor in possession, public intoxication, DWI and all other alcohol related laws are actively enforced. Alcohol can not be consumed in public except under specific circumstances outlined in your student handbook. Dorms will also have their own house rules, so make sure you have all applicable information before you imbibe. How do I obtain a copy of a UHPD police or accident report? You can stop by in person, our records division is open 8:00 AM to 5:00 PM Mon-Fri, or call our records division. Make sure you have your case number handy when you stop by. Please keep in mind that if you are seeking information on a case that is active, there may be restrictions on the information we can release. Please also take a look at our section on Vehicle Accidents. I am on campus after hours and forgot my key at home. Will University Police let me into my building and office? Sure thing, but we will need ID, and we'll also need to be able to verify the office is yours. The officer will complete a short report to document the exchange. 4051 Wheeler Ave. Houston, TX 77204-6191 UH Emergency Information Call UHPD: 713-743-3333 Campus Map For Emergencies Dial 911 from a campus phone Non-Emergency email: police@uh.edu Security Escorts Lost and Found Bicycle Registration ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies