Skip to main content Search Cornell Cornell Video Explore Home Browse Recent Trending Playlists Series Speakers Topics Contributors Submit MyPlaylist Play all in MyPlaylist Ask a Question tbd Name Email Address Question Send or cancel × Ask a Question Successful Thanks, ! Your question has been submitted. × Nearest exoplanets could host life Posted on April 9, 2019 By Carl Sagan Institute, Media Relations and News Video Platform Video Management Video Solutions Video Player facebook twitter share interactive transcript request transcript/captions live captions download HD video SD video audio | MyPlaylist start: now end: now reset copy link copy embed X LISA KALTENEGGER: My name's Lisa Kaltenegger. I am the director of the Carl Sagan Institute here at Cornell developing the forensic toolkit to find life in the universe, inside our solar system and outside. We live in this amazing time, where we found a thousand of other planets, planets that don't orbit our own sun, but other suns, other stars that you can see in the night sky. And the next one over after our sun is actually a small red star called Proxima Centauri. And even the next star and only four light years away has a planet that could potentially be like an Earth at the right distance. So it's not too hot and not too cold for there to be liquid surface water. So the big question that arose when looking at this young red sun is whether the harsh UV radiation that it flings out at its planet would actually be detrimental to life starting to evolve there. And what we figured out is when we calculated how much of this harsh UV radiation would make it to the ground on that planet is that it would be worse than currently on Earth. So for you and me, it wouldn't be the best place to be. But it's less than it was on a young Earth. And on a young Earth, we had life. So the chances to finding life close to us, around the closest stars that happen to be red young suns, is much greater now. And so our quest to figure out whether we're alone in the universe just got a tiny bit easier. Transcript Request Form Name Email Address Disability Accommodation? Disability Accommodation? Yes No Affiliation -Select- Faculty Staff Student Alumni Other Send Request Cancel X We've received your request You will be notified by email when the transcript and captions are available. The process may take up to 5 business days. Please contact cornellcast@cornell.edu if you have any questions about this request. Lisa Kaltenegger, director of Cornell University's Carl Sagan Institute, describes research offering new hope for finding life on some of the closest exoplanets. Speakers Lisa Kaltenegger More About astronomy planetary science space exploration exoplanets What to watch next 2:24 MyPlaylist Cornell postdoc detects possible exoplanet radio emission 1:06 MyPlaylist Earth visible from distant exoplanets 24:34 MyPlaylist Bill Borucki on the Kepler mission surprise me Subscribe Submit Content Contact us RSS Cornell on YouTube Give Feedback Name Email Comments Send or cancel × Feedback Thanks for writing. We will be in touch shortly to address any questions, concerns, or technical difficulties you may have. × Schedule of Future Events There are no live broadcasts scheduled. × Email Updates See what's new on CornellCast and find out what's coming up next — and how you can take part. Subscribe to receive weekly CornellCast updates via email. Email address Subscribe or cancel × Subscribe Our hamsters have processed your subscription request and advise that the weekly update messages will contain details on unsubscribing in case you need them. × List Sent Our hamsters have processed your request and advise that a summary has been sent to the email address entered. × RSVP to this Live Event tdb tbd Enter your email below to be notified when this event begins Name Email Address Set reminder for Set reminder for 5 minutes 15 minutes 30 minutes 1 hour 1 day before the event starts. RSVP or cancel × RSVP Successful You should receive an email confirmation shortly. We will send you an email reminder before the show begins. You may request additional reminders for other times if you wish. You can also add this event to a calendar of your choice iCal/Outlook/other Google calendar For iCal, an .ics file will be downloaded to your computer or device. You may need to take additional steps to add the event to your personal calendar. × Settings Let us know your preferences and our accommodating hamsters will snap to it! Autoplay: on off Update or cancel × Follow this tbd tbd Enter your email below to be notified when new related videos become available. Name Email Address Follow or cancel × Thanks for Your Interest You should receive an email confirmation shortly. We will send you an email message when new related videos are posted. ×