COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: School Psychology - Postbaccalaureate, Specialist SpecialistSchool Psychology - Postbaccalaureate All Programs College of Applied Studies Intervention Services and Leadership in Education The Specialist in Education (EdS) in school psychology from Wichita State combines classroom learning and real-word experience to prepare you for a high-demand career working with educators and families—to nurture positive outcomes for children in schools. The program has options for both bachelor's and master's degree holders. It offers flexibility through evening, online and hybrid (in person/online) courses. Learn how School Psychology - Postbaccalaureate is the right fit for you. Request Info Start Your Application Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the program Basic admission requirements include: Admission into the WSU Graduate School Official transcripts with undergraduate GPA for the last 60 credit hours Evidence of academic competence The GRE is not required, depending on the applicant's evidence of academic competence. For additional admission details, click on the link below. Admission requirements Curriculum You can enter the 60-credit-hour program after earning your undergraduate degree—and can complete the degree in as little as two years of fulltime study. The 39-credit-hour program is open to student holding a master's degree in a related field. For full (professional) Kansas School Specialist Licensure in Psychology, students must apply for a professional school license, register for a four-credit-hour post-EdS internship, and complete the full-time, one-year internship in a public school. View the curriculum Careers A graduate degree from Wichita State's College of Applied Studies will give you the knowledge, skills and confidence to make a positive impact in the classroom—and on your career. Learn more about careers in this field Similar Programs Counseling (Master's) Psychology (Doctorate) Educational Psychology (Master's) Educational Leadership - Educational Psychology (Doctorate) 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©