Skip to main content University of Washington Research Contact Us About Office of Research Announcements UW Home Quick Links MyResearch Project Lifecycle Plan/Propose Plan/Propose Overview Develop Hypothesis/Question Select Funding Source Conduct Literature Search Sponsor Requirements Recruit Team Budget Facilities and Resources Write Proposal Submit Proposal Tools MyResearch SAGE Zipline More Tools Setup Setup Overview Sponsor Requirements Facilities and Resources Financials Subawards Compliance Requirements (Non-Financial) Records and Documentation Methods Collaborations Data Collection Tools MyResearch SAGE Zipline More Tools Manage Manage Overview Financials Compliance Requirements (Non-Financial) Facilities and Resources Collect Data Analyze Data Subawards Award Changes Reporting Tools MyResearch SAGE Zipline More Tools Closeout Closeout Overview Financials Subawards Equipment and Materials Reporting Dissemination of Results Data Sharing Records Retention Tools MyResearch SAGE Zipline More Tools Resources Support Offices Human Subjects Division Office of Animal Welfare Office of Research Central Office of Research Information Services Office of Sponsored Programs Research Units Applied Physics Laboratory Washington National Primate Research Center Browse Forms and Templates Policies, Procedures and Guidance Announcements Glossary FAQs Popular Resources Funding Opportunities Grants Information Memorandum (GIMs) Institutional Facts and Rates Research Stats & Rankings New to UW Research UWFT for the Research Community Tools MyResearch SAGE Zipline More Tools Collaboration Connect to Expertise Find Research Expertise Research Centers and Institutes Resources for Collaboration Interdisciplinary Resources Guidance for NIH Institutional Training Grants Collaborative Proposal Development Resources Establish a Research Center or Institute Shared Research Facilities and Resources Tools MyResearch SAGE Zipline More Tools Compliance Compliance Overview Compliance Training Training Overview Research Training Overview Collaborative for Research Education Required Research Training Research Administration Learning HSD Training and Education MyResearch Training Transcript Featured Story Slideshow Certificate of Confidentiality Update The NEW NIH Certificate of Confidentiality (CoC) policy broadens the definition of identifiable human subjects data, applies to all active NIH funded research, and has specific requirements for when identifiable data can be shared. Does my research qualify? Delayed Revision of Human Subjects Regulations Federal agencies have delayed implementation of the revised human subjects regulations (the “Common Rule”) until July 19, 2018. Questions? Contact the Human Subjects Division at hsdinfo@uw.edu NIH Changes: January 2018 FORMS-E Application Package with New Human Subjects / Clinical Trial Form Broader NIH definition of Clinical Trials Clinical Trial Specific Funding Opportunity Announcements Single Institutional Review Board (sIRB) Learn More Research Annual Report FY17 Highlights $1,628,491,114 in sponsored grants and contracts $1,033,812,778 federal funding $594,678,336 non-federal funding 5,174 awards Stats and Rankings MyResearch Training Transcript Need to confirm that you have completed a required training, or whether or not it has expired? Visit MyResearch Training Transcript – your resource for institutional research-required training records. View transcript Research Annual Report FY18 Highlights $1,350,758,513 in sponsored grants and contracts $1,035,012,267 federal funding $315,746,246 non-federal funding 5,367 grants;186 grants over $1m View FY18 Annual Report SAGE Budget Sync Sync your SAGE Budget to Grant Runner RR Detailed Budget Read More Partial Government Shutdown Lifted until February 15, 2019 We will continue to share guidance and resources from Affected Agencies as we receive them. Learn More The Revised Common Rule The human subjects regulations that govern most UW human subjects research have been revised as of January 21, 2019. See HSD’s Revised Common Rule webpage for details and resources. Revised Common Rule New Video Resource Learn about MyResearch in a new 4-minute introduction to the portal. Welcome to MyResearch Governor Signs Bill Reducing Burden of Higher Ed Records Research Governor Inslee signed bill SB 5786 that removes redundant state requirements about human subjects records research already protected by federal regulations. This reduces significant burden to research teams! HSD Director Karen Moe has worked for years in support of this bill, which takes effect on July 28, 2019. Congrats Karen! Time to renew your Faculty Grants Management Training? The newly redesigned online refresher highlights recent changes in research administration and policy. View your completed record in MyResearch Training Transcript. Visit FGM Information Guidance for Foreign Interests in Sponsored Programs Our newly published webpage, “Foreign Interests in Sponsored Programs” provides guidance and resources from our federal sponsors on this important and timely issue. We will be posting new information as it becomes available. Visit Foreign Influence on Sponsored Programs Search is Here! The MyResearch Search Alpha feature has been released. Search across the MyResearch portal for applications, awards, non-award agreements and training transcripts. Learn more New! Certificate in Research Administration We enthusiastically announce the launch of the new Certificate in Research Administration! This certificate provides coursework on research administration practices, policies and procedures, and supports UW learners in forging career pathways. Learn More Shared Research Facilities and Resources The Shared Research Facilities and Resources webpage offers an index of resources that include essential services, advanced instrumentation, and technical expertise needed for cutting-edge research. Do you have equipment, facilities or research that are available to the UW community? Contact Us! Visit Site Mitigating Impacts to Research Activities Due to COVID-19 -Research operations should continue, see guidance -Some human subjects research has been temporarily halted (see HSD COVID-19 page) -OSP & HSD standing by to facilitate SARS-CoV-2 & COVID-19 proposals Visit Page THANK YOU RESEARCH COMMUNITY The Office of Sponsored Programs recorded a heartfelt thank you for our research community. Watch the Video Redesigned SAGE Budget The newly redesigned SAGE Budget is here! Create and manage your budgets using a more streamlined, efficient, and intuitive design. View Design Highlights Research Guidance During COVID-19 Research is a CORE function of the UW. Keep up-to-date on research guidance and resources during Phase 2 of the Governor’s “Return to Work” plan. Mitigating Impacts to Research Due to COVID-19 Guidance for Returning to In-Person Research Research Administrator Day September 25 In a top ranked organization with over $1.6 Billion in research funding, our staff are required to have a high level of knowledge, expertise and training to keep up with complex requirements along with a heavy workload. Thanks to our outstanding Research Administrators at the University of Washington! October is National Biosafety Month National Biosafety Month is a perfect time to refocus your attention on all biosafety policies, practices and procedures. Investigators and lab managers should raise biosafety awareness, and discuss the importance of safety. The focus of EH&S is to promote a culture of safety! Read More October is Cybersecurity Awareness Month Develop or expand your cyber awareness toolkit with information and training from the Office of the Chief Information Security Officer. Cybersecurity Awareness New to UW Research? Welcome! Whether you are starting out in your first position as a primary investigator, an experienced investigator new to the UW, or research administrator, our New to UW Research webpage will help you find the resources you need. More Info New Zipline Resources & Improvements for Human Subjects Research More Zipline help text; short instructional videos; improvements & additions to the Researcher Guide How to request department administrator access to the department’s IRB applications The Strength of the UW Research Enterprise in FY2020 $1,631,239,212 in sponsored grants and contracts (up ~3.3%) $1,231,532,044 federal funding (up~.62%) $399,707,168 non-federal funding (up ~12.6%) 5,506 Awards (up .22%) New! Foreign Influence and Sponsored Research Video & FAQs New Foreign Influence and Sponsored Research Video and FAQs provide guidance for researchers engaged in international research collaborations. Watch and review Q&A from subject matter experts. Watch Video Review the FAQs Commemorating Juneteenth: A Celebration of Freedom On June 19, 1865, Union General Granger informed the enslaved African Americans of their freedom and that the Civil War had ended. This is a day that calls for respectful acknowledgment of our past and a reflection on our future. Let us all do our part to create lasting change. President Cauce Juneteenth Blog SAGE Advance Budget Requests The new SAGE Advance Budget Request process is now available! The new process includes automated eligibility checks, online approvals for campus, and a new, more intuitive design. View More Details HSD - Revisions to Restrictions COVID-related restrictions on human subjects research are significantly revised. Read the Webpage Mari Ostendorf, new UW Vice Provost for Research On September 1, 2021, Mari Ostendorf was named the UW’s fourth Vice Provost for Research September 25th is Research Administrator Day! Honoring our Research Administrators who manage the complexities and sheer workload that support $1.89B in sponsored grants and contracts for FY21. We applaud each and every one! Research Highlights FY21 $1.89B in sponsored grants and contracts $1.45B federal funding $453M non-federal funding 5,452 Awards New Online Training: IRB 101 New to working with the UW IRB? Go through the basics step by step in the new IRB 101 online tutorial, recommended for students and others new to human subjects research. IRB 101 Tutorial New Research Report in the B.I. Portal A new Research Administration Data (RAD) report that allows you to view proposals and awards based on a specific principal investigator (PI) or keyword is now available in the B.I. Portal. Learn More About the Report UW Research Timeline Explore the vast history of the UW from 1852-to 2021. View groundbreaking research accomplishments and fascinating historical highlights such as our first faculty, student body, and graduate in 1876, Clara McCarty. View the Timeline Congratulations to Karen Moe! Former Human Subjects Division Director Karen Moe has been chosen as a recipient of the David B. Thorud Leadership Award. The winners will be honored from 3:30 to 5:30 p.m. on June 9 at the Meany Hall for the Performing Arts. About the Ceremony Be Boundless Enter search text UW Research Menu MyResearch Project Lifecycle Plan/Propose Setup Manage Closeout Resources Collaboration Compliance Training New Faculty Spotlight The UW Welcomes Fred Aguayo to the Department of Construction Management! Professor Aguayo works on developing and evaluating new and sustainable cement-based materials used in concrete and on increasing their application in modern construction practice. Learn more. The UW Welcomes Rotonya M. Carr to the Department of Medicine! Professor Carr’s research seeks to understand how dysregulation of hepatic metabolism promotes liver disease. Her goal is to halt fatty liver diseases at their earliest stage… the stage of hepatic steatosis. Learn more. The UW Welcomes Jorge Marchand to the Department of Chemical Engineering! The goal of the Marchand Lab research is to extend the nucleotide building blocks available in living systems for biosynthesis and use newly expanded metabolism for producing nucleic acids with emergent, programmable function. In applying this technology, my group looks to generate expanded genetic codes for biomanufacturing, develop more next-generation nucleic acids for diagnostics, and program bacteria for biosensing. Learn more. The UW Welcomes Lucia Magis-Weinberg to the Department of Psychology! Prof. Magis-Weinberg’s research focuses on how the digital era has transformed the social and affective developmental tasks of adolescence and on interventions to promote healthy digital habits, particularly in understudied populations in international settings. Learn more. World Leaders in Research The Office of Research invests in the future, enabling research advances to sustain UW’s reputation as a preeminent public university. 7 Nobel Prizes 280 Research Centers 5,452 Awards $1.89B Sponsored Grants and Contracts Stats and Rankings Honors and Awards UW Today Featured Research Announcements May 27, 2022 Two UW Researchers were named to TIME’s 100 most influential people for 2022 May 19, 2022 Invitation to the 25th Undergraduate Research Symposium on May, 20, 2022 May 18, 2022 Current OSP Employment Opportunities May 12, 2022 UW NEWS: Four UW researchers elected to the National Academy of Sciences for 2022 All Announcements UW Today: Featured Research Exciting research is taking place all over campus. Visit UW Today – Research to see what research is being featured. Visit UW Today-Research The UW Research Timeline A look through UW’s vast history of research accomplishments. Research Timeline Vision The Office of Research will create an outstanding climate of support for University of Washington researchers, broadly enabling stellar research advances. About Us University of Washington Office of Research Tools MyResearch SAGE Zipline More Tools OR Support Offices Human Subjects Division (HSD) Office of Animal Welfare (OAW) Office of Research (OR) Office of Research Information Services (ORIS) Office of Sponsored Programs (OSP) OR Research Units Applied Physics Laboratory (APL-UW) WA National Primate Research Center (WaNPRC) Research Partner Offices CoMotion Corporate and Foundation Relations (CFR) Enivronmental Health and Safety (EH&S) Grant and Contract Accounting (GCA) Institute of Translational Health Sciences (ITHS) Management Accounting and Analysis (MAA) Post Award Fiscal Compliance (PAFC) Collaboration Research Expertise Centers and Institutes Interdisciplinary Resources Guidance for NIH Institutional Training Grants Collaborative Proposal Development Resources About Research Fact Sheet Research Annual Report Stats and Rankings Honors and Awards Office of Research Contact Us Manage Subscriptions Gerberding Hall G80 Box 351202 Seattle, WA 98195 Accessibility Jobs Campus Safety My UW Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA