Skip to main content iastate.edu Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons AccessPlus Canvas CyBox CyMail Okta Outlook Workday More Sign Ons... Iowa State University Office of Student Financial Aid Menu Toggle Search Toggle Search Home Types of Aid Scholarships Scholarship Award Code Request (Staff) Grants Federal Work-Study Loans Loan Resources Calculators Deferment and Forbearance Entrance and Exit Counseling Federal Loan Servicers Federal Student Loan Limits Interest Rates and Origination Fees Loan Consolidation Promissory Notes Repayment Tracking Your Loans Cost Cost of Attendance Undergraduate Students: Fall & Spring Graduate Students: Fall & Spring Veterinary Medicine Students Years 1, 2, 3: Fall & Spring Veterinary Medicine Students Year 4: Summer, Fall, & Spring Cost of Attendance Adjustment Veterinary Medicine Cost of Attendance Adjustment 2022-23 Expense Estimator 2021-22 Net Price Calculator FAFSA Completing the FAFSA Verification Tax Filers Non-Tax Filers Verification Document Deadline Policy Verification Forms FAFSA Dependency Independent Appeals FAFSA FSA ID Making Corrections to the FAFSA Special Conditions Student Aid Report (SAR) Student Eligibility Forms Resources About Your Award Letter Calculators Consortium Agreement FAQs Financial Aid Policies Informational Videos Message from the Director Paying Your Bill Satisfactory Academic Progress (SAP) Appealing Financial Aid Suspension SAP for Graduate Students SAP for Undergraduate Students Veterans & Military Students Veterinary Medicine Students Additional Financial Assistance SNAP Benefit Information Withdrawing and Dropping Classes Other Resources Contact Us Site Index Student Employment America Reads/America Counts America Reads/America Counts Contact General Information Information for Educators Information for Prospective Tutors Average Pay Rates Federal Work-Study Work-Study in Workday Student Employee Recognition Student Employee of the Year National Student Employment Week Student Employment Center (SEC) Student Job Board Post a Job Undergraduate Research Assistantships (URA) Student Financial Success National Student Employment Week April 11-15th, 2022 National Student Employment Week is celebrated during the second full week in April every year. Colleges and universities across the country take time to recognize the importance of student employees. Student employees perform invaluable services with enthusiasm, dedication, and initiative. Setting aside a special week to draw the awareness of others, both on and off campus, is the perfect opportunity to show your appreciation. Nearly one-third of Iowa State students work on campus. Studies show that student employment is a powerful tool for students – helping with time management, connection to campus, and development of career readiness skills. We also know they have a huge impact on the work we do on campus. The Office of Financial Aid, in collaboration with campus partners, is excited to share a wide variety of campus-wide events. There will be a lot of prizes and giveaways for those that participate. We look forward to celebrating with you! Workshops for Student Employees Below is a series of workshops designed to help student employees get the most out of their student employment experience. Join experts as they dive in and help you take the next step in your career. The workshops are open to all student employees, regardless of their year in school or major. Registration required for virtual workshops, but walk-ins welcome for the in-person sessions. How to Talk to Employers about Your Part-Time Job – Part-time jobs are incredibly valuable for students but many don’t understand the transferable skills they are gaining that can be applied to most full-time jobs. Learn how to identify these skills, incorporate them into your resume and speak confidently to employers about them. April 11th, 3 PM, Pearson 2157 Led by LAS Career Services Salary Negotiation – Learn effective strategies for negotiating salary when offered a job. April 12th, 4:45 PM, Webex – Register Led by CHS Career Services Transitioning Leadership – Want to be successful as you transition into or out of a role within your organization? Come as a group to find out how to effectively transition your organization. April 13th, 12:00-1:00 PM, Room 3560, Memorial Union Led by Memorial Union Student Engagement Using LinkedIn and Free Headshots – Learn about the importance of and best practices for in-person networking. Also, learn how to effectively use LinkedIn to network and search for jobs. Get tips to set up your profile, get noticed, and more! Join us 30 minutes before or after to have your headshot taken with our professional back drop. You will need to bring your own camera or phone and an ECS Staff Member will take your picture! April 13th, 2:10-3:00 PM, 2004 Black Engineering Led by ECS Career Services Professional Communication and Interview Prep – Learn tips, strategies, and resources available for creating effective communications materials for job and internship seeking and preparing for interviews. April 14th, 11 AM, WebEx – Register Led by Design Career Services Show Me the Money: Student Budgeting Workshop – Creating a budget for your college expenses is a great way to track spending and avoid overborrowing. In this workshop, learn how to maximize your student paycheck and set yourself up for success! April 14th, 1-2 PM, Atanasoff B0029 Led by Office of Student Financial Success Comprehensive Job Search Strategies – Learning different avenues you can take in order to land the job you want after college, regardless of desired career or major. You will also learn what it looks like to make meaningful connections and how you can use those connections to find that perfect job. April 14th, 4-5 PM, Gerdin 2128 Led by Ivy College of Business Career Services Dissecting the Job Offer – Does the thought of leaving the secure confines of Iowa State for the harsh realities of the “real world” intimidate you? Not given much thought to job offers outside the salary figure? Join us for an inside look at the potential benefit package of your first job. Special emphasis will be placed on 401K’s, other retirement savings plans, and the importance of saving at an early age. April 15th, 11:00 AM, Curtiss 0308 Led by College of Agriculture and Life Sciences Career Services Free Trivia Events – with Prizes! The Student Employment Center is hosting online trivia Monday-Thursday of National Student Employment Week! Test your knowledge by logging in daily. Prizes will be given to overall winners and for winners of BONUS questions. Participation is limited, so don’t be late! There will be a separate registration for each day so we can contact you if you are a winner. Monday April 11th, 12 PM Theme: Star Wars Register Tuesday April 12th, 12 PM Theme: TikTok Register Wednesday April 13th, 12 PM Theme: Science Register Thursday April 14th, 12 PM Theme: ISU Athletics Register Free Food! No celebration is complete without food! Stop by and tell us your favorite thing about working while being at Iowa State. Monday, April 11th, 2:00-4:00 PM – Sweet Treats South Library Lawn Sponsored by ISU Dining Wednesday, April 13th, 11:00-2:00 PM – Popcorn Bar Ground Floor of Beardshear Hall Sponsored by Office of Student Financial Aid Friday, April 15th, 8:00 AM-12:00 PM – Coffee and Tea Bar State Gym Lobby Sponsored by Recreation Services Professional Development for Managers of Student Employees We hosted a webinar for managers of student employees at Iowa State. View the recording for tips and tools that can help you as a supervisor elevate the student employment experience from “just a job” to career ready. We also brainstormed ways to celebrate and thank your student employees during National Student Employment Week. View Recording Office of Student Financial Aid Office of Student Financial Aid 0210 Beardshear Hall 515 Morrill Road Ames, IA 50011-2103 Summer 2022 Office Hours Monday-Friday 7:30 am - 4:00 pm Contact Us financialaid@iastate.edu 515-294-2223 phone 515-294-0851 fax Facebook Twitter Instagram Social Media Directory Copyright © 1995 - Iowa State University of Science and Technology All rights reserved. FAFSA: ISU School Code 001869 Financial Aid Code of Conduct Consumer Information Disclosure CyCash Loading... Home Types of Aid ▼ Scholarships ▼ Scholarship Award Code Request (Staff) Grants Federal Work-Study Loans Loan Resources ▼ Calculators Deferment and Forbearance Entrance and Exit Counseling Federal Loan Servicers Federal Student Loan Limits Interest Rates and Origination Fees Loan Consolidation Promissory Notes Repayment Tracking Your Loans Cost ▼ Cost of Attendance ▼ Undergraduate Students: Fall & Spring Graduate Students: Fall & Spring Veterinary Medicine Students Years 1, 2, 3: Fall & Spring Veterinary Medicine Students Year 4: Summer, Fall, & Spring Cost of Attendance Adjustment Veterinary Medicine Cost of Attendance Adjustment 2022-23 Expense Estimator 2021-22 Net Price Calculator FAFSA ▼ Completing the FAFSA Verification ▼ Tax Filers Non-Tax Filers Verification Document Deadline Policy Verification Forms FAFSA Dependency ▼ Independent Appeals FAFSA FSA ID Making Corrections to the FAFSA Special Conditions Student Aid Report (SAR) Student Eligibility Forms Resources ▼ About Your Award Letter Calculators Consortium Agreement FAQs Financial Aid Policies Informational Videos Message from the Director Paying Your Bill Satisfactory Academic Progress (SAP) ▼ Appealing Financial Aid Suspension SAP for Graduate Students SAP for Undergraduate Students Veterans & Military Students Veterinary Medicine Students Additional Financial Assistance ▼ SNAP Benefit Information Withdrawing and Dropping Classes Other Resources Contact Us Site Index Student Employment ▼ America Reads/America Counts ▼ America Reads/America Counts Contact General Information Information for Educators Information for Prospective Tutors Average Pay Rates Federal Work-Study ▼ Work-Study in Workday Student Employee Recognition ▼ Student Employee of the Year National Student Employment Week Student Employment Center (SEC) Student Job Board ▼ Post a Job Undergraduate Research Assistantships (URA) Student Financial Success