COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW President's Budget Advisory Committee Section Menu President's Budget Advisory Committee Budget Committee Roster Budget Advisory Committee Meeting Recaps Budget Committee feedback BAC Survey Idea Generator site Wichita State embraces an inclusive and collaborative budget development process that draws on faculty, staff and student involvement. Because of ongoing state funding challenges, WSU President John Bardo formed the Budget Advisory Committee (BAC), comprised of students, faculty, staff and administrators from across campus and governance committees. Committee meetings begin in January following the release of the Governor’s recommended budget. Meetings continue throughout the spring semester and normally end with the submission of the university’s tuition proposal to the Kansas Board of Regents in May. The committee is charged with four substantial tasks to aid and advise the President’s Executive Team: Suggest budget priorities that are consistent with the institutional strategic plan in the event that there is another reduction in state appropriations. Gather information regarding areas where long-term budget efficiencies might be achieved while increasing effectiveness in achieving strategic goals. Suggest areas that might result in increased income that are consistent with the strategic plan. Communicate regularly with the campus regarding ideas and discussions. For information, contact David Miller, University Budget Director, at david.miller@wichita.edu or 978-5821. 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©