Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Search Type Faculty & Staff Event Featured Profile News Opportunity Resource Student Research Project Videos Search Menu Info for… [Select an Audience] [Select An Audience] Prospective Undergraduate Students Current Undergraduate Students Prospective Graduate Students Current Graduate Students Faculty & Staff Parents Alumni Employers Admissions» Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions Academics» Undergraduate Degree Programs Graduate Degree Programs Online Learning Non-Degree & Special Programs Academic Policies Departments» Applied Physics and Applied Mathematics Biomedical Engineering Chemical Engineering Civil Engineering and Engineering Mechanics Computer Science Earth and Environmental Engineering Electrical Engineering Industrial Engineering and Operations Research Mechanical Engineering Research» Faculty and Research Staff Institutes, Centers & Initiatives Department Research Research Areas Undergraduate Research Opportunities University and School Research Resources Innovation, Design & Entrepreneurship» Student Life» Undergraduate Student Life Graduate Student Life Living in New York City Commencement Student Profiles About» Dean of Columbia Engineering At A Glance Engineering for Humanity Mission & Vision Supporting the Vision History Plan A Visit Board of Visitors Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion People News Columbia Engineering Magazine Strategic Collaborations Get Involved Bulletin Make a Gift Contact Home Research Growing new bone and muscle tissue. Making useful products from waste materials. Securing the power grid. Harnessing the potential of clean energy. Pushing the frontier of artificial intelligence. Columbia Engineering is a school responding to the needs of society and pushing disciplinary frontiers. Our more than 200 faculty members and over 190 research staff are at the forefront of the University's major cross-disciplinary research efforts at the Data Science Institute, the Earth Institute, the Zuckerman Mind Brain Behavior Institute, as well as the Columbia Nano Initiative, and the Precision Medicine Initiative. Our integrated research footprint in upper Manhattan, stretching from Morningside Heights, through our new Manhattanville campus, and up to our Medical Center, increases our ability to advance research that makes an impact. Faculty and Research Staff Our faculty represents leading experts in their fields who are dedicated to teaching, to pushing research frontiers, and to increasing interdisciplinary collaborations across the School and the University. MORE Research Institutes, Centers, and Initiatives Columbia Engineering is at the forefront of many strategic areas of research, from environmental sustainability and the human genome to infrastructure sensors, nanotechnology, and data sciences. Our professors and students collaborate with other leading experts not only within the Columbia research community but also at other world-renowned universities and institutions, bringing together the best minds from myriad disciplines to tackle and solve the most challenging problems in society, technology, the environment, infrastructure, and more. MORE Department Research Each department at Columbia Engineering highlights its own ongoing research projects. MORE Research Areas Our vision—Columbia Engineering for Humanity—sets a bold path for a sustainable, healthy, secure, connected, and creative humanity. It is exemplified by the pioneering work our faculty and students are doing across departments and disciplines, in partnership with sister schools, institutes, government, and industry. MORE Undergraduate Research Opportunities MORE University and School Research Resources MORE ENGINEERING FOR HUMANITY Our vision sets a bold path for a healthy, sustainable, secure, connected, and creative humanity. It is exemplified by the pioneering work our faculty and students are doing across departments and disciplines, in partnership with sister schools, institutes, government, and industry. LEARN MORE 500 W. 120th Street #510 New York, NY 10027 Tel (212) 854-2993 Google Maps Plan a Visit Directory Columbia Engineering Columbia University Privacy Policy Terms of Use Faculty Job Opportunities Make a Gift Contact