Skip to content Columbia University Irving Medical Center Find People Events Faculty and Staff Resources Give Now Search About Us About Us Facts and Figures Explore CUIMC Events Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion at CUIMC Community Development and Alumni Explore CUIMC Leadership and Administration A-Z Listing Affiliated Hospitals Campus Map and Directions Campus Resources Contact CUIMC Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion At CUIMC, we are committed to continuous improvement in providing culturally inclusive medical education and clinical care. Learn About Our Commitment Education Education Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Mailman School of Public Health School of Nursing College of Dental Medicine VP&S Columbia Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons is dedicated to developing the next generation of leaders in medicine Learn About Our Academic Programs Research Research The Louisa Gross Horwitz Prize Columbia Technology Ventures Research Administration Columbia Clinical Innovation Lab Patient Care Patient Care ColumbiaDoctors Children's Health Columbia Primary Care Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Digital Health Services at Columbia Find a Doctor Search for a provider by specialty, expertise, location and insurance. Schedule an appointment online. Find a Doctor News News For the Media Share Your News CUIMC Update CUIMC Celebrates Columbia Medicine Read the latest news stories about CUIMC faculty, research, and events Explore Our News COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Information for Patients COVID-19 Campus Safety for Employees and Students COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students COVID-19 Information and Resources for Clinical Staff COVID-19 Vaccine Information Learn about COVID-19 vaccine availability and requirements for employees and students at CUIMC Get the Latest Information News Search Topics Campus News Research Medical School Public Health Cancer Mental Health Infectious Diseases Neurology Neuroscience Education Heart Health Pediatrics View All Topics Keywords Filter - Any -View External Media NewsView Our News Showing 1 - 10 of 5629 results. CUIMC Update - June 1, 2022 June 1, 2022 View the CUIMC Update, a weekly e-newsletter featuring medical center news and the accomplishments of our faculty, staff, and trainees. Topic CUIMC Update 3 Myths About Celiac Disease May 31, 2022 The nutritionists at Columbia University’s Celiac Disease Center have heard every myth about celiac disease, even from their own patients. Topic Campus News Opioid Use a Hazard for Young Patients Battling Sarcomas Source: U.S. News & World Report May 31, 2022 "These results highlight the need to monitor young patients with sarcoma for post-treatment opioid use,” said author Melissa Beauchemin, assistant professor at Columbia University School of Nursing. Baby-Formula Shortage Worsened by Drop in Breast-Feeding Rates Source: The Wall Street Journal May 29, 2022 The pandemic allowed some mothers to nurse for longer because they were working from home, said Kim Hekimian, an assistant professor of nutrition at Columbia University Irving Medical Center. Hepatitis Outbreak Among Kids: What Parents Should Know May 27, 2022 Health authorities around the world are investigating rare cases of children with severe hepatitis of unknown cause. Mercedes Martinez, MD, explains. Topic Pediatrics Opinion: Why America Doesn’t Know How to Stop School Shootings Source: The Washington Post May 26, 2022 “We really don’t know what works and what doesn’t to keep schools safe from events like Tuesday,” said Charles Branas, a professor of epidemiology at Columbia University. Neighborhood Corner Co-Named Coogan's Way May 26, 2022 Coogan's bar and restaurant, the now-closed beloved fixture in Washington Heights, was celebrated with the co-naming of the corner of Broadway and 169th Street as Coogan's Way. Topic Campus News CUIMC Update - May 26, 2022 May 26, 2022 View the CUIMC Update, a weekly e-newsletter featuring medical center news and the accomplishments of our faculty, staff, and trainees. Topic Campus News What to do while waiting for COVID vaccines for kids under 5 May 26, 2022 It’s still important to protect your children and the people around them to prevent hospitalization and COVID’s worst outcomes. Topic Pediatrics Preeclampsia During Pregnancy: Your Questions Answered May 26, 2022 Preeclampsia, a serious condition that can occur during pregnancy, affects about 5% to 8% of pregnancies in the United States and has been on the rise over the past two decades. Topic Obstetrics-Gynecology Pages 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 … next last Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian About Us Careers News Education Patient Care Research Resources at CUIMC Columbia University Irving Medical Center 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Back to top