Alert By continuing to use this site, you agree to the use of cookies in accordance with our privacy policy. Dismiss Stay Safe The official source of public health information for Syracuse University Skip to Content Toggle menu Search the University Search the University Game Changers Tomorrow's Leaders Real-World Experience Opportunities for All Orange Community Game Changers Tomorrow's Leaders Real-World Experience Opportunities for All Orange Community Home Where Game Changers Rise Developing the Leaders of Tomorrow Developing the Leaders of Tomorrow Our students pursue interdisciplinary academic pathways that deepen knowledge and support discovery, preparing them for any career imaginable. Our history of welcoming military veterans to campus dates back to World War II, and Military Times named us the top private institution in its Best for Vets 2020 rankings. We were ranked third in the nation among Best Colleges for Communication and Journalism by College Factual in 2020. The School of Architecture’s undergraduate program earned a No. 5 ranking from DesignIntelligence in 2020. Nationally Ranked Schools and Programs A perennial leader in public administration, the Maxwell School of Citizenship and Public Affairs’ graduate program earned U.S. News & World Report’s top ranking in 24 of the past 25 years. Our broadcasting, television and film programs are ranked among the top in the world by Variety (2020). Explore Programs First-of-Their-Kind Degree Programs Our undergraduate sport analytics program combines data analysis with math, business and communication skills that ready students for careers in the sport industry. A longtime leader in research, training and advocacy for disability rights and studies, the School of Education has contributed pioneering work in special education that dates back to the civil rights movement. Our interdisciplinary minor in infrastructure, cities and the future is a unique program nationally that combines engineering with public policy, business, design and information science. Driving Innovation and Leadership The award-winning BioInspired Institute brings together chemists, bioengineers, biologists and physicists to address global challenges through innovative research, creating new products and solutions that enhance health and save lives. Blackstone LaunchPad & Techstars at Syracuse University Libraries connects the campus ecosystem with a worldwide network that supports innovators and entrepreneurs. Leveraging these resources, our students have raised $20 million in investments and won $3.3 million in competitions. See Our Impact Providing Real-World Experience Explore Immersive Experiences Creating Opportunities for All Meet Our Community Connecting a Proud Community Get to Know Our Network PopularToggle dropdown Academic Calendar Campus Map Careers Libraries Majors and Minors Visit and Tour A-ZToggle dropdown Academic Departments Schools and Colleges Sitemap Search ContactToggle dropdown Admissions Financial Aid Emergency Contacts Human Resources Make a Gift LoginToggle dropdown MySlice Blackboard SUMail Syracuse University 900 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, NY 13244 Phone: +1.315.443.1870 Like Syracuse on Facebook Follow Syracuse on Twitter Subscribe to Syracuse on YouTube Follow Syracuse on Instagram © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy