Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Menu About About Baylor Baylor Magazine Campus Map Facts and Figures Office of the President Pro Futuris Senior Administration Social Media Academics College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Libraries List of Majors Louise Herrington School of Nursing More Academics Music, School of Office of the Provost Professional Education Research Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science Admissions Campus Visits College Tour goBAYLOR Graduate School Admissions Law School Admissions Professional Education Social Work Admissions Truett Seminary Admissions Undergraduate Admissions Athletics Give Gift & Estate Planning Give Light: The Campaign for Baylor Give Now - Online Giving President's Excellence Fund University Advancement Online Tools Bearweb Canvas E-mail/Outlook Web Access Student Life Quick Links Baylor University Press Center for Global Engagement Coronavirus (COVID-19) Information Diversity & Inclusion Grades and Transcripts Information Technology Services Report It Sexual and Interpersonal Misconduct/Title IX Student Financial Services Honoring the Fallen Lampposts across campus recognize Bears whose who gave all in service to our nation. Learn More Registration Now Open Discover the incredible opportunities and experiences that await you as a Baylor Bear at Orientation and Line Camp. Learn More Christ-Centered Diversity Dean Mazumder and Associate Dean for Diversity and Inclusion, Cindy Wu, explain Christ-centered diversity through scriptures. Learn More Undergraduate Education Baylor's commitment to excellence and a broad range of academic programs offer students the rich traditions and growth opportunities of a large university with the personalized experiences and community of a smaller one. Discover your calling at Baylor. Undergraduate Admissions Affordability Planner Majors Mailing List Visit Baylor Why Baylor Graduate & Professional Education Baylor's nationally ranked graduate and professional education programs equip students to bring inquiry and innovation, informed by a Christian perspective, to bear on real-world concerns as they pursue their call to lead in academia, the boardroom, the medical profession, the lab, and the studio. Graduate School Professional Education Business Law School Social Work Truett Seminary Virtual Tour Gateways For... Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Prospective Faculty & Staff Students Parents News Read More News May 20, 2022 Baylor Regents Extend President Livingstone’s Contract to 2032 WACO, Texas (May 25, 2022) – At its regular May meeting, the Baylor University Board of Regents voted to extend the contract of President Linda A. Livingstone, Ph.D., to 2032 in recognition of her exemplary University and national leadership that has elevated Baylor as a preeminent Christian research university with strengths across the board in academics, research and athletics. Read More May 19, 2022 Baylor friends remember Dr. John Cheng (BA ’91) following Laguna Woods shooting Chances are good that by now, you’ve heard the name “Dr. John Cheng.” The Southern California sports physician died Sunday after literally taking the bullet when a gunman opened fire at an Orange County church. Cheng’s actions almost certainly saved multiple lives. What you may not have heard was that Cheng was a Baylor Bear … Read More May 18, 2022 Summer reading suggestions from Baylor Family authors Looking for some summer reading? Whether your interest is sports, healing racial division, or self-care, we’ve got some recommendations for you — all written by Baylor Bears! First up: The Road to J.O.Y.: Leading with Faith, Playing with Purpose, Leaving a Legacy, by Baylor men’s basketball coach Scott Drew. Drew’s rebuilding of the Baylor program has … Read More May 16, 2022 Baylor Mourns Passing of Retired Music, Religion/Archaeology Faculty Members WACO, Texas (May 16, 2022) – Baylor University is mourning the recent passing of two retired faculty members, Jean Boyd, Ph.D., Emeritus Professor of Musicology in the School of Music, and Bruce C. Cresson, Ph.D., Emeritus Professor of Religion in the College of Arts & Sciences. Read More May 13, 2022 Study business or ministry? This 2022 Baylor MDiv/MBA grad answered, ‘Both.’ Before Connor Griffin (BBA ’18, MBA/MDiv ’22) could drive a car, he had already started a business. He and his brother would push a lawnmower around their neighborhood, earning money by caring for nearby yards. As the son of small business owner, he had entrepreneurship in his blood — but he also felt a call … Read More May 12, 2022 Even cancer couldn’t stop this #BaylorGrad from earning her degree Being 20 years old, away from home at college, and faced with the challenges of a pandemic is hard enough. Now imagine learning that you have cancer and must undergo chemo in the middle of it all. That’s the situation Baylor senior Ellie Kronlokken faced 18 months ago — and yet, this weekend, the Minnesota … Read More May 12, 2022 Baylor Religion Professor Receives Fulbright U.S. Scholar Award to South Korea WACO, Texas (May 12, 2022) – Baylor University Honors College faculty member Candi K. Cann, Ph.D., associate professor of religion in the Baylor Interdisciplinary Core (BIC), has received a Fulbright U.S. Scholar Award to South Korea, a prestigious and competitive fellowship of the Department of State’s Bureau of Educational and Cultural Affairs. Read More May 12, 2022 Baylor to Celebrate More Than 3,000 Graduates at Spring Commencement WACO, Texas (May 12, 2022) – Last spring in the midst of COVID, Baylor University celebrated the Classes of 2020 and 2021 with socially distanced outdoor ceremonies at McLane Stadium. In 2022, Baylor’s spring commencement returns to the Ferrell Center May 13-14. Read More Events See More Events Aug 9 2021 FITWELL for All Spring 2022 (ends 05/30/2022) May 16 2022 Minimester session (ends 06/02/2022) May 30 2022 Memorial Day (University Holiday) Jun 3 2022 Summer Session I (ends 07/08/2022) Jun 16 2022 The Lifespan of a Fact (ends 06/18/2022) Jun 20 2022 Juneteenth - University Holiday Jun 23 2022 Circle Mirror Transformation (ends 06/25/2022) Jul 4 2022 Independence Day - University Holiday About Baylor University Baylor University is a private Christian University and a nationally ranked Research 1 institution. The University provides a vibrant campus community for more than 20,000 students by blending interdisciplinary research with an international reputation for educational excellence and a faculty commitment to teaching and scholarship. Chartered in 1845 by the Republic of Texas through the efforts of Baptist pioneers, Baylor is the oldest continually operating University in Texas. Located in Waco, Baylor welcomes students from all 50 states and more than 90 countries to study a broad range of degrees among its 12 nationally recognized academic divisions. Learn more about Baylor Follow Us General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 About About Baylor Baylor Magazine Campus Map Facts and Figures Office of the President Pro Futuris Senior Administration Social Media Academics College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Libraries List of Majors Louise Herrington School of Nursing More Academics Music, School of Office of the Provost Professional Education Research Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science Admissions Campus Visits College Tour goBAYLOR Graduate School Admissions Law School Admissions Professional Education Social Work Admissions Truett Seminary Admissions Undergraduate Admissions Athletics Give Gift & Estate Planning Give Light: The Campaign for Baylor Give Now - Online Giving President's Excellence Fund University Advancement Online Tools Bearweb Canvas E-mail/Outlook Web Access Student Life Quick Links Baylor University Press Center for Global Engagement Coronavirus (COVID-19) Information Diversity & Inclusion Grades and Transcripts Information Technology Services Report It Sexual and Interpersonal Misconduct/Title IX Student Financial Services