Skip to main content Navigation Academics Admissions Research Locations Student Life Alumni & Giving Athletics Apply Now Health Informatics and Information Management, BS Improve the Quality and Safety of Healthcare Data Program at a Glance Program Bachelor College(s) College of Community Innovation and Education Department(s) Health Mgmt & Informatics 4 Years In State Tuition Out of State Tuition $212.28 per credit hour $748.89 per credit hour Learn more about program tuition and fees. Focus on the Business of Healthcare Through Securing Medical Information The BS in Health Informatics and Information Management (HIIM) prepares you to care for patients by ensuring that medical data is high quality and kept secure. The field provides a link between clinicians, administrators, technology designers, operations, and information technology professionals. You’ll present health information in a meaningful manner and are experts in managing, interpreting, analyzing, auditing, coding and converting health data into statistical information that everyone can use. The work you do will help improve patient outcomes. Throughout your courses, learn about business management, systems analysis, medical coding, and computer applications in healthcare. In addition to medical coding skills, gain an understanding of how to use data analytics to interpret a variety of healthcare scenarios that may be encountered in the workplace. You’ll also have opportunities to interact with industry professionals through workshops and conferences. Plus, the program’s required internship provides you with hands-on experience. Earn your health informatics and information management degree online or on campus, providing you with the convenience and flexibility to learn when and where it works best for you. Health informatics and information management graduates find employment in a variety of settings, including healthcare organizations, consulting firms, government agencies, insurance companies, information technology vendors and pharmaceutical companies. Graduates also find positions in public health departments and other governmental agencies after testing out the industry through our internship program. Others pursue careers in the private industry in marketing, health insurance, and selling health devices and pharmaceuticals. With healthcare changing, new doors are opening as new technologies emerge. And as a HIIM graduate, you’ll be ready to tackle the challenges. Highlights Accredited by the Commission on Accreditation for Health Informatics and Information Management Education. The health informatics and information management program prepares you for industry certification, including the Certified Coding Associate (CCA) exam and the Registered Health Information Administrator (RHIA) exam. In 2019-20, UCF’s HIIM program had an employment rate of 86% within one year of graduation (based on available graduate information). In 2020, 93% of our HIIM students passed the Certified Coding Associate exam. Undergraduate Application Deadlines Freshmen Transfers International Fall May 1 Spring November 1 Summer March 1 Fall July 1 Spring November 1 Summer March 1 Fall March 1 Spring September 1 Summer January 1 Ready to get started? Apply Today Start Your Application Today Ready to get started? Take the next step to save your spot at UCF. 1 Check out your application requirements. See what freshmen and transfer students need to apply. 2 Short on time? You can start your application today and come back later to finish. Apply Today Course Overview Fundamentals of Health Information Technology The origin, evolution and application of health information technology in today's healthcare industry. Health Data Management Health care statistics, data analytics and data usage specific to health informatics and information management will be explored in depth. Medical Terminology A study of the language of medicine and allied health specialties, including word construction, definitions, and application of terms. View All HIIM Courses You’ll Take HIIM Skills You'll Learn Gain the knowledge necessary to gain specialized certifications that improve your resume and career opportunities. Learn highly sought-after skills such as medical coding, patient record database systems, and healthcare finance computer applications Achieve a flexible career path that may take you into hospitals, clinics, physicians’ offices, research and pharmaceutical organizations, insurance companies, public health organizations, and other settings where health information is gathered and used. Career Opportunities Medical Records Manager Privacy Officer Risk Manager Medical Coding Manager Corporate Compliance Officer Data Analysis and Reporting Manager College of Community Innovation and Education News Check out more stories Colleges & Campus Knights Do That Podcast: Best Moments of Season 1 and 2 Theater student Alex Cumming reflects on his favorite moments as his time as host comes to an end. Season three of Knights Do That launches… Colleges & Campus Dean Named for the College of Community Innovation and Education Grant Hayes, interim provost and senior vice chancellor for Academic Affairs at East Carolina University, starts at UCF Aug. 1. Science & Technology New Tool from UCF-led Team Shows Homeowners and Renters the True Cost of Disasters The tool can provide disaster readiness reports for 13.3 million addresses in 196 counties along the Gulf of Mexico — including all of Florida, and… Colleges & Campus Former Foster Care Child, Now Mother of 3 Reaches Goal of Becoming Teacher Recent spring graduate Jeanette Marie Reynoso shares her unlikely path to achieving her dream. Degree Search College of Community Innovation and Education programs Bachelors Health Informatics and Information Management (BS) University of Central Florida Colleges Burnett Honors Arts and Humanities Business Engineering and Computer Science Graduate Studies Health Professions and Sciences Medicine Nursing Optics and Photonics Sciences Undergraduate Studies Hospitality Management × Health Informatics and Information Management (B.S.) may be completed fully online, although not all elective options or program prerequisites may be offered online. Newly admitted students choosing to complete this program exclusively via UCF online classes may enroll with a reduction in campus-based fees. Admission Requirements Separate application to the limited access program must be made directly to the program prior to March 1 for fall admission of the year admission is sought or October 1 for the following year spring admission. UCF application must also be submitted by the program deadline of March 1st for fall and October 1st for spring. Acceptance to UCF is necessary before acceptance to the program can occur. This limited access program is work-intensive and courses include clinical practice in a variety of settings. Due to this it is strongly recommended that students be at least one year post high school prior to applying to the program. Students with concerns or questions should contact the program to schedule an appointment with an advisor. Student must complete all general education, foreign language admissions, and program prerequisites prior to the start of the program. All applicants must have a minimum overall GPA of 2.5 and complete all program prerequisite courses with at least a grade of "C" (2.0) Acceptance to the university does not necessarily constitute admission to the upper division Health Informatics and Information Management program. Degree Requirements Students who are pending Health Informatics and Information Management and are admitted to the program must adopt the most current catalog Students should complete the General Education Program, Foreign Language Admissions and the Common Program Prerequisites Requirements before transferring within the Florida College System or State University System. Students should consult with a departmental advisor The courses designated in sections 1 and 2 below may be taken at a Florida College System institution, and should be completed in the first 60 hours A minimum overall GPA of 2.5 and a minimum grade of "C" (2.0) in prerequisite and major courses is required for admission to, continuation in, and graduation from the Health Informatics and Information Management Program UCF Residency Requirement: 30 hours Online Health Informatics and Information Management, BS Degree Requirements Core Requirements: Advanced Level 66 Total Credits Complete all of the following Complete the following: HSA3423 - Health Law (3) HSA3170 - Health Care Finance (3) HSA4109 - Principles of Healthcare Reimbursement, Insurance, and Managed Care Plans (3) HSA4191 - Fundamentals of Health Information Technology (3) HSC3537 - Medical Terminology (3) HIM4624 - Health Data Management (3) HIM3006 - Foundations of Health Information Management (HIM) (3) HIM3806C - Professional Practice Experience I (3) HIM4816C - Professional Practice Experience II (3) HIM4226C - ICD Diagnosis Coding (5) HIM4256C - Outpatient Procedural Coding and Reimbursement (3) HIM4676 - Professional Development and Issues in Health Information Management (3) HIM4726 - ICD Procedure Coding (3) HIM4838 - Management Affiliation (3) HIM4998 - Internship Orientation HIM3116 - Health Record Organization & Management (3) HIM4344C - Health Information Department Management (4) HIM4508C - Quality Management (3) HIM4656C - Health Information Management Systems (3) Complete at least 1 of the following: HSA4180 - Organization & Management for Health Agencies I (3) MAN3025 - Management of Organizations (3) Earn at least 6 credits from the following types of courses: Electives Grand Total Credits: 66 University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida