Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Center for Information Assurance (CfIA) About Scholarships Competitions Projects CyberSummit CAE Programs People Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Student Success The CfIA provides training and career development services for students and professionals through online and hands-on training and community events, special purpose conferences, and vendor specific training programs Where to find us CfIA is located in the FedEx Institute of Technology on the main UofM campus Hands-on Training The CfIA provides student-centered research environment where both undergraduates and postgraduates get to work on federal-funded projects, cyber defense competitions, along with codebreaking and security challenges PreviousNext Take Action News & Events IT Security Resources Community Outreach CAE POC Home Center for Information Assurance (CfIA) CfIA News Cyber Tigers Guest Speaker - Scott Augenbaum, former FBI Cyber Agent The University of Memphis, The Center for Information Assurance, and the Cyber Tigers welcome Scott Augenbaum by Zoom conference Thursday April 28th at 1pm. He is a former FBI Cyber Agent and now professionally speaks across the country on cyber threats. Cybersecurity Research / Training Workshop Funded by Navy ROTC The University of Memphis, The Center for Information Assurance, and The ROTC Research Students are conducting Cybersecurity Research / Training Workshop on April 23, 2022, from 09:00 AM - 01:00 PM Central Time (U.S. and Canada). The workshop's topic is “The Issues and Topics concerning Operational Cybersecurity.” Please register here in advance for this webinar. After registering, you will receive a confirmation email containing information about joining the webinar. Jack Voltaic Conference Series: Cyber Resiliency for Critical Infrastructure Members of the project team for the Cybersecurity Education in Critical Infrastructure Protection will be participating in a Panel Discussion at the Jack Voltaic Conference Series on Thursday February 24th. The conference is scheduled to be held at The Citadel - Holliday Alumni Center in Charleston, SC. A more detailed itinerary and registration can be found here. Cybersecurity Training Grant Research Opportunities A joint effort of Engineering Technology and Computer Science has been awarded a grant from the Office of Naval Research to build a team for opportunities of existing Undergraduate students capable of effectively conducting research studies in the area of cybersecurity, pairing a variety of skills with organization and leadership. Read More >> 2022-23 DoD Cyber Scholarship Program (CySP) The Department of Defense is seeking rising junior and senior undergraduate (third and fourth year) and graduate/doctoral students who are interested in full-ride scholarships for concentrated studies in information assurance. Students selected for the program will receive full scholarships. This requires the student to agree to serve one year of service to the DoD, upon graduation, for each year of the scholarship received, in addition to the internship ... Read More >> Center for Information Assurance Works to Expand Training Opportunities Under FEMA A FEMA Continuing Training Grant was awarded to the National Cybersecurity Preparedness Consortium of which the University of Memphis is a member. The grant lead is the University of Arkansas Criminal Justice Institute with the University of Memphis as a sub-awardee ($600,000). Dr. James McGinnis (Engineering Technology) and Dr. Dipankar Dasgupta (Computer Science) will lead the grant to develop new cybersecurity .... Read More>> Resilience Week 2021 (October 18-21 Virtual): Transforming the resilience of critical infrastructure systems and communities Dr. Dipankar Dasgupta, Hill Professor in Cybersecurity and Director of the Center for Information Assurance at the University of Memphis, will be a panelist for the workshop on "The National Cybersecurity Workforce Development Program" on Tuesday, October 19th. Registration and more information can be found at the following link ... Read More>> Social Engineering Attacks in Healthcare Systems Presented in NCS Workshop Dr. James McGinnis, Professor of Engineering Technology at the University of Memphis, will be presenting a research paper titled, "Social Engineering Attacks in Healthcare Systems: A Survey", at the 12th Annual National Cyber Summit in Huntsville, Alabama on September 30, 2021. Dr. Dipankar Dasgupta and Navy ROTC students Christopher Nguyen, Walt Williams, Brandon Didlake, and Donte Mitchell were co-authors. The paper can be found in the summits "NCS 2021 (Springer LNNS 310)" publication. Adversarial Defense Research Work Presented in ICML-2021 Workshop Dr. Dipankar Dasgupta, Hill Professor of Cybersecurity at the University of Memphis, and Dr. Kishor Datta Gupta presented their research paper titled, "Who is Responsible for Adversarial Defense", in "Challenges in Deploying and Monitoring ML System" ICML-2021 workshop on July 23rd, 2021. Doctoral degree awarded for CfIA students Two Ph.D. students, Subash Poudyal and Kishor Datta Gupta were awarded the doctoral degree in the 2021 Summer Commencement. Subash is joining Walmart Global Tech as a Senior Risk Specialist of Cybersecurity and Kishor is joining as a PostDoc at North Carolina AT&T University. Read More >> Adversarial Defense Research Work Presented in ICML-2021 Workshop Dr. Dipankar Dasgupta, Hill Professor of Cybersecurity at the University of Memphis, and Dr. Kishor Datta Gupta presented their research paper titled, "Who is Responsible for Adversarial Defense", in "Challenges in Deploying and Monitoring ML System" ICML-2021 workshop on July 23rd, 2021. Southeast CAE Community Forum Dr. Dipankar Dasgupta, Hill Professor of Cybersecurity at the University of Memphis, was a guest speaker at the July 16, 2021 meeting of the Southeast CAE Community Forum. In addition to giving an overview of the current state of cybersecurity, he provided information about research collaboration opportunities. His presentation was entitled "Research-Driven Cybersecurity Education and Training". Cybersecurity Training Grant Research Opportunities A joint effort of Engineering Technology and Computer Science has been awarded a grant from the Office of Naval Research to build a team for opportunities of existing Undergraduate students capable of effectively conducting research studies in the area of cybersecurity, pairing a variety of skills with organization and leadership. Read More >> Cybersecurity Research / Training Workshop Funded by Navy ROTC The University of Memphis, The Center for Information Assurance, and The ROTC Research Students is conducting Cybersecurity Research / Training Workshop on August 10, 2021, from 09:00 AM - 01:00 PM Central Time (US and Canada). The topic of the workshop is “How to stay ahead of emerging threats and gain new tools, guidance, and insight for ways to protect you and your privacy”. Please register here in advance for this webinar. After registering, you will receive a confirmation email containing information about joining the webinar. Cybersecurity Virtual Workshop by CFIA and Navy ROTC The Center of Information Assurance (CFIA) and the Navy ROTC research students will be hosting a virtual workshop for all University of Memphis students on April 17, 2021, from 9:00 AM – 1:00 PM Central Time (US and Canada). Register. Read More >> CS Students Won 1st and 2nd Place in 33rd Annual Student Research Forum Computer science students Mazharul Hossain and Subash Poudyal won first and second place respectively in the 33rd Annual Student Research for the Math and Computer Sciences category. Mazharul's research topic was "Building Indoor Point Cloud Datasets with Object Annotation for Public Safety”. Subash's research topic "Forensic Analysis of Crypto Ransomware using Hybrid Multi-level Profiling Approach" was focused on proposing a novel strategy for malware detection. Cybercriminals are constantly changing their attack strategy and security checkpoints often miss catching them. "It is possible to capture malware even if they bypass one or more checkpoints" says Subash. University of Memphis Celebrates Patents Worldwide The Office of Technology Transfer (OTT) within the Division of Research and Innovation has received several notifications of issued or allowed patents centered on two separate technologies. The first notice was a U.S. patent allowance focused on cybersecurity from the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. Read More >> Cybersecurity Research Training Workshop The University of Memphis and The Center for Information Assurance is conducting Cybersecurity Research / Training Workshop on March 27, 2021, from 09:00 AM - 01:00 PM Central Time (US and Canada). The topic of the workshop is “How to stay ahead of emerging threats and gain new tools, guidance, and insight for ways to protect you and your privacy”. Cybersecurity courses released for online access Two new online courses ("Understanding Social Engineering Attacks" and "Mobile Device Security and Privacy") concerning Cybersecurity have been developed by The Center for Information Assurance at the University of Memphis and are available for access online. These courses are funded by DHS/FEMA and are offered to the public at no charge. Please see the flyer for more details: Understanding Social Engineering Attacks and Mobile Device Security and Privacy 2021 DoD Cyber Scholarship Program (CySP) The Department of Defense is seeking rising junior and senior undergraduate (third and fourth year) and graduate/doctoral students who are interested in full-ride scholarships for concentrated studies in information assurance. Read More >> Cybersecurity paid internship program by NSA and OSBP The National Security Agency (NSA) and Department of Defense’s Office of Small Business Program (OSBP) in partnership with the Maryland Innovation & Security Institute (MISI) and the GBC MISI Academy seek applicants for a 6-week paid internship program in cybersecurity. Read More >> Cybersecurity openings at NSA NSA's Cybersecurity mission is hiring! Read More >> Innovation Award presented to Prof. Dasgupta Prof. Dipankar Dasgupta was recently presented with an innovation award for his work in multi-factor authentication at the INNOVATE IT 2020 Conference. Read More >> Download the CfIA annual report - 2020 (CAE-R) Download the CfIA annual report - 2019 (CAE-CD) Download the CfIA annual report - 2019 (CAE-R) Download the CfIA annual report - 2018 See Previous reports CfIA Flyer See more news Events Thursday April 28,2022 FBI Special Agent - Scott Augenbaum By: The Cyber Tigers, The University of Memphis, and The Center for Information Assurance 1:00pm “Join Zoom Link.” Sat April 23,2022 Cybersecurity Research / Training Workshop By: The University of Memphis and The Center for Information Assurance 9:00am - 1:00pm “The Issues and Topics concerning Operational Cybersecurity.” Friday April 1, 2022 Cybersecurity for Critical Infrastructure Workshop By: The University of Memphis, The Center for Information Assurance 12:00pm - 5:00pm “Workshop/Registration.” Sat March 26 Cybersecurity Research / Training Workshop By: The University of Memphis, The Center for Information Assurance, and The ROTC Research Students 9:00am - 1:00pm “The Issues and Topics concerning Operational Cybersecurity.” Friday March 25, 2022 Smart Grid Security Workshop By: The University of Memphis, The Center for Information Assurance 12:00pm - 5:00pm “Workshop/Registration.” Sat March 19 Cybersecurity Research / Training Workshop By: The University of Memphis, The Center for Information Assurance, and The ROTC Research Students 9:00am - 1:00pm “The Issues and Topics concerning Operational Cybersecurity.” Registration August 23-October 8 NCL Competition Fall 2021 Season The National Cyber League (NCL) is a cybersecurity competition that prepares student for a cyber career. In the NCL games, students work to solve... Read More>> See more events Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 5/25/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.