Skip to main content Main navigation Academics Faculty & Research News & Events Offices & Services About Us Information For Alumni Industry Partners & Recruiters Prospective Students Shortcuts Employment & Jobs Visit Us Make a Gift Search Read the latest updates on coronavirus from Harvard University. For SEAS specific-updates, please visit SEAS & FAS Division of Science: Coronavirus FAQs SearchMenu Academics Bioengineering Graduate Program The lack of departmental boundaries makes bioengineering at the Harvard John A. Paulson School of Engineering and Applied Sciences highly interdisciplinary. Students are free to collaborate and interact closely with other labs, centers and schools across the Harvard engineering and medical campuses. Our mission is to identify and attract the most promising students to form a dynamic and diverse community, and to shape them into visionary scholars, innovative educators, and creative leaders. Within the bioengineering program we focus on bioinspired robotics and computing; biomechanics and motor control; cell and tissue engineering, biomaterials and therapeutics. Graduate education is focused on individualized programs tailored to the interests, needs, and background of the student. Students are integral to the interdisciplinary and integrated approach to design, discovery and innovation. As such, students from diverse technical backgrounds are encouraged and welcomed to join us. Harvard School of Engineering and Applied Sciences offers a Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D) degree in Engineering Sciences: Bioengineering, conferred through the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences. Main navigation Information For In Bioengineering Undergraduate Program First-Year Exploration Undergraduate Engineering at Harvard Concentration Information Concentration Requirements How to Declare Sophomore Forum ABET Information Research Opportunities Senior Thesis Research for Course Credit (ES 91R) AB/SM Information Peer Concentration Advisors (PCA) Program Graduate Program How to Apply PhD Timeline PhD Overview and Requirements PhD Model Program (Course Guidelines) Qualifying Exam Committee Meetings Committee on Higher Degrees (CHD) AB/SM Information Faculty & Research People Courses Clubs & Organizations Centers & Initiatives Alumni Stories Harvard John A. Paulson School of Engineering and Applied Sciences 150 Western Ave, Allston, MA 02134 29 Oxford Street, Cambridge, MA 02138 Footer - Social Media Links Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn © 2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College Footer Diversity Mission Trademark Notice Accessibility Policy Privacy Policy