Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site About U-SoA Philosophy and Mission Statement History of the School Community Outreach Accreditation Give to U-SoA Roadmap Initiative Contact Us News and Events U-SoA Now Newsletter Events Golf 2021 All News Calendar People Academic Leadership Students Faculty Alumni Staff Academics Undergraduate Graduate Design Build Travel Programs U-SoA Rome Summer Programs for High School Students Research Certificates Resources Careers Academic Services Libraries Facilities Labs and Centers Student Affairs International Affairs C.U.C.D. Admissions Admission Requirements Visit U-SoA Financial Aid and Scholarships Registration Tuition and Fees Graduate Assistantships About U-SoA News and Events People Academics Resources Admissions Search Philosophy and Mission History of the School Community Outreach Accreditation Give to U-SoA Roadmap Initiative Contact Us / Directions About U-SoA Philosophy and Mission Statement History of the School Community Outreach Accreditation Give to U-SoA Roadmap Initiative Contact Us News and Events U-SoA Now Newsletter Events Golf 2021 All News Calendar People Academic Leadership Students Faculty Alumni Staff Academics Undergraduate Graduate Design Build Travel Programs U-SoA Rome Summer Programs for High School Students Research Certificates Resources Careers Academic Services Libraries Facilities Labs and Centers Student Affairs International Affairs C.U.C.D. Admissions Admission Requirements Visit U-SoA Financial Aid and Scholarships Registration Tuition and Fees Graduate Assistantships Philosophy and Mission History of the School Community Outreach Accreditation Give to U-SoA Roadmap Initiative Contact Us / Directions Follow us on Social! Instagram Facebook Twitter Home About U-SoA Contact Us / Directions AAA Contact Us | Directions Philosophy and Mission History of the School Community Outreach Accreditation Give to U-SoA Roadmap Initiative Contact Us / Directions Follow us on Social! Instagram Facebook Twitter GET STARTED 1 Request Info 2 Visit 3 Apply GET STARTED 1 Request Info 2 Visit 3 Apply Architecture, Dean’s Office 1223 Dickinson Drive Coral Gables, Florida 33146 Telephone: (305) 284-3731 Fax: (305) 284-2999 relkhoury@miami.edu Administration Rodolphe el-Khoury, PhD Dean & Professor of Architecture and Urbanism (305) 284-5000 relkhoury@miami.edu Carmen Guerrero Associate Dean; Director, Rome Program (305) 284-6134 carmeng@miami.edu Jaime Correa Director of Bachelor of Architecture, Associate Professor in Practice (305) 284-3947 jcorrea@miami.edu Joel Lamere Graduate Programs Director in Architecture (617) 699-2405 jlamere@miami.edu Ana M. Regalado Assistant Dean and Director of Academic Services (305) 284-3730 anaregalado@miami.edu Directions to U-SoA Driving Directions to the School of Architecture and Jorge M. Perez Architecture Center: Take U.S. Highway One (US1) or Ponce de Leon Blvd. into Coral Gables to the intersection of Stanford Drive. Turn onto Stanford Drive and proceed to the Information Booth. Ask for directions to the Pavia Garage on Pavia Street and Levante Avenue where free parking is available after 4 p.m. Walk from Pavia Garage along Merrick Street and Dickinson Drive to the School of Architecture at 1223 Dickinson Drive. MetroRail Station Directions to the School of Architecture and Jorge M. Perez Architecture Center: The Coral Gables Campus is located directly north of the University Metrorail Station. When leaving the University Station, cross Ponce de Leon Blvd and turn right. Turn left onto Merrick Street. Continue straight until you reach Dickinson Drive, turn left. You will see the Perez Architecture Center about 200 yards in front of you. University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 School of Architecture 1223 Dickinson Drive Coral Gables, FL 33146 (305) 284 3731 (305) 284 3731 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices