Skip to main content Clemson University Degrees Home Degree Programs MENU Sports Communication (B.A.) LEARN MORE ABOUT Communication plays an integral part in the sports world, and it is imperative for sports professionals to have a strong communications foundation to be successful and competitive. Clemson’s new sports communication major provides a multifaceted and diverse approach to sports communication through examining areas such as social media, public relations, organizational communication and interpersonal communication. Our students will gain a strong theoretical foundation and will understand why certain messages work, and how to optimize communication in the sports context. During your time in this degree program, you’ll be enabled to develop a customized study that allows you to focus on your areas of interest in addition to providing extensive opportunities to network with people who work in the sports communication industry. FAST FACTS We are one of the first stand-alone sports communication programs in the country. You will have multiple opportunities to create content that can be used to enhance your opportunities for internships and jobs. Through interactions with various sports industry professionals, you'll be able to facilitate relationships and build a personal network. Our students have the incredible opportunity to partner with faculty on research, present this research at academic conferences and see this research published. Our affiliated faculty are some of the most active researchers in sports communication and excel as teachers and enhancing the classroom experience. WHAT YOU'LL STUDY The Bachelor of Arts in sports communication combines rigorous academic study with content creation and industry interaction to provide you with the skills, knowledge, abilities and competencies needed to excel in the sports industry. Our innovative, multi-faceted curriculum will introduce you to the history of sports communication as a field and will explore its growth both in industry and academia. You’ll take survey courses that expose you to a variety of sports communication interest areas which can be supplemented through more specialized courses. We also encourage our students to enhance your classroom learning with internships, which are readily available and that allow you to experience how the concepts taught in class play out in organizational settings. In addition to general education requirements and classes on theory and methods, you’ll take classes like communication, sport and society; survey of sports communication; and advanced sports communication. Double Major This major can work well as a double major with other Bachelor of Arts and Bachelor of Science programs, especially those in business, management and the humanities. Curriculum Sports Communication, B.A. Similar Majors Communication (B.A.) EXPERIENCES BEYOND THE CLASSROOM In addition to connecting with established sports industry professionals, students can research alongside our sports communication faculty members who are leading experts in their field. Study Abroad The more you know of other cultures, the better you can communicate on many levels. Learn More » Creative Inquiry Students can participate in Creative Inquiry projects and work in teams led by a faculty mentor or pursue independent research projects with a faculty adviser. Learn More » Internships Our students have completed internships with sports organizations such as the Atlanta Braves, the U.S. Olympic Committee and NASCAR. Learn More » CONNECT WITH OTHER STUDENTS Tigervision TV Network The Tiger Newspaper Association for Women in Sports Media PRSSA AFTER GRADUATION Your college decision isn't really about the next four years. We get it. It's about what doors are opened by your degree and whether those opportunities are what you had envisioned for yourself. Here's a snapshot of what life after graduation looks like for some of our most recent students. WHERE OUR RECENT GRADUATES HAVE GONE KEY 41-100% 21-40% 11-20% 0-10% RECENT EMPLOYERS Digital/Social Content Producer NCAA Coaches’ Recruiting Assistant Clemson Football Event Operations Coordinator ProCamps Social Media Coordinator Waterhouse Public Relations Producer NASCAR RECENT POSTGRADUATE STUDIES M.A. Communication, Technology and Society Clemson University M.S. Integrated Marketing Communications University of Mississippi M.Ed. Athletic Leadership Clemson University COMMON CAREER AREAS Writing and Editing Public Relations and Advertising Advertising and Marketing Corporate Public Affairs Creative Direction Media and Broadcasting Public Information Program Coordination Internal Communications Social Media Marketing Human Resources Branding and Marketing Education and Student Affairs Used with permission from the University of Tennessee. FIND OUT MORE Have more questions or want more information? Fill out the form below, which goes directly to the following department contact. If you’d also like to receive general University information from Clemson’s admissions office, please follow the link to the right and sign up to join our mailing list. Kaela Gardner Academic Adviser kaelag@clemson.edu Department Website College Website Loading... Department Website College Website Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Line Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2015 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on Google+ Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on YouTube Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram Search Clemson University degrees Clemson Degree Programs Search Alphabetical List Schedule a Visit Campus Life Admissions Costs & Financial Aid Similar Majors To Sports Communication (B.A.) Communication (B.A.)