Request Information Apply Today Advanced Certificate in Bilingual/Bicultural Education Menu Why Teachers College? Application Requirements Visionary Benefactor News & Resources Teachers College, Columbia University Request Information Apply Today Advanced Certificate in Bilingual/Bicultural Education Open Menu Why Teachers College? Application Requirements Visionary Benefactor News & Resources Ed.D. in Dance Education Prepare to lead the next generation in dance education Teachers College is accepting applications for fall 2020 admission. The deadline to apply for fall 2019 is January 5th. Individuals can apply for financial assistance through the Arnhold Fellowship, named for program benefactors Jody Gottfried Arnhold (M.A. ’73) and her husband John. To be considered for a program fellowship, please complete the Scholarship Application located in the Application for Admission. Request Information or Visit Program Website Request Information Loading... Visionary Benefactor Jody Gottfried Arnhold (M.A. ’73) Jody Gottfried Arnhold and her husband John have given $4.365 million to Teachers College to establish an innovative and unique dance education doctoral program. The focus is on preparing master dance educators – the teachers of aspiring dance teachers – along with dance researchers and policy experts who will advance Arnhold’s ultimate goal: making dance education a staple in American public schools. Dance – meaning not just technique, but also improvisation and choreography –fosters “collaboration, creativity, problem-solving, citizenship,” Arnhold says. Beyond its practice by supremely gifted dance artists, she sees dance as a medium for developing understanding of the world, as John Dewey, TC’s iconic philosopher, argued that education must be. “I really believe that (dance) will help foster world peace,” says Arnhold. A graduate of the University of Wisconsin, which offered the nation’s first dance education program, and of Teachers College, where the field of dance education was conceived, Arnhold taught dance in the New York City public schools for 25 years. She has since led a major expansion and improvement of dance instruction in New York. With Joan Finkelstein, she founded 92Y Dance Education Laboratory (DEL), which provides teacher training and professional development. She was Chair of Ballet Hispanico for 15 years and is now Honorary Chair. In 2012, she endowed the Arnhold Graduate Dance Education Program at Hunter College. In 2005, together with Finkelstein (then Director of Dance for the New York City Department of Education) and Tina Ramirez, Ballet Hispanico’s Director, Arnhold led development of the city’s Blueprint for Teaching and Learning in Dance, Pre K-12. In 2015, Arnhold teamed with director Nel Shelby and Finkelstein (now Executive Director of the Harkness Foundation for Dance) as executive producer to create the documentary PS DANCE!, narrated by veteran TV journalist Paula Zahn. The New York Emmy-nominated film offers an exuberant look at the teaching of dance in five New York City public schools. Airing on WNET/THIRETEEN in New York and on public television stations nationwide, PS DANCE! was created to promote Arnhold’s mission, “Dance For Every Child.” News and Resources On the Move: An itinerant dance instructor finds a home at Teachers College Joining – and Broadening – the Conversation: 2019 New Faculty Making Dance Education an Institution: Jody and John Arnhold Give TC $10.45 Million to Advance Dance Education Nationwide Watch Livestream of launch of new doctoral program for dance education at Teachers College. The Dance Maker: Alumna Jody Gottfried Arnhold champions dance education as a Deweyan medium for learning “The Godmother of Dance Education”: TC alumna and donor Jody Gottfried Arnhold is the focus of a Wall Street Journal profile A Stepwise Process: A TC committee is shaping the new dance education doctoral program Watch PS DANCE!, the New York Emmy-nominated documentary film about dance education in public schools A $4.36 Million Gift to Boost Dance Education Program Contact Dr. Barbara Bashaw Arnhold Professor of Practice & Executive Director Dance Education bjb24@tc.columbia.edu Site Map Why Teachers College? Application Requirements Visionary Benefactor News & Resources Connect TC on Facebook TC on Twitter TC on LinkedIn TC on YouTube Website Feedback Give to TC TC Employment Ethics Reporting Site Public Safety Non-Discrimination Revised University Policy: Gender-Based Misconduct Legal Notices GDPR Notice Teachers College, Columbia University 525 West 120th St. * New York, NY 10027 * 212-678-3000 Close Share Toggle fullscreen Zoom in/out Previous Next