Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index Red to Black Menu Search TTU Red to Black Red to Black Peer Financial Coaching Give to Red To Black About us Red to Black® Peer Financial Coaching is a nationally recognized model program staffed by students pursuing Personal Financial Planning degrees. We provide financial education and awareness to students through individual coaching sessions, presentations, outreach booths and resource referrals. We cover topics such as: Creating spending plans Building and using credit wisely Maximizing financial aid Choosing employee benefits Our purpose is to empower students so that they can achieve their financial goals. We believe that no one understands the needs and concerns of students better than fellow students! Best Example of Teamwork We're so excited to have been selected by the Center for Campus Life for the 2021 Best Example of Teamwork by a Student Organization Award. This award recognizes the student organization that most embodied the elements of teamwork, collaboration, and quality programming that benefit the Texas Tech University Community (either throughout the year or through a single successful program). This award also recognizes that the recipient worked effectively with other student organizations, University departments, and/or the greater Lubbock community. We are thankful for each of our level leads, team leads, student assistants, and all of our members! Without them, this would not have been possible. We are also grateful for the opportunity to collaborate with TTU Financial Aid and Scholarships for Financial Education Week last fall and Complex Community Federal Credit Union for America Saves Week this spring! Outstanding Financial Counseling or Planning Center We were selected by AFCPE as the 2020 Outstanding Financial Counseling or Planning Center! Special thanks to our members who continue to serve our fellow TTU peers! Additionally, we would like to thank all of our PFP professors who continuously support our program! <!-- intentionally non-empty iframe; for xsl --> Student Organization of the Year We're so excited to have been selected by the Center for Campus Life, along with three other organizations, as Student Organization of the Year! This award recognizes the paramount achievement of a registered student organization over the year that causes the organization to stand out as compared to other organizations. The criteria in the review are reflective of the organization's ability to meet its goals and objectives as stated in their current constitution. The awarded organization will have demonstrated a high level of achievement in many areas, including membership involvement, organization development, leadership training and opportunity, active participation in TTU campus activity and community service. Huge thanks to our members who worked so hard to help our fellow TTU peers! We're so appreciative of the time that you give! Additional thanks to our PFP professors who provide an educational foundation to help us do the things that we do! Contact TTU Contact Contact TTUContact Contact TTU News News for NewsNews for News Events EventsEvents Red to Black Like Red to Black on FacebookLike Red to Black on Facebook Follow Red to Black on twitterFollow Red to Black on twitter Follow Red to Black on InstagramFollow Red to Black on Instagram Connect with Red to Black on LinkedInConnect with Red to Black on LinkedIn Address Texas Tech University, 201 Student Union Building, Lubbock, TX Phone 806.742.9781 Email redtoblack@ttu.edu Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock, Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversitySep 28, 2021 11:47 AM Red to Black About Us Red to Black About Us Back About Red to Black Meet Our Staff Contact Us Members Red to Black Members Back Financial Educators Financial Advocates Financial Coaches Recent Graduates Red to Black Members Back 2020 2021 Recruiting Schedule an Appointment Schedule a Presentation Events & Outreach Red to Black Back 2020 2019 In the News Raider Relief Tools & Resources Red to Black Tools & Resources Back Financial Education Red to Black Tools & Resources Financial Education Back Credit Life After College Money Management Saving Student Loans Student Loan Consolidation Apps & Tools Red to Black Tools & Resources Apps & Tools Back CashCourse Inceptia Resources for Students Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index