Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu College of the Arts Main Navigation About Us Show Extended Contact Dean's Message Facilities Visitor Information Students Show Extended Advising (Current Students) Advising and Registration (New Students) Assistant Dean for Student Affairs First Generation College Students Get Involved! Scholarships Student Success Center University Catalogue (2022-2023) Events & Visitor Information Show Extended PERFORMANCES & EXHIBITIONS College of the Arts Events & Activities Calendar Grand Central Art Center Exhibitions Digital Program Booklets BOX OFFICE & VISITOR INFORMATION Clayes Performing Arts Center Box Office Visitor Information Alumni Spotlights & Arts Titans in the News Show Extended Alumni: Share Your Story! Featured Alumni Titan of Tassel Titan of Winds Arts Titans in the News Art Dance Music Theatre Nicholas & Lee Begovich Gallery Grand Central Art Center Support Groups Show Extended Art Alliance Alliance for the Performing Arts/MAMM Music Associates Donate Now Purchase Tickets Get Connected A Message From the Dean I am delighted to welcome you to the College of the Arts at Cal State Fullerton – a dynamic, diverse, and unique learning environment combining scholarship, artistic expression, and intellectual curiosity into some of the highest-quality, pre-professional training in the visual and performing arts. As a leading CSU, we are an essential part of the cultural fabric of Southern California, providing transformational experiences in the arts to our students, community, and beyond. In this living laboratory, we encourage student success through a wide range of opportunities for engagement and collaboration across all disciplines. Each year, the college’s students, faculty and staff work together to produce a wide array of exceptional concerts, exhibitions, lectures, workshops, and performances that draw more than 40,000 visitors to our first-rate performance facilities and numerous art galleries, both on and off-campus. Our outstanding graduate and undergraduate degree programs serve more than 2,600 students in 61 areas of concentration supported by 84 full-time faculty members and 52 professional staff members. In addition to serving students within our college, we are committed to enhancing the artistic awareness of all CSUF students, offering hands-on creative and academic courses within the broader university’s liberal arts setting. I invite you to explore our website to learn more about our academic programs, public performances and exhibitions, and the many other College of the Arts opportunities available to our campus and community. Arnold Holland, Ed.D. Dean, College of the Arts VISUAL ARTS OFFICE Room: VA 102 Department Chair: Jade Jewett Phone: (657) 278-3471 Fax: (657) 278-2390 This site is maintained by College of the Arts. Last Published 4/4/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact jbussell@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.10 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.