Skip to main content Menu Audiences Clemson Home CECAS Home Department Home Resources A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps Phonebook Apply Now Make a Gift Academics People Research/Services News Contact Us Materials Science & Engineering Design. Revolutionize. Materials scientists and engineers design, develop and produce traditional and advanced materials for diverse applications in many industries. The broad career responsibilities require competence in science, engineering, math, and the social sciences. The curriculum develops skills in problem-solving, engineering analysis and design, as well as communication. The Department builds in students a broad foundation in the science & engineering of materials, preparing students for careers in industry and graduate school. The College of Engineering, Computing & Applied Sciences is offering virtual online information sessions with the ability to attend a major-specific breakout session afterward. Tour Campus Open Assistant / Associate Professor Position Find Your Path Our programs allow students to explore the building blocks of all materials through hands-on research. Discover More. Arabella Hunter, a student in the Department of Materials Science and Engineering, has been selected to participate in the Beckman Scholars Program. This prestigious recognition is made possible by the Arnold and Mabel Beckman Foundation. Quick Links News Courses Events Give Colloquium Series Spring 2022 MSE is very happy to announce The George and Dot Bishop Advanced Materials Colloquium Series made possible by a generous gift from the Bishop family in memory of their parents. Schedule For Spring 2022 Top News May23 O. Thompson Mefford named associate dean for undergraduate studies in the Clemson University College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences Read More Apr28 Top students honored by College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences Read More Apr20 Marek Urban develops hose that can repair its own cracks Read More Copyright © Clemson University Materials Science & Engineering | Sirrine Hall, Clemson, SC 29634 (864) 656-3187 | Email Us