Skip to main content Information for... Students Faculty & Staff Parents Alumni Give Map Directory bConnected News Toggle navigation Map Directory bConnected News About From a group of academic pioneers in 1868 to the Free Speech Movement in 1964, Berkeley is a place where the brightest minds from across the globe come together to explore, ask questions and improve the world. Overview By the numbers History & discoveries Traditions Experience Berkeley Visit Leadership Admissions Want to change the world? At Berkeley we’re doing just that. When you join the Golden Bear community, you’re part of an institution that shifts the global conversation every single day. Overview Undergraduate Graduate Financial aid Tuition UC Berkeley Extension Summer sessions Study abroad Academics Berkeley is home to some of the world's greatest minds leading more than 130 academic departments and 80 interdisciplinary research units and addressing the world’s most pertinent challenges. Overview Schools & colleges Departments & programs Class schedule & courses Advising & tutoring Faculty profiles Academic calendar Research From expeditions to Egypt in the late 1800s to stem cell research and artificial intelligence today, Berkeley has been at the forefront of research throughout its history. Here students can work side-by-side with Nobel Laureates, Fields medal winners, Fulbright Scholars and MacArthur fellows. Overview Research programs Libraries Publications Museums & collections Undergraduate research Campus Life Life at Berkeley blends research and reflection, the scientific with the artistic, and the scholarly with the athletic. Our students come from different places and backgrounds, but together they create a diverse and kinetic community that seeks to create a better world. Overview Events & attractions Recreational Sports Cal Athletics Housing & dining Student organizations Health & safety Information for... Students Faculty & Staff Parents Alumni Give Museums and collections From rare plant species to oral histories to the insects of the West, Berkeley has extensive collections of art, artifacts and biological and physical objects. Many of these museums are open to the public, while others are reserved for researchers in specific fields. To explore additional university collections, view a complete list. Berkeley Art Museum & Pacific Film Archive Visual art exhibitions, film collections and programs. UC Botanical Garden Botanical curriculum, tools and educational programs for K-12 teachers and the public. Essig Museum of Entomology World-class terrestrial arthropod collection historically focused on California insects. Environmental Design Archives Collections of the Bay Area's historically significant architects and landscape architects. Phoebe A. Hearst Museum of Anthropology Art, artifacts and cultural programs. The University and Jepson Herbaria Two collections of pressed plants, research labs, libraries, and archives. Magnes Collection Books, art, objects, music and documents about Jewish life. Digital resources include narratives and memory lab. Mark Twain papers The private papers of Samuel Langhorne Clemens, augmented by ongoing research. Museum of Paleontology Fossil and photo collections, digital resources, public program and educational resources. {lv_promo_blockv2_ROHO:promo_heading} {lv_promo_blockv2_ROHO:promo_message} Museum of Vertebrate Zoology Center for research and education in the biology of amphibians, reptiles, birds, and mammals. Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Medium Visit Jobs News Blog Events Libraries Cal Athletics Equity, Inclusion & Diversity Accreditation Light the Way HEERF Report Nondiscrimination Websites A-Z Directory Map Contact us Privacy Accessibility Copyright © 2022 UC Regents; all rights reserved