Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. UC News UC News right arrow down arrow UC News Search Topics right arrow down arrow UC Answers #UCtheGood In The News Arts & Culture Science & Tech International Athletics Health College Bound Impact right arrow down arrow #UCtheGood Insights Diversity Experience-Based Learning Next Lives Here Bicentennial COVID-19 Student Experience Colleges right arrow down arrow College of Allied Health Sciences College of Arts & Sciences College of Business Blue Ash College Clermont College College-Conservatory of Music College of Design, Architecture, Art, and Planning College of Education, Criminal Justice, & Human Services College of Engineering and Applied Science Graduate School College of Law College of Medicine College of Nursing College of Pharmacy Units right arrow down arrow Academic Health Center Admissions Alumni Association Board of Trustees Campus Services Equity and Inclusion Hoxworth Human Resources IT@UC Libraries Office of Innovation Office of Research President's Office Provost Public Safety Student Affairs UC Foundation Veteran's Affairs Continuing Education Media Contacts Imaging Technology News: First FLASH proton therapy trial completed in humans By Tim Tedeschi Email TimEmail Tim 513-556-5694 May 27, 2022 Share on facebook Share on Twitter Pin Story Print Story Like The Cincinnati Children’s Hospital Medical Center/UC Health Proton Therapy Center recently completed enrollment in the first human trial of FLASH therapy, called FAST-01, in October. John C. Breneman, MD, professor emeritus in the Department of Radiation Oncology in the University of Cincinnati's College of Medicine, medical director of the Cincinnati Children's Hospital Medical Center/UC Health Proton Therapy Center and a University of Cincinnati Cancer Center member, recently spoke with Imaging Technology News (ITN) about FLASH therapy and the FAST-01 trial. "The way that FLASH radiotherapy differs from conventional radiotherapy isn’t necessarily that it’s a different kind of radiation, it’s different because of how quickly it’s given," Breneman told ITN. "Most radiation therapy is given in treatments that may last two, three, four, five minutes. FLASH radiotherapy gives actually somewhat larger doses than what we conventionally use in day to day treatments and delivers them in just a fraction of a second, and it’s that very fast delivery of the radiation dose that seems to have the effect of being able to spare the normal tissue while still being able to kill and treat tumor tissue." The FAST-01 trial enrolled 10 patients with bone metastases in their arms and legs, and Breneman and his team are currently conducting follow-up studies to examine potential side effects and the treatment's effectiveness to treat the cancer. Watch the ITN interview. Featured photo at top of Cincinnati Children’s/UC Health Proton Therapy Center's proton treatment room courtesy of Cincinnati Children's/UC Health. Tags Faculty Staff In The News College of Medicine Academic Health Center Radiation Oncology UC Cancer Institute Health Related Stories College of Medicine to participate in national effort to assess... May 31, 2022 College of Medicine joins national effort to improve teaching clinical reasoning skills Meduza: Genocide in Ukraine May 31, 2022 Erin Farrell Rosenberg, a Visiting Scholar with the Urban Morgan Institute for Human Rights at the University of Cincinnati College of Law, was one of four panelists discussing genocide with the Latvian-based news publication Meduza. Local 12 News: ‘It’s changing my life’: Ten students awarded... May 30, 2022 Benya Coleman, a recent graduate of Hughes STEM High School, spoke with Local 12 News reporter Jenna Cisneros about her award of the Marian Spencer Scholarship to attend the University of Cincinnati this fall. Debug Query for this University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45220 513-556-0000 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45220 513-556-0000 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top