Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Apply Visit Give Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links HR Menu Main Nav HR How can we help you? Back Back Close About Overview Meet Our Staff Departments Directions Related Links Office for Institutional Diversity Office of Employee Development Compensation Office Health & Well-being Work at BC Overview Benefits at a Glance Apply for a Staff Position Job Fairs Mission Videos Policies & Forms Overview HR Forms BC Holiday Schedule Emergency Closing Notary Locations Protection of Minors Required State & Federal Workplace Notifications Related Links Employee Handbook Title IX Federal & State Laws Programs & Events Caring for Our People How can we help you? Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Human Resources Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Emergency Closing Home Policies & Forms Emergency Closing Policies & Forms HR Forms BC Holiday Schedule Emergency Closing Notary Locations Protection of Minors Required State & Federal Workplace Notifications Sources for Emergency Information In the event of a heavy snowstorm or other emergency necessitating cancellation or delay of work, employees should consult the following sources for information beginning at 6:00 a.m. RAVE Emergency Notification System. The University will send text and e-mail notification before 6:00 a.m. WBZ-TV News Channel 4, WCVB-TV New Channel 5, and WBZ News Radio 1030AM Emergency Hotlines 1-888-BOS-COLL or (617)552-INFO BCEmergency at www.bc.edu/emergency A text, web or news posting will inform employees if there is cancellation of work. An announcement canceling classes at Boston College does not mean that there is cancellation of work. The announcement will specifically mention that Boston College is “closed” when employees are not expected to report. No notification means that the University is operating on a normal schedule. Even when the University is closed due to weather, there will be certain essential personnel required to work and certain offices/functions operational. It is expected in these cases that some arrangement for coverage or standby be made between the director and the office staff. If an employee is required to work on such a day, compensatory time off will be provided to that employee and will be scheduled at a time that is mutually convenient to the department and the affected individual. Early Dismissal The decision regarding early dismissal of employees because of weather or other emergency will be communicated by the Executive Vice President and Provost through postings on the following websites: BCInfo, BC Emergency, BC Home. Employees may also call 1-888-BOS-COLL or 617-552-INFO for information on early dismissal. Unless otherwise notified, all staff members are expected to remain at work until the closing hour. Quick Links Benefits Departments Forms Events HR Wiki Back To Top Back To Top Human Resources 129 Lake Street Brighton Campus 617-552-3330 About Work at BC Policies & Forms Programs & Events Caring for Our People Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College