Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Autism Endorsement Certificate (Graduate) You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Autism Endorsement Certificate (Graduate) Apply Visit Request More Info Autism Endorsement Certificate (Graduate) Admissions Information Financial Aid Our Faculty Autism Endorsement Graduate Certificate The Autism Endorsement Graduate Certificate in Temple’s College of Education and Human Development gives graduate students the skills to effectively serve the growing population of individuals with autism spectrum disorder (ASD). Grounded in research-based practices, the program teaches core competencies for supporting students with ASD and their families. Upon successfully completing the program, students are eligible to earn the Pennsylvania Department of Education Autism Spectrum Disorders Endorsement Certificate. The Autism Endorsement Certificate program teaches students to build positive behavior support and communication in classrooms with learners who have autism spectrum disorder and other disabilities. It emphasizes innovative instructional communication methods, since students with ASD often have difficulty speaking. Students in the program learn to create classroom management systems to enhance the student and teacher experience and to boost student achievement. Temple’s College of Education and Human Development provides students with access to all the resources of an urban research university, including faculty members who are also practitioners and researchers at the cutting edge of the field. The curriculum is rooted in principles of community engagement and social justice: Students gain advanced preparation to teach learners with ASD from kindergarten through 12th grade in public schools in urban environments. Delivery Method The certificate is offered onsite at Temple University's Main Campus through convenient evening courses. Classes take place Monday through Thursday at 5:30 p.m. You can choose to complete the certificate on a part-time basis, and many students continue to work full-time. This program is designed to be completed in one year, but students have up to two years to complete it. Students may earn the Autism Endorsement Certificate as a part of a graduate degree or as a standalone certificate. Classes & Curriculum Take four courses (12 semester hours) to complete this certificate. Curriculum topics include building communication in students with ASD, classroom management strategies and evidence-based practices for skills acquisition. The Autism Endorsement Certificate culminates with a flexible practicum in special education, in which students apply the strategies they’ve learned in class. Because the program is geared toward teaching students in an urban setting, placements are arranged in public and charter schools in Philadelphia or other urban environments wherever possible. Learn more about Autism Endorsement Certificate classes and curriculum. Who Might be Interested? The certificate is aimed at working teachers already certified through the Pennsylvania Department of Education who support students with autism spectrum disorder. Many students already have special education certification when they enter this program. The required coursework taken during the certificate may also be applied to a master’s degree. Related Graduate Degrees Accomplished Teaching MSEd Applied Behavior Analysis MSEd Special Education MEd Related Graduate Certificates Applied Behavior Analysis Disability Studies Field Experience As part of your academic program, you will gain firsthand knowledge in classrooms through immersive field placements. Clearance Requirements Students enrolled in courses that require fieldwork or internships must submit updated child abuse, criminal and drug clearances every year. Learn more about submitting clearance requirements. Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Graduate Certificate offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $966.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,329.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Program Contact Art Dowdy, assistant professor of instruction, is the faculty coordinator for the Autism Endorsement Certificate (Graduate). Phone: 215-204-8424 Email: dowdy@temple.edu Certification This program is approved as a teacher certification program by the Pennsylvania Department of Education. Questions For more information about this program, the College of Education and Human Development, how to apply for admission, and your application status, contact Enrollment Management. Enrollment Management Ritter Annex 150 1301 Cecil B. Moore Ave. Philadelphia, PA 19122 Phone: 215-204-8011 Email: educate@temple.edu ED-ATEN-GRAD Additional Program Information Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Autism Endorsement Certificate (Graduate) Admissions Information Financial Aid Our Faculty Apply Visit Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Visit Request More Info