Skip to Main Content Brown University News from Brown Site Navigation Featured Events For Journalists Search Menu Topics Social Sciences Date June 22, 2020 2020-06-22 Media Contact Jill Kimball [email protected] 401-863-5450 All News Share Facebook Twitter Linkedin Email Brown scholar explores rising tide of anger over economic inequality In a talk about his new book, “Angrynomics,” Mark Blyth explained why Westerners are angry over the current economic state and suggested a fix for broken capitalist systems. https://www.youtube.com/embed/mcWcPUJW_og PROVIDENCE, R.I. [Brown University] — The economist John Maynard Keynes once said, “The difficulty lies not so much in developing new ideas as in escaping from old ones.” Brown University Professor of International Economics Mark Blyth agrees — and his new book, “Angrynomics,” details the outrage citizens feel when old, irrelevant economic ideas endure to the detriment of most of society. “Angrynomics,” co-authored by Blyth and macro-hedge fund manager and economist Eric Lonergan, explores why measures of stress and anxiety are on the rise even as the vast majority of people are wealthier than ever. The authors propose radical new solutions for an increasingly polarized and confusing world. Blyth, who serves as director of the Rhodes Center for International Economics and Finance within Brown’s Watson Institute for International and Public Affairs, discussed the book in a Thursday, June 18, virtual talk with Ed Steinfeld, director of the Watson Institute. “The world keeps getting richer and richer,” Blyth said. “Yet we see Americans getting more and more angry.” Blyth explained that he and Lonergan believe that Americans’ anger stems from a condition they nicknamed “macro-angrynomics” — a reaction to the moment when the economic model stops working for the majority of citizens. The authors used a computer analogy to help readers understand the current predicament. They explained that all capitalist economies are like computers — they contain the same hardware, but each economy arranges the parts differently. Over time, economic ideas accumulate bugs and crash countries’ respective societal machines. Each malfunction frustrates citizens the same way a computer crash might. As crashes become more frequent, societal anger mounts. In the United States, Blyth said, “our theories about running the world are fixed at a moment in time... the ’70s. We now live in a world in which we haven’t had inflation for 20 years, except in the price of assets. So to what extent can those theories still run on the hardware? The world changes, but the code instructions stay the same.” Economic experts and the political establishment have been slow to offer prescriptions to treat or fix the broken American economy, Blyth said — which has created an opening for political outsiders to swoop in, weaponize citizens’ anger, seize power and develop authoritarian regimes. He pointed to leaders across the globe as examples: Silvio Berlusconi, Vladimir Putin, Recep Erdoğan. Blyth said he and Lonergan argue in their book that continued deregulation and advice from technocrats won’t solve yawning wealth gaps in Western economies. They propose giving citizens a stable, transparent financial stake in their societies through sovereign wealth funds like that of Norway. “If you invest in stocks, they yield 6 percent, more or less, on average,” Blyth said. “Bonds? [The yield is] negative. Why don’t we, rather than private equity, just issue more bonds, buy up all those assets and put them in a completely passive fund miles away from all the politicians? You would have a multi-trillion-dollar wealth fund, for college, for health care reform. It could actually make a difference in people’s lives.” Tags Watson Institute Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Snapchat Twitter YouTube Social Media Directory © Brown University Brown University For You Current Students Faculty Staff Parents & Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Featured Events For Journalists Topics Arts and Humanities Environment Health and Medicine News and Events Science and Technology Social Sciences Student Life University Initiatives Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events For You Give to Brown All of Brown.edu People News Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Brown scholar explores rising tide of anger over economic inequality Open details for Brown scholar explores rising tide of anger over economic inequality Bookmark this Page