Search | Directories | Reference Tools UW Home > Discover UW > Student Guide UW Bothell Course Descriptions UW Tacoma Course Descriptions Glossary COLLEGE OF ARTS & SCIENCES INTEGRATED SCIENCE Detailed course offerings (Time Schedule) are available for Spring Quarter 2022 Summer Quarter 2022 Autumn Quarter 2022 INTSCI 197 Special Topics in Integrated Sciences (1-5, max. 15) NW Selected topics in integrated sciences. View course details in MyPlan: INTSCI 197 INTSCI 200 Controversies in Science and Society (3) NW/I&S Exploration of controversies in science and society that benefit from an integrated sciences perspective. Topics vary from quarter to quarter, but may include cases from science communication, science education, science policy, and science research. View course details in MyPlan: INTSCI 200 INTSCI 301 Integrated Sciences Careers Seminar (1, max. 3) Introduces students to scientists and science educators who are actively engaged in careers that require an integrative science perspective. Classroom guests vary from quarter to quarter, but may include individuals working in formal and informal science education, science organizations, science writing, and science policy. View course details in MyPlan: INTSCI 301 INTSCI 401 Integrated Sciences Practicum (2-4, max. 6) I&S Exploration of professions in formal or informal science education, science writing, science policy, and other areas that require an integrated science perspective. Examples include weekly visits to a science classroom, organization, or museum. Analysis of practicum experiences through discussion of scientific communication, human learning, and classroom engagement and equity. View course details in MyPlan: INTSCI 401 INTSCI 402 Nature of Science (5) NW Case study examination of scientific methods and elements of scientific practice including observation, data, statistics, interpretations, hypothesis, theory, and law. Asks how does science change; how does data support theories; and how are theories verified, falsified, or modified? View course details in MyPlan: INTSCI 402 INTSCI 403 Science in Context (5) I&S/NW Case study examination of how science operates within broad social, political, and ethical contexts. Considers the growth of multidisciplinary and interdisciplinary research, societal impacts, ethical responsibilities, censorship, complex mechanisms of funding, and the power inherent in claims to knowledge. View course details in MyPlan: INTSCI 403 INTSCI 491 Introduction to Research (2) NW Preparation for intensive "hands-on" science experience. Discussion of what constitutes scientific research; development of a research proposition; meeting with potential research supervisors; signed agreement with supervisor and capstone instructor on scope and details of research View course details in MyPlan: INTSCI 491 INTSCI 492 Reflections on Research (2, max. 6) NW Reflections on an on-going science research experience through discussion, short papers, and oral presentations, with emphasis on the challenges and dilemmas that arise in data collection and analysis. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: INTSCI 492 INTSCI 493 Communicating Research (3) NW Preparation of oral and written presentations of research, under guidance of the capstone instructor. Presentation on research in class and in another venue, such as a scientific meeting or an on-campus symposium. Prerequisite: minimum of four credits of INTSCI 492. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: INTSCI 493 INTSCI 498 Independent Study (1-5, max. 10) Faculty-supervised independent study on a topic related to integrated sciences. View course details in MyPlan: INTSCI 498 Office of the University Registrar registrar@uw.edu Modified: May 30, 2022