Skip to content FacebookTwitter Call Us Today! 515.294.6826|seedlab@iastate.edu The expertise you trust, the customer service you deserve. Search for: Search for: HOME ABOUT US ABOUT US – Lab Personnel Lisa Shepherd Jenkins Memorial Scholarship ISU Seed Lab Brochure Employment Opportunities TESTING METHODS LAB NEWS LAB NEWS Manager’s Corner Iowa Seed & Biosafety Newsletter WORKSHOPS & EVENTS Seed Conditioning WorkshopBegins May 24! May 24-26, 2022 Find out more Color Sorting WorkshopRegister Today! June 7-9, 2022 Find out more Seed Corn Conditioning Workshop June 28-30, 2022 August 9-11, 2022 Find out more EXPLORE ALL THE OPTIONS Regularly scheduled courses in seed conditioning and seed analysis, as well as periodic workshops in testing for genetic traits and seed health are available. Upcoming Events CUSTOMERS CUSTOMERS Getting Started Sending Samples Seed Testing Process Results Report Customer Care FAQ’s Client Web Locker Search for: Testing MethodsWorkshops & Events Welcome to the ISU Seed Lab Homecindyr2022-03-03T13:33:57-06:00 HOME Welcome Accuracy. Integrity. Expertise. The ISU Seed Lab has a proud history of excellence in seed testing, research, training and customer service. WHY CHOOSE THE ISU SEED LAB? Housed in the Seed Science Center on the Iowa State University campus, and managed by Mike Stahr, the Seed Laboratory has a proud history of excellence in seed testing, training, and customer service dating back more than 100 years. From the early research of George Washington Carver, to today’s biotech seeds that feed, fuel, and supply the world, Iowa State University has time and again proven itself as a leader. At the Iowa State University Seed Laboratory, we are not only proud of this heritage of excellence, but are pleased to offer cutting-edge seed analysis technologies and services. Our broad range of testing options, high throughput of samples, accurate results, and unmatched customer service—combined with our years of experience and expert staff—make us a leader in the seed testing industry. Seed Science Center Iowa State University The Seed Science Center at Iowa State University is an international center of excellence in seed quality and health testing. Welcome to the ISU Seed Lab × Welcome to the ISU Seed Lab At the ISU Seed Laboratory, we are proud of our reputation for excellence in seed testing, training, and customer service dating back more than 100 years. As Manager of the ISU Seed Lab, I take special satisfaction in our commitment to exceeding your expectations by offering the highest-quality seed testing services in the industry. Certified by the National Seed Health System (NSHS), we test for more than 350 pathogens and conduct phytosanitary and routine health testing on more than 300 species of seeds. In fact, our specialty is working to facilitate the movement of seed around the world. The ISU Seed Lab has a rich history of developing and refining seed tests includes the tray cold test for vigor, which has served as an industry standard for more than 30 years. We employ certified seed analysts and genetic technologists to meet all your testing needs. Certified by several trait providers, generic trait and AP testing is a special strength of our lab. If you haven’t had the opportunity to try our testing services, contact us today at 515-294-6826 or email seedlab@iastate.edu. On behalf of the faculty and staff of the ISU Seed Science Center and the Seed Laboratory, I invite you to visit with us and experience first-hand the many ways that we will provide you with the expertise you trust, and the customer service you deserve. Mike Stahr ISU Seed Lab Manager CUSTOMER CARE Close ISU SEED LAB Industry Leader – For more that 100 years, the ISU Seed lab has served as an industry leader in seed testing, research, training and customer service. They offer testing services for more than 300 species of crops, vegetables, flowers, and trees; and more than 350 pathogens (fungi, bacteria, and viruses). Internationally Recognized – The Seed Lab at Iowa State University has a global reputation for excellence and is the most comprehensive public seed testing lab in the world. Experts in their Field – The ISU Seed Lab employs staff certified in purity, germination, and testing of biotech traits. They utilize the resources of Iowa State University experts in agronomy, horticulture, plant pathology, entomology, and more; and provide a highly reputable industry source for educational workshops and training on seed quality, seed health, and seed conditioning. OUR VALUES OUR MISSION The Iowa State University Seed Laboratory prides itself on offering the most up-to-date and comprehensive services available in the seed-testing industry. Certified seed technologists and analysts routinely perform traditional seed tests (warm germs, cold tests, accelerated aging, purity, noxious-weed exam, seed health, etc.) as well as trait tests herbicide bioassay, ELISA, PCR, and IEF). With more than 100 years of excellence in seed testing and customer service, you can rest assured that your samples are in good hands at the Iowa State Seed Lab. OUR PHILOSOPHY Housed in the Seed Science Center on the Iowa State University campus, and directed by Dr. Manjit Misra, the Seed Laboratory has a proud history of excellence in seed testing, training, and customer service dating back more than 100 years. From the early research of George Washington Carver, to today’s biotech seeds that feed, fuel, and supply the world, Iowa State University has time and again proven itself as a leader. At the Iowa State University Seed Laboratory, we are not only proud of this heritage of excellence, but are pleased to offer cutting-edge seed analysis technologies and services. Our broad range of testing options, high throughput of samples, accurate results, and unmatched customer service—combined with our years of experience and expert staff—make us a leader in the seed testing industry. OUR COMMITMENT The Iowa State Seed Lab is committed to exceeding your expectations by offering the highest-quality seed testing services. Your samples will be tested quickly and accurately. If you have special testing or reporting needs, we will do our best to accommodate you. We will alert you in a timely manner concerning problems or special circumstances regarding your samples. OUR PROMISE Our Goal is 100% Customer Satisfaction. At the Iowa State Seed Lab, we’re big enough to handle large-volume testing, yet small enough to meet your unique needs. POINTS OF PRIDE The Iowa State University Seed Lab Is a leader in phytosanitary testing and in facilitating the movement of seed worldwide Is certified by the National Seed Health System Is accredited by trait providers to test for insect resistance and herbicide-tolerant biotech traits Was the first official seed testing laboratory in the U.S. to be ISO 9001 certified Offers free online access to sample information for your convenience Has a reputation for excellence in seed testing and customer service The ISU Seed Lab leads the way in seed testing and training! ISU Seed Lab News Covering topics from seed testing, research, workshops and current events. Eleven CALS Students Awarded Seed Scholarships Gallery Eleven CALS Students Awarded Seed Scholarships Eleven CALS Students Awarded Seed Scholarships By msandahl|2022-03-03T14:43:56-06:00February 9, 2022| Read More 0 ISU plays an integral role in training seed experts globally Gallery ISU plays an integral role in training seed experts globally ISU plays an integral role in training seed experts globally By msandahl|2022-03-03T14:49:18-06:00September 18, 2021| Read More 0 Iowa State, implementer of the National Seed Health System, marks 20 years as “CDC for seeds” Gallery Iowa State, implementer of the National Seed Health System, marks 20 years as “CDC for seeds” Iowa State, implementer of the National Seed Health System, marks 20 years as “CDC for seeds” By msandahl|2022-03-03T14:52:44-06:00August 24, 2021| Read More 0 12Next 109 Seed Science Center 2115 Osborn Drive, ISU Ames, IA 50011 Phone: 515.294.6826 Fax: 515.294.8303 Email: seedlab@iastate.edu Web: seedlab.iastate.edu SEED LAB NEWS Popular Recent SSC and ISA to award 15 scholarships; Hope to help students facing COVID related financial hardships January 16, 2021 ISU SSC Seed Lab Manager Honored for Service October 15, 2020 Eleven CALS Students Awarded Seed Scholarships February 9, 2022 ISU plays an integral role in training seed experts globally September 18, 2021 WORKSHOPS & EVENTS Get Social MAIN MENU HOME ABOUT US ABOUT US – Lab Personnel Lisa Shepherd Jenkins Memorial Scholarship ISU Seed Lab Brochure Employment Opportunities TESTING METHODS LAB NEWS LAB NEWS Manager’s Corner Iowa Seed & Biosafety Newsletter WORKSHOPS & EVENTS Seed Conditioning Workshop Color Sorting Workshop Seed Corn Conditioning Workshop Background Image CUSTOMERS CUSTOMERS Getting Started Sending Samples Seed Testing Process Results Report Customer Care FAQ’s Client Web Locker © Copyright 2021, ISU Seed Laboratory, Iowa State University; ALL RIGHTS RESERVED | Media Credits | Non-Discrimination Statement Page load link Go to Top