COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Photo Media (Studio Art), Major MajorPhoto Media (Studio Art) All Programs College of Fine Arts Studio Art Pursuing a Bachelor of Fine Arts (BFA) in studio art at Wichita State prepares students to be exceptional artists as well as versatile, creative professionals. Our degrees offer a unique intersection of Applied Drawing, Ceramics, Photo, Print, Sculpture and Electronic Media, and Community and Social Practice. Large studio spaces, ADCI galleries and new technology are at your fingertips. Learn how photo media is the right fit for you. Request Info Start Your Application Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the program To be admitted into the School of Art, Design and Creative Industries, you must first be admitted to Wichita State. For WSU’s admission requirements, and to apply, click the link below. Admission requirements Inside the Program Photo media major brings social justice issues into his art As a photo media major, you can capture and work with images that speak to your heart. Vietnam native, Thien Doan incorporated social justice issues into his art, combining historical photographic processes with digital technology. His work focused particularly on war, geopolitical issues, refugees and immigration. His work earned him an undergraduate student research grant to develop his knowledge of a photographic process called cyanotype and he spent three months in collaboration with the International Rescue Committee in Wichita to create a photography exhibition in recognition of World Refugee Day. Curriculum The photo media concentration offers coursework in both analog and digital methods, including B&W darkroom printing, 19th century processes, studio lighting, large format shooting and printing, advanced digital manipulation, appropriation, and crossover with time-based media. A foundation in the fundamental aspects of photography is required, as well as an understanding of the historical and social context in which photography is encountered. View the curriculum Careers A degree in art from Wichita State will nurture your creativity and give you the knowledge, skills and connections for success in the workforce—and in graduate studies. Learn more about careers in this field Similar Programs Ceramics Media (Studio Art) Electronic Media (Studio Art) Print Media (Studio Art) Graphic Design Graphic Design (Minor) Filmmaking 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©