Military Science - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to College of Liberal Arts and Social Sciences Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Military Science About Us Frequently Asked Questions History Meet the Cadre Partnerships Newsletters FAQ ROTC FAQ Enrollment Enrollment Scholarships Donations Donations Leadership. Excellence. Start Strong The Army Reserve Officers’ Training Corps (ROTC) is a way for young men and women to start strong in life. The college elective for undergraduate and graduate students that provides unrivaled leadership training for success in any career field. If you have a passion for it, you can find a place to fit in the Army as an officer and get the training you need to turn that passion into a career. Available at all universities and colleges in the Houston Metro Area, it offers merit-based scholarships that can pay up to the full cost of tuition and open educational opportunities. Whether you’re in high school, college, graduate school or already in the Army, you can become an officer in today’s Army through joining ROTC. CONTACT US If you would like to know more please select one of the options below or call us M-F 0800-1600 at 713-743-3883. High School Students If you're interested in attending college while learning what it takes to become an Army Officer, ROTC may be right for you. In addition to teaching you valuable leadership skills, military training, and discipline, ROTC can also provide you with money for tuition and other expenses through scholarships. College and Graduate Students Through classes and field training, Army ROTC provides you with the tools to become an Army Officer without interfering with your other classes. ROTC also provides you with discipline and money for tuition while enhancing your college experience. Current Soldiers The Green to Gold Active Duty Option Program is a two-year program that provides eligible, Active Duty enlisted Soldiers an opportunity to complete a baccalaureate degree or a two-year graduate degree and earn a commission as an Army Officer. University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies