Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Baylor Law Law Advocacy Menu Baylor Law The Baylor Difference Advocacy Curriculum Advocacy Courses Practice Court The Practice Court Difference Practice Court Curriculum The History of Practice Court Advocacy Professors Advocacy Specialty Tracks LL.M. in Litigation Management Study Abroad - Academy of the Advocate at St Andrews Competition Teams Tradition of Excellence Wall of Champions Mock Trial Current Mock Trial Competitions Team Selection Criteria Mock Trial Coaches Mock Trial Contact Information Moot Court Current Moot Court Competitions Team Selection Criteria Moot Court Coaches Moot Court Contact Information Client Counseling Client Counseling Competitions Team Selection Criteria Client Counseling Coaches Client Counseling Contact Information Transactional Current Transactional Competitions Team Selection Criteria Transactional Team Coaches Transactional Contacts Negotiations Current Negotiations Team Competitions Team Selection Criteria Negotiations Team Coaches Negotiations Team Contact Information Baylor Law Competitions External Competitions Top Gun The Closer The Paper Chase Internal Competitions Baylor Law Transactional Law Competition Bob and Karen Wortham 'Mad Dog' Competition Harvey M. Richey Moot Court Competition Naman, Howell, Smith & Lee Intrascholastic Client Counseling Competition The Ultimate Writer Legal Writing Competition Jaworski Fellows Program Purpose of the Jaworski Fellows Program Jaworski Fellows Jaworski Candidates Jaworski Fellows Emeritus About Leon Jaworski Jaworski Scholarship Purpose Requirements & Qualifications Application About Leon Jaworski Trial Advocacy Program Ranked 2nd in the nation by U.S. News & World Report, Baylor Law's renowned Trial Advocacy Program ranks among the finest law school programs in America. Learn More Academy of the Advocate at St Andrews Attracting students from all over the country, The Academy of the Advocate is held in the striking setting of St Andrews, where the art and craft of advocacy unfolds amidst the rich history of British Common Law. Learn More Trial Advocacy's Living Legend Retired Practice Court Professor Gerald Powell was Recognized by the Texas Young Lawyers Association as Mentor of the Year. Learn More Baylor Law's Top Gun Baylor Law's Top Gun National Mock Trial Competition is an innovative, invitation-only mock trial tournament where the single best advocates from the sixteen top trial advocacy schools across the nation go head-to-head. Learn More The Baylor Difference Unparalleled, award-winning, hands-on training with some of the best trial advocates in the country. Read More Advocacy Curriculum Baylor Law’s renowned Trial Advocacy program produces lawyers of unparalleled quality, preparedness, and integrity. Read More Competition Teams Baylor Law's competitive teams consistently eclipse the country’s most prestigious schools. Read More Baylor Law Competitions Internal and external competitions underscore Baylor Law's dedication to excellence in advocacy. Read More Jaworski Fellows Baylor Law students learn from and are mentored by some of the top trial lawyers in the country. Read More Jaworski Scholarship Full-tuition scholarship for exceptional undergraduate advocates who have outstanding records in advocacy programs. Read More Academy of the Advocate at St Andrews The Academy of the Advocate at St Andrews is one of the world's finest training grounds for aspiring courtroom advocates. Read More Testimonials Harper Estes Lynch, Chappell & Alsup, Midland TX "Wherever you look in the profession-in government, in the organized bar, on the bench-you'll see that Baylor Lawyers are leaders. In the courtroom, from my experience, no young lawyer is better prepared to represent a client." Claudine Jackson Brackett & Ellis, P.C., Fort Worth TX "Without a doubt, Baylor Law's Practice Court and Evidence classes prepared me for actual practice. At the conclusion of my first hearing as a lawyer, the District Court judge inquired as to whether I was a Baylor Lawyer. I proudly replied, 'Yes Your Honor,' and he stated he could tell." The Honorable Leonard Davis Fish & Richardson P.C., Dallas TX "Lawyers from all over the country appear in my court, and Baylor Lawyers consistently stand out as being both highly skilled and well-prepared. They are formidable courtroom advocates." Baylor Law Sheila & Walter Umphrey Law Center 1114 South University Parks Drive One Bear Place #97288 Waco, Texas 76798 (254) 710-1911 law@baylor.edu Baylor Law News Admissions Career Development Faculty and Staff Academics Current Students Law Library General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 Baylor Law The Baylor Difference Advocacy Curriculum Advocacy Courses Practice Court The Practice Court Difference Practice Court Curriculum The History of Practice Court Advocacy Professors Advocacy Specialty Tracks LL.M. in Litigation Management Study Abroad - Academy of the Advocate at St Andrews Competition Teams Tradition of Excellence Wall of Champions Mock Trial Current Mock Trial Competitions Team Selection Criteria Mock Trial Coaches Mock Trial Contact Information Moot Court Current Moot Court Competitions Team Selection Criteria Moot Court Coaches Moot Court Contact Information Client Counseling Client Counseling Competitions Team Selection Criteria Client Counseling Coaches Client Counseling Contact Information Transactional Current Transactional Competitions Team Selection Criteria Transactional Team Coaches Transactional Contacts Negotiations Current Negotiations Team Competitions Team Selection Criteria Negotiations Team Coaches Negotiations Team Contact Information Baylor Law Competitions External Competitions Top Gun The Closer The Paper Chase Internal Competitions Baylor Law Transactional Law Competition Bob and Karen Wortham 'Mad Dog' Competition Harvey M. Richey Moot Court Competition Naman, Howell, Smith & Lee Intrascholastic Client Counseling Competition The Ultimate Writer Legal Writing Competition Jaworski Fellows Program Purpose of the Jaworski Fellows Program Jaworski Fellows Jaworski Candidates Jaworski Fellows Emeritus About Leon Jaworski Jaworski Scholarship Purpose Requirements & Qualifications Application About Leon Jaworski