Skip to main content Skip to site menu Skip to Brown menu Skip to site search Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Enter search keyword About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Earth, Environmental and Planetary Sciences Undergraduate Studies Undergraduate Collaborative Research Programs Earth, Environmental and Planetary Sciences Undergraduate Collaborative Research Programs The Department of Earth, Environmental, and Planetary Sciences has collaborative research programs with the following institutions: The Institute at Brown for Environment and Society (IBES) Faculty, postdoctoral fellows, graduate students and undergraduates use an interdisciplinary team approach to address problems in environmental change. Marine Biological Laboratory (MBL) Research at the MBL falls under two large umbrellas - biomedicine and environmental science. Work can range from the study of biological systems on Mars to searches for cancer cures. Intense interdisciplinary collaboration is the norm. Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution Assistant Scientist at WHOI, Jeff Donnelly is an Adjunct Professor at Brown who offers at least one course per year in the Geological Sciences Department. He has also supervised several senior research projects. Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Developed a program that is designed to provide summer research experiences for undergraduates in the areas of Earth and Ocean Sciences. URI Graduate School of Oceanography Several Brown GeoBio concentrators have completed their senior research projects with faculty from the GSO. NASA RI Space Grant Supports NASA-related research by graduates and undergraduates through fellowships and scholarships. Also, facilitates K-12 science education outreach programs. People Undergraduate Studies What is Geology? Concentrations GeoDUG Advisors Research Collaborative Research Independent Research Projects and Honors Educational Opportunities The Sarah LaMendola Award Borrow Geo DVDs Graduate Studies Courses Research Lectures and Colloquia Alumni Diversity and Inclusion Outreach Print this Page Share this Page Stay Connected with DEEPS at Brown University Department of Earth, Environmental and Planetary Sciences Brown University Box 1846 324 Brook Street Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401-863-3339 [email protected] Calendar Jun 23 9:00am Dissertation Defense: Sarah McGrath Sep 7 All Day Classes of the first semester begin. View full calendar > Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory Department Resources Computing Guide