Your browser does not support iframes. Skip to main content Menu Scheller College of Business Request More Information Attend an Info Session Contact Us Directory Apply Now Search Why Scheller? Programs Executive Education Academics Centers & Initiatives News & Events Overview & History Dean's Message and Report Meet Ernest Scheller Jr. Advisory Board Accreditation Strategic Plan Business at Tech Graduates Get Hired Return on Investment Faculty and Advisors Global Perspective A Good Fit Corporate Engagement Trading Floor Georgia Tech Community Student Life Making Connections and Learning Opportunities Diversity Diversity News Career and Recruiter Services Career Services for Students Hire Our Students Giving to the College Meeting the Challenge Priorities and Needs Faculty Support Student Support Program Enrichment Unrestricted Endowment The Impact of Your Gift How to Make a Gift FAQs Scheller MBA Annual Fund Alumni Network Alumni News Alumni Resources Update Contact Information Visit Campus Tech Square and Atlanta Full-time MBA Admissions Curriculum Career Development Leadership Development Student Organizations Student & Alumni Profiles Meet an MBA Ambassador FAQsEvening MBA Admissions Curriculum Career Advancement Leadership Development Student Organizations Student & Alumni Profiles Meet an MBA Ambassador FAQs Executive MBA Admissions Curriculum Career Development Student & Alumni Profiles FAQsMBA Programs Which Georgia Tech MBA is Right for Me? Commitment to Diversity, Inclusion, and Equity Dual Degree Options Experiential Learning For Engineers For Military Community MD/MBA Option MBA Early Admission for Undergrads Rankings The Intersection Podcast Earn Your MBA in Atlanta Graduate Certificate Business Analytics Certificate Undergraduate Admissions Curriculum Career Services Student Services Student Life Scholarships & Awards Rankings & Stats Connect With Us The Intersection Podcast, Undergrad PhD Concentrations Program Milestones Faculty and Staff Funding Admissions FAQs Recruiting Events Student Bios Program News Request Program Information Interdisciplinary M.S. M.S. in Quantitative & Computational Finance (QCF) Master of Science in Analytics at Georgia Tech Lean Six Sigma Certification Lean Six Sigma Green Belt Certification Lean Six Sigma Black Belt Certification FAQs Custom Programs FAQs Accounting Finance Information Technology Management Law & Ethics Marketing Operations Management Organizational Behavior Strategy & Innovation Student Certificates Engineering Entrepreneurship Entrepreneurship International Management Management of Technology Technology Innovation: Generating Economic Results Academic Speaker Series Guest Speakers in Accounting Guest Speakers in Finance Guest Speakers in Marketing Current Faculty Opportunities Business Analytics Center Engage with Us Executive Council News Research Education People Cecil B. Day Program for Business Ethics About Cecil B. Day The Cecil B. Day Prize Speakers and Events Faculty Support Net Impact Center for International Business Education and Research Projects Research Events Books People at CIBER Inside CIBER News and Events Archives International Management Certificate Sign Up for Future CIBER News Financial Analysis Lab Subscribe to Reports Institute for Leadership and Social Impact About Us Programs News Impact Speaker Series Leadership for Social Good Study Abroad Program Social Impact Fellows Ideas to Serve (I2S) Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Servant Leadership Programs Minor in Leadership Studies Excel Alumni Other ILSI Programs Partnerships Program for Engineering Entrepreneurship Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business About Us Sustainable Business Insights Research Briefs Sustainable Business Events Sustainable Business News Blog Research & Thought Leadership Empowering Students Industry Engagement Newsletter Participating in the Drawdown Georgia Compact Drawdown Georgia Business Compact Meet the Team Alumni Steven A. Denning Technology & Management Program Director's Message About Steven A. Denning T&M Curriculum Program Faculty & Staff Admissions T&M Corporate Affiliates Denning T&M Program News TI:GER® and CDL-Atlanta Program Network TI:GER MBA & PhD FAQs News Apply Inquire Resources in Technology Innovation and Entrepreneurship Scheller News Event Calendar The Intersection Podcast Media Inquiry Marketing Innovation Conference @ Scheller Technology Innovation: Generating Economic Results (TI:GER Program) Resources in Technology Innovation and Entrepreneurship Home » Centers & Initiatives » Technology Innovation: Generating Economic Results (TI:GER Program) » Resources in Technology Innovation and Entrepreneurship Menu TI:GER® and CDL-Atlanta Program Network MBA FAQs PhD FAQs News Apply Inquire Resources in Technology Innovation and Entrepreneurship Scheller College Resources TI:GER (Technology Innovation: Generating Economic Results) Founded in 2002, TI:GER is a three-semester immersive track in Strategy and Innovation that combines classroom instruction, innovation projects, team activities, and real-world experience into a comprehensive and practical education. Scheller's MBA students work with PhD students from Georgia Tech's engineering, computing, and science colleges to translate ideas into successful technology innovations. TI:GER is the educational program for CDL-Atlanta. The courses in the TI:GER program prepare Georgia Tech MBA and PhD students to work with CDL-Atlanta startups. CDL-Atlanta (Creative Destruction Lab - Atlanta) CDL-Atlanta is located at Georgia Tech's Scheller College of Business and is directed and operated from the Strategy and Innovation academic area. It is a global milestone-based mentoring program for massively scalable science-based startups. Admission to the TI:GER program is required to participate in the CDL-Atlanta program. TI:GER MBA and PHD students work closely with CDL-Atlanta ventures in the second and third semester of the TI:GER program. CDL-Global (Creative Destruction Lab) Creative Destruction Lab (CDL) is a nonprofit organization that delivers an objectives-based program for massively scalable, seed-stage, science- and technology-based companies. Working with faculty and students, CDL operates fifteen streams in ten sites: five in Canada, three in the United States, and two in Europe. CDL-Atlanta is located at Georgia Tech’s Scheller College of Business. Strategy & Innovation Club The Strategy & Innovation Club's mission is to provide an opportunity for students to meet and learn from professionals across the strategy and innovation landscape. The Strategy & Innovation Club hosts guest speakers, including consultants and executives from various industries, to discuss topics such as current trends in strategy, innovation strategy, strategy execution, and career paths. Other Scheller College Resources Institute for Leadership and Social Impact ILSI is an interdisciplinary institute that promotes servant leadership and organizational practices that contribute to a more just, caring, and equitable world through workshops, coursework, grants, and a major lecture series (Impact). ILSI brings together students, researchers, business leaders, and social entrepreneurs to stimulate core-level change. Other Georgia Tech Resources ATDC: Advanced Technology Development Center Founded in 1980, ATDC is a startup incubator at Georgia Tech that helps technology entrepreneurs throughout Georgia launch and build successful ventures. Headquartered in Atlanta's Technology Square, ATDC is a hub for technology entrepreneurship in Georgia. Capstone Design Capstone Design is a culminating course offered to undergraduate students in several disciplines at Georgia Tech. Students work in teams to design, build, and test prototypes with real-world applications. At the end of each semester, students showcase their efforts at the "Capstone Design Expo." CREATE-X CREATE-X is a Georgia Tech initiative to instill entrepreneurial confidence in students and empower them to launch successful startups. The broader goal is to provide the knowledge, skills, abilities, and experiences that will give Georgia Tech graduates the confidence to create their future and confidently pursue entrepreneurial opportunities. Engage Engage promotes innovation through a network of connections between start-ups, major corporations, university researchers, and the new-venture community. Engage invests in ventures selected for the Engage Go-To-Market Program. It deploys both capital and enterprise expertise to help startups breakthrough corporate barriers and operate at full speed. Engage searches for visionary entrepreneurs building enterprise startups spanning these six strategic themes: Customer Experience, Supply Chain & Manufacturing, Future of Work, Big Data, Analytics, & Security, Logistics & Mobility, and Climate Tech & Sustainability. Engage's exclusive partnership with Georgia Tech provides access to startup, innovation, and research initiatives. The Engage fund is managed by Tech Square Ventures. GTinnovation This student innovation program plans, manages, and coordinates student innovation programs and competitions. Its focus is expanding the innovation ecosystem at Georgia Tech and connecting it to the wider startup community. The student innovation program oversees marketing and outreach efforts to stakeholders (students, faculty, staff, K-12 communities, and others), collaborates with on-campus and off-campus partners to ensure support and sustainability of programs, and plans events, workshops, and other programming. One of the events of the student innovation program is the InVenture Prize. Invention Studio The Invention Studio is a student-run design-build-play space open to all Georgia Tech students. It supports students, staff, and faculty in building their dream project, whether it's for research, personal or academic usage. The space provides resources for designing, prototyping, and sharing ideas through workshops, vendor networks, experienced guidance, and access to cutting-edge machines. The tools in the studio are all free to use. Startup Exchange Startup Exchange is the largest student-led entrepreneurial community at Georgia Tech. It promotes entrepreneurship education by organizing speaker events, workshops, and panels for students. The organization connects students with startups through its network of students, founders, and mentors. Venture Lab Venture Lab works with faculty and students to create startups based on Georgia Tech research using evidence-based entrepreneurship. Along with several partners, Venture Lab supports a wide variety of early-stage funding and educational programs to help bring research-based startups to life. Last update: June 28, 2021 02-15-2022 Georgia Tech MBAs Tap Into The Creative Destruction Lab Read more Jonathan Giuliano Professor of the Practice Strategy & Innovation Read bio 11-11-2021 From Georgia Tech Scheller Student to CEO: Meet Tech Industry Founders Aaron Enten, Daniel Frye, and Jean Marie Richardson Read more Scheller College of Business Home Why Scheller? Overview & History Business at Tech Georgia Tech Community Career and Recruiter Services Giving to the College Alumni Network Visit Campus Tech Square and Atlanta Programs MBA Undergraduate PhD Interdisciplinary M.S. Executive Education Lean Six Sigma Certification Custom Programs Academics Accounting Finance Information Technology Management Law & Ethics Marketing Operations Management Organizational Behavior Strategy & Innovation Student Certificates Academic Speaker Series Current Faculty Opportunities Centers & Initiatives Business Analytics Center Cecil B. Day Program for Business Ethics Center for International Business Education and Research Financial Analysis Lab Institute for Leadership and Social Impact Program for Engineering Entrepreneurship Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business Steven A. Denning Technology & Management Program TI:GER® and CDL-Atlanta News & Events Scheller News Event Calendar The Intersection Podcast Media Inquiry Marketing Innovation Conference @ Scheller LinkedIn Instagram Facebook Twitter Youtube Flickr Georgia Institute of Technology Scheller College of Business 800 W. Peachtree St. NW Atlanta, GA 30308 404.894.2600 © 2021 Georgia Institute of Technology Intranet Emergency Information Contact the College Privacy & Legal Notice Accountability Web Accessibility Resources for People with Disabilities Plugins Youtube Usage Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures