Skip to main content Skip to main content SMU Home Giving Giving Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Simmons About Dean's Message Programs, Degrees, and Certifications Faculty and Staff Directory Simmons Governance Simmons School History Executive Board Simmons Luminary Award XPRIZE Honor Code Simmons Resources Travel-Study Programs Simmons Lecture Series AERA 2022 Graduation Ceremony May 2022 Paving the Way to Inclusion Conference Simmons Graduate Council Faculty and Administrative Position Openings Simmons Blogs and Social Media Hub Annette Caldwell Simmons Hall Harold Clark Simmons Hall Photo Tour Contact Us Academic Departments & Areas of Study Applied Physiology & Wellness B.S. | Applied Physiology & Sport Mgmt. Undergraduate Specializations Applied Physiology and Health Management Sport Management Sport Performance Leadership M.S. | Health Promotion Management M.S. | Sport Management Non-Degree | Wellness Dispute Resolution & Counseling M.S. | Counseling Specialties Clinical Mental Health Marriage, Couple and Family School Counseling M.A. | Dispute Resolution Non-Degree | Dispute Resolution Specialties Executive Coaching Education Policy & Leadership M.Ed. | PK-12 School Leadership M.Ed. | Higher Education Ed.D. | PK-12 School Leadership Ed.D. | Higher Education Graduate Liberal Studies MLS | Science, Arts, & Humanities DLS | Science, Arts, & Humanities Non-Degree | Science, Arts, & Humanities Ph.D. in Education Teaching & Learning B.S. | M.Ed | MBE | Ph.D. Graduate Specializations Bilingual Special Ed ESL Gifted Literacy Math STEM Urban Education Research Research A comprehensive list of Simmons research projects Faculty Research Publications & Presentations Recent research publications and presentations Center on Research & Evaluation (CORE) Offers comprehensive program evaluation services, largely in the non-profit sector, and performs education research Research in Mathematics Education Conducts research in mathematics education and disseminates findings Integrative Physiology Laboratory Investigates autonomic function and thermoregulation in healthy and clinical populations Locomotor Performance Laboratory Studies terrestrial locomotion and the relationship of muscle function to metabolic energy expenditure and performance Center for VR Learning Innovation Investigates the use of virtual, augmented and mixed reality for education and human development Youth Sports Impact Partnership SMU and the Children’s Health Andrews Institute have launched a collaboration dedicated to improving the health, activity levels, and well-being of kids. Research Resources for Simmons Faculty and Staff Technology and Education Cluster Our Faculty Community Engagement Advanced Placement Summer Institute Summer Institute for AP and Pre-AP Teachers The Budd Center Partners with community agencies to offer educational opportunities for disadvantaged children Center for Family Counseling Counseling services in Plano for individuals and families College Access Programs Programs and workshops that help students advance academically Institute for Leadership Impact Leaders in education, health and social enterprise enhance skills to lead organizations and solve real-world problems Project Connect A repository of ideas, activities and videos for educators interested in improving instruction for English Language Learners West Dallas STEM-Focused School Preparing students for the next generation of STEM jobs Alumni Search Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content PK-12 School Leadership M.Ed. Accelerated School Leadership M.Ed. Accelerated School Leadership Admission Course Descriptions Curriculum Tuition TEA Grievance Policy M.Ed. Urban Educational Leadership M.Ed. Urban Educational Leadership Admission Curriculum Course Descriptions Tuition TEA Grievance Policy Ed.D. Degree Ed.D. Degree Admissions Course Descriptions Meet Our Students Schedule and Calendar Tuition and Financial Aid TEA Grievance Policy News Faculty TEA Grievance Policy ☰ PK-12 School Leadership SMU Simmons: Ranked among the top 12 private graduate schools of education in the nation Simmons Academics PK-12 School Leadership For information on SMU’s response to COVID-19, please visit SMU’s blog. “Research Faculty combined with Clinical Professors provide a unique blend of knowledge, expertise and commitment to support the growth of SMU Simmons Graduates." – Dr. Dawson Orr, Clinical Professor Ed.D. in Educational Leadership Prospective Students This program is designed for educators, public officials, and non-profit administrators who are interested in expanding their leadership in service to Pre-K-to-12 students. Career and Personal Benefits The curriculum includes study of ethics in leadership, legal concerns, community engagement, change management, technology, district complexities, talent management, educational policy and politics, and budgeting and finance. Program Details Master of Education: Accelerated School Leadership Prospective Students This program is designed to prepare educators for a variety of leadership positions in pre-K through grade-12 public, charter, private secular, and religious schools. Career and Personal Benefits Through classroom instruction, individual study, collaborative projects, and the application of research-based principles in field settings, students learn about the instructional, ethical, organizational, and administrative aspects of school leadership. Program Details Master of Education: Urban Educational Leadership Prospective Students The M.Ed. in Urban Educational Leadership program is designed for educators who are interested in becoming leaders of urban schools. Career and Personal Benefits Students learn the unique and complex academic and administrative skills and knowledge required to lead an urban school. The program is offered through a unique partnership between SMU’s Simmons School of Education & Human Development and select districts. Program Details PK-12 School Leadership M.Ed. Accelerated School Leadership M.Ed. Urban Educational Leadership Ed.D. in Educational Leadership In the News Meet the Faculty Educator Preparation Programs Principal and Superintendent VR Simulations Request info Contact the Department of Education Policy and Leadership Contact Us 214-768-3354 Request Information Visit Us Annette Caldwell Simmons Hall 3101 University Blvd, Suite 345 P.O. Box 750114 Dallas, Texas 75275-0114 Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 facebook twitter