Utah State University sites use cookies. By continuing to use this site you accept our privacy and cookie policy. I agree Skip to content Apply Visit Give Calendar A-Z Index Directory Libraries QUICK LINKS MyUSU SEARCH Orientation Student Orientation & Transition Services Close search Search Utah State University: I want to search All USU sites People Search terms Submit search OrientationOpen main menu Close Open search Home Logan Back Logan Orientation Preparation Orientation Modules What's Next Checklist Travel and Accommodations Transportation Options Immunizations College Finances Roommates Campus Maps Registration Registration Vocabulary Cancellations FAQ Statewide First Semester Guides Exploratory Eastern Blanding Online Out of State International Parents of a New Student Quick Links Close Quick Links Apply Visit Give Calendar A-Z Index Directory Libraries MyUSU Orientation How are you planning on coming to USU? Attending Logan Campus I plan to attend the USU campus in Logan, Utah and want to complete the Logan specific orientation. Logan Attending USU Eastern, a Statewide Campus, or Out-of-State Online Only I plan to attend USU at a campus outside of Logan, or out of state, or online, and want to complete one of those orientations. Choose Campus USU Eastern USU Blanding USU Statewide Out-of-State Online Only Leaving Before Attending your First Semester I plan on deferring my admission to a later semester so I don't need to complete orientation yet. But I will complete orientation when I return. Leaving No matter how you decide to attend USU, orientation is built for your specific needs. The online orientation modules are built to orient students in your situation and attending your campus. Orientation professionals have designed the orientation modules to give you the information that you will need. Getting oriented to a new school can be tricky, but the online orientation modules are here to help you with this exciting new transition! Orientation CONTACT TSC Room 105 Logan, UT (435) 797-0283 orientation@usu.edu Maps & Directions Search USU Campus Safety Jobs Contact Terms of Use Copyright Privacy Accessibility Non-Discrimination Admin Back to top of the page