skip to main content University of Nevada, Reno Homepage Apply Visit News Give Search www.unr.edu Search www.unr.edu Search Search www.unr.edu Search www.unr.edu Quicklinks Expand or Collapse to view popular links for this site Alumni Faculty & Staff Parents Students Academic Calendar Campus Catalog Directory Email Access Library Maps MyNevada WebCampus Workday Zoom Login Menu Expand or Collapse to view links grouped by top level headings Quicklinks Alumni Faculty & Staff Parents Students Academic Calendar Campus Catalog Directory Email Access Library Maps MyNevada WebCampus Workday Zoom Login About People Staff Suggested Reading List Principles of Good Practice for Student Affairs Civic Engagement For Students Democratic Engagement Voting resources for students Critical Democracy Literacy Get involved Volunteering and Community Service Events Recognition Silver Paw Award Previous Winners Community Partners Clubs & Organizations Starting a club Club renewal Club Advisors Club Sports Sports and recreation club renewal Competitive vs. Non-Competitive Club Sports Club Sports Concussion Safety Training Event planning Student Events Advisory Board SEAB Members Meeting schedule Facilities and Services Forms & Policies Forms Volunteer Waiver Data and Assessment Policies Support Services Central Station CONNECT Shuttle Service Pack Provisions Student Media Nevada Sagebrush Advertising Nevada Student Media Advisory Board ASUN Apply Visit News Give Center for Student Engagement About People Staff Suggested Reading List Principles of Good Practice for Student Affairs Civic Engagement For Students Community Partners Clubs & Organizations Starting a club Club renewal Club Advisors Club Sports Event planning Student Events Advisory Board Facilities and Services Forms & Policies Forms Data and Assessment Policies Support Services Central Station CONNECT Shuttle Service Pack Provisions Student Media Nevada Sagebrush Advertising Nevada Student Media Advisory Board ASUN The Center for Student Engagement works collaboratively with the Associated Students of the University of Nevada (ASUN) and The Office of the Associate Vice President for Student Life Services under the Division of Student Services to engage, educate and empower undergraduate students to take action in the best interest of the student body and the University community. BLACK LIVES MATTER Unfortunately, the brutal killing of George Floyd by a Minneapolis police officer repeats a pattern of racist acts of violence and murder we have witnessed far too often in our society. We share the grief, frustration and anger that unfathomable, appalling and preventable acts like this one spur. The list of African Americans who have been brutally killed is lengthy and stretches over the history of our nation. Floyd, Breonna Taylor and Ahmaud Arbery are simply the most recent victims. Learn about the actions the University will take to address the impact of racism on campus Civic Learning and Democratic Engagement We're committed to civic engagement efforts that support the teaching and learning mission of the University through the co-creation and application of knowledge/action by students, community partners, service recipients and the university and through democratic processes that lead to self-governance. Civic Learning Services for students Clubs and Organizations We have multiple resources and services for more than 200 student clubs and organizations at the University of Nevada, Reno. Find more information here on club renewal, club advisors, holding an event and more. Clubs and Orgs Support Services The Center for Student Engagement is here to help you make the most of your University experience. We've got events, clubs, student publications and more. Support Services Forms and Policies There is a lot of work that goes into holding a student event. Here you will find the forms and policies you need to review in order to pay for your event and to travel. Forms Student Media Our student newspaper, literary journal, online radio station and feature magazine are invaluable platforms for student voices in establishing and maintaining an atmosphere of free and responsible discussion and of intellectual and artistic expression. Student Media Student Expression Student expression, rights and responsibilities should be grounded in a shared public trust. We hope this site will encourage you to move toward positive, educational use of those rights and responsibilities. Student Expression ASUN The Associated Students of the University of Nevada, Reno (ASUN) is the student government of the University of Nevada. They provide resources and services to ensure Nevada's students succeed personally, academically and professionally. ASUN Division Contact Information Location: Joe Crowley Student Union Mailstop: 0058 Mailing Address: 1664 N. Virginia Street Email: studentengagement@unr.edu Phone: (775) 784-6589 Follow us on social media: Division Contact Information Twitter Division Contact Information Facebook Follow the University University Twitter University Facebook University YouTube University Vimeo University Flickr University Instagram University LinkedIn University of Nevada, Reno 1664 N. Virginia Street, Reno, NV 89557 (775) 784-1110 Employment & Careers Non-Discrimination Statement Privacy Website Help Commitment to Diversity Commitment to Accessibility Contact the University Equal Opportunity and Title IX