COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Alert Apply for external scholarships year-round! ScholarshipUniverse is our scholarship-matching tool for admitted and current Wichita State students. It connects Shockers to millions of dollars in external scholarships. Log into ScholarshipUniverse to review opportunities today! ScholarshipUniverse Academic College Scholarships Section Menu Home Additional Scholarship Opportunities Academic College Scholarships Freshmen Merit Scholarships Outside Scholarships Multicultural Scholarship Index State of Kansas Scholarships Transfer Merit Scholarships Office of Financial Aid Wichita State's academic colleges award over $4.8 million of available scholarships annually, and most scholarship support for current/continuing students is provided through the academic colleges. To be considered, students must apply for these scholarships each year by completing the New/Continuing Students Application within the WSU ScholarshipUniverse system between November 1 and February 1. Within the system, students can answer questions to match with specific college scholarships. Questions about specific college scholarships should be directed to the college’s scholarship coordinator. Get started with ScholarshipUniverse College of Applied Studies The College of Applied Studies annually awards more than $650,000 in both merit-based and need-based scholarships to students in the College of Applied Studies. These awards are made possible by our gracious donors. Their generous gifts provide more than 200 students the opportunity to continue their studies in the fields of counseling, educational leadership, education and school psychology, curriculum and instruction, human performance studies and sport management. The New/Continuing Student Application is open November 1 through February 1 An essay is NOT required in the initial undergraduate application If an essay is required, the undergraduate applicant will be contacted by the scholarship coordinator Graduate applicants are required to write an essay as a part of their application submission process Awards are made April through May for the following fall & spring semesters Late applications are not accepted. Please contact Mika Moss for more information. College of Engineering The College of Engineering awards approximately $850,000 each year in both merit-based and need-based scholarships to engineering and computer science majors. These awards are made possible by our generous donors, which allow us to provide over 200 students financial assistance as they pursue their degrees at Wichita State. Nearly all College of Engineering scholarships are awarded through our New/Continuing Student Application. This application is open from November 1 through February 1 each academic year, and applications received during this period are used to select recipients for the following academic year. If you have questions about scholarships, contact Jason Bosch, Director of Student Engagement and Scholarships, at jason.bosch@wichita.edu or call (316) 978-3400. College of Fine Arts Students receive more than $900,000 in scholarships from the College of Fine Arts annually. As students go through audition/portfolio review, they are automatically considered for scholarship funding. Keep in mind - it is important to apply early for full consideration! Much of the college-specific funding is determined by March 15 each year. To find out more about each schools' scholarship process, click on the following links: School of Art, Design, and Creative Industries - Scholarships for current students are awarded through a faculty nomination process. School of Music - Audition Required; Auditions are held in November, February, and April - Priority date is November. School of Performing Arts - Audition Required; Auditions are held in October and February. For consideration for general scholarships, Fine Arts students should complete the New/Continuing Student Application between November 1 and February 1 each year. College of Health Professions The College of Health Professions awards more than $350,000 among 200 scholarships and fellowships each year. Students who are admitted and enrolled in a professional CHP program are eligible to apply based on their respective program here. In addition, Shockers have access to general scholarships through the New/Continuing Student Application, which is available between November 1 and February 1 each year. Dorothy and Bill Cohen Honors College The Cohen Honors College annually awards more than $500,000 in scholarships to incoming and current students thanks to generous donors. The Cohen Enhancement Scholarship of up to $4000 supports approximately 25 current Honors students each year to pursue enrichment activities such as study abroad, National Student Exchange, internships in the public sector, national conferences, undergraduate research, or service-learning. Application for the Cohen Enhancement Scholarship is available online. Application deadlines are March 15, June 15, and October 15 each year. Applicants are notified of results two weeks after the deadline. For more information about applying for Cohen Honors College scholarships, email honors@wichita.edu or call (316) 978-3375. Fairmount College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Each year students receive more than $650,000 in scholarships and fellowships from the Fairmount College of Liberal Arts and Sciences. Through the generous gifts provided by our donors, over 300 awards are given out each year. All recipients are selected each spring semester for the following academic year based on the New/Continuing Student Application. Applications are due February 1 each year. Questions are welcomed and may be directed to the Fairmount College Scholarship Coordinator, at las.scholarships@wichita.edu. W. Frank Barton School of Business The W. Frank Barton School of Business annually awards over $900,000 each year in all areas of business. Scholarships are mostly based on academic achievement and need-based. These awards are made possible by our gracious donors. Their generous gifts provide over 260 students the opportunity to continue their studies in the field of business. Most business scholarship recipients are selected using our online New/Continuing Student Application. This application is open from November 1 through February 1 each academic year, and applications received during this application period are used to select recipients for the following academic year. Graduate School In addition to scholarships and financial aid, more than 30 percent of full-time graduate students hold assistantships or departmental fellowships amounting to more than $4 million each year. The advantages of holding an assistantship include stipends, tuition reductions and waivers, reduced-rate health insurance and an applied educational experience. Learn about Graduate Awards and Grants Learn about Graduate Assistantships Additional Scholarship Opportunities WSU-affiliated organizations offer a variety of scholarships that are open to current WSU students. Learn about Additional Scholarships Outside Scholarship Opportunities Students are also encouraged to look for outside scholarships. Information on scholarships that are not affiliated with Wichita State is provided as a courtesy to our students. Learn about Outside Scholarships International Student Resources Although financial aid opportunities for international students are limited, there are various resources for funding your education. Learn about International Student Resources College Scholarship Coordinators College of Applied Studies Mika Moss mika.moss@wichita.edu Phone: (316) 978-5998 College of Engineering Jason Bosch jason.bosch@wichita.edu Phone: (316) 978-6314 College of Fine Arts Sanya Wiles sanya.wiles@wichita.edu Phone: (316) 978-7091 College of Health Professions Marsha Compton marsha.compton@wichita.edu Phone: (316) 978-5669 Dorothy & Bill Cohen Honors College Erin LeBegue erin.lebegue@wichita.edu Phone: (316) 978-3315 Fairmount College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Debbie Neill debbie.neill@wichita.edu Phone: (316) 978-6656 W. Frank Barton School Of Business Joan Adkisson joan.adkisson@wichita.edu Phone: (316) 978-6403 College Deans Offices College of Applied Studies 104 Corbin Education Center Phone: (316) 978-3300 College of Engineering 306 Wallace Hall Phone: (316) 978-3400 College of Fine Arts 116 Wiedemann Hall Phone: (316) 978-3389 College of Health Professions 400 Ahlberg Hall Phone: (316) 978-3304 Dorothy & Bill Cohen Honors College A1180 Shocker Hall Phone: (316) 978-3375 Fairmount College of Liberal Arts and Sciences 200 Lindquist Hall Phone: (316) 978-6659 W. Frank Barton School of Business 100 Clinton Hall Phone: (316) 978-3200 Colleges and Schools Match, don't search. Finding scholarships is now FASTER, EASIER and MOBILE. Learn more 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©