Menu Close Menu Skip to content Information For: Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Friends & Supporters A to Z index Search for: Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health Email People Departments Calendar Careers my.harvard Giving About Faculty & Research Admissions & Aid Academics Executive/Continuing Ed News Department of Molecular Metabolism Department of Molecular Metabolism Menu Search for: Home About Us People Molecular Metabolism Faculty Researchers Staff Open Academic Positions MET Laboratories Biddinger Lab Danial Lab Farese & Walther Lab Hotamışlıgil Lab Hui Lab Kory Lab Lee Lab Mair Lab Manning Lab Schaffer Lab Ubellacker Lab Centers Training Program in Molecular Metabolism Trainee Poster Session Prospective Students Training Programs Current Post-Doctoral Opportunity Apply! Awards Armen H. Tashjian Jr. Award Winner of 2022 Armen H. Tashjian Award Armen H. Tashjian Jr. Award Recipients Diversity and Inclusion T.H. Chan School of Public Health – Office of Diversity and Inclusion Seminars and Events MET Seminar Series Special Seminars Data Club LMA Metabolism Chalk Talks Faculty Meetings Resources Funding Opportunities News In Memoriam James Mitchell, Ph.D. John B. Little Marianne Wessling-Resnick Internal Resources Support Our Work Welcome Letter from the Acting Chair Brendan D. Manning Ph.D., Acting Chair Welcome to the Department of Molecular Metabolism at the Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health. We are an interdisciplinary life sciences department housed in a world-class school of public health. Why merge the biological laboratory sciences with traditional public health disciplines? Widespread non-communicable diseases, including cardiovascular disease, diabetes, inflammatory diseases, neurological disorders, and cancer, are a global health problem of increasing severity that account for the vast majority of human morbidity and death. These complex, multifactorial diseases arise through a poorly understood interplay between genetic and environmental factors, with deviations in normal cellular and systemic metabolism emerging as a shared underlying feature. Metabolism refers to the vital and dynamic chemical reactions through which nutrients are interconverted to generate or store energy or produce the core components that make up our cells and tissues. These reactions form the homeostatic basis of life on this planet. The faculty of the Department of Molecular Metabolism lead laboratory research teams focused on unraveling the molecular mechanisms through which key metabolic reactions and processes are controlled and coordinated with other physiological activities and how dysfunction in these control mechanisms cause or contribute to the most common human diseases. As metabolic dysfunction is a feature of old age and aging is a primary risk factor for all of these diseases, projects in the Department are also geared toward delineating the nature of these connections. Our emphasis on the mechanistic underpinnings of human health and disease employs cutting-edge approaches across the spectrum of biological sciences, including biochemistry and biophysics, cell biology, physiology, systems biology, and genetics applied to both cell and animal models. Despite our foundation in basic science, research in the Department of Molecular Metabolism does not lie at the ground level of public health research, but rather at the center of it. Our research goals are based on the premise that elucidating how we sense and respond to nutrients and other environmental factors to properly control metabolic processes is pivotal to defining how the risk factors revealed through epidemiological studies contribute to the onset or course of human diseases. It is this mechanistic focus on “how” that allows us to identify new therapeutic targets or approaches to prevent or treat the most common global health threats, prioritizing a major mission of the Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health. Brendan D. Manning, PhD Professor and Acting Chair Department of Molecular Metabolism Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health Follow Us On TwitterMy Tweets New paper in Cell Reports describes first ever mouse knockout model of TBC1D7 MET researchers describe the first ever mouse knockout of TBC1D7, recapitulating the clinical manifestation of a rare human brain overgrowth disorder Researchers Reveal the Subcellular Architecture in Liver Parlakgül and colleagues report a detailed characterization of the subcellular architecture in liver in both healthy and obese contexts. Training Program in Molecular Metabolism Learn about our Training Program in Molecular Metabolism and learn about our three trainees in this program. News from the School Congratulations graduates! Probing disease disparities Saving a daughter, starting a career Tackling disparities and stigma around obesity, mental health Information For: Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Friends & Supporters About Key Facts Renaming the School Office of the Dean Location and Facilities Administrative Offices Contact Us Faculty and Research Faculty and Researcher Directory Academic Departments, Divisions and Centers International Research Postdoctoral Research Fellows Office of Faculty Affairs Faculty Searches Office of Diversity and Inclusion Admissions & Aid Why Harvard Chan Degree Programs Non-Degree Programs Financial Aid Student Experience Career Advancement Apply Academics Academic Departments Divisions Research Centers Flagship Initiatives International Research Research Administration and Support Degree Programs Fellowships and Residencies Summer Programs Continuing Professional Education Interdisciplinary Concentrations Academic Calendar Harvard Chan Viewbook Executive/Continuing Ed Program Offerings Custom Programs Request Information News and Resources About ECPE Contact News Featured News Press Releases Student Stories In the News Newsletters HPH Magazine Why Public Health? Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health 677 Huntington Avenue Boston, MA 02115 +1 (617) 495‑1000 Twitter Facebook YouTube LinkedIn Instagram iTunes Harvard Chan Home Contact Us Harvard University Home Make a Gift Privacy Policy Report Copyright Violation Accessibility Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College