Skip navigation Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Brown Grad School About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Graduate School About the Graduate School Graduate Student Resources Graduate School Skip to Navigation Graduate Student Resources WHERE TO START? It's okay to ask for help. At Brown, we care about the whole you and work with you to support your success. Begin with some of the resources listed below. For resources marked "confidential," please see the definition below. If you are not sure where to go or are not sure what your question is, you can start with one of the Graduate School deans or one of the Support Deans in the Office of Student Life. ACADEMICS Questions about... Your academic progress and/or milestones? Contact your Department/Division or Program, Director of Graduate Studies, Advisors or Chairs. Your academic concerns, advocacy help or fellowships? The Graduate School's Associate Dean of Academic Affairs is the primary contact, but you can begin the conversation with any dean at the Graduate School. The Academic Affairs Manager and Academic Affairs Specialist are additional resources. See the Dean's & Staff page for contact details. Your academic funding? See our Financing & Support webpage, speak with a dean or the Office of Financial Aid. For questions about advanced funding in the humanities and social science, the Associate Dean of Student Development is the primary contact. Diversity and inclusion, campus climate, mentoring or avenues for recourse? Contact the Associate Dean of Diversity Initiatives or the Diversity Initiatives Program Assistant. For experiences of bias, please consider the online Bias Incident Reporting Form. Your professional development? See the professional development webpage and contact the Associate Dean of Student Development. Additional resources: CareerLAB Sheridan Center for Teaching and Learning Writing Center University Library Advising and Mentoring Resources Graduate School Associate Dean of Student Support Versatile PhD ImaginePhD HEALTH & WELLNESS Questions about... Making an appointment or seeking confidential advice on mental health and physical health or wellness? Health Services Appointments: 401-863-3953 Advice: 401-863-1330 (24/7) Access to services included in health fee; Confidential resource Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS) Appointments Mon - Sat and 24/7 crisis phone: 401-863-3476 Access to services included in health fee; Saturday hours for graduate students; Confidential resource Seeking confidential counsel or support? Office of the Chaplains and Religious Life Brown's multifaith team of professional chaplains care for community members of all spiritual identities and those who are not religious. Appointments/daily drop-in hours: Page-Robinson Hall, 4th Floor Phone: 401-863-2344 Seeking confidential help for sexual violence or abuse? SHARE Advocates (Sexual Harassment & Assault Resources & Education) Email: [email protected] Other Resources: Sexual Assault Response line Phone: 401-863-6000 Graduate School Deputy Title IX Coordinator Phone: 401-863-1802 Health or wellness resources or a consultation? B’ Well Health Promotion Phone: 401-863-2794 I am experiencing food insecurity and seeking assistance. Food and Related Resources for Graduate Students Fitness and recreation? Athletics and Physical Education Phone: 401-863-5100 STUDENT EXPERIENCE Questions about... A personal, medical or family matter? Make an appointment with the Graduate School Dean of Student Support to discuss concerns and academic implications. Email: [email protected]. Talk with Deans in the Office of Student Support Services Phone: 401-863-3145 Email: [email protected] For evening or weekend emergencies: call Public Safety (401-863-3322) and ask to speak to the Administrator on Call. Emergency funding, short-term loan, or food insecurity? Apply for emergency funds or short-term loan through UFunds or meet with the Associate Dean of Student Support or the Operations and Enrollment Management Specialist. Issues arising from life at Brown? Have an off-the-record conversation with the Ombuds Office. Phone: 401-863-6145 Email: [email protected] Watch a video introduction & learn more. Disability services or support for accommodations, medical conditions or temporary injuries? Student and Employee Accessibility Services Phone: 401-863-9588 Email: [email protected] and mention that you are a graduate student. Additional resources: Office of International Student and Scholar Services (OISSS) Global Brown Center for International Students Office of Institutional Equity & Diversity Brown Center for Students of Color LGBTQ Center Sarah Doyle Center for Women and Gender Office of Military-Affiliated Students Undocumented, First-Generation College, and Low-Income Student Center Writing Support: English Language Support Program Didn’t find your question? Reach out to one of the Graduate School deans or one of the Support Deans in the Office of Student Life to start a conversation. Or see Who to Ask for additional questions and contacts. Confidential: “Confidential” means that the designated office or campus professionals can maintain the confidentiality of a complainant’s disclosures. They cannot reveal identifiable information shared by an individual to any other person without express permission of the individual, or as otherwise permitted or required by law. Home About the Graduate School People Mission & Facts Diversity and Inclusion News & Communications Academic Events & Honors Initiatives in Doctoral Education and Support Graduate Student Resources Maps & Directions Healthy Brown FAQs for Graduate Students Academics & Research Living & Resources Financing & Support Admitted Students & Orientation Application Information For Graduate Students For Faculty and Staff Brown University Brown University Graduate School Box 1867 Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-2600 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Resources Graduate School Handbook Academic Code CareerLAB Brown University Writing Center Sarah Doyle Center for Women and Gender Sheridan Center for Teaching & Learning Top Destinations Admission Inquiry Form Commencement Five-Year Ph.D. Support Open Graduate Education External Funding Application Process International Applicants