COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW WSU News Courtesy photo The strength of Wichita State University's engineering program brought Chadrack Kamba Tshimanga to Kansas from the Democratic Republic of the Congo. May 03, 2022Talent PipelineMechanical EngineeringCollege of EngineeringGraduate Profilesstudents Meet a Shocker: Chadrack Kamba Tshimanga By Paul Suellentrop Chadrack Tshimanga Kamba learned how to balance work and school during his time studying mechanical engineering at Wichita State University. Chadrack is one of more than 2,400 students eligible for spring 2022 graduation. Learn more about his time at Wichita State and what is next for the grad. Hometown Kananga, Democratic Republic of the Congo Degree I am majoring in mechanical engineering. What made you want to attend Wichita State? Wichita has one the best engineering programs in the United States. How are you feeling leading up to graduation? I am feeling very blessed and proud of myself. I am looking forward to what the future holds. What was been your biggest challenge as a student, and how did you overcome it? Balance work and school. I came up with a new plan, which was to readjust priorities. What has been your most helpful learning experience at Wichita State? I have learned that no matter how difficult things might get - do not give up, keep believing in yourself. You can handle more than what you think. What are your plans after graduation? I will be looking for a job. How did the COVID-19 pandemic affect your time at Wichita State? I was never used to studying online or remotely. However, when COVID hit, it was very challenging to get used to online. This even affected my GPA. What advice would you give other Wichita State students? Wichita State has some great resources. Take advantage of that. Get out of your comfort zone and make a lot of friends. Don’t be shy to reach out for help. College of Engineering Since 1928, Wichita State's College of Engineering has built a reputation for equipping engineering and computing students with the most complete education possible. Learn more Read more stories like this Related Stories Talent Pipeline Beyond the Classroom: Anllir Ramirez-Tenorio computer science Wichita State team will help Kansas communities deal with natural disasters Talent Pipeline NIAR WERX announces MRO program expansion with Erickson Precision Ventures Access and Affordability Beyond the Classroom: Keegan Staats 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©