Skip to main content University of Washington Research Contact Us About Office of Research Announcements UW Home Quick Links MyResearch Project Lifecycle Plan/Propose Plan/Propose Overview Develop Hypothesis/Question Select Funding Source Conduct Literature Search Sponsor Requirements Recruit Team Budget Facilities and Resources Write Proposal Submit Proposal Tools MyResearch SAGE Zipline More Tools Setup Setup Overview Sponsor Requirements Facilities and Resources Financials Subawards Compliance Requirements (Non-Financial) Records and Documentation Methods Collaborations Data Collection Tools MyResearch SAGE Zipline More Tools Manage Manage Overview Financials Compliance Requirements (Non-Financial) Facilities and Resources Collect Data Analyze Data Subawards Award Changes Reporting Tools MyResearch SAGE Zipline More Tools Closeout Closeout Overview Financials Subawards Equipment and Materials Reporting Dissemination of Results Data Sharing Records Retention Tools MyResearch SAGE Zipline More Tools Resources Support Offices Human Subjects Division Office of Animal Welfare Office of Research Central Office of Research Information Services Office of Sponsored Programs Research Units Applied Physics Laboratory Washington National Primate Research Center Browse Forms and Templates Policies, Procedures and Guidance Announcements Glossary FAQs Popular Resources Funding Opportunities Grants Information Memorandum (GIMs) Institutional Facts and Rates Research Stats & Rankings New to UW Research UWFT for the Research Community Tools MyResearch SAGE Zipline More Tools Collaboration Connect to Expertise Find Research Expertise Research Centers and Institutes Resources for Collaboration Interdisciplinary Resources Guidance for NIH Institutional Training Grants Collaborative Proposal Development Resources Establish a Research Center or Institute Shared Research Facilities and Resources Tools MyResearch SAGE Zipline More Tools Compliance Compliance Overview Compliance Training Training Overview Research Training Overview Collaborative for Research Education Required Research Training Research Administration Learning HSD Training and Education MyResearch Training Transcript Home UW Research MyResearch Project Lifecycle Plan/Propose Submit Proposal UW Research Menu MyResearch Project Lifecycle Plan/Propose Setup Manage Closeout Resources Collaboration Compliance Training Submit Proposal Close Menu Home Plan/Propose Develop Hypothesis/Question Select Funding Source Conduct Literature Search Sponsor Requirements Federal Non-Federal Industry Clinical Trials Classified or Restricted Research Recruit Team Personnel International/Global Find Collaborators Consultants Budget Facilities and Resources Write Proposal Additional Considerations Submit Proposal Post Submission Contents System Access & Registration Proposal Routing eGC1 Requirements Project Information on eGC1s Prepare for Submission What is Ready to Submit? Review and Response from Office of Sponsored Programs (OSP) System Access & Registration Get access to UW and Sponsor systems early. Review sponsor requirements. UW system authorizations, including access to SAGE, are managed within your department through ASTRA. Talk to your department Administrator and visit sponsor websites for more information. Proposal Routing The System to Administer Grants Electronically (SAGE) is an internal UW compliance and approval routing system. All sponsored program proposals must be reviewed and approved by campus units, appropriate compliance offices and the Office of Sponsored Programs (OSP). GIM 1: Review and Submission requirements for Proposals eGC1 Requirements OSP requires an eGC1 for: Pre-applications, Pre-proposals, Letters of Intent / Interest requiring authorized official (AO) submission/sign-off or that contain budget details. Internal GIM 19 deadlines apply. Proposals for Research, Instruction and Other Sponsored Activity (Competing, Supplemental). Non-competing renewals (e.g. progress reports) that require authorized official submission or sign-off. Review When do I need to prepare an eGC1 for progress reports? Revised applications (replacing most or all of previously submitted proposal). After-the-Fact agreements or awards review ATF eGC1 Process and GIM 1. Non-Award agreements: an agreement between UW and another party, related to research that obligates UW resources or otherwise makes legal obligations on behalf of the University and does not include external funding, requiring institutional sign-off. Review more information on Agreement Types and NAA eGC1 instructions. Another eGC1 is required, even if there is an eGC1 on file when the: sponsor issues an amendment or a modification to an NAA. cumulative amount of an award exceeds by 25% or more the cumulative amount of the eGC1 or eGC1s on file. PI or sponsor determines there is a significant change in the scope of work: A change in direction, aims, objectives, purposes, or types of research. Addition of compliance requirements not represented in an earlier eGC1, such as animal or human subjects or cost share. OSP will determine if unique situations not described here require an eGC1. Project Information on eGC1s: Providing full and accurate information on the eGC1 facilitates proposal review and central office review at time of award. If awarded, some information on an eGC1 will place the Funding Action (FA) on an automatic HOLD, which allows time for necessary compliance review. Review resources relevant to your proposal: Budget: Budget and fiscal information provided on an eGC1 are important review criteria. Review more information for: Budget Development SAGE Budget Applying F&A in proposal budgets Administrative Support Cost Share Budget Justifications Human Subjects Research (HSR): If the project involves interaction with Human Subjects, or identifiable data or specimens from human subjects, review Human Subjects Research Considerations for proposals. At the time of award you may need Institutional Review Board (IRB) review. Contact the Human Subjects Division (HSD) or your department’s HSD team with questions. Does your project involve UW Medicine clinical services or clinical space as a site of patient care, or includes medical treatment of a patient by a UW Physicians provider? Review Clinical Research Budgeting & Billing (CRBB) guidance. Working with Embryonic Human Stem Cells? Review guidance on Embryonic Stem Cell Research Oversight (ESCRO) Contact escro@uw.edu with questions Animal Use: Does your research involve the use of vertebrate animals? Institutional information such as UW’s PHS assurance number and AAALAC accreditation information can be found on OAW’s Institutional Compliance page. Review more information on OAW’s grant review process. Contact OAW with any questions. Environmental Health & Safety (EH&S): Research that involves Biohazards, Select Agents & Toxins, Radioactive Material, Scuba Diving or that may have Chemical Thresholds have regulations and approvals that must be in place to perform the work. Biohazards: Research involving biohazards will require Biological Use Authorization from the Institutional Biosafety Committee and/or EH&S before initiation. Review EH&S BUA guidance and submission deadlines. Select Agents and Toxins: UW Researchers working with select agents and toxins are required to enroll in the UW Select Agent Program before receiving the agents. EH&S will work with PIs to obtain necessary federal clearances, approvals, and training. Documentation of due diligence is required for any transfer of Select Toxins in any amount. Radioactive Materials: Radiation Use Authorization (RUA), issued to the Principal Investigator (PI), must sufficiently cover the proposed radioactive material work before EH&S will approve the proposal in SAGE. SCUBA Diving: Current certification as a UW Scientific Diver and strict adherence to the UW’s Diving Safety Manual is required for anyone diving under the UW auspices. Review the UW Diving Safety Program for more information. Chemical Thresholds: EH&S will contact you for planning assistance as fire department requirements may not allow these quantities in your space or may require building modifications. Contact EH&S with questions. Equipment & Materials: Tangible items involved in a project, such as equipment and biological materials may have export control and budgetary implications as well as informing protections or licensing that need to be in place for sharing outside UW. Fabricating Equipment at the UW? Review Equipment Fabrication guidance. Contact eio@uw.edu with questions. If University-owned biological materials will be provided to non-UW parties, including sponsor (such as cell lines, cultures, bacteria, nucleotides, proteins, transgenic animals, pharmaceuticals, or chemicals etc.): Review Material Transfer Agreement FAQs Sharing or shipping items to foreign locations or with foreign nationals? Review Export Control Measures Contact exports@uw.edu with questions Data & Technology: If and how specific types of information and technologies will be involved may determine if special guidelines or restrictions apply. Review information for: Export Control Measures Export Control Information Privacy and Security Contact exports@uw.edu with questions. Industry Sponsors and Intellectual Property Will your work with an Industry Sponsor potentially involve licensing of intellectual property? If you need further information on options for providing intellectual property rights to the sponsor, review the Washington Innovation Advantage Program (WIAP) or contact osp@uw.edu with questions. PI Assurances By approving an eGC1 for submission, PIs makes assurances and certification to the UW about the proposal for routing and submission. These assurances reflect the PIs intent to adhere to federal, state, UW and sponsor policies that apply to the proposal. Prepare for Submission When SAGE Grant Runner is not an option for proposal submission, OSP reviews proposals within sponsor systems as well as within SAGE. More information GIM 1: Review & Submission Requirements for Proposals FAQ: Is my eGC1 ready? In addition to ensuring your proposals are prepared according to sponsor requirements and submission deadlines, the UW has internal submission deadlines that must be followed for proposals requesting external support. Meeting Internal Submission Deadlines 7 Business Days Before Sponsor Deadlines Route proposal drafts, final administrative and business elements within SAGE along with any supporting documents that need to be reviewed internally. 3 Business Days Before Sponsor Deadlines All final proposal materials to all external sponsors (including collaborators) must be: Attached to the eGC1 and the eGC1 marked Ready to Submit (RTS) Attached in any corresponding sponsor systems. “In OSP” status by 5pm, three business days before the sponsor deadline. Sponsor Due Date GIM 19 Deadline Thursday by 5 pm PST Preceding Monday by 5pm PST Wednesday by midnight PST and preceding Monday is a holiday Preceding Thursday by 5pm PST (Monday is not a business day) Wednesday by 2 pm, EST (11 am PST) Preceding Friday by 5 pm PST Friday by 5 pm EST (2 pm PST) Preceding Tuesday by 5 pm PST Friday, no specific time or time zone mentioned Preceding Tuesday by 5 pm PST Follow any additional School & College or department requirements. All UW key personnel must complete their Significant Financial Interest (SFI) disclosure in the Financial Information Disclosure System (FIDS) before submission. What is Ready to Submit? Ready to submit (RTS) means the eGC1 has a complete proposal in final format, ready for submission to the sponsor. This includes all required sponsor forms, components, sections, and attachments, per sponsor program announcement and policy. RTS proposals must have: Documents attached in the order required by the sponsor Ready to Submit question on the eGC1 is marked “Yes” The eGC1 in “In OSP” status. The PI has given OSP access to the proposal in the sponsor system (e.g., FastLane, proposalCentral, eRA Commons etc), if applicable. An eGC1 does not have to be marked “Yes” RTS to be reviewed by OSP. It does have to be marked “Yes” RTS to be submitted to the sponsor. FAQ: Is my eGC1 ready? Review and Response from Office of Sponsored Programs (OSP) New / Competing Renewals Your OSP reviewer will respond within 2 business days of an eGC1 being “In OSP” status. It will: Have a status update or, Be reviewed and returned with OSP review comments or, Submitted, if no changes needed and marked “RTS” OSP Review Comments: Required and Recommended Changes If parts of the proposal or eGC1 need revision, OSP will email comments to the PI and eGC1 Administrative Contacts and return the eGC1 to the PI. These comments will be marked as Required or Recommended Changes. Required Changes must be made before submission to the Sponsor. Recommended Changes are recommended based on OSP review. All changes and a RTS proposal on an eGC1 and in a sponsor system, if applicable, must be “In OSP” by 5 pm 3 business days before the sponsor deadline, or you will need to request a GIM 19 Waiver. Incomplete eGC1s eGC1s with significant differences from the attached proposal, where OSP does not have access to a proposal in the sponsor system or eGC1s that do not contain a proposal will be returned to the department without review by OSP until these issues are corrected by the department. Forms, Tools, and Resources SAGE Tools Financial Interest Disclosure System (FIDS) IT Connect: ASTRA Access Management SAGE: eGC1 Overview SAGE: Accessing SAGE Office of Sponsored Programs After-the-Fact eGC1s Policy, Regulation, and Guidance GIM 01 – Review and Submission Requirements for Proposals GIM 34 – Classification of External Support as Either a… GIM 19 – Internal Deadlines for Proposals to External Entities Training CORE: Blueprint of a Proposal Animal Use Training Program CORE: SAGE Creating NIH Proposals in Grant Runner Announcements February 28, 2022 Sponsor Requirements NIH Formatting Attachments, PDFs, and Electronic Signatures March 20, 2020 How to Mark Your COVID-19 Related OSP Submission December 17, 2019 NSF: SciENcv, Biographical Sketch, and Current & Pending Support June 20, 2019 NIH: Upcoming July 5th Due Date Reminders All Announcements Frequently Asked Questions Is my eGC1 ready? What’s the difference between a PD/PI, Multiple PI, a Co-PI,… When do I need to use an eGC1? When should a PI be designated as a Multiple PI? When should a PI be designated as an Application PI? Will an Application PI need to complete a Significant Financial… Home Plan/Propose Develop Hypothesis/Question Select Funding Source Conduct Literature Search Sponsor Requirements Federal Non-Federal Industry Clinical Trials Classified or Restricted Research Recruit Team Personnel International/Global Find Collaborators Consultants Budget Facilities and Resources Write Proposal Additional Considerations Submit Proposal Post Submission University of Washington Office of Research Tools MyResearch SAGE Zipline More Tools OR Support Offices Human Subjects Division (HSD) Office of Animal Welfare (OAW) Office of Research (OR) Office of Research Information Services (ORIS) Office of Sponsored Programs (OSP) OR Research Units Applied Physics Laboratory (APL-UW) WA National Primate Research Center (WaNPRC) Research Partner Offices CoMotion Corporate and Foundation Relations (CFR) Enivronmental Health and Safety (EH&S) Grant and Contract Accounting (GCA) Institute of Translational Health Sciences (ITHS) Management Accounting and Analysis (MAA) Post Award Fiscal Compliance (PAFC) Collaboration Research Expertise Centers and Institutes Interdisciplinary Resources Guidance for NIH Institutional Training Grants Collaborative Proposal Development Resources About Research Fact Sheet Research Annual Report Stats and Rankings Honors and Awards Office of Research Contact Us Manage Subscriptions Gerberding Hall G80 Box 351202 Seattle, WA 98195 Accessibility Jobs Campus Safety My UW Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA