Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Events Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Schedule a Visit SMU Tour Follow Us Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us Twitter Follow Us YouTube Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Home Academics Academics Departments Undergraduate Majors Undergraduate Minors and Programs Graduate Studies Why Study Here? Why Study Here? The Dedman Edge Heard on The Hilltop Research and Fellowships Research and Fellowships Undergraduate Students Graduate Students National Student Fellowships Institutes and Centers Faculty Dean's Research Council Resources Resources Current Students Faculty and Staff Prospective Students Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate About About Dean's Welcome Administrative Directory Executive Board Department Chairs Department Faculty Directory Dedman Diversity Publications Facilities Connect Connect Make a Gift Contact Us Prospective Student Visit Alumni Connection and Events ☰ Give SMU Home Give Support Dedman College When you make a gift to Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences, you help provide students with exceptional learning experiences. We offer a top-notch student education and conduct thoughtful, cutting-edge research steered by innovative faculty recognized in Dallas and around the globe. Your commitment to the College helps support graduate fellowships and undergraduate scholarships; attract and retain outstanding professors and researchers; and enhance academic programs, facilities, and resources. Thank you for your support! Gift Opportunities SMU Fund for Dedman College Support of Innovation Gifts to the SMU Fund for Dedman College provide the Dean with resources to pursue strategic priorities and innovations such as new programs in health and society, biophysics, or digital humanities that strengthen Dedman College as well as the flexibility to invest in new opportunities that arise during the year. Creating a robust fund for the Dean’s unrestricted use is an important priority for Dedman College. Give now Dedman College Scholars Support of Undergraduate Students The Dedman College Scholars program enriches the University’s intellectual life by providing unique learning opportunities for a select cohort of exceptional undergraduate students. This group of Dedman College majors receives an annual academic scholarship award. With strong alumni support as well as close faculty guidance and mentoring, they become an actively engaged community of scholars. Give now Dean’s Research Council Support of Faculty Research Strengthening the ability for Dedman College faculty to conduct cutting-edge research is another significant priority. The Dean’s Research Council provides competitively awarded seed funding for faculty research. This support helps our faculty to compete for larger grants and fellowships from outside SMU. Strong research programs have a direct impact on the quality of educational experiences available to our undergraduate and graduate students. Give now Dedman College Graduate Fellowships Support of Graduate Students High-quality Ph.D. students are critical to the research mission of Dedman College. In the sciences in particular, faculty research hinges on the work advanced by graduate students in their laboratories. Dedman College Fellowships help the College attract and retain top graduate students. To bring in the best Ph.D. students, who are essential to our faculty’s cutting-edge research, we are raising additional resources for graduate programs. Our goal is to offer more competitive fellowships and enhance the experience of graduate students at Dedman College. Give now SMU Human Rights Program Support Human Rights Education Out of the more than 5,000 colleges and universities in the United States, SMU is one of only seven that offers an undergraduate degree in human rights. Since the creation of the program in 2006, 250 human rights majors and minors have graduated. Please consider a current-use or endowment gift today to guarantee that the full experience of an SMU human rights education will be available far into the future. Give now Home Academics Why Study Here? Research and Fellowships Resources Prospective Students About Connect Give Show your Support! Give now. Apply Visit Academics Undergraduate Degrees Graduate Degrees Minors and Programs Research Centers and Institutes Connect Administrative Directory Department Directory Alumni Make a Gift Dedman College of Humanities & Sciences P.O. Box 750235 | Dallas, Texas | 75275-0233 214-768-2440 © Southern Methodist University Legal Disclosures facebook twitter youtube