Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Organizational Leadership Certificate (Graduate) You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Organizational Leadership Certificate (Graduate) Apply Request More Info Organizational Leadership Certificate (Graduate) Admissions Graduate Certificate in Organizational Leadership Become a strategic and empathetic leader in the contemporary field of human resource management with the Graduate Certificate in Organizational Leadership at Temple’s Fox School of Business. In this 12-credit program you will develop professional competency with the ethical and societal challenges impacting the field. Intended for professionals seeking tactical and conflict management expertise as well as career advancement, the Organizational Leadership Graduate Certificate develops leaders that build strong teams and drive organizational effectiveness, establish productive labor-management relations, and understand the legal requirements for employment, hiring and staffing. With this certificate, you will gain the skills to leverage performance management and reward systems that best develop human capital. Go beyond review and compliance dynamics by learning how to practice ethical decision-making from a diversity, equity and inclusion perspective. You will also discover leadership concepts and processes that eschew unconscious bias and privilege to attract and retain the top talent in your industry. Credits earned in the program can be transferred to a Fox specialized master’s or MBA program. Accounting & Financial Management MS Actuarial Science MS Business Analytics MS Digital Marketing MS Financial Analysis MS Financial Analysis & Quantitative Risk Management MS Human Resource Management MS Information Technology Auditing and Cyber Security MS Innovation Management & Entrepreneurship MS Marketing Research and Insights MS Master of Accountancy Master of Business Administration Master of Health Administration Master in Management Real Estate MS Quantitative Finance and Risk Management MS Statistics MS Statistics and Data Science MS Request Information Learn more about the Graduate Certificate in Organizational Leadership. Apply Now Ready to apply? Submit your graduate application. Request Information Apply Program Format & Curriculum The curriculum for the four-course Organizational Leadership Graduate Certificate is offered completely online and can be completed in two or three semesters. Required courses include the following. Leading High Performing Teams Leading Organizations Leading with a Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Perspective Students choose one elective among the following options to complete the program. Business Model Innovation Influential Organizational Communication Leading Strategically Power, Influence and Negotiation For questions regarding the program’s curriculum, please contact Kelly Grace, assistant professor of instruction, at kelly.grace@temple.edu. Related Graduate Certificates Business Analytics Healthcare Innovation Management Innovation Strategy Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Graduate Certificate offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $1,218.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,276.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Careers The Organizational Leadership graduate certificate provides the tools necessary for human resource management professionals to take their careers to the next level. For recent graduates entering the workforce, this certificate supports an array of career options across business, government and nonprofit settings. Possible manager- or director-level positions may include the following areas. Compensation and benefits Human resources Training and development Program Contact Kelly Grace is an assistant professor of instruction in the Fox School of Business. Phone: 215-204-1621 Email: kelly.grace@temple.edu Accreditation The Fox School of Business is accredited by the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB). The school has maintained AACSB accreditation since 1934. BU-ORLD-GRAD Additional Program Information Available online. School/College Site Go back to AcademicsMore in Organizational Leadership Certificate (Graduate) Admissions Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info