Skip to content WPPSA Penn Weekly Paid Professional Staff Assembly Menu and widgets Home About Events Get Involved Call for Elections Board Members | University Committees Weekly Paid Professional Staff Assembly Bylaws (Revised November 2021) Membership Meeting Minutes Resources Success Stories FAQ’s Contact Us Email Facebook Recent Posts Restorative Practices Calling Weekly Paid Staff – Join our WPPSA Support Team!﻿ Congratulations to WPPSA 2021 Holiday Grab & Go Raffle Winners What is the WPPSA? The WPPSA represents all full-time weekly-paid (non-union) professional employees on one of the university’s main decision-making bodies: University Council and its committees. The WPPSA’s primary goal is to represent the interests of its membership throughout all the segments of the University of Pennsylvania community. Any full-time weekly-paid (non-union) employee can be a member of the WPPSA. Members of the WPPSA can sit on University Committees charged with making recommendations on issues of diversity, fairness, and policy-making. Members of the WPPSA also initiate programs of interest for the membership and the university community. Search Search for: Welcome to WPPSA! Upcoming Events & Announcements Call for Elections WPPSA is excited to announce our FY23 Call for Nominations! Board and University Council Committees positions are available. Institutional service, including WPPSA Board and University Council positions are a great way to learn more about the University engage and network with key Administration and organizations as well make meaningful contributions to the University community. Please see WPPSA Bylaws and Call for Elections for more information on open positions. If you or a colleague you know are interested, please email Maureen Goldsmith at mgoldsmi@upenn.edu by April 29th with a brief bio and explanation of interest in open chair or committee seats. Elections will be held online/anonymously in Mid-May. Nominations for colleagues are also encouraged. Join our WPPSA Support Team! Two New Positions Available The Weekly Paid Professional Staff Association “WPPSA” has two new creative openings for volunteer staff: Outreach Specialist and Digital Platforms Specialist. Learn more in the Get Involved section. WPPSA Book Club is Coming Soon! MISSION The mission of WPPSA is to represent and support the interest of its membership in all areas of the University life and community. We are committed to addressing the needs and concerns of our members by encouraging motivation, leadership, support, and humanitarianism. Our priority is to bring awareness to campus resources, develop enrichment programming and encourage community within our campus. We strive to create opportunities for full-time, weekly-paid professional staff to discuss and contribute to various university issues, through appointed positions on university committees. Proudly powered by WordPress