Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Department of English Undergraduate Graduate People Internships News/Events Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact News and Events Recent Faculty Articles, Essays, Poems, and Short Stories What's Happening? Naseeb Shaheen Memorial Lecture Series Harry Potter Study Abroad Wordsmith Writing Olympics River City Writers' Series AboutCurrent SeriesPast SpeakersMake a Gift Student Recognition Take Action Apply Now Alumni and Friends Course Offerings Contact Us Follow Us Online Facebooktwitter Home Department of English News and Events What's Happening in the Department of English? What's Happening in the Department of English? Get the most up-to-date information on English Department events through our facebook page. Spring 2022 2022 Awards Ceremony On Thursday, April 28th the English Department celebrated all 2022 award winners in PT 456. For a full list of award winners, click here. English Internship Information Session On Thursday, March 31st, English Internship Coordinator Rachel Cantrell hosted an internship information session. A recording of the event can be found here, and the PowerPoint presentation can be found here. Jericho Brown - Poetry Reading and Craft Interview On Thursday, March 3rd, Pulitzer Prize winning poet Jericho Brown hosted a poetry reading in the UC Bluff Room. On Friday, March 4th the English Department welcomed Jericho Brown to Patterson Hall for a craft interview. Fall 2021 Fall 2021 Shaheen Lecture Series: Slow Violence and Environmental Justice On November 18th, Rob Nixon of Princeton University participated in the annual Naseeb Shaheen Memorial Lecture Series in conjunction with the Marcus Orr Center for the Humanities. Mind the Gap: Scholarship, Public Engagement, and Social Change On November 12th, the English Department welcomed Rob Nixon via Zoom to discuss strategies for adapting scholarly expertise to public platforms and how to adjust diction, voice, and narrative shape to non-specialist audiences. Carmen Maria Machado Reading and Interview On November 11th and 12th, author Carmen Maria Machado visited UofM for an exciting interview and reading of her work. LitFlix 2021: The Green Knight On October 27th, literature coordinator Dr. Darryl Domingo hosted the English Department's First Annual LitFlix and kicked it off with a showing of A24's The Green Knight. We hope to see all of you again next year! Anti-Racist Writing Pedagogy and Assessment Roundtable- October 14th, 2021 On October 14th, authors and professors Dr. Asao Inoue and Dr. Vershawn Ashanti Young visited the University of Memphis to discuss anti-racist writing pedagogy and how graduate students and faculty can implement it into their classrooms. This roundtable discussion was sponsored by the Deb Talbot Roundtable and presented by the English Department. Discover Your Major Day 2021- September 30th, 2021 Explore the limitless opportunities of an English degree! Congratulations to our department advisor for creating an awesome table at Discover Your Major Day that caught the attention of many UofM Students! It's not too late to choose English and write your future, check out our advising page! MemFlix: A Memphis Reads Film Series The series kicked off on Tuesday, September 28th in the University Center River Room with a viewing of the documentary The Souls of Black Girls and a community talk with Natalie McKinney (Executive Director, Whole Child Strategies) and Lakeitha Wilson (Department of English, University of Memphis) Fall 2020 To Catch a Reader's Eye: Seeing the Sights in Eighteenth-Century Newspaper Advertisements Have you ever wondered what your professors' work is like? Are there faculty members you don't know anything about yet or simply haven't met? The English Honors Program is sponsoring a new series of faculty presentations, starting with Dr. Darryl Domingo on Friday, October 30th! Do you have recommendations for future discussion topics? Email englishhonors@memphis.edu! Fall 2020 Pinch Release Party Faculty and students celebrated the release of The Pinch Issue 40.2. Check out the issue here! Fall 2019 Discover Your Major Day 2019 What will you do with your Roaring 20's? Congratulations to our department advisor B. Wells for winning first place with the Roaring 20's theme! It's not too late to choose English and write your future, check out our advising page! Spring 2019 Annual Faculty vs. Graduate Student Softball Game- April 26th, 2019 Thanks to everyone who came out to support our faculty and graduate students. Better luck next year faculty, because the graduate students won this one by a landslide! 2019 Department of English Awards Ceremony- April 25th, 2019 Congratulations to all of our 2019 awards winners! To view more photos and a full list of our winners, click here. Undergraduate Sigma Tau Delta Honors Induction Ceremony- April 25th, 2019 Congratulations to our new Sigma Tau Delta Honors Members and our new 2019-20 Sigma Tau Delta Officers! MFA Graduate Reading- April 19th, 2019 On April 19th, MFA graduate students Kalpana Negi, Haley Quinton, Alyssa Radtke, Anthony Larry, Sarah Cozort, Sydney Wright, Daphne Maysonet, Breanne Hager, Adela Brito, and Kendra Vanderlip presented their recent work in the University Center Bluff Room. Thank you to this star-studded lineup for presenting your talented work! Make sure to check out our Past Events to see what you can be a part of as an English major! Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 4/29/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.