Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Marketing and Communication The Brand Our Team Resources Social Media Web Events News Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Our Team What We Do Working Together Marketing Manager Assignments Project Timelines Project Request Form Annual Marketing Plan Take Action Media Resources Brand Standards Marketing Toolkit Contact Us Follow UofM Online InstagramFacebooktwitterYoutubeLinkedn Home Marketing and Communication Our Team Marketing and Communications Team Process Working Together The earlier you can involve us in your project, the more we can help. If you have a good idea of what you need but don't have any ideas on how to get there, we can work with you from concept development until the finished product is delivered. If you already know what you need, we still encourage you to work with us with an open mind and/or take advantage of all the resources available in our Marketing Toolkit. Some crucial elements to think through before beginning any project are as follows: Goals: Is the tactic absolutely necessary to achieve your goal? Does it justify the use of resources (yours and ours)? Timing: In order to best help you, we need the proper time to be able to generate the work. Click here for planning timelines. Audience: Identify your target audience/s and how to best reach each group. Materials: Determine quantities of materials that will be needed. Strategy: Define what sets your program or offering apart from the competitor. Call to Action: What action do you want the audience to take? Content: Do you have the copy/content you intend to use and has it been signed off on by your Dean/Department head? Design Elements: Do you know what photos, if any you want to use? Budget: Allocate funds for any production costs if applicable. Effectiveness: Upon completion, how will you consider the overall effectiveness of your strategy and/or tactics? From this base of information, we can work together to accomplish your goals. During an initial meeting, we'll work closely on building out a production schedule that will consist of the many stages of production, such as delivery of final and approved content, editing, design, estimate requests, delivery of concepts/proofs, pre-press work, and the proposed date. Next Step: Contact your marketing manager and complete a project request form. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 5/26/20 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.