Skip navigation Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Brown Grad School About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Graduate School Application Information Graduate School Skip to Navigation Application Information Exploring Graduate Studies at Brown Brown University's Graduate School offers 51 doctoral programs and 30 master’s programs, including those of the School of Engineering, the School of Public Health, and the School of Professional Studies. Brown has a friendly scale and collaborative culture. With 2,600 graduate students and more than 700 full-time faculty members, Brown offers excellent academic training and mentoring within a supportive environment. Explore the fields of study offered and Brown's distinctive training opportunities. If you are interested in an academic program, please feel free to contact that program’s Director of Graduate Study. Application deadlines vary by program. Is it for you? Brown students are distinguished by academic excellence, self-direction and a collaborative style of learning. Faculty members pursue their own research and scholarship while remaining deeply committed to teaching both graduate and undergraduate students. Learn more about the environment, student accomplishments and opportunities. The University prepares graduate students for distinguished careers in research, teaching and as experts in the public and private sectors. Learn about graduate alumni career paths. Application and admission information is available by application group. Learn more about the application process, components and fees. Fill out an inquiry form and/or start your application. All doctoral programs except those in Public Health (see list) and select master's and fifth-year master’s programs: Biomedical Engineering, Biotechnology, Ecology and Evolutionary Biology (fifth-year) Literary Arts, Medical Physics, Medical Sciences, Molecular Biology, Cell Biology, and Biochemistry (fifth-year), Molecular Pharmacology and Physiology (fifth-year), Pathobiology (fifth-year), Theatre: Brown/Trinity Repertory Acting and Directing, Theatre and Performance Studies Learn more. Application opens Sept. 6, 2021. Select master's and fifth-year master’s programs: American studies, Applied Mathematics (fifth-year), Cognitive Science (fifth-year), Comparative Literature (fifth-year), Computer Science (terminal and fifth-year), Cybersecurity, Data Science (terminal and fifth-year), Data-Enabled Computational Engineering and Science (terminal and fifth-year), Design Engineering (terminal and fifth-year), Education, Engineering, German Studies (fifth-year), History (fifth-year), History of Art and Architecture (fifth-year), Innovation Management and Entrepreneurship (terminal and fifth-year), Integrative Studies, Linguistics (fifth-year), Mathematics (fifth-year), Modern Culture and Media (fifth-year), Political Science (fifth-year), Philosophy (fifth-year), Physics, Psychology (fifth-year), Public Affairs, Public Humanities, Religious Studies (fifth-year), Slavic Studies (fifth-year), Social Analysis and Research, Urban Education Policy. If you have any questions regarding the application process or admission to one of the master's programs listed above, please email [email protected] Learn more. All public health doctoral, master's and fifth-year master’s programs: Behavioral and Social Health Sciences, Biostatistics (terminal and fifth-year), Clinical and Translational Research, Epidemiology, Health Services Research, Public Health Learn more. Application is open. All professional programs: Healthcare Leadership, IE Brown Executive MBA, Technology Leadership Learn more. Home About the Graduate School Healthy Brown FAQs for Graduate Students Academics & Research Living & Resources Financing & Support Admitted Students & Orientation Application Information Application Components & Process GRE Information International Applicants Admissions Review Considering COVID-19 Disruptions Applicants Facing Extenuating Circumstances For Graduate Students For Faculty and Staff Brown University Brown University Graduate School Box 1867 Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-2600 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Resources Graduate School Handbook Academic Code CareerLAB Brown University Writing Center Sarah Doyle Center for Women and Gender Sheridan Center for Teaching & Learning Top Destinations Admission Inquiry Form Commencement Five-Year Ph.D. Support Open Graduate Education External Funding Application Process International Applicants