Schedule an Advising Appointment Email About us Academic advising at the UW Working with us Our people Springboard Contact us COVID-19 Update Degree overview Your UW degree General education Overview Requirements by college and school Majors List of Undergraduate Majors Majors by Topic Majors and Careers Double degree and double major Departmental & Major Advising Offices Satisfactory Progress Policy and Pre-major Extension Minors Academic planning Plan your degree For new students For prospective transfer students Transfer Newsletter Pre-health/pre-law Choosing your major/courses Registration restrictions Cross-campus registration Placement testing Chemistry, math, & physics Academic terms and policies Co-curricular engagement Academic support Getting started Finding help Dropping classes Satisfactory progress policy and pre-major extension Academic warning/probation Reinstatement for College of Arts & Sciences Frequently asked questions Student guides Overview First-year Second-year Transfer First-generation International student guide Faculty & Staff Home > Home > About us > COVID-19 Update COVID-19 Update This year, the UW is safely returning to in-person instruction and activities.Throughout this transition, UAA Advising remains ready to support you and your academic needs. We will now offer 1:1 appointments and drop-in advising both in-person and online. Below you’ll find details on how to work with us this quarter and additional campus resources. 30 minute appointments UAA Advisers are available to meet in-person or via Zoom during our regular business hours. To meet with your adviser, schedule an appointment. Schedule an appointment Drop-in advising 10-15 minute drop-in advising is available in-person or via Zoom Monday-Friday, 9 a.m.- 5 p.m. *Drop-in advising is available 10 a.m. - 4 p.m. (PST) from December 13th-December 30th 2021. Last check-in is at 3:45 p.m. Drop-in sessions typically last ten to fifteen minutes. For a longer meeting, please make an appointment with your assigned adviser. Drop-in Safety The University requires masks indoors for all individuals, regardless of vaccination status, and also requires all students and personnel to be vaccinated. Please get vaccinated if you haven’t already, and attest to your vaccination status. These are just two of the many health and safety measures in place for autumn quarter. We remain committed to providing a high-quality Husky Experience for every student, supporting the University of Washington’s vital research and service missions, and continuing to provide the outstanding medical care that keeps our community healthy. If you are sick with any illness, you must stay home, even if you are fully vaccinated. About us Academic advising at the UW Working with us Our people Springboard Contact us COVID-19 Update University of Washington Be boundless UAA Advising catalyzes the broad learning of UW Undergraduates. As educators, we guide and support students in exploring, questioning, and navigating the events and significance of their undergraduate education. As a team of experienced practitioners and engaged scholars we serve the UW and the greater higher education community. Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA