Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Health Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Our Services Appointments Health Topics Events Forms and Guidelines Our Organization News See All Services What's Open Now Patient Resources Quarantine and Isolation Support Coping Tools Immunization Compliance Top Services Birth Control Education Individual Counseling Primary Care Register with Disability Services Sexual Assault: Get Support STI Testing Support Groups Travel Medicine Urgent Medical Concerns Workshops and Trainings Cost of Service Overview Make an Appointment Same Day Service Emergency and After-hours Support Alcohol Body Image Concerns Marijuana Disabilities Other Drugs HIV Insurance Men's Health Mental Health and Well-Being Anxiety Depression Stress Nutrition Physical Activity Relationships Overview Academic Relationships Friendships Roommates Sexual and Reproductive Health Sleep Transgender and Gender Expansive Health Violence Prevention Prevention Consent What Is Sexual Assault? Supporting a Survivor What Is Relationship Abuse? Stalking What Is Sexual Harassment? Bystander Intervention-Step UP! Women's Health See All Events Sexual Assault Awareness Month Columbia Health Flu Season Information Virtual Naloxone Training About Columbia Health Who We Are Who We Serve Confidentiality, Patient Rights, & Patient Responsibilities Operating Philosophy Video Library Your Feedback Staff Directory Health Units Alice! Health Promotion Counseling and Psychological Services Disability Services Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) Insurance Office Medical Services Sexual Violence Response Columbia Health You are here: Home All Services Abusive Relationship: Get Support Abusive Relationship: Get Support Sexual Violence Response is available 24/7/365. To make an appointment during business hours, call (212) 854-3500. For urgent or after-hours support, please call the 24/7 helpline at (212) 854-4357 to speak with an advocate. Click here for assistance calling internationally. Expand all Collapse all If You Have Experienced an Abusive Incident 1. Get to a Safe Place After experiencing an abusive event, it can be important to find a place where you feel comfortable and safe from harm. This location could be: Home Friend’s room Local hospital Police station If you would like to have a survivor advocate meet or accompany you to a local hospital or New York City police precinct, call (212) 854-4357 (24/7, 365 days a year). 2. Call for Assistance Call 911 for immediate police protection and assistance. Contact Columbia Public Safety at (212) 854-5555 for assistance on the Morningside campus. Barnard Public Safety: (212) 854-6666 Manhattanville Public Safety: (212) 853-3333 Medical Center Public Safety: (212) 305-7979 Teachers College Public Safety: (212) 678-3333 If you are being stalked or threatened, or have immediate concerns about your personal safety, Public Safety also provides a Walking Safety Escort Service. Morningside (212) 854-7233 Manhattanville (212) 854-7233 Medical Center (212) 305-8100 Sexual Violence Response can be accessed 24/7/365 by calling (212) 854-4357. You have the option of working with a staff survivor advocate or, when available, a peer advocate. Both are confidential and certified by the New York City Department of Health to address issues of violence. They can provide crisis intervention and will discuss options for reporting and seeking medical help. They help survivors make informed decisions about their medical, legal, and disciplinary options. Advocates can accompany students to on- and off-campus resources such as hospital emergency departments, the police, the district attorney's office, and Columbia Public Safety. To speak with non-Columbia resources, you may call any of these hotlines for assistance. These include local and national resources for survivors of abusive relationships and other forms of gender- and power-based violence. 3. Seek Medical Attention, If Necessary Check for injuries; you may have injuries that you can't see or feel. Take pictures of any visible injuries. Medical Resources Columbia Health Medical Services (Morningside, Manhattanville campuses) Student Health on Haven (Medical Center Campus) Barnard Primary Care Health Service Mount Sinai Morningside Emergency Department: (212) 523-3330, West 114th and Amsterdam Mount Sinai West Emergency Department: (212) 523-6800, 59th & 10th Avenue Columbia Presbyterian Medical Center: Domestic and Other Violent Emergencies (DOVE): (212) 305-9060, West 168th and Broadway Crime Victims Treatment Center at Mount Sinai Morningside: (212) 523-4728 – call for appointment Monday- Friday, 9:00 AM – 5:00 PM If you would like to have a survivor advocate meet or accompany you to a local hospital, call (212) 854-4357 (24/7, 365 days a year). 4. Learn About Abusive Relationships Intimate partner or relationship violence occurs in many forms and it exists on a spectrum. Abuse can be physical, sexual, verbal, emotional, financial and academic, and is usually a combination of several of these factors. Find out if you might be in an abusive or unhealthy relationship on The National Domestic Violence Hotline website. The National Network to End Domestic Violence has a list of warning signs of an abusive relationship. Still not sure where the health of your relationship stands? Explore dating fundamentals for healthy relationships. Learn about your rights at the National Network to End Domestic Violence. Trust your instincts: if something feels wrong, it probably is. 5. Create a Safety Plan A safety plan includes personalized, concrete steps you can take to reduce the possibility of being harmed, whether physically or emotionally, by an abusive partner. A combination of factors including the different forms of abuse shape each person’s experience and impact a person’s safety plan needs. SVR encourages you to consult a Survivor or Peer Advocate to assist with developing a personalized safety plan specific to you. You can also consult this safety plan for college students. Always have access to your safety plan. If you cannot keep it, you can memorize the most important details on it. You can also give a copy to someone you trust. Call a professional Survivor Advocate or Peer Advocate from Sexual Violence Response to assist you in creating a safety plan at (212) 854-4357 (available 24/7/365). 6. Consider Talking with a Counselor Counseling is often helpful for survivors because it provides a safe place to talk about your experience and your feelings. Counseling Resources: Counseling and Psychological Services (Morningside campus) Counseling Services (Medical Center campus) Rosemary Furman Counseling Center (Barnard campus) Crime Victims Treatment Center: call (212) 523-4728 for an appointment Monday-Friday, 9:00 AM – 5:00 PM 7. Other Things to Consider Survivors and Co-Survivors (friends, family, classmates) may choose to speak with an advocate confidentially about: Legal information and options: Information about your rights in NY state and legal options available to you (both on- and off- campus) Enlisting the aid of law enforcement Filing a complaint with University Life and the Office of Student Conduct and Community Standards Court advocacy or assistance obtaining legal representation NY Crime Victims Legal Help Assistance drafting a victim impact statement On-campus accommodations (housing, academic, financial) On- and off-campus referrals (mental health, follow up care, healing support) Understanding the sexual assault forensic examination Remembering it's not your fault Identifying a friend or other support person to be by your side Visit the Coping Tools webpage for local and national resources for survivors of sexual assault and other forms of gender- and power-based violence. Related Resources Get Support: Sexual Violence Response Supporting Male Survivors of Violence Supporting a Survivor of Sexual Assault Relationship Violence Awareness Month Sexual Assault Awareness Month Sexual Respect NY Crime Victims Legal Help Learn more about the Quick Escape button. Make an Appointment Closed Sorry, we are closed. Open Now edit location Check out our office locations and hours Health Unit Sexual Violence Response Clinical Specialty Advocacy Trauma Columbia Health Administration Wallach Hall, Suite 125, Mail Code 4202, 1116 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-2284 Contact Us [email protected] Internal Use Only Login to Access Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close