Search | Directories | Reference Tools UW Home > Discover UW > Student Guide UW Bothell Course Descriptions UW Tacoma Course Descriptions Glossary COLLEGE OF THE ENVIRONMENT COLLEGE OF THE ENVIRONMENT SPCL PROGRAMS COLLEGE OF THE ENVIRONMENT Detailed course offerings (Time Schedule) are available for Spring Quarter 2022 Summer Quarter 2022 Autumn Quarter 2022 C ENV 190 Introductory Topics in Environment (1-5, max. 15) Covers topics related to all areas of the environment. View course details in MyPlan: C ENV 190 C ENV 401 FieldNotes - An Undergraduate Journal (2, max. 6) Julian D. Olden FieldNotes, an undergraduate journal connecting UW with the greater Puget Sound community, highlights student-led environmental research and outreach. FieldNotes, publishes two issues annually, features research communications, community features, and vivid imagery to ensure multi-faceted storytelling. Provides a platform for students to actively learn and engage in science communication. Offered: ASp. View course details in MyPlan: C ENV 401 C ENV 410 MESA Introductory Tutor Training Workshop (1) Tutor skills and cultural competence training designed to prepare tutors to work in small groups with Seattle middle and high school students in math and science. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: ASp. View course details in MyPlan: C ENV 410 C ENV 420 MESA Introductory Tutor Training Seminar (1-2) Second course in the tutor training program. Continued development of tutoring skills and cultural competence training designed to prepare tutors to work in small groups with Seattle middle and high school students in math and science. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AW. View course details in MyPlan: C ENV 420 C ENV 425 MESA Tutoring Practicum (1-3, max. 15) Trained MESA tutors work in small groups with Seattle middle and high school students in math and science. Develop tutoring skills, share best practices, and problem solve through online interactions with the MESA tutoring program. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: C ENV 425 C ENV 430 MESA Advanced Tutor Training Seminar (1-2) Advanced tutor training program. Continued development of tutoring skills and cultural competence training designed to prepare tutors to work in small groups with Seattle middle and high school students in math and science. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: C ENV 430 C ENV 490 Special Topics in Environment (1-5, max. 15) Covers topics related to all areas of the environment depending on curricular needs and interests of students and faculty. View course details in MyPlan: C ENV 490 C ENV 500 Communicating Science to the Public Effectively (3) Teaches emerging scientists how to effectively communicate their research to the public. Uses lessons and tools such as group discussion, feedback, and practice. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: C ENV 500 C ENV 590 Special Topics in Environment (1-5, max. 15) Covers topics related to all areas of the environment depending on curricular needs and interests of students and faculty. View course details in MyPlan: C ENV 590 Office of the University Registrar registrar@uw.edu Modified: May 30, 2022