Skip to main content Search: Search Button Maryland's Public System of Higher Education Admissions & Transfers Tuition & Fees Reports and Statistics FAQs Newsroom / Media Contacts Link to the USM Twitter page (opens in new tab) Link to the USM Facebook page (opens in new tab) Link to the USM Youtube page (opens in new tab) Link to the USM LinkedIn page (opens in new tab) University System of Maryland ‍ About USM About the University System of Maryland USM Office Chancellor Chancellor's Biography In The News Commentaries & Interviews Newsletters & Board Reports Staff Academic and Student Affairs Staff Academic Innovation Academic Programs Articulation Civic Engagement Diversity Initiatives Faculty Affairs Graduate Studies Information Technology USM P20 Maryland Course Redesign Initiative Online Learning Student Affairs Administration and Finance Accountability & Planning Budget Analysis Capital Planning Comptroller Facilities Operations Financial Affairs Human Resources Information Technology Institutional Research Procurement Advancement Communications and Marketing Newsroom USM Office News Releases News from USM Institutions Media Contacts USM Briefs Media Resources Chancellor's Speeches, Articles, Reports, and Updates Councils & Workgroups Council of Alumni Relations Council of University System Presidents Council of University System Faculty Council of University System Staff University System of Maryland Student Council University System of Maryland Communications Council Diversity Network USM Women's Forum USM P20 Information Technology Coordinating Council IT Accessibility Workgroup MD Education Enterprise Consortium System Research Administrators' Group Effectiveness & Efficiency Workgroup Economic Development Internal Audit Staff Fraud Reporting Government Relations Legislative Testimony Procurement USM Organizational Chart USM Timeline Institutions USM Institutions Bowie State University Coppin State University Frostburg State University Salisbury University Towson University University of Baltimore University of Maryland, Baltimore University of Maryland, Baltimore County University of Maryland Center for Environmental Science University of Maryland, College Park University of Maryland Eastern Shore University of Maryland Global Campus Regional Higher Education Centers Universities at Shady Grove University System of Maryland at Hagerstown University System of Maryland at Southern Maryland Organizational Chart of Institutions Map of USM Institutions Board of Regents Board of Regents Overview Members Linda R. Gooden , Chair Robert R. Neall, Vice Chair Gary L. Attman, Treasurer William T. "Bill" Wood, Assistant Treasurer Michelle A. Gourdine, M.D. , Secretary Joseph Bartenfelder, ex officio Mike Gill, ex officio Robert D. Rauch, Assistant Secretary Hugh Breslin Ellen Fish Geoff J. Gonella Robert Hur Isiah (Ike) Leggett Douglas J.J. Peters Louis Pope Andy Smarick Robert L. Wallace Ada Beams, Student Regent Ayotola Oludayo, Student Regent Committees Schedule of Meetings Agendas Minutes Newsletter Bylaws, Policies & Guidelines Effectiveness and Efficiency Initiative Honorary Degrees Advisory Councils Council of University System Presidents Council of University System Faculty Council of University System Staff University System of Maryland Student Council Resolutions Workgroups Policies Policies and Procedures SECTION I: Systemwide Councils and Institutional Boards SECTION II: Faculty SECTION III: Academic Affairs SECTION IV: Research SECTION V: Student Affairs SECTION VI: General Administration SECTION VII: Personnel/Human Resources SECTION VIII: Fiscal and Business Affairs SECTION IX: External Relations SECTION X: Information Technology Staff Directories Directories USM Office Directory USM Employee Directory Bowie State University Coppin State University Frostburg State University Salisbury University Towson University University of Baltimore University of Maryland, Baltimore University of Maryland, Baltimore County University of Maryland, College Park University of Maryland Eastern Shore University of Maryland Global Campus University of Maryland Center for Environmental Science Quick Search throughout USM You must enter at least 3 characters for the last name Last Name: Campus: All Institutions Bowie State Univerity Coppin State University Frostburg State University Salisbury University Towson University University of Baltimore University of Maryland, Baltimore University of Maryland, Baltimore County University of Maryland, College Park University of Maryland Eastern Shore University of Maryland Global Campus University of Maryland Center for Environmental Science University System of Maryland Office Human Resources USM Office of Human Resources Systemwide Human Resources Employment Opportunities University System of Maryland Office Bowie State University Coppin State University Frostburg State University Salisbury University Towson University University of Baltimore University of Maryland, Baltimore University of Maryland, Baltimore County University of Maryland Center for Environmental Science University of Maryland, College Park University of Maryland Eastern Shore University of Maryland Global Campus University System of Maryland at Hagerstown The Universities at Shady Grove (USG) Contact USM Offices Mailing address for all USM offices: 3300 Metzerott Rd. Adelphi, MD 20783 USM Headquarters in Baltimore 701 E. Pratt St. Baltimore, MD 21202 Adelphi Office 3300 Metzerott Rd. Adelphi, MD 20783 Columbia Office Century Plaza 10630 Little Patuxent Parkway, Suite 450 Columbia, MD 21044 Annapolis Office 9 State Circle, Suite 201 Annapolis, MD 21401 Driving Directions to the USM Office Contact USM Tel: 301.445.2740 Email: webnotes@usmd.edu Feedback 12 Institutions 3 Regional Centers 1 System Office providing affordable access to education, performing groundbreaking research, offering services to individuals and communities, and supporting economic and workforce development. About USM Recent News Scroll left through the USM News Items Scroll right through the USM News Items USM Regents Committee on Advancement to Hold Special Meeting on June 2 Read more about USM Regents Committee on Advancement to Hold Special Meeting on June 2 USM Chancellor Jay A. Perman on the Robb Elementary School Shooting Read more about USM Chancellor Jay A. Perman on the Robb Elementary School Shooting Class of 2022: USM Institutions On Track to Award 40,000 Degrees for Sixth Straight Year Read more about Class of 2022: USM Institutions On Track to Award 40,000 Degrees for Sixth Straight Year USM Board of Regents Committee on Governance and Compensation Meets May 17 Read more about USM Board of Regents Committee on Governance and Compensation Meets May 17 USM Board of Regents Committee on Advancement Meets May 11 Read more about USM Board of Regents Committee on Advancement Meets May 11 USM Board of Regents Committee on Education Policy and Student Life Meets May 10 Read more about USM Board of Regents Committee on Education Policy and Student Life Meets May 10 USM Board of Regents Appoints Dr. Carolyn Ringer Lepre as Next President of Salisbury University Read more about USM Board of Regents Appoints Dr. Carolyn Ringer Lepre as Next President of Salisbury University Chancellor's Report to USM Board of Regents on April 29 Read more about Chancellor's Report to USM Board of Regents on April 29 USM Board of Regents Meeting Livestream 9:00 a.m. April 29 Read more about USM Board of Regents Meeting Livestream 9:00 a.m. April 29 Quick Links FY 2021 Annual Report PDF download 2020-2021 Profile Brochure PDF download Points of Excellence 2022 PDF download Latest Updates on the Current Semester Toward Racial Equity and Justice: A Plan for the USM Effectiveness & Efficiency 2.0 Economic Development and Technology Commercialization William E. Kirwan Center for Academic Innovation B-Power Initiative USM Strategic Plan Process Reports and Statistics IRIS - Systemwide Data Analytics USM IT Accessibility University System of Maryland Foundation Additional Quick Links Scroll left to view more information about USM Institutions Scroll right to view more information about USM Institutions 164,852 students enrolled in Fall 2021 $397 million raised in private support in FY 2021 $593 million saved through Effectiveness and Efficiency Initiatives 11,000+ Maryland community college students transfer to USM each year USM Institutions Scroll left to view more information about USM Institutions Scroll right to view more information about USM Institutions Bowie State University (BSU) provides emerging leaders with a strong foundation for success. As the oldest historically black institution in Maryland, BSU has a rich history of excellence in education that empowers students from diverse backgrounds to take charge of their futu ... Read More About BSU Salisbury University (SU) is a comprehensive institution located on Maryland’s Eastern Shore offering excellent, affordable education in undergraduate liberal arts, sciences, business, nursing, health sciences, social work, and education as well as applied master’s ... Read More About SU The University of Maryland, Baltimore County (UMBC) is a leading public research university known for innovative teaching, relevant research across disciplines, and a supportive community that empowers and inspires inquisitive minds. UMBC serves more than 13,000 undergrad ... Read More About UMBC The University of Maryland Center for Environmental Science (UMCES) is a leading research and educational institution working to understand and manage the world’s resources. Through its network of four regional laboratories—the Appalachian Laboratory in Frostburg, ... Read More About UMCES The University of Maryland Eastern Shore (UMES) is a historically black institution and a land-grant university. UMES offers bachelor’s degrees in 37 areas, spanning physical and biological sciences, social and behavioral sciences, engineering, education, mathematics, in ... Read More About UMES Founded in 1900, Coppin State University is a modern urban, comprehensive historically black institution. Located in the City of Baltimore, Coppin serves Baltimore residents as well as students from around the world and has a rich history of providing outstanding educational p ... Read More About CSU University System of Maryland at Hagerstown (USMH) is a regional center that offers more than 20 programs of study from five University System of Maryland institutions. Since opening in 2005, USMH has added undergraduate and graduate programs over the years, most recently ... Read More About USMHG The University of Maryland, Baltimore (UMB) is the state’s only health, law, and human services university and features six nationally ranked professional schools—medicine, law, dentistry, pharmacy, nursing, and social work—and the interdisciplinary Graduate ... Read More About UMB Frostburg State University (FSU) is a comprehensive, student-centered institution dedicated to providing a quality education that leads to real-world success. More than 100 innovative programs are offered at the undergraduate, master’s, and doctoral levels at the Western ... Read More About FSU Towson University (TU) is recognized as a top public university with a 150-year history of academic excellence and worldchanging research. As Greater Baltimore’s largest and Maryland’s fastest growing university, TU offers more than 110 bachelors, master’s, a ... Read More About TU The Universities at Shady Grove (USG) offers approximately 80 undergraduate and graduate degree programs from nine Maryland public universities on one convenient campus in Montgomery County. USG helps prepare students for rewarding careers in the region’s most high-deman ... Read More About UMSG ... Read More About USMSM University of Maryland Global Campus (UMGC) offers open access with a global footprint and a specific mission: to meet the higher education needs of adult learners whose responsibilities may include jobs, family, and military service. UMGC offers bachelor’s and master&rs ... Read More About UMGC The University of Baltimore (UBalt) is located in Baltimore’s Mount Vernon cultural district and offers career-focused education for aspiring and current professionals. The university is actively involved with its surrounding communities through its legal clinics and its ... Read More About UOB The University of Maryland, College Park (UMCP) is USM’s flagship institution and a leading public research university. The only public research university inside the Washington, D.C. Beltway, UMCP has forged strategic partnerships with national institutions and federal ... Read More About UMCP Social Media Tweets by @Univ_System_MD Link to the Bowie State University profile Link to the Coppin State University profile Link to the Frostburg State University profile Link to the University of Maryland, Baltimore County profile Link to the University of Maryland Center for Environmental Sciences Link to the University of Maryland, College Park profile Link to the Universities at Shady Grove profile Link to the University System of Maryland Hagerstown profile Link to the salisbury University profile Link to the TowsonUniversity profile Link to the University of Maryland, Baltimore profile Link to the University of Maryland, Eastern Shore profile Link to the University of Maryland Global Campus profile Link to the University of Baltimore County profile Link to the University System of Maryland Hagerstown profile University System of Maryland About USM USM Office USM Institutions Board of Regents Policies Staff Directories Employment Contact Us About the Site University System of Maryland Privacy Statement ADA Compliance Site Login Suspect Fraud, Waste, or Abuse? Report it here! Emergency Preparedness USM is not responsible for content or information derived from links to remote servers. -- State of Maryland Contact USM USM Headquarters 701 E. Pratt St. Baltimore, MD 21202 Adelphi Office/Mailing Address for All USM Offices 3300 Metzerott Road Adelphi, MD 20783-1690 301.445.2740 webnotes@usmd.edu University System of Maryland Link to the USM Twitter page (opens in new tab) Link to the USM Facebook page (opens in new tab) Link to the USM Youtube page (opens in new tab) Link to the USM LinkedIn page (opens in new tab)