Skip to Content | Course Catalog Office of the Registrar, 106 Steele Hall Syracuse, NY 13244 | (315) 443-2422 ﻿ Like Us on Facebook ﻿ Follow Us on Twitter Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy Syracuse University 2021-2022 Undergraduate Course Catalog Select a Catalog 2021-2022 Undergraduate Course Catalog 2021-2022 Graduate Course Catalog 2020-2021 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2020-2021 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2019-2020 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2019-2020 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2018-2019 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2018-2019 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2017-2018 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2017-2018 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2016-2017 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2016-2017 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2015-2016 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2014-2015 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2014-2015 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] May 31, 2022 HELP 2021-2022 Undergraduate Course Catalog Academic Rules Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) Facebook this Page (opens a new window) Tweet this Page (opens a new window) Academic Standards 1.0 Academic Integrity 2.0 Attendance in Classes 2.1 Reporting Non-Attendance/Non-Participation or Stopped Attending 3.0 Academic Renewal 4.0 Student Academic Work 5.0 Research Involving Human or Animal Subject Academic Record 6.0 Transcript 7.0 Courses 8.0 Credit 8.1 Advanced Credit Examinations Table A College Board Advanced Placement Examination Table B CLEP Examination Credit Table C International Baccalaurate Credit Table D GCE A-Level Examinations 8.2 Undergraduate and Graduate Coursework Table E Retaken Courses and Flagging Rules 8.3 Transfer Credit 8.4 Grades Table F Letter Grades Table G Grading Symbols 8.5 Registration Academic Status 9.0 Class Standing 10.0 Grade Point Average 11.0 Honors 12.0 Student Status Academic Status (continued) 13.0 Intra-University Transfer Table H Intra-University Transfer Standards 14.0 Academic Probation 15.0 Leave of Absence, Withdrawal and Readmission Table I Academic and Financial Effects of Dropping or Withdrawing from a Course, Leave of Absence and Withdrawal from the University Degree and Certificate Programs 16.0 Degrees Table J Degree Types 16.1 Undergraduate Degree and Certificate Programs Table K Undergraduate Degree Programs Table L Single Degree Programs with Dual Majors 16.2 Second Undergraduate Degrees Table M Combined Undergraduate/Graduate Degree Programs 16.3 Undergraduate Certificate Programs 16.4 Degree Certification 16.5 Diplomas and Certificates 17.0 Majors Table N Double Majors (in a Single Degree Program) 18.0 Minors This is the official version of the academic rules of Syracuse University effective for the 2021-22 academic year. The general rules contained in this section also apply to graduate students. Additional rules specific to graduate students appear in the Graduate Course Catalog in the section titled Academic Rules and Regulations for the Graduate School. Both undergraduate and graduate students will find that their individual school/college/department has additional rules that apply. In the case of graduate students, these rules may be more restrictive than the general University rules. Academic rules for the College of Law may be found at http://law.syr.edu/academics/academic-handbook/ Additional Sources for Information There are a number of other sources for information and rules that are important for students. They include, but are not limited to, the following: Syracuse University Policies Financial Aid Student Handbook Syracuse Abroad Tuition, Fees & Related Policies Also see school, college, and academic department materials and websites. Academic 1.0 Academic Integrity Syracuse University’s Academic Integrity Policy and procedures are administered by the Center for Learning and Student Success (CLASS) in the Division of Academic Affairs and may be found at https://class.syr.edu/academic-integrity/policy. (Please see supplemental policy and procedures for the College of Law at http://law.syr.edu/academics/academic-handbook). 2.0 Attendance in Classes Attendance in classes is expected in all courses at Syracuse University. Students are expected to arrive on campus in time to attend the first meeting of all classes for which they are registered. Students who do not attend classes starting with the first scheduled meeting may be academically withdrawn as not making progress toward degree by failure to attend. When a student has missed a significant portion of coursework, and they were not academically withdrawn from the class, they should confer with their instructor or advisor to explore options, including withdrawal from the course. Instructors set course-specific policies for absences from scheduled class meetings in their syllabi. Students should also review the university’s religious observance policy and make the required arrangements at the beginning of each semester. https://policies.syr.edu/policies/university-governance-ethics-integrity-and-legal-compliance/religious-observances-policy/ 2.1 Reporting Non-Attendance/Non-Participation or Stopped Attending If a student never attends or stops attending a class, the instructor will report non-attendance/non-participation in Orange SUccess. A student who never attends a class will be flagged in Orange SUccess for non-attendance before the Financial Drop deadline and by the close date of the Early Semester progress report (ESPR). If a student stops attending a class, the student will be flagged in Orange SUccess for stopped attending by the close date of the Mid-Semester progress report (MSPR). If a student is flagged for non-attendance in a class and does not drop the class by the Financial Drop deadline, the student will receive an NA “did not attend” grade on the official transcript. Reporting a student as never attended/participated may result in a change to the enrollment status and may impact student financial aid; however, it has no impact on tuition and fees. Students not planning to attend a class are strongly advised to drop the class no later than the Academic/Financial deadline in the academic calendar. 3.0 Academic Renewal Undergraduate students who are returning after an absence of seven years and are readmitted or admitted (for previously non-matriculated students) to Syracuse University with a cumulative GPA of less than 2.0 may apply for academic renewal. Academic renewal removes previously taken classes from calculation, allowing the student a fresh start of for their academic career. Before applying for academic renewal, the student should discuss academic consequences with an advisor in their school/college and discuss the process of academic renewal with a financial aid counselor if receiving or planning to apply for financial aid. During the first semester of re-admission or admission, a student must complete a contract with their school/college no later than the midterm date of that semester, as published in the academic calendar. Schools/colleges review main campus students’ academic renewal requests at the end of the first semester. Unless otherwise noted in the table below, a minimum semester GPA of 2.5 is required for a full-time course load with no I, F, NA, P, V, WD, or missing grades. University College students must complete 12 credits within two years (four consecutive fall and spring semesters) and must have attained a minimum cumulative GPA of 2.5, with no I, F, NA, P, V, WD, or missing grades. If the student is approved for academic renewal all classes taken during the semester prior to the readmission will be flagged with the code “ar” and removed from the calculation in the cumulative credits and grade point average. If a previously taken class has a passing grade that can be used toward the degree program it may be brought in as transfer credit from the SU Undergraduate Record. If a student does not meet their home school/college requirements for academic renewal at the time of review, the student may not petition again. Academic Renewal School/College Rules School/College Rule School of Education A GPA of 3.0 is required for the first semester (full-time students) or first 12 credits (University College students). S.I. Newhouse School of Public Communications Only students who have attempted no more than 30 credits or the equivalent of two full semesters may apply for academic renewal. David B. Falk College of Sport and Human Dynamics A GPA of 3.0 is required for the first semester (full-time students) or first 12 credits (University College students). College of Visual and Performing Arts A 2.8 GPA is required for the first semester (full-time students) or first 12 credits (University College students). 4.0 Student Academic Work Student work prepared for University courses in any media may be used for educational purposes, if the course syllabus makes clear that such use may occur. A student may grant permission to have their work used in this manner by registering for, and by continuing to be enrolled in, courses where such use of student work is announced in the course syllabus. After the student has completed such courses, any further use of the student’s work will meet one of the following conditions: the work will be rendered anonymous by removing all of the student’s personal identification; or written permission from the student will be secured. As a generally accepted practice, dissertations, graduate theses or research projects, honors theses, or other capstone projects submitted in partial fulfillment of degree requirements are placed in the library, University Archives, or department for public reference. 5.0 Research Involving Human or Animal Subjects Syracuse University’s Office of Research Integrity and Protections supports the institution in ensuring the University’s solid commitment to compliance with all applicable regulations and accreditation standards. The Office of Research Integrity and Protections provides assistance to faculty, staff and students who are working with animals or humans in research and provides administrative support for the Institutional Review Board (IRB) and the Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee (IACUC). The policies for course related student projects may be found at http://orip.syr.edu/human-research/policy-for-student-projects/policy-for-student-projects.html and http://orip.syr.edu/animal-research/Policies-and-Regulations/policies-and-regulations.html Academic Record 6.0 Transcript Syracuse University maintains a permanent academic transcript showing complete course and grade-earned information for every student, matriculated or non-matriculated, who takes coursework through any Syracuse University program. The transcript may not be modified or selectively deleted for any reason, including ignorance of deadlines or academic rules. Once a degree is conferred, the transcript may not be changed except for subsequently discovered fraud or academic dishonesty, assessments that more accurately represent academic work completed prior to degree certification, or to correct administrative error. In extreme cases, such changes may include the rescinding of a degree. Transcripts of courses taken and degrees received at Syracuse University are maintained by the Office of the Registrar in accordance with the policies of the American Association of Collegiate Registrars and Admissions Officers. Official transcripts show the entire record of all coursework, both undergraduate and graduate, matriculated and non-matriculated. Undergraduate and graduate transcript records print separately but are issued together for students with more than one Syracuse University academic career. Coursework is displayed chronologically within each career record, with one GPA calculation for the career (examples of a career: undergraduate, graduate, Law). However, within that distinction the transcript is not degree-specific: i.e., it does not designate courses that apply to multiple specific degree programs at the same level. Such information may only be obtained from the student’s school/college for undergraduate degrees; the academic department for graduate programs; or the College of Law for law degrees. All courses taken at Syracuse Abroad centers are listed on students’ transcripts. Credit hours and grades are computed in the GPA in the same manner as any other Syracuse University courses. Courses taken through Syracuse Abroad at foreign institutions and approved for Syracuse University credit are listed on students’ transcripts with credit hours and grades computed in the GPA in the same manner as any other Syracuse University course. Syracuse University does not maintain a transcript record of Syracuse University courses taken by The State University of New York College of Environmental Science and Forestry (ESF) students. For ESF students, ESF is the college of record. ESF courses taken by matriculated Syracuse University students appear on the Syracuse University transcript and calculate in the same way as Syracuse University courses, except for graduate students admitted to concurrent master’s degree programs. Syracuse University cannot provide copies of transcripts it has received from other institutions to third parties. Students must request transcripts from the originating institution. Syracuse University reserves the right to withhold copies of transcripts of students who have unfulfilled financial obligations to the University or by request of the Office of Student Rights and Responsibilities. Access to transcripts and other student records is protected by the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act. 7.0 Courses The present system of numbering courses prescribes that all courses use three digits to indicate the course level and/or type of course, and a three-letter subject to indicate the department or college as follows: Course Numbering System Remedial, developmental, and noncredit courses 000-099 First-year-level courses 100-199 Sophomore-level courses 200-299 Junior- and senior-level courses 300-499 Joint undergraduate-and graduate-level courses 500-599 First year graduate-level courses 600-699 Second year and above graduate-level courses 700-899 Readings, research, and individual study courses at the doctoral level only 900-996 Master’s thesis 997 Individualized study at the graduate level 998 Doctoral dissertation 999 8.0 Credit The unit of credit at Syracuse University is the semester hour. Each semester hour represents one class period of 50 minutes per week for 15 weeks, or the equivalent. The 15 week period includes final examinations. Laboratory or field courses require a minimum of two or three class periods a week for each credit hour. Faculty are expected to assign students at least 100 minutes of work outside of class time per week for each credit hour and 150 minutes of time per week over a 15 week semester for lab or studio time. Certain options for credit that may apply toward a student’s degree and certificate program include: transfer credit, experiential learning, external exams, and restricted graduate credit. Students should confer with their academic advisors for a complete overview of credit requirements needed to fulfill their degree or certificate requirements. Credit applied to an undergraduate major or minor may only be shared with one other major or minor. Credit may not be triple counted. 8.1 Advanced Credit Examinations Advanced Credit Examinations provide matriculated students the opportunity to be tested on, and to receive credit for, knowledge and skills already achieved that would be covered by regular Syracuse University courses. A student must discuss the request with the appropriate academic department for approval to take an Advanced Credit Exam. The department is under no obligation to approve the request. Approval by the student’s academic advisor, appropriate department chair, and home school/college is required in order to take an Advanced Credit Examination. The student must earn a grade of C or higher to pass the exam. Advanced Credit Exams count toward the 30 semester hours maximum credits that will be accepted from a combination of Advanced Credit Exams, experiential learning, extra-institutional credit, and external examination programs toward the total number of credits required for graduation. The exams are administered and graded by faculty. Each Advanced Credit exam carries a fee, at an amount published each year in “Tuition, Fees, and Related Policies.” For undergraduates, the student’s school/college may accept a maximum of 30 semester hours from a combination of Syracuse University advanced credit exams and any other credit (e.g., AP exams, experiential learning). Advanced Credit Exams must be associated with Syracuse University course subjects and numbers are not appropriate for all courses, such as Selected Topics and those that require a Proposal for Independent Study; may not be applied to the residency requirement; may not be taken in a course for which credit was already earned; are not considered as retaken courses for flagging purposes will be removed from the official transcript if an equivalent course is subsequently taken at Syracuse University and passed; are recorded on the transcript by credit hours and grade, and contribute to total credit hours earned and cumulative degree GPA; and a maximum of 66 credits from a combination of credit from a two-year college and any other credit (e.g., AP exams, experiential learning) will be accepted. 8.1.1 Credit for Extra-Institutional and Experiential Learning, and External Examination Programs Following University rules and program requirements, Syracuse University schools/colleges and graduate departments may award credit for various external examinations and other types of extra-institutional and experiential learning. Such credit is evaluated only for the degree or certificate program to which the student is admitted and may change if the student moves into a different Syracuse University program. Credit is evaluated using the guidelines of the American Council on Education and the Council for Advancement of Experiential Learning, as well as institutional assessment. See TABLES A, B, C and D below for a listing of undergraduate-level exams that may qualify. For examinations or subject areas not covered in the listing below, the student should contact their home school/college or appropriate department to determine whether credit may be considered or if the student is a candidate for an Advanced Credit Examination. A student should also contact their home school/college to discuss other types of non-institutional experience, such as the military, business, or government, which may qualify for credit. Undergraduate credit may also be awarded for some matriculation examinations and post-secondary educational experiences offered in other countries. Decisions about awarding such credit are made by the student’s school/college during the admissions process. 8.1.2 Portfolio Review Credit may be granted for studio work applicable toward professional degrees in the College of Visual and Performing Arts upon departmental evaluation of the portfolio. 8.1.3 External Examinations College Board Advanced Placement (AP) and College Level Examination Program (CLEP) The student’s home school/college uses the rules in effect at the time the student matriculates at Syracuse University in order to evaluate and accept degree-program credit for AP and CLEP exams. The academic unit with principal responsibility for the examination subject recommends the minimum score for credit and Syracuse University course equivalency; however, the student’s home school/college may have higher score requirements and/or different qualifications, both for awarding credit and meeting degree requirements. TABLE A College Board Advanced Placement Examinations Exam Subject/Title Minimum Score Awardable Credit Equivalent SU Course Recommending School/College Additional School/College Requirements or Qualifications Art/2-D Design 5 3 Studio Elective Visual and Performing Arts Visual and Performing Arts Does not count toward Art, Design or Transmedia required first-year studio courses Art/Drawing 5 3 Studio Elective Visual and Performing Arts Visual and Performing Arts Does not count toward Art, Design or Transmedia required first-year studio courses. Art History 3 6 HOA 105,106 Arts and Sciences none Biology 4 8 BIO 121, 123, 124 Arts and Sciences Pre-health students should consult with their college advisor before accepting AP credit for Biology, Chemistry or Math. Chemistry 4 4 CHE 103 Arts and Sciences Arts and Sciences Only a score of 5 counts as a sequence in natural sciences and mathematics. Pre-health students should consult with their college advisor before accepting AP credit for Chemistry. 5 8 CHE 106/107 and CHE 116/117 Chinese 3 4 CHI 102 Arts and Sciences 4 CHI 201 Comparative Government and Politics 4 3 PSC 123 Arts and Sciences none Computer Science A 3 3 ECS 102 Engineering and Computer Science Engineering and Computer Science Students will receive this credit only upon approval of their department chair. Computer Science Principles 4 3 ECS 100 Engineering and Computer Science For students in Information Studies equivalent course is IST 200 English Language and Composition 4 6 WRT 105-205 Arts and Sciences none English Literature and Composition 4 6 ENG 151 (or 117 or 118 or 152 or 153) and WRT 105 Arts and Sciences Arts and Sciences Students scoring 4 or better will receive 3 credits for ENG 151. Such students who subsequently elect to take ENG 151 may transfer the credit to one of the following: ENG 117, 118, 152, or 153. Three additional credits are awarded for WRT 105. Environmental Science 3 3 EAR 200 Arts and Sciences Education (Inclusive) will accept a score of 3 to meet its science requirement only if the AP course had a lab, and after a grade of B+ or higher is earned in an SU lab/science course. European History 4 6 HST 111, 112 Arts and Sciences none French Language and Culture 3 4 FRE 102 Arts and Sciences German Language and Culture 3 4 GER 102 Arts and Sciences Geography 4 3 GEO 105 or 171 Arts and Sciences none Italian Language and Culture 3 4 ITA 102 Arts and Sciences Language and Culture 3 4 JPS 102 Arts and Sciences 4 JPS 201 Latin 3 4 LAT 102 Arts and Sciences 4 LAT 201 5 7 LAT 201, 320 Macroeconomics 4 3 ECN 102 Arts and Sciences none Mathematics - Calculus AB 3 3 MAT 285 Arts and Sciences Engineering and Computer Science Four credits awarded for MAT 295 only, pending results of the math placement examination. 4 6 or 4 MAT 285 and 286 or MAT 295 Mathematics - Calculus BC 4 8 MAT 295, 296 Arts and Sciences Engineering and Computer Science Up to 8 credits awarded for MAT 295 & MAT 296 pending results of the math placement examination. Mathematics - Calculus BC-AB sub score 3 3 MAT 285 Arts and Sciences Credit not awarded for both Calculus BC exam and its AB subscore. 4 6 or 4 MAT 285 and 286 or MAT 295 Mathematics Level II† 4 4 MAT 194 Arts and Sciences none Microeconomics 4 3 ECN 101 Arts and Sciences none Music Theory 3 3 HOM/MTC 125 Arts and Sciences Awarded for non-music majors only. Physics I 3 4 PHY 101 Arts and Sciences none Physics II 3 4 PHY 102 Arts and Sciences none Physics B 3 8 PHY 101, 102 Arts and Science Education (Inclusive) will accept a score of 3 to meet its science requirement only if the AP course had a lab, and after a grade of B+ or higher is earned in an SU lab/science course. (Electricity and Magnetism) 3 4 PHY 102 or 212, 222 Arts and Sciences none Physics C (Mechanics) 3 4 PHY 101 or 211, 221 Arts and Sciences none Psychology 4 3 PSY 205 Arts and Sciences none Spanish Language 3 4 SPA 102 Arts and Sciences Spanish Literature 3 4 SPA 102 Arts and Sciences 4 SPA 201 Statistics 3 3 or 4 MAT 221 Arts and Sciences Management Credit accepted as MAS 261. U.S.Government and Politics 4 3 PSC 121 Arts and Sciences none U.S.History 4 6 HST 101, 102 Arts and Sciences none World History 4 6 HST 121, 122 Arts and Sciences none † Exam offered in Puerto Rico only. TABLE B CLEP Examination Credit Exam Title Minimum Score Awardable Credit Equivalent SU Course Recommending School/College American Literature 50 3 ETS 118 Arts and Sciences French Level I 50, plus passing of oral test at SU 4 FRE 101 Arts and Sciences French Level II 62, plus passing of oral test at SU 4 FRE 102 Arts and Sciences Biology 70 8 BIO 121, BIO 123, BIO 124 Arts and Sciences Chemistry 50 6 CHE 106, 116 Arts and Sciences German Level I 50, plus passing of oral test at SU 4 GER 101 Arts and Sciences German Level II 63, plus passing of oral test at SU 4 GER 102 Arts and Sciences History of U.S. I, II 50 6 HST 101,102 Arts and Sciences American Government 50 3 PSC 121 Arts and Sciences Spanish Level I 50, plus passing of oral test at SU 4 SPA 101 Arts and Sciences Spanish Level II 66, plus passing of oral test at SU 4 SPA 102 Arts and Sciences Western Civilization I,II 50 6 HST 111, 112 Arts and Sciences TABLE C International Baccalaureate Credit IB Higher Level Examination Minimum Score Syracuse University Credit Biology 5 8 credits - BIO 121, 123, 124 Business and Management 5 6 credits lower division; free elective only Chemistry 5 8 credits - CHE 103 and 113 Economics 5 6 credits - ECN 101 and 102 English 5 3 credits - WRT 105 Foreign Languages 5 No credit awarded. Exemption from basic and continuing skills in foreign languages according to performance on proficiency examination administered by the department. Geography 5 6 credits - GEO 105 and 273 History 5 6 credits lower division Mathematics 5 6 credits - Quantitative skills Philosophy 5 6 credits - PHI 191 and 197 Physics 5 8 credits - PHY 101, 102 Psychology 5 6 credits - PSY 205 and 274 Social and Cultural Anthropology 5 6 credits - ANT 111 and 121 International Baccalaureate (IB) Credit for Higher Level IB examinations completed with a grade of 5 or higher will be awarded as indicated in Table C. No credit will be awarded for IB Standard Level exams or additional requirements. TABLE D GCE A-Level Examinations GCE A-Level Examination College Minimum Score Syracuse University Credit Accounting Martin J. Whitman School of Management D Score of A or B: 7 credits - ACC 151 & ACC 252 Score of C or D: 4 credits - ACC 151 Art College of Visual and Performing Arts D 6 credits - freshman sequence Art & Design College of Visual and Performing Arts A/B 3 credits - Art & Design Elective only - 100 or 200 level, to be determined based on subject matter. C/D 3 credits - Art & Design Elective only - 100 level, to be determined based on subject matter. Biology The College of Arts & Sciences D 8 credits - BIO 121, 123, 124 Business Martin J. Whitman School of Management D 3 credits - BUA 100 Chemistry The College of Arts & Sciences D 8 credits - CHE 106/107 and 116/117 Classical Studies The College of Arts & Sciences D 6 credits - LIT 101 and LIT 102 Computer Science College of Engineering & Computer Science D Subject to college review Divinity The College of Arts & Sciences D 6 credits - REL 114 and REL 156 Economics The College of Arts & Sciences A/B 12 credits - ECN 101, 102, 301, 302 C/D 6 credits - ECN 101 and 102 English Literature The College of Arts & Sciences not applicable No credit awarded Food Studies David B. Falk Sport and Human Dynamics D 3 credits - general elective (non-A&S) Foreign Languages - Arabic The College of Arts & Sciences D 8 credits - ARB 101 and ARB 102 Foreign Languages - Chinese The College of Arts & Sciences not applicable No credit awarded Foreign Languages - French The College of Arts & Sciences not applicable No credit awarded Foreign Languages - German The College of Arts & Sciences B 8 credits - GER 101 and GER 102 Foreign Languages - Hindi The College of Arts & Sciences A or B 8 credits - HIN 201 and HIN 202 C 4 credits - HIN 101 and HIN 102 Foreign Languages - Japanese The College of Arts & Sciences A or B 12 credits - JPS 101, JPS 102 and JPS 201 C or D 8 credits - JPS 101 and JPS 102 Geography The College of Arts & Sciences D 3 credits - GEO 100 Global Perspectives and Research The College of Arts & Sciences not applicable No credit awarded Government and Politics The College of Arts & Sciences D Subject to college review History The College of Arts & Sciences D 6 credits HST 111 and 112 Information Technology School of Information Studies C IST 195 Law The College of Arts & Sciences not applicable No credit awarded Marine Studies The College of Arts & Sciences D 3 credits - BIO 100 Mathematics The College of Arts & Sciences C 4 or 6 credits - MAT 285 and MAT 286 or MAT 295 Mathematics - Further The College of Arts & Sciences C 11 credits - MAT 295, MAT 296, and MAT 331 Media Studies S.I. Newhouse of School of Public Communications C 3 credits - COM 200 Music College of Visual and Performing Arts D 3 credits - music elective only Philosophy The College of Arts & Sciences D Subject to college review Physics The College of Arts & Sciences A or B 8 credits - PHY 211 and PHY 212 C or D 8 credits - PHY 101 and PHY 102 Psychology The College of Arts & Sciences D 6 credits - PSY 205 and PSY 395 Sociology The College of Arts & Sciences D 6 credits - SOC 101 and SOC 102 Thinking Skills The College of Arts & Sciences D 3 credits - PHI 191 TABLE D continued GCE AS-Level Examinations GCE AS-Level Examination College Minimum Score Syracuse University Credit Art & Design College of Visual and Performing Arts A/B C/D 3 credits - Art & Design Elective only - 100 level, to be determined based on subject matter. No credit awarded Biology The College of Arts & Sciences D 4 credits - BIO 121 Business Martin J. Whitman School of Management D 3 credits - BUA 100 Chemistry The College of Arts & Sciences D 4 credits - CHE 106 and 107 Divinity The College of Arts & Sciences D 3 credits - REL 156 Economics The College of Arts & Sciences D 6 credit - ECN 100 and ECN 102 English Language & Literature The College of Arts & Sciences not applicable No credit awarded Environmental Management The College of Arts & Sciences D 3 credits - EAR 200 Foreign Languages The College of Arts & Sciences not applicable No credit awarded Geography The College of Arts & Sciences D 3 credits - GEO 100 Government and Politics The College of Arts & Sciences D 3 credits - POL 123 (Subject to college review) History The College of Arts & Sciences D 3 credits - HST 111 Mathematics The College of Arts & Sciences not applicable No credit awarded Music College of Visual and Performing Arts not applicable No credit awarded Philosophy The College of Arts & Sciences D 3 credits - PHI 191 Physics The College of Arts & Sciences D 4 credits - PHY 101 Psychology The College of Arts & Sciences D 3 credits - PSY 205 Sociology The College of Arts & Sciences D 3 credits - SOC 101 8.1.4 Military Service Credit Credit may be awarded for military-service courses and occupations having the appropriate content, scope, and rigor for undergraduate degree or certificate program to which the student is matriculated. Syracuse University may accept 30-credits of military-service experience as extra-institutional learning. Additional military-service credit may be awarded above the 30-credits if recommended as a semester hour (SH) and listed as upper (U) division or graduate (G) level credit. Military vocational (V) credit may be awarded if reviewed by the home school/college and approved. Currently serving members of the military who are enrolled at Syracuse University in either a degree or certificate program may request to have new military courses and occupations evaluated for transfer credit by their home school/college in accordance with that school/college’s post-matriculation credit transfer policy. 8.2 Undergraduate and Graduate Coursework Undergraduate (matriculated or non-matriculated) students who would like to take graduate-level courses at Syracuse University must petition to register for these courses. Such courses will earn “restricted graduate credit” should the student intend to use such courses toward a Syracuse University graduate degree. A graduate course taken by an undergraduate student is recorded on the undergraduate section of the transcript, and the course counts toward overall undergraduate credit and GPA calculations. However, a graduate-level course does not fulfill undergraduate degree requirements unless it has specifically been approved for that purpose, either as part of the degree program’s requirements or by petition prior to registration. No credit that is applied to the undergraduate degree may be applied also to the graduate degree, unless such double-counting falls under the explicit articulation of a combined bachelor’s and master’s degree program that has been approved by the University Senate and is in compliance with the current NYSED regulations. The student must petition to flag the graduate courses intended for use in a graduate degree program once the grades have been posted and prior to the awarding of the undergraduate degree. After a student matriculates into a graduate degree program at Syracuse University, and with the approval of a petition, restricted graduate credits earned while an undergraduate and flagged as graduate on the undergraduate record will be transferred into the graduate record, subject to the conversion to graduate credit rules, as a block of credit hours from “Syracuse University Undergraduate Record”. These credits will not be applied toward the Syracuse University undergraduate degree. Under no circumstances will grades earned in these flagged courses calculate in either the undergraduate or graduate GPA. 8.2.1 Calculation of Credit Hours Letter grades and Incompletes calculate toward cumulative credit and grade totals on the student’s academic transcript. A course in which a “Pass (P)” was earned is included in total earned credits but not grade point calculations. Calculations made by schools/colleges to determine progress toward degree requirements may exclude courses appearing on the student’s transcript that are not applicable to the specific degree program. As noted under the flagging rules, courses may be removed from calculation under certain circumstances. With the approval of the student’s home school/college, the student may apply as free elective credit up to six credit hours of college-level remedial and developmental courses (numbered 000-099) in which a passing grade was earned toward degree requirements. 8.2.2 Retaking Courses Some programs require the retaking of courses in which unsatisfactory grades (as defined by the program) were earned. Retaking courses may also be prohibited under certain circumstances. Language courses: A course cannot be retaken once a student has successfully completed a higher level course in the same language. Mathematics courses: A course cannot be retaken once a student has completed a higher level course in the same mathematics curriculum sequence with a grade of C or better. Table E below describes other rules for undergraduates who want to retake courses. Also see “Flagging Courses That Have Been Retaken.“ Note that retaken courses may not count toward eligibility and satisfactory progress requirements for certain types of financial aid awards. 8.2.3 Flagging (Removing Courses from GPA, Credit and Degree Calculation) When certain requirements are met, courses may be “flagged,” which excludes them from GPA and semester and cumulative credit hour totals. The flag symbol is noted on the official transcript. Flagging a course may affect financial aid eligibility e.g., flagging a course in which a passing grade was earned may alter the calculation of satisfactory progress. For additional information, students should see their financial aid counselor. Once a student’s degree has been awarded, the student may not request to flag courses taken before the degree date. 8.2.4 Flagging Courses That Have Been Retaken To qualify for flagging, both the original and subsequent course must be taken at Syracuse University and have the same course subject and number. International courses offered through Syracuse Abroad may qualify for flagging even though their titles and numbers may not be identical to the courses retaken on main campus. To qualify, the relevant academic department must determine that the international courses are comparable to the ones retaken on main campus. A school/college may prohibit the student from flagging a lower level course after the student has completed a higher level course in the same subject with a passing grade. If a course is no longer offered under the same subject and/or number, the student must petition the school/college in advance to retake the course that is a close equivalent in content and level. Certification by the academic department that the course is a close equivalent–not just a substitution for the degree requirement–is required. Except as noted in TABLE E, only the credits and grade received in the second course will count. Both the original course and the retaken course remain on the student’s official transcript. Both the original course and the retaken course remain on the student’s official transcript. A course is repeatable if it may be retaken and counted more than once toward fulfillment of degree requirements. A student may not flag courses designated as repeatable, since course content is different each time the course is offered. The following are exceptions: Selected Topics courses (with numbers ending in “00”) may be flagged if they have exactly the same title Proposals for Independent Study courses may be flagged when the course subject, number, description, and requirements are the same Advanced Credit exams or courses that merely substitute for a degree requirement are not considered to be retaken courses for flagging purposes. Honors sections of courses are eligible for flagging Additional course combinations may be flagged at the approval of the University Registrar Courses that have been retaken will be flagged according to the following school/college rules. TABLE E Retaken Courses and Flagging Rules School/College Retaken Course Rule Flagging Rule School of Architecture Students may retake a course for grade improvement. No Architecture course may be registered for more than three times. The higher of the two grades is counted in the GPA. The College of Arts and Sciences Students may retake a course for grade improvement. The higher of the two grades is counted in the GPA. For courses retaken more than once, the two earlier grades may be flagged. A single course may be flagged only twice. Students are encouraged to speak to their home school/college. Flagging of repeated courses is initiated by the school/college at the conclusion of the semester in which the course was repeated. School of Education Students may take a course for grade improvement. Courses may be attempted only three times. The higher of the two grades is counted in the GPA. For courses retaken more than once, the lower grade may be flagged by petition. College of Engineering and Computer Science Any course with a D or F may be retaken. A course may be flagged up to two times; the higher of the two grades will be counted in the GPA. The higher of the two grades is counted in the GPA. For courses taken more than once, the two earlier grades may be flagged by petition. School of Information Studies Students may retake a course for grade improvement. The higher of the two grades is computed in the GPA. Martin J. Whitman School of Management Students may retake a course for grade improvement. Normally, students may not retake a course after completing a more advanced course in the same area. Students should check with an advisor in the Undergraduate Office before retaking a course. The most recent grade is used to calculate the GPA, regardless of which grade is higher. Management grades can be flagged only once. S.I. Newhouse School of Public Communications Public Communications courses in which a passing grade (of D or higher) was earned may not be retaken. Public Communications grades will only be flagged once. If a student retakes a Public Communications course in which a passing grade was previously earned, the second grade will be flagged. For retaken courses outside of Public Communications, the most recent grade is used to calculate the GPA regardless of which grade is higher. David B. Falk College of Sport and Human Dynamics Students may retake a course for grade improvement. Students should check with their academic advisor before retaking a course. Courses may be attempted only three times. Students should consult with the Bursar regarding financial implications for student aid for retaking a course. The highest grade for the course will be computed in the GPA University College Students may retake a course for grade improvement. The higher of the two grades is counted in the GPA. College of Visual and Performing Arts Any academic elective course in which a student has received a grade of D or F may be retaken. A studio course may be retaken only when a grade of F has been received. The higher of two grades is computed in the GPA. 8.2.5 Flagging Courses When Changing School/College or Program If a student is admitted through intra-university transfer (IUT) into a different Syracuse University school/college, the student may petition to flag completed courses that cannot be included in the student’s new program. The student must first meet minimum criteria for admission to the new school/college or program and can only petition the new school/college to flag courses after admission. If the student changes a program within their home school/college, in rare instances when the new program requires preparation distinctly different from that of the former program, the student may petition to have courses flagged that cannot be applied toward the new program. Simply changing majors does not qualify for flagging. The College of Arts and Sciences: Only D and F grades in non-Arts and Sciences courses that were required for the previous program may be flagged at the student’s request. A, B, C, and I grades in such courses cannot be flagged. School of Education and Martin J. Whitman School of Management: If the student transfers into either of these schools and elect to flag courses that do not apply toward the new program, then the student must flag all courses that do apply. 8.2.6 Flagging Graduate-Level Courses Taken as an Undergraduate If a student petitions to take graduate-level courses that will not apply to their undergraduate degree, the student must also petition to flag those courses so that they do not count toward their undergraduate record. This flagging must be accomplished prior to the certification of the undergraduate degree. These restricted graduate credits must be flagged before they can be applied to count toward the graduate degree requirements. The grades will calculate in neither the undergraduate nor the graduate GPA. 8.2.7 Higher Education Opportunity Program (HEOP) or Student Support Services Program (SSSP) Students HEOP or SSSP students who receive grades of C-, D or F during the Summer Start program may petition to have these grades flagged to exclude them from calculation in the GPA and from the cumulative credit hour total for that summer semester. 8.3 Transfer Credit In compliance with NYSED regulations, Syracuse University only awards transfer credit for courses that are an integral part of a Syracuse University degree program, as determined by the appropriate Syracuse University academic unit. Generally, schools/colleges may consider accepting transfer credit from: institutions recognized by regional accrediting commissions national accrediting bodies professional organizations that accredit free-standing professional schools and programs within multipurpose institutions * institutions that are recognized candidates for accreditation recognized foreign tertiary-level institutions, chartered, and authorized by their national governments, generally through the Ministry of Education a formal transfer articulation agreement * For students enrolled in an accredited program at a non-accredited institution, only courses within the discipline that is accredited will be considered for transfer credit. General education and other courses from the institution will not be considered. Syracuse University grants transfer credit based on course content, the quality of the student’s performance, and applicability to the program. Transfer credit is evaluated only for the degree or certificate program to which the student is admitted and will be re-evaluated and may change if the student moves into a different Syracuse University program. A re-evaluation of transfer credit may also affect the student’s financial aid, especially if the student’s class standing alters. If all of the student’s previous work is not accepted for transfer, the student may enter Syracuse University at a different class level than the student had attained at his or her prior institution. A maximum of 90 credits of transfer credit or a combination of transfer credit and any other credit (e.g., AP exams, experiential learning) will be accepted. Transfer credit will not be granted for undergraduate students taking courses abroad during the academic year while on a leave of absence. If Syracuse University undergraduate students wish to go abroad during the academic year on a program not affiliated with Syracuse Abroad and receive credit, there is a special petitioning process available to them. If a student plans to take courses at another institution that will transfer back into their Syracuse University degree, the student must obtain home school/college approval before enrolling. If a student takes courses at a two-year college before junior standing, the student may take approved coursework during a summer session or while on leave of absence. After attaining junior standing, the only courses that will be approved will be those that fulfill lower-division requirements or free electives; a maximum of 66 credits from a combination of credit from a two-year college and any other credit (e.g., AP exams, experiential learning) will be accepted. Transfer Credit School/College Rules School/college Rules School of Architecture The Architecture major consists of 111 credits in Architecture. All credits in the Architecture major must be taken at Syracuse University for a letter grade with the following exception: External transfer students previously enrolled in an Architecture program may qualify for advanced standing in the design (studio) sequence. If accepted into the program, this decision will be provided at that time. Advanced standing is determined upon review of transcript and portfolio by the Undergraduate Program Chair. A maximum of 12 credits for design studio may be awarded through this process. Final determination of equivalent credit in the architecture areas of Drawing, Technology, Structures, History and/or Theory will be decided after evaluation by Syracuse Architecture faculty in the respective areas. Be prepared to furnish evidence of accomplishment in addition to the transcript grade, such as course syllabi, portfolio, class notes or examples of work. The College of Arts and Sciences Once a student matriculates into The College of Arts and Sciences, only 16 credits can be taken outside of Syracuse University (with prior approval from an academic advisor) and transferred back to count towards any degree requirements. Of those 16 credits, only eight may contribute to the fulfillment of the divisional requirements in the Liberal Arts Core, with no more than one course applying to any divisional requirement section. The coursework applied toward the requirements of a major (including ILMs) may include at most eight (8) credits taken outside of Syracuse University. All credit taken through an international institution, pre-matriculation or post-matriculation, must have an accompanying World Education Services (WES) or Josef Silny and Associates course-by-course credit evaluation in order to be awarded. Basic or college algebra is not accepted. Coursework at a pre-college level is not accepted. Transfer credit for foreign language courses must be evaluated by the Department of Languages, Literatures, and Linguistics at Syracuse University to determine the appropriate course equivalent. [Note: Foreign language courses taken at schools or programs that are not accredited will not be reviewed or approved.] Pass (P) or Satisfactory (S) grades are never accepted toward the fulfillment of majors/minors or the A&S Liberal Arts Core requirements. Courses graded as a P or S are accepted as transfer elective credit only, when P or S is equivalent to a grade of C or higher. College of Engineering & Computer Science All students must complete a minimum number of credit hours at Syracuse University in courses offered through NYSED registered programs in order to be granted a Syracuse University degree. Undergraduate students must take at least 30 credit hours of coursework at Syracuse University to qualify for the degree; in most cases more than 30 credits will be required in order to fulfill degree requirements. In addition undergraduate students must complete a minimum of 60% of their major program at Syracuse University, as well as the other requirements designated by your school or college as listed in the table below unless a waiver is granted by the appropriate major department. Transfer Credit Policy for ECS BMCE Department Bioengineering BS Program: A minimum of 36 of the 60 credits for the Major requirements must be taken at SU. Chemical Engineering BS Program: A minimum of 31 of the 51 credits for the Major requirements must be taken at SU. EECS Department Computer Engineering BS Program: A minimum of 39 of the 65 credits for the Major requirements must be taken at SU. Electrical Engineering BS Program: A minimum of 40 of the 66 credits for the Major requirements must be taken at SU. Computer Science BS Program: A minimum of 44 of the 73-74 credits for the Major requirements must be taken at SU. MAE Department Aerospace Engineering BS Program: A minimum of 43 of the 71 credits for the Major requirements must be taken at SU. Mechanical Engineering BS Program: A minimum of 43 of the 71 credits for the Major requirements must be taken at SU. CEE Department Civil Engineering BS Program: A minimum of 39 of the 65 credits for the Major requirements must be taken at SU. Environmental Engineering BS Program: A minimum of 35 of the 57/58 credits for the Major requirements must be taken at SU. School of Information Studies No more than 12 hours of major coursework earned at another college or university may be accepted toward meeting the requirements of a major program of study in the School of Information Studies. S.I. Newhouse School of Public Communications Once a student matriculates into the S.I. Newhouse School of Public Communications, any transfer credit must be formally accepted via written petition by the respective department and the Newhouse Undergraduate Advising Office. In addition, the following restrictions apply: Basic or college algebra is not accepted. Transfer credit for foreign language courses must be evaluated by the Department of Languages, Literatures, and Linguistics at Syracuse University to determine the appropriate course equivalent. [Note: Foreign language courses taken at schools or programs that are not accredited will not be reviewed or approved.] No more than 12 hours of communications course credits earned in another college or university may be accepted toward meeting the requirements of a major program of study in the S.I. Newhouse School of Public Communications. Martin J. Whitman School of Management The Management Major Program consists of the Management Core, Business Elective and Required/Electives in the Major totaling 49 credits. No required/elective courses in the major can be taken as transfer credit (no coursework from your major prefix). A maximum of 40% of the remainder of the management major program can be transferred from another institution. Once a student matriculates into the Whitman School of Management, only 12 additional credits can be taken outside of Syracuse University and transferred back to count towards degree requirements. All credit taken through an international institution, pre-matriculation, must have an accompanying World Education Services (WES) credit evaluation in order to be considered. All transfer coursework, post-matriculation, must be taken through a US domestic institution. Coursework taken through an international institution will not be accepted after matriculation into the Whitman program. College of Visual and Performing Arts Transfer credit for academic electives may be awarded to students who are enrolled in a major program of study in the College of Visual and Performing Arts. Transfer credit for major requirements, studio based courses, or performance based courses will be reviewed on a case by case basis by the appropriate School or Department within the College. University College Undergraduate students must complete a minimum of 60% of their Bachelor of Professional Studies major (concentration program of study; professional concentration) requirements at Syracuse University. No more than three credit hours earned in another college or university may be accepted to the credit certificate program requirements. 8.3.1 How Transfer Credit Applies Toward a Student’s Degree Syracuse University transfer credit is measured in semester hours. If a student’s prior institution used a different credit hour system, credits accepted for transfer are converted to semester hours, e.g., credit from institutions on the quarter-hour system is converted to semester hours using the formula of one quarter-hour equals 2/3 semester hour. Transfer Unit Conversion Quarter hours Semester hours 1.000 0.667 2.000 1.333 3.000 2.000 4.000 2.667 5.000 3.333 6.000 4.000 Grades do not transfer and do not affect your Syracuse University cumulative GPA. If a student subsequently takes a course at Syracuse University for which the student had previously received transfer credit, the transfer credit will be removed. Additional transfer credit rules are: grades of C- or below will not be accepted; “Pass” grades must be certified to be at a C level or higher and will normally be accepted only as elective credit; second undergraduate degrees carry additional restrictions; students should contact school/college for details; for students on academic probation in Public Communications and Visual and Performing Arts, transfer credit will not be given until the cumulative GPA is 2.0 or higher; University College students are not awarded transfer credit until their cumulative average is 2.0 or higher: if a student was previously matriculated at SUNY ESF, then subsequently matriculated at Syracuse University, coursework taken while an ESF student, including Syracuse University courses, is treated, and evaluated as transfer credit from ESF. Such Syracuse University courses do not appear or calculate into the Syracuse University transcript, except as they are included in a block of transfer credits, i.e., total credit hours accepted from SUNY ESF. 8.4 Grades TABLE F Letter Grades Grades Grade Points per Credit A 4.000 A- 3.667 B+ 3.333 B 3.000 B- 2.667 C+ 2.333 C 2.000 C- 1.667 D1 1.000 D-1,2 .667 F 0 1Grades of D and D- may not be assigned to graduate students. 2 Grade of D- is available only for Law students in LAW courses. TABLE G Grading Symbols Symbol Meaning Grade Points per Credit Explanation I Incomplete 0 Indicates that, due to exceptional circumstances, a student has made a formal arrangement with the instructor to complete remaining work/assignments after the course ends. (Refer to Incomplete section below for details) Incomplete grade impacts GPA and Student Academic Progress. I+Grade Incomplete with Default Grade Variable based on Default Grade Indicates that, due to exception circumstances, a student has made a formal arrangement with the instructor to complete remaining work/assignments after the course ends. (Refer to Incomplete with Default Grade section below for details) Incomplete grade impacts GPA and Student Academic Progress based on the default grade. AU Audit Not counted Indicates that a student elected to take the course for no (zero) credit. NA Did not attend Not counted Indicates that a student never attended the course. NG No Grade Not counted A grade was not available by the grading deadline for the class. NR Not Required Not counted Used for courses or components of courses that do not require a grade. P1 Pass Not counted Indicates satisfactory completion of a Pass/Fail-graded course or one for which a student elected the Pass/Fail option. RM Remedial Not counted Used for college-level remedial and developmental courses. V Variable length course-grade not yet due Not counted Used for courses that do not follow the normal semester timeline. V indicates that normal progress is being made at the end-of-semester point. WD Withdrew Not counted Indicates that a student withdrew from the course, after the academic drop deadline. 1Law faculty offering courses on the Law Alternative Grading System may designate grades of High Honors (HH), Honors (H), Pass (P) or Fail (F). Law students will not receive academic credit for grades of “F”. P* is used to indicate exceptional circumstances, allowed only in specific academic terms identified by the University, and counts as a Pass (P). 8.4.1 Grades and Grading Symbols - Additional Information Undergraduate students may have the option to elect a letter grade in a pass/fail-graded course. When permissible, students must select that option by the grading option deadline, indicated in the Academic Calendar, and may not rescind the selection after the deadline. I (Incomplete) A student may request an Incomplete if there are exceptional circumstances that have prevented them from fulfilling all course requirements on time. A student will need the instructor’s approval and will need to have completed enough course content to have a grade assigned based on the work to date. An Incomplete is not available if the student has not completed enough work on which to base a grade. If the student takes a leave of absence or is withdrawn from the University, the student cannot receive Incompletes for courses in which the student was registered. An Incomplete calculates as an F in the student’s GPA. The instructor calculates a grade for the student based on work completed to date, counting unsubmitted work as zero. I+Grade (Incomplete with Default Grade) A student may request an Incomplete if the student has exceptional circumstances that prevent him or her from fulfilling all course requirements on time. A student will need the instructor’s approval and will need to have completed enough course content to have a grade assigned based on the work to date. An Incomplete is not available if the student has not completed enough work on which to base a grade. If the student takes a leave of absence or is withdrawn from the University, the student cannot receive Incompletes for courses in which the student was registered. An Incomplete with default grade calculates as the default grade in the students GPA. The instructor calculates a grade for the student based on work completed to date, counting unsubmitted work as zero. AU (Audit) A student may audit courses with instructor approval. A student must submit the audit option by the grading option deadline, and cannot rescind the option after the deadline. No credit is given for audited courses, they do not meet any degree requirements, and are not counted toward enrollment status. Instructors may record a grading symbol of NA instead of AU if the student never attends the class. The student may have limited access to Syracuse University library resources if auditing a class and not registered for any credit-bearing classes for the term. Courses that require a Proposal for Independent Study, studio art or applied music courses offered by the College of Visual and Performing Arts cannot be audited. Additionally, these types of courses taken through Syracuse Abroad cannot be audited: Signature Seminars and courses required for a Syracuse Abroad program (exceptions may be made for graduate students) and courses taken through partner universities abroad. NA (Did not attend) A student flagged in Orange SUccess who never attends a class and does not drop the class by the Academic/Financial Drop deadline, will receive an NA “did not attend” grade on the official transcript. The NA grade may impact enrollment status but not term tuition charges and fees. Any changes to the enrollment status may affect student financial aid eligibility and can result in some/all return of federal aid. Students who stop attending their classes may risk failing the class and may be subject to return of Title IV calculations, which may result in return of some or all of federal aid. Therefore, students are advised to drop or withdraw from a class they do not intend to attend or stop attending as soon as they stop attending a class. P/F (Pass/Fail) Credit is earned for courses with a P, but not with an F. An undergraduate student may have the option to elect a pass/fail grade for some course and may elect a letter grade in a pass/fail course when permissible. The student must select this option by the grading option deadline and may not rescind the selection after the deadline. School/college-specific pass/fail rules are listed in the table below. Some additional points are: if a student selects a pass/fail option, grades of A, A-, B+, B, B-, C+, C, C-, and D are converted to P. No grade other than P or F will be posted on the student’s record; if the student chooses to major in a field in which he/she previously took a course as pass/fail, the student’s home school/college and the chair of the department in which the student took the course will determine whether and upon what terms the course can be used to satisfy departmental requirements; Syracuse Abroad students are limited to one pass/fail course each semester; no more than 24 credit hours of courses taken pass/fail may be applied toward an undergraduate degree. Grading School/College Rules School/college Rules School of Architecture Only open electives may be taken pass/fail. The College of Arts and Sciences Liberal Arts Core, major and minor classes cannot be taken pass/fail. School of Education Some courses must be taken pass/fail (e.g., EDU 508). These courses are not included in the 24-credit maximum applicable to an undergraduate degree. A pass/fail course may not be used to satisfy any requirement. Pass/fail courses can be used only as free electives. College of Engineering and Computer Science For students in Engineering majors: only social science, humanities, and free elective courses at the 300 level or higher may be taken pass/fail. Elective courses that must be taken from a specified list may not be taken pass/fail. The total hours of pass/fail courses permitted cannot exceed 18 credit hours. For students in Computer Science major: only free elective courses may be taken pass/fail. School of Information Studies A pass/fail course may not be used to satisfy any requirement. Pass/fail courses can be used only as general elective credit. Martin J. Whitman School of Management Sophomores, juniors, and seniors may use the pass/fail option for one class per semester. The course must be 300-level or higher and must be a free elective or liberal arts elective only. S.I. Newhouse School of Public Communications A pass/fail course may not be used to satisfy any requirement for graduation unless that course is only offered as a pass/fail course. Otherwise, pass/fail courses can be used only as free electives. David B. Falk Sport and Human Dynamics A maximum of 6 general elective credits may be taken pass/fail toward a degree. SWK 435 and 445 (Field Practicum I and II) are graded pass/fail by school policy. University College A pass/fail course may not be used to satisfy any major, minor, or certificate required course. Pass/fail courses can be used only as electives. A maximum of 12 credit hours of pass/fail courses may be used toward the degree program. College of Visual and Performing Arts Only elective courses may be taken pass/fail. No studio courses may be taken pass/fail. RM (Remedial) RM courses count toward credit hours carried in a particular semester, and are included in the total credits earned but do not count toward credit hours earned for the degree program except by petition. WD (Withdrew) After the academic drop deadline, and until the withdrawal deadline for the term, a student may withdraw from a course and have a grading symbol of WD recorded on his/her transcript. 8.4.2 Reporting Grades/Grading Symbols Instructors are required to submit grades or appropriate grading symbols for all students in their courses. If a student has not completed all course requirements by the time the instructor must report final grades, then the grade is determined based on work completed to date, counting work not submitted as zero, unless the student has made prior arrangements to receive an Incomplete. 8.4.3 Missing Grades Missing grades and No Grades (NG) do not calculate toward the GPA. A student may not graduate with missing grades or No Grades (NG). In the case of a missing grade or No Grade (NG) after the end of term in which the class was taken, students are strongly advised to contact their instructor or their advisor for the grade. All grades must be submitted in order for students to qualify for degree certification. 8.4.4 Changing Grades An instructor may elect to submit a grade change after the grade has already been posted. An instructor may submit a grade change in MySlice for review and decision by the department chair, and/or the dean of the student’s home school/college if there is a calculation error, final work has been submitted by the student, or a grade appeal has been approved. An instructor may not submit a grade change for students who have graduated, or have withdrawn from the class or for NA, NR, or RM grades. The University Registrar has the final authority for review/decision of grade changes that involve grading symbols. After a degree has been certified, a grade change may be submitted for review/decision by the University Registrar as a result of an error by the school/college or if the student’s home school/college determines that the student has completed all coursework, and only the evaluation and grade change submission occurred after that date. 8.4.5 Removal of Incomplete Incomplete (I) or Incomplete with Default grades may be removed prior to graduation in one of two ways: completion of the outstanding work specified on the Request for Incomplete Grade form by the agreed-upon date; or if a student fails to complete the work specified in the Request for Incomplete Grade form, the Office of the Registrar will post the letter grade indicated by the instructor, subject to any previous grading option that had been selected A student may not register for a course a second time for the purpose of removing an Incomplete grade or Incomplete with default grade, an instructor may require the student to repeat certain elements of a course in order to remove the Incomplete or Incomplete with default grade. Incompletes and Graduation A student may not graduate with outstanding Incompletes/Incompletes with default grade. If the student has earned the required number of credits and met all degree requirements without the incomplete class, and if the student’s cumulative average equals or exceeds the minimum requirements of the school/college, the school/college will certify the completed degree and any outstanding Incompletes will be changed to the default grade prior to posting the degree. If the class with the outstanding Incomplete is required for the student’s degree, the student’s expected graduation date will be moved to the degree date following the due date for completing the Incomplete and the student’s record will be reviewed for degree completion at that time. 8.4.6 Grade Appeals Normal Practice for Course Grade Appeals The following set of general statements represents normal practice at Syracuse University* for a student seeking resolution to a grievance of a course grade. The assignment of grades at Syracuse University is the responsibility of the faculty; once assigned by a member of the faculty, a grade cannot be changed without their consent, except by due process as detailed below. In cases where the instructor of record is not a member of the faculty, the faculty member charged with oversight of that instructor is ultimately responsible for the assignment of grades. A course grade is based upon the instructor’s professional assessment of the academic quality of the student’s performance on a body of work. Such assessments are non-negotiable, and disputes about them do not constitute valid grounds for an appeal. Valid grounds can arise, e.g., when an instructor fails to provide or implement uniform and consistent standards or bases an assessment on criteria other than academic performance. * Unless there are issues of a personal nature, the appeal process for a grade dispute begins with the instructor of record. Failure to comply with this may be grounds for denial of subsequent appeals. Any appeal beyond the instructor of record must be initiated in writing to the department chair before the last day of classes of the academic year semester immediately following the one in which the aggrieved grade was received by the Registrar. This written appeal should describe the basis for the grievance, the informal steps taken to resolve the dispute, and the remedies sought. If satisfaction is not obtained at this or any subsequent level, the appeal always moves to the next level of authority. The levels in succession are: the instructor of record, faculty member in charge of the course, the department chair of the faculty member, (Center Director for courses offered through Syracuse Abroad Centers), the dean of the department chair, (Dean of the relevant college under which the course is offered for courses offered through Syracuse Abroad Centers). At each level of appeal, a fair and thorough hearing of all views is sought before a decision is made. This may, but need not, require a face-to-face meeting of the parties directly involved in the dispute. A decision may be reached if both student and instructor agree. If such a decision cannot be reached, a panel designed by the college for this purpose shall hear the case. Details of the operation and manner of selection of this panel may vary by school or college**, but shall conform to the following guidelines: a. The panel shall have a quorum of at least three. b. All voting members of the panel shall be tenured faculty. c. No member of the panel shall hear a case who has been involved in a previous stage of the appeal. d. Membership of the panel shall be fixed and made public in a given academic year, though replacements may be made in the event of resignations. e. Membership of the panel shall be approved by the faculty of the school or college, or by a representative group of the faculty, in each academic year. f. The Senate Committee on Instruction shall approve the manner of selection and charge of a school or college’s panel before its first case. The committee shall also approve any subsequent changes in the manner of selection or charge of each college or school’s panel. The panel may, at its discretion, meet with the aggrieved parties either separately or together. The decision of this panel, either to deny the student’s original appeal or to authorize the Registrar to change the grade, shall be final. The panel shall inform both the student and the instructor of its decision in writing. The panel shall also summarize the case and its outcome in a written report to the Senate Committee on Instruction. Said committee may include summary statistics on grade disputes in its final report to the Senate. The only grounds for any further appeal shall be irregularities in the above procedures. In such cases, either party may appeal the final decision of the faculty panel to the Senate Committee on Instruction. The Senate Committee on Instruction may either deny the appeal or insist that the procedure begin anew at the point the irregularity occurred. All stages of the appeal process shall be kept confidential to the maximum extent possible, consistent with the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act. * For further guidance, consult the bylaws of the individual school or college. ** These procedures do not apply for students in the College of Law. 8.5 Registration Students must initially register for the classes in which they wish to enroll prior to the beginning of each session, or the student will incur a late registration fee. Prior to registration, students should plan their program with their academic advisors. Students may make changes to their registration after the semester begins, by adding, dropping, or withdrawing from classes in accordance with published deadlines. Courses with nontraditional start and/or end dates have different deadlines than full-semester courses. While the student normally initiates registration and subsequent changes, the student’s school(s)/college(s) of enrollment may also initiate such actions. Instructors may request the school/college to administratively drop students who do not attend the first week of classes (up to and including the add deadline); however, it is the student’s responsibility to make sure that the class is dropped if they do not intend to attend the class to avoid receiving an NA grade. (An NA grade impacts enrollment status which may affect financial aid). Registration may be prevented for financial, academic or by other University administrative offices including the Health Center, Bursar’s Office, Student’s Rights and Responsibilities, and Academic Integrity. No other University persons or units may make substantive changes to an undergraduate student’s schedule of classes without first securing the formal permission of the student’s home school/college. Students must be officially registered in order to attend classes. Students may not attend, audit, be evaluated or otherwise participate in courses without being officially enrolled. An instructor should not allow a student to attend classes and/or submit work unless the student is on the official class list or unless the student is attending with the instructor’s approval for the purpose of making up an Incomplete. Students cannot register or be registered for classes that overlap in time. Students are expected to attend each class for which they are registered and for the full duration of each class. New students register just before the term begins. Returning students are eligible to register for the next semester during the registration period at the end of fall and spring semesters. Students on Syracuse Abroad Programs register through Syracuse Abroad following special registration procedures. Part-time students admitted through University College and non-matriculated students register through University College. Students register for the School of Education’s Extended Campus courses, through Extended Campus. Adding of courses or entire registrations after the add deadline and before the academic/financial drop deadline may be done only by approval of the University Registrar. SUNY College of Environmental Science and Forestry and SUNY Upstate Medical University Courses: Because of the University’s relationship with SUNY ESF and SUNY UMU, a student may take courses at those institutions with the approval of the student’s Syracuse University school/college/academic department, subject to availability and fulfillment of any specific requirements. Conversely, SUNY ESF and SUNY UMU students who meet course requirements may take Syracuse University courses, subject to availability and in accordance with the rules and approval of their home institution. Maximum Course Load (Fall and Spring) Full-time undergraduate students typically register for 12-19 credits per semester. Students in good standing in the Renée Crown University Honors Program may register for more than 19 credits without approval of their home school/college. Other students may petition their home school/college to register for more than 19 credits. Undergraduates registering for more than 19 credit hours will be assessed the appropriate extra tuition charges unless they qualify for an overload rate exception. Summer Registration Students on Syracuse Abroad Programs register through Syracuse Abroad following special registration procedures. Matriculated Syracuse University students in good academic standing, as well as visiting and non-matriculated students, are eligible to register for summer sessions. Visiting students register through University College. Maximum Course Load (Summer) Undergraduates may register for a maximum of 7 credits in a six-week session (with Maymester and Summer Session I considered as one session for this purpose), and a maximum of 14 credits in any summer. Students may petition their home school/college to register for additional credits in a session or for summer. 8.5.1 Changes to Registration Students may not late add a class after the academic/financial deadlines. Under extenuating circumstances, students who wish to request a late add must obtain written permission from the instructor or department and approval by the University Registrar and Bursar. Approval is not guaranteed. No student at any time may withdraw from courses to the point of becoming a part-time student (i.e., registered for 12 or fewer credits) without the permission of the College’s Dean. No student will be allowed to withdraw from a course in which they have been charged with an Academic Integrity violation. Dropping or withdrawing from a required course may impact a student’s degree progress if the course is a pre-requisite. International students are not allowed to drop and/or withdraw from classes if any of these actions bring their registration to lower than 12 credits, as they must keep a full-time status while studying in the U.S. 8.5.2 Class Withdrawal After the academic/financial drop deadline through the withdrawal deadline for a given term, students may request to withdraw from a class. The withdrawal effective date is the date that the student initiates the request. Classes from which students withdraw remain on the transcript record with the grading symbol WD. The WD does not calculate toward the grade point average; however, it may count towards satisfactory academic progress (SAP). Students should contact the Bursar’s Office and Office of Financial Aid for any financial impacts. Students may file an Appeal to Late Withdraw from a class following the official deadline to withdraw from a class and within 30 days following the end of the current semester. Approval is subject to the decision of the Late Withdraw Committee and is not guaranteed. Students should continue to attend class until they receive a decision. 8.6 Consortium Agreements Syracuse University has formal consortia arrangements through Syracuse Abroad, the Consortium for Culture and Medicine, and the Graduate Scholar Exchange Program. Except for these, Syracuse University does not allow students to enroll at other institutions under an individual consortium arrangement, nor does it award financial aid to students who choose to enroll at other institutions, e.g., while on a leave of absence. If approved for a consortium agreement, credit earned through such programs is treated as Syracuse University credit. The student’s school/college and/or department will determine acceptable courses and how they will be applied. Academic Status 9.0 Class Standing Class standing is determined by the number of Syracuse University earned credits, plus credits accepted for transfer credit and other types of external credit, e.g., AP examination. Class standing is calculated as follows: Class Standing Calculation Class Standing/Total Cumulative Credits Freshman 0-29 credits Sophomore 30-59 credits Junior 60-89 credits Senior 90-120+ 10.0 Grade Point Average The Syracuse University grade point average (GPA) is calculated by taking the number of grade points earned and dividing by the number of credit hours carried toward the GPA. Various GPAs, e.g., cumulative GPA and semester GPA are calculated and used for a variety of purposes. Schools/colleges can advise about GPA calculations used to determine satisfactory progress, etc. See TABLES F and G for grade and grade symbol listings and their associated grade point calculations. GPA is calculated to three decimal places. GPA is not rounded. Undergraduate students must earn a minimum cumulative GPA of 2.000 in order to be awarded a Syracuse University degree. Graduate students must earn a minimum average of 3.000 for work comprising the program for the degree or certificate and a minimum cumulative GPA of 2.800. 11.0 Honors The University recognizes exceptional undergraduate achievement through various honors. Certain honors are imprinted on transcripts and diplomas after degree certification. Departmental Distinction Students earn distinction in particular programs of study by meeting the specific criteria for distinction in that major. Departmental or program distinction recognizes exceptional achievement that exceeds normal expectations for graduates within the program. This will be noted on the transcript after the degree has been awarded. University Scholars The Syracuse University Scholars Selection Committee selects eight to 12 seniors each year as University Scholars. Renée Crown University Honors Program Renée Crown University Honors will be noted on the student’s diploma and transcript if the requirements of the Honors Program are completed. 11.1 University Honors Student will receive their degree with University honors if their cumulative GPA meets the following standard: GPA Requirement University Honors for Architecture for all other schools/colleges Cum laude 3.200 3.400 Magna cum laude 3.500 3.600 Summa cum laude 3.800 3.800 The cumulative GPA for University honors must be equal to or greater than those noted above; no rounding up is permitted. A minimum of 60 GPA calculated credit hours, including pass/fail grades, taken at Syracuse University is required for University honors. Syracuse University courses taken while a student at SUNY ESF are not counted in these hours as they are brought in as transfer credit and are not included in the GPA calculation. Students should check with their school/college Dean’s office to determine how their GPA will be determined. GPA School/College Rules The College of Arts and Sciences, School of Information Studies, and Martin J. Whitman School of Management University honors is based on a minimum of 60 credit hours of letter-graded courses taken at SU. University College Associate’s degree recipients are not eligible for University honors. 11.2 Dean’s List Undergraduate full-time students are eligible for the Dean’s list of their home school/college at the end of each semester. Dean’s List School/College Rules School/College Requirement School of Architecture Minimum GPA of 3.500 for 12-14 letter-graded credit hours taken on campus or a minimum GPA of 3.200 for 15 or more letter-graded credit hours taken on campus. The College of Arts and Sciences, School of Education, College of Engineering and Computer Science, School of Information Studies, David B. Falk College of Sport and Human Dynamics Minimum GPA of 3.400 and a minimum of 12 credit hours of letter grades with no missing or Incomplete grades. Martin J. Whitman School of Management Minimum GPA of 3.600 and a minimum of 12 credit hours of letter grades with no missing or incomplete grades. S.I. Newhouse School of Public Communications Minimum GPA of 3.500 and a minimum of 12 credit hours of letter grades with no missing or Incomplete grades. University College UC students are eligible for the dean’s list at the end of each semester (excluding summer) if they earn a GPA of 3.400 in the previous consecutive semesters earning a minimum of at least 12 credit hours. College of Visual and Performing Arts Minimum GPA of 3.6 and a minimum of 15 credit hours of letter grades with no missing or incomplete grades. 12.0 Student Status Syracuse University uses multiple criteria to indicate student status. 12.1 Enrolled Students A student is considered enrolled at the University until one or more of the following occurs: (1) the student graduates; (2) the student takes a leave of absence; (3) the student is withdrawn from the University for academic, medical, or disciplinary reasons; (4) the student fails to register; or (5) the student’s registration is cancelled by the University. Matriculated Students A matriculated student is defined as one who has applied for, been formally admitted to, and has registered for one or more courses in the degree or certificate-granting program to which they have been admitted. Matriculation occurs on the first day of the term for which the student has been admitted. A student must be matriculated to receive a degree or certificate from the University. Students who take an official leave of absence maintain matriculation status. Non-matriculated Students A non-matriculated student is someone who registers for and attends Syracuse University classes without being admitted to a Syracuse University degree or certificate granting program. Taking courses through University College does not imply matriculation. A student must be formally admitted to a Syracuse University degree or certificate program in order to become matriculated. Non-matriculated students are held to the same academic standards as matriculated students. Students who are withdrawn from the University are no longer matriculated. Upon readmission, matriculation status is regained. Undergraduates who are academically dismissed from a school/college and accepted into University College as “special students” are considered non-matriculated. 12.2 Full-time and Part-time Status The University’s certification of a student’s status is based solely on the criteria stated in this rule. Students who meet Syracuse University’s requirements for full-time or part-time status may not meet requirements for such status as defined by other agencies or institutions. Conversely, students who do not meet Syracuse University’s requirements for full-or part-time status may be considered full-time or part-time by other agencies. Student status is not the criterion for determining tuition charges for a specific term. Please refer to (Tuition, Fees, and Related Policies) for the specific academic year. Full-time (Fall, Spring, and Summer) Undergraduates are full time if registered for 12 or more credits during any semester. Registration for 6 credits in a six-week summer session confers full-time status for the session. Part-time (Fall, Spring, and Summer) Undergraduates enrolled for fewer than 12 credit hours are considered to be part time. Exception: Engineering and Computer Science Students registered in the Cooperative Education program for zero hours in semesters when they are on work assignments are considered to be full time. The number of credit hours carried by part-time students may affect eligibility for University housing and financial aid. For purposes of financial aid, students registered for 9-11.99 credit hours are considered three-quarter time: students registered for 6-8.99 credit hours are considered half-time students; students registered for 0-5.99 credit hours are considered less than half time. Academic Actions 13.0 Intra-University Transfer (IUT) Students transferring to other schools/colleges within the University (Intra-University Transfer) must meet the admission requirements of the new school/college that were in effect at the time of matriculation into the University. The IUT application must be received before the financial drop deadline of the current term. Any IUT received after the financial drop deadline will take effect the next semester. Schools/colleges have the ability to set their own internal deadlines for processing and approval in order to meet this deadline. Until an IUT is approved, students may not be able to register for courses in the new program. See Table H for school/college specific information. The new school/college of enrollment will re-evaluate all Syracuse University, transfer, and other credit that the student has received. If a student previously transferred from SUNY ESF to Syracuse University and took Syracuse University courses while at ESF, the student’s school/college, at its discretion, may include those Syracuse University courses in manual calculations for determination of Intra-University transfer eligibility. Matriculated undergraduate students may not undertake Intra-University transfer to University College from another school or college at Syracuse University, except to transfer to a University College part-time degree program. Full-time students who register on the main campus for a University College course are charged Syracuse University rates. No student may transfer from main campus to University College to enroll in a non-credit course. Full-time students on the main campus must register separately at University College for these courses and pay the non-credit tuition in full. TABLE H Intra-University Transfer Standards School/College Minimum GPA Required Courses or Credits Other Requirements and Information Application Deadlines School of Architecture 3.0 GPA Applicants must complete MAT 221, MAT 285, MAT 295 or PHY 101. Required: Interview Portfolio review No mid-year transfers. Friday preceding spring recess College of Arts and Sciences/Maxwell 2.0 GPA Students with GPAs below 2.0 will be considered but not guaranteed admission. N/A Required: Declaration of major form (for students approaching junior year only) (For students with GPAs below 2.0 only) Letter explaining any previous academic difficulties, your reason for pursuing another major, and why you believe you would be successful in Arts and Sciences to be submitted to the College for review. School of Education 3.0 GPA (2.8 GPA for Selected Studies in Education) N/A Required: Visit the School of Education to meet with an advisor: 111 Waverly Avenue, Suite 230. An interview with an advisor may be required. Consult an academic advisor: 315-443-9319 David B. Falk College of Sport and Human Dynamics 2.3 - 3.5 GPA (varies by major) Contact department for minimum GPA information: Health & Exercise Science: 315-443-2115 Human Development and Family Studies: 315-443-1715 Public Health: 315-443-2141 Food Studies: 315-443-1710 Nutrition Science and Dietetics: 315-443-5573 Social Work: 315-443-5562 Sport Management/Sport Analytics: 315-443-2630 Varies by program. Required: All applicants must discuss transfer plans with the academic chair or director of the proposed program of study. Specific requirements for Sport Management and Sport Analytics can be found at falk.syr.edu/sport-management/academic-programs. All programs except Sport Management and Sport Analytics: Last day of each semester Sport Management and Sport Analytics: Fall semester entry: Nov. 1 Spring semester entry: Mar. 1 College of Engineering/Computer Science 3.0 GPA Applicants must complete: MAT 295, 296, or 397 At least one set of PHY 211/221 or CHE 106/107. Students wishing to major in computer science must also complete CIS 252. Required: All prerequisite courses must be completed with a grade B or better. Contact the College of Engineering & Computer Science: 315-443-5191 School of Information Studies 3.0 GPA Admission is based upon cumulative GPA and is on a space available basis. If space is available, students with GPAs below 3.4 may be considered. Required: Meet with an iSchool Advisor. Submit the IUT application which can be found at https://ischool.syr.edu/current-students/academic-advising/intra-university-transfer-iut/. School of Management Admission is based upon cumulative GPA, rigor of academic coursework taken at Syracuse University, engagement on and off campus, and an optional professor recommendation. 30 credits Applicants must complete two of the following courses or their equivalents: MAT 221, MAT 284, or ECN 101 Required: Information session (schedule available at Whitman.syr.edu/iut Meeting with an advisor in the Whitman School’s Office of Undergraduate Programs. Professor recommendation is optional. Students are admitted on a space-available basis. Students must have 6 semesters remaining to complete Whitman requirements. Last day of freshman year S.I. Newhouse School of Public Communications Admission is based upon cumulative GPA, rigor of academic coursework taken at Syracuse University, engagement on and off campus, a writing sample and performance in two required classes. To transfer into the School of Public Communications from another school or college of the University, the student must complete a minimum of 30 graded (not P/F) credits at SU before they are eligible for internal transfer. Students must also have earned a “B’ or better in COM 107 (open to all students in the spring semester) and an approved writing course which includes WRT 105, WRT 109, ENL 211, ENL 213, or an equivalent transfer course, with a “B” grade. (AP and IB credits with acceptable scores may also fulfill this requirement). In addition to completing the two required courses with a “B” grade or higher, to apply for intra-university transfer, students must submit: a writing assignment of no more than 500 words on a prompt to be determined each semester; a resume; and the name of one reference Interested students must attend a Newhouse IUT information session, which are held throughout each semester. A schedule of IUT information sessions can be found here - https://newhouse.syr.edu/admissions/undergraduate/transfer-applicants/ Juniors (60+ credits completed) and seniors are ineligible to transfer. Students wishing to major in photography or graphic design must have five semesters on Main Campus to complete these majors. Students may apply for internal transfer into all majors. However, acceptance does not guarantee access to limited enrollment programs (i.e., Bandier). Fall semester entry: April 1 Spring semester entry: November 1 College of Visual and Performing Arts Admission is based upon the cumulative GPA and either a portfolio, audition, or questionnaire. Students interested in Arts Education or Music Education must also adhere to School of Education requirements. N/A Required: Portfolio for art, design, and transmedia programs Audition for drama and music programs Completion of questionnaire for Communication and Rhetorical Studies (CRS) All programs except CRS: Fall semester entry: April 1 Spring semester entry: Dec. 1 CRS only: Fall semester entry: Mar. 15 Spring semester entry: Oct. 15 University College Minimum GPA varies by major. N/A Consult University College (UC) Admissions and Advising for information about transferring among UC’s programs. Advising is available at 700 University Avenue, 315-443-3261, or ucinfo@uc.syr.edu 14.0 Academic Probation and Suspension Any student who has a cumulative GPA of less than 2.0 and for whom a more serious action is not appropriate may be placed on probation. A student may also be placed on probation if their semester GPA falls below 2.0, or if the student fails to meet other criteria for good academic standing as established by the school/college. Each school/college reviews their students’ records and determines the appropriate probation actions to be applied from the categories listed below. School/college offices can provide more detailed information about academic policies. Academic probation may impact a student’s financial aid. The probation categories are described below and include College Probation; Probation, One-Semester Trial; and Academic Suspension. Schools/colleges may: apply any one of the categories at any time, depending on school/college policy and individual student records; categories are not necessarily applied sequentially; apply an action more than once to the same student 14.1 College Probation This action applies to a student who has a cumulative average above 2.0, but who fails to meet other school/college criteria for good standing. These criteria include the following: Probation School/College Rules School/college Rules School of Architecture Semester GPA less than 2.0, semester GPA in ARC classes below 2.0, more than 12 credit hours of Incomplete or NA grades, fewer than 24 credit hours completed in a 12-month period, or insufficient progress toward degree. The College of Arts and Sciences and Maxwell School The College of Arts and Sciences and Maxwell School observe a probation policy with 2 levels of probation which are sequential and lead to Academic Suspension. Those levels are Academic Probation and Final Probation. The sequence of Academic Probation is as follows. Students earning less than a 2.0 semester or cumulative GPA or earning less than eight credits will be placed on Academic Probation for the following semester. Students who earn less than a 2.0 semester or cumulative GPA or earning less than eight credits a second time will be placed on Final Probation. If the student earns less than a 2.0 semester or cumulative GPA or less than eight credits while on Final Probation will be suspended. Good Standing and return to Probation clause. If on either Academic Probation or Final Probation, at the close of that semester the student returns to good standing (reaches a semester and cumulative GPA above 2.0), the probationary status will be removed. If at any future point in the student’s academic career they earn a semester or cumulative GPA below a 2.0, they will be placed on Final Probation. Academic Suspension Policy: The College of Arts and Sciences and Maxwell School observe the following academic suspension policy. Students are able to be suspended due to poor academic performance as defined below. Students may only be suspended twice and subsequently appeal for reinstatement, a third suspension results in academic expulsion from the College without the ability to appeal for return. Suspended students must appeal to return for the specific semester they wish to return, including students with a previous appeal denied by the academic committee. A student may be Suspended by The College of Arts and Sciences and Maxwell School for the following reasons. The student did not earn a semester or cum GPA of at least 2.00 and/or 8 credits in a semester in which they were on Final Probation. The student earned less than a 1.0 in any single semester. School of Education Excessive number of Incompletes, missing grades, and/or limited progress toward degree, and/or students at or below a 2.0 cumulative GPA may be placed on a one-term trial at any point in time. Inclusive early childhood special education, inclusive elementary special education: English education, science education, mathematics education, social studies education, Spanish education, art education, music education, physical education, and health and physical education; cumulative, content, or education course GPA of less than 3.0; Selected studies in education: cumulative GPA below 2.8. Guidelines are published in the School of Education Undergraduate Handbook. College of Engineering and Computer Science Term or cumulative GPA less than 2.0. Less than 2.0 Mathematics, Science and ECS course GPA (IST courses for SIS majors). Completion of less than 12 credits hours in one semester or 24 credits hours within any 12-month period. Failure to complete at least 6 credits and/or term GPA less than 1.5, will result in immediate suspension. Failure to complete calculus sequence by the end of the sophomore year (MAT 295, 296, & 397) (Does not apply to SIS majors). Failure to meet special conditions of previous semester. In addition to the above conditions, computer science students only: GPA of less than 2.667 in core courses. Failure to maintain satisfactory progress toward your degree. School of Information Studies Students with one or more of the following conditions will be placed on academic probation: semester and/or cumulative GPA below 2.0; iSchool GPA below a 2.5; excessive number of Incompletes, NAs, or missing grades; or lack of progress toward degree. In addition, freshman with a first semester GPA lower than 2.5 will be placed on freshman probation. Martin J. Whitman School of Management Semester GPA less than 2.0, earning fewer than 12 credit hours in two consecutive semesters, or failure to meet adequate progress standards. Students may be suspended for earning a semester GPA of 0.0 regardless of cumulative GPA, even in their first semester. Students can also be placed on college probation or academically suspended for taking a Leave of Absence after the drop deadline (resulting in all WD, I, or Failing grades). S.I. Newhouse School of Public Communications GPA of less than 2.0 in Public Communications courses, or excessive missing grades or Incompletes, or semester GPA below 2.0 for two consecutive semesters, or failure to make normal progress toward a degree. David B. Falk College of Sport and Human Dynamics Students with one or more of the following conditions will be placed on academic probation: semester and/or cumulative GPA below 2.0; excessive number of Incomplete, NA, or missing grades; earning fewer than 12 credit hours in two or more semesters; lack of progress toward degree. University College Semester or cumulative GPA less than 2.0; excessive number of Incompletes, NA, or missing grades. College of Visual and Performing Arts Semester GPA below 2.0 with cumulative GPA above 2.0; or excessive NAs, Incompletes, or other failure to make normal progress toward a degree. Probation, One-semester Trial If the school/college determines that the student has serious deficiencies in progress toward degree requirements, usually including a cumulative GPA below 2.0, the school/college may impose a one-semester trial specifying that certain requirements be met by the end of the term. Failing to meet these requirements may result in suspension. Each school/college’s standards are available at the school/college undergraduate office. Ineligible to Continue If the student’s school/college sets specific conditions for continuing enrollment, this action may be applied to cancel early registration and/or prevent participation in registration for new coursework until the requirements are met. It may also apply in situations where full-time status is no longer allowed, but part-time status is permitted. A student who is ineligible to continue may have a GPA either above or below 2.0. 14.2 Academic Suspension Academically suspended students are officially withdrawn from the University. Students face academic suspension for failing to meet the conditions established by any previous probation action or for seriously departing from standards required for good standing. The GPA may be either above or below 2.0 at the time of suspension. If a suspension action is taken, the school/college will send a letter specifying the reason for the action; and explaining appeal procedures. The next semester’s registration will be cancelled or prevented, and future semester registrations will not be allowed unless the student has successfully appealed suspension; or has been accepted to a new school/college as an internal transfer; or has been readmitted to the school/college that the student was suspended from . (See “Leave of Absence, University Withdrawal, and Readmission”). 15.0 Leave of Absence, University Withdrawal and Readmission 15.1 Leave of Absence A leave of absence is a student initiated action in which a student elects to take time away from University studies with the intention of returning for a future semester. Students must initiate the leave of absence request process with a University designee in the student’s home school/college or academic department and are strongly encouraged to meet with an assigned academic advisor to discuss plans for degree completion. Leaves of absence which are medical in nature may be initiated by the Dean of Students Office (see below for more information). For academic and financial purposes, the leave of absence effective date is the date that the student initiates the request with a University designee in the student’s home school/college/academic department or the Dean of Students Office. Leave of absence requests are not retroactive and will not be accepted after the last day of the current semester. Syracuse University undergraduate students who take a leave of absence to study abroad for an academic year semester on a program not affiliated or approved by Syracuse University may not receive transfer credit. Students may take a leave of absence for a period of up to two years. Students who fail to return within the approved timeframe will be withdrawn from the University. Students who plan to return from a leave of absence or withdrawal must contact their home school/college/academic department to reapply for admission. Students on a leave of absence may register for the semester in which they are planning to return but will not be considered enrolled at the University until they have returned to classes. Students returning from a Medical or a Personal Leave of Absence are eligible to study abroad during the semester immediately following their leave of absence providing they have worked with their school/college/academic department or with the Dean of Students Office and successfully completed all readmission requirements. Students on a leave of absence are reported as withdrawn to the clearinghouse and other federal agencies. Students requesting a leave of absence are advised to consult the Bursar’s refund policy to understand the impact on charges to their student account while on a leave of absence. Students receiving financial aid (grants or scholarships) are advised to contact the Office of Financial Aid to discuss any financial aid implications of their leave of absence. Students with pending disciplinary action are typically not eligible to request a leave of absence. Any requests for leave of absence for a student with pending disciplinary action will be reviewed by the Office of Student Rights & Responsibilities (OSRR) to determine if there are extenuating circumstances. If deemed appropriated by OSRR, a leave of absence request may be considered with appropriate transcript notation. Academic and Financial Implications If the student registers but then leaves without notifying the University, the student will continue to incur tuition, room, board, and other charges. Course registrations will remain, and any grades submitted by the student’s instructors will be recorded on the student’s transcript. A student cannot receive Incomplete grades for courses in which the student was enrolled if the student takes a leave of absence or is withdrawn before the end of the semester; only grades of WD or F can be recorded on the student’s transcript. If a student registers for a future semester and subsequently takes a leave of absence or is withdrawn, then the student’s registration for that semester will be canceled. For students who do not register at all, the notation “Discontinuation - non-attendance” will also be recorded on their transcript. Discontinued students must follow formal readmission procedures. Medical Leaves of Absence A medical leave of absence may be initiated by the student with a University designee in the home school/college/academic department or the Dean of Students Office. If a medical leave is initiated through the home school/college, students must also contact the Dean of Students Office in order to complete the request. The last date that a medical leave can be requested is the last day of class for the semester in which the leave will be effective. Students who need to request a medical leave are required to submit medical documentation to the appropriate health and wellness unit to confirm the medical leave request. Medical documentation supporting the need for a leave of absence must be received within 30 days of the student’s request for medical leave. Students who request medical leave of absence and fail to submit supporting medical documentation within the 30 day deadline, will automatically be placed on personal leave of absence. Military Leaves of Absence Undergraduates being activated by the military should initiate a leave of absence procedure through their home school/college undergraduate office; graduate students should contact their academic department. The dean’s office or academic department will advise about options to drop courses, take class standing grades, or take Incompletes, as well as the academic implications of these options. 15.2 University Withdrawal Syracuse University will officially withdraw students who are suspended for academic or disciplinary reasons; the suspending school/college or the Division of Enrollment and the Student Experience, or the Center for Learning and Student Success will initiate the withdrawal. A student who chooses to leave the University rather than participate in the judicial or academic integrity review process will be classified as having been withdrawn for disciplinary reasons. The University may also withdraw students for medical reasons, failing to attend classes, or for academic integrity violations. Officially withdrawn students lose matriculation status; however, matriculation may be reinstated if all requirements for readmission are met. Enforced Medical Withdrawal An enforced medical withdrawal may be imposed in situations such as, but not limited to, when a student fails to attend and participate actively in an appropriate assessment, educational program, or other intervention; and situations in which student behavior poses a significant health or safety risk to the student or others. The Senior Vice President of Enrollment and the Student Experience, or one or more of her/his designees will make the determination with appropriate professional consultation. Transcript Notation and Effective Date Leaves of absence and withdrawals will be noted by effective date on the transcript. The transcript notation for leaves of absence is “Leave of Absence– Student Initiated,” for students who intend to return and “Student Initiated Withdrawal - Not Returning”, for those who do not intend to return, and for withdrawals, “Withdrawal–University Initiated.” The transcript notation “Violation of Academic Integrity Policy” is permanently retained when an established violation results in expulsion and remains for the duration of a suspension. The transcript notation of “Academic Integrity Probation” lasts the length of the probation (either 6 or 12 months OR until graduation if that occurs sooner) when an established violation results in probation. The student is responsible for initiating any requests for refunds, including those that result from medical leaves. See TABLE I and Tuition, Fees and Related Policies for the complete statement of Syracuse University’s policy and requirements for refunds for withdrawals and leaves of absence. TABLE I Academic and Financial Effects of Dropping or Withdrawing from a Course, Leave of Absence, and Withdrawal from the University Action Date Effect on Transcript Effect on Financial Aid Effect on Tuition and Fees Drop a class, take a leave of absence, or be withdrawn from the University On or before the academic/financial drop deadline (in fall and spring, three weeks from the first day of classes for regular session or the class-specific deadline for flexible format classes) Class(es) dropped For leaves and withdrawals, all financial aid is canceled if the student never begins classes. As long as the student begins classes, they are subject to Return to Title IV, even if they drop before the academic/financial drop deadline. Please refer to the Refunds section of the Tuition, Fees and Related Policies booklet which can be found at bursar.syr.edu. Withdraw from a class, take a leave of absence, or be withdrawn from the University After the academic/financial drop deadline and on or before the class withdrawal deadline Class(es) remain(s) on transcript with withdrawal (WD) grading symbol, see footnote.2 For leaves and withdrawals, see footnote.1 No adjustments are made for individual dropped courses. For individual classes, all charges remain. For leaves and withdrawals from the University, see footnote.1 Take a leave of absence or be withdrawn from the University After the course withdrawal deadline All classes graded “F”, 2 For leaves and withdrawals, see footnote.1 No adjustments are made for individual dropped classes. See footnote.1 ¹ Federal regulations governing refunds and adjustments to federal financial aid, and adjustments to institutional scholarships and grants require careful review. Please see the current Tuition, Fees & Related Policies for details on Leave of Absence or Withdrawals from the University, including applicable fees. ² Classes completed before the effective date of the leave of absence or withdrawal may be graded. To view the financial deadlines for enrolled classes, students can visit MySlice>Finances>View Student Account>Financial Deadlines. To view academic deadlines, students can visit MySlice>Student Services>View My Class Schedule and click on the symbol under the “deadlines” heading. 15.3 Readmission Students who plan to re-enroll at Syracuse University, must apply for readmission. Approval of the student’s readmission may be affected by any of the following conditions: the school/college and program must have available space to accommodate the readmission; the student may need to satisfy new requirements in their academic program or even change their major, depending upon curricular changes that may have occurred during their absence. The school/college and/or department will determine the available options. the student must meet all outstanding Syracuse University financial obligations. To be eligible for financial aid the student must meet Satisfactory Academic Progress standards and should contact the Financial Aid office. If the student’s leave/withdrawal was conditional, the student must resolve the appropriate issues and obtain readmission approval from the academic unit or office that authorized or required the leave/withdrawal. If the student left the University without requesting an official Leave of Absence, the student must follow formal readmission procedures as set by the student’s school/college. Readmission is effective the first day of the approved semester. After the readmission has been approved and processed, the student may register for the readmit semester during the regular registration period, the schedule adjustment period prior to the start of the readmit semester, or on the registration day for new students at the beginning of the readmit semester. If the student is applying for readmission following an academic withdrawal, the following conditions hold: School of Education, S.I. Newhouse School of Public Communications, David B. Falk College of Sport and Human Dynamics, and College of Visual and Performing Arts students are eligible to apply for readmission after one academic year from the date of an academic withdrawal. In addition, some David B. Falk College Sport and Human Dynamics students may be eligible for fast-track readmission https://falk.syr.edu/students/academic-probation-suspension-readmission/ In the College of Arts and Sciences, and the School of Information Studies, a student must have satisfied the terms designated at the time of their academic suspension in order to be readmitted to the college. Other schools/colleges allow readmission applications after one calendar year from the date of an academic withdrawal. The student’s school/college may place the student on academic probation for the first semester after the student is readmitted. Students readmitted to Syracuse University will regain matriculation status unless they are readmitted to University College as a Special student. Special student status: After an academic dismissal, with home school/college and University College approval, the student may apply for readmission and transfer to University College as a Special student. The College of Arts and Sciences and School of Information Studies students must obtain permission from these colleges before applying for a Special student status through University College. This process requires an interview and a contract. University College Special students are limited to a maximum registration of six credit hours in the first semester at University College. Undergraduates who are academically dismissed from a school/college and accepted into University College as “Special students” are considered non-matriculated. The student may apply for readmission and transfer to a main campus school/college after earning a minimum of 12-15 credits with a minimum cumulative GPA of 2.0. The College of Arts and Sciences and School of Information Studies students must obtain permission from these colleges before applying for special student status through University College. This process requires an interview and a contract. Degree and Certificate Programs 16.0 Degrees 16.0.1 Residency Requirement All students must complete a minimum number of credit hours at Syracuse University in courses offered through NYSED registered programs in order to be granted a Syracuse University degree. Undergraduate students must take at least 30 credit hours of coursework at Syracuse University to qualify for the degree; in most cases more than 30 credits will be required in order to fulfill degree requirements. In addition, undergraduate students must complete a minimum of 60% of their major program at Syracuse University, as well as the other requirements designated by your school or college as listed in Section 8.3 unless a waiver is granted by the appropriate major department. Syracuse University courses taken while a student is matriculated at SUNY ESF, because they are treated as transfer credit count toward the residency credits requirement, but do not count toward GPA. ESF courses taken while a student is matriculated either at SUNY ESF or at Syracuse University do not count toward the Syracuse University residency requirement. University College candidates for associate’s degrees, Bachelor of Liberal Studies degrees, or Bachelor of Professional Studies degrees must complete a minimum of 30 credit hours of Syracuse University coursework while enrolled as a part-time student at University College. Credits earned at Syracuse University while enrolled as a full-time student do not count toward this requirement. The types of degrees conferred, the minimum number of credit hours required for each degree, and the list of approved programs of study can be found in the Academic Offerings section of the Syracuse University Course Catalogs. Students usually follow the curriculum requirements in place at the time of their matriculation to the University. 16.0.2 Curriculum Requirements TABLE J Degree Types Type Requirements Notes Associate’s A.A.: Three-quarters of the work must be in the liberal arts and sciences. Only available to part-time University College students. See 16.0.1. Residency Requirement. Bachelor’s B.A.: Three-quarters of the work must be in the liberal arts and sciences. B.S.: One-half of the work must be in the liberal arts and sciences. B. Arch., B.F.A., B.I.D., B. Mus.: One-quarter of the work must be in the liberal arts and sciences. B.P.S. (Bachelor of Professional Studies) one quarter of the work must be in the liberal arts and sciences. not applicable Master’s At least one of the following: passing a comprehensive test, writing a thesis based on independent research, or completing an appropriate special project. Master’s degree programs normally require a minimum of one academic year of full-time graduate level study, or its equivalent in part-time study, with an accumulation of not less than 30 semester hours. Courses numbered 500-599 may not make up more than one-half of the Syracuse coursework Master of Philosophy It may be conferred upon a student who has satisfactorily fulfilled all Ph.D. requirements but the dissertation. The following requirements apply: (1.) The student must be enrolled in the Ph.D. program; (2.) The student must have reached all but dissertation (ABD) status, in accordance with program requirements, and such designation must appear on the student’s advising transcript; (3.) The student must complete a diploma request to receive an M.Phil. degree; and (4.) The M.Phil. must be registered with NYSED. An intermediate degree between the master’s and the Doctor of Philosophy, awarded by the Graduate School upon the recommendation of the academic unit. Note that not all departments have registered this degree with NY State. Courses numbered 500-599 may not make up more than one-half of the Syracuse coursework. Doctoral Doctoral studies shall include the production of a substantial report on research, or the independent investigation of a topic of significance to the field of study, or the production of an appropriate creative work, or the development of advanced professional skills. A doctoral degree represents completion of three academic years of graduate-level study or an equivalent that can be shown to accomplish the same goals. Courses numbered 500-599 may not make up more than one-third of the Syracuse coursework for a doctoral program. 16.1 Undergraduate Degree and Certificate Programs Within the bachelor’s degree there are four types of degree programs available to undergraduate students at Syracuse University: single degree programs, single degree programs with double majors, single degree programs with dual majors, and combined degree programs. Students must complete a prescribed course of study and minimum number of credit hours to complete a degree program. TABLE K Undergraduate Degree Programs Type Requirements Notes School/College Information Single Degree Program A single degree program consists of one major in one school/college. A single degree program requires the completion of all degree requirements within one school/college, including the requirements of one major program of study in that school/college. One degree is conferred, and one diploma awarded. Students are enrolled in one school/college. Single Degree Program with Double Major A single degree program with double major consists of two major programs of study simultaneously pursued (a) in the same school/college or (b) in two separate schools/colleges of the University. A single degree program with double major requires completion of all degree requirements within the home school/college and the requirements for each major. One degree, certified by the home school/college, is conferred. One diploma, signed by the dean(s) of the home school/college, is awarded. Students are enrolled in one school/college. In some schools/colleges, completion of double majors, especially when the second major is outside the school/college, may require more than the minimum credits required for graduation. Double majors are available only in some schools/colleges. Single Degree Program with Dual Majors A single degree program with dual majors consists of two major programs of study simultaneously pursued in two separate schools/colleges of the University. A single degree program with dual majors requires completion of all degree requirements in both schools/colleges, as well as requirements for a major in each school/college or one dually approved major. Upon certification by both schools/colleges, one degree, the degree associated with the home school/college major, is conferred. One diploma is awarded, signed by the dean of each school/college. Students who wish to pursue other dual programs that have not been formally established must obtain the prior written permission of both deans. In cases where the academic rules of two schools/colleges conflict, the policies of the home school/college take precedence. Completion of some dual programs, particularly those with more than two majors, may require additional credit hours. Students are enrolled in two schools/colleges, with one designated as the home school/college. Schools/Colleges that have approved single-degree programs with dual majors are listed in Table L. The College of Arts and Sciences Students enrolled in a single degree programs with a dual major must earn a minimum of 90 credits in Arts and Sciences. College of Engineering and Computer Science completion of a second major within Engineering and Computer Science requires completion of all requirements for each major in addition to the requirements of the dual school/college. Martin J. Whitman School of Management single degree programs with a dual major are not available (outside of those that are formally establish with the sciences in The College of Arts & Sciences, School of Information Studies, and S.I. Newhouse School of Public Communications). Combined Undergraduate Degree Program A combined degree program consists of two degree programs with distinct degree titles that recognize competencies in two essentially different areas pursued simultaneously in the same school/college or two different schools/colleges. Concurrent admission to a second undergraduate degree program is constrained by NYSED’s restrictions regarding second undergraduate degrees and review by the University Registrar. Students must meet admissions requirements of both degree programs. For programs involving two schools/colleges, students must fulfill degree requirements in both schools/colleges. Students in combined programs must complete 25 percent additional work beyond the normal requirements for one of the degrees (this may be either the degree with the higher or lower credit-hour requirements, based on the school’s/college’s determination), e.g., 30 more credit hours for a 120-credit hour degree. The additional credits must be Syracuse University credit as defined under the Residency Requirement. Transfer and other credit may be accepted only if the second degree requires more than 25 percent additional credits, and such credit is applied in excess of the 25 percent additional credits. Two degrees and two diplomas are conferred. See Table M for a list of combined undergraduate-graduate degree programs. Students pursuing a B.A. degree will not be admitted to a second B.A. degree program in the same school/college. Approval for admission to a second B.S. degree program requires a significant difference in overall degree requirements between the two programs. The awarding of the second degree may be either concurrent with, or subsequent to, the awarding of the first. Programs available as a single degree with dual majors (see Table L) are not available as combined degree programs. There is one formally established undergraduate combined program: The College of Arts and Sciences and College of Engineering and Computer Science B.A. (or B.S.) in Arts and Sciences and B.S. in Engineering and Computer Science. Students who wish to pursue other combinations of undergraduate degree programs must obtain the prior written permission of both deans. TABLE L Single Degree Programs with Dual Majors Home School/College Dual School/College Type of Degree The College of Arts and Sciences** School of Education** B.A. or B.S.* The College of Arts and Sciences (4 Science Majors) Martin J. Whitman School of Management B.S. The College of Arts and Sciences S.I. Newhouse School of Public Communications B.A. or B.S.* The College of Arts and Sciences (Mathematics, Applied Mathematics) Martin J. Whitman School of Management B.S. The College of Arts and Sciences (International Relations) Martin J. Whitman School of Management B.A. School of Education David B. Falk College of Sport and Human Dynamics B.S. School of Information Studies Martin J. Whitman School of Management B.S. Martin J. Whitman School of Management S.I. Newhouse School of Public Communications B.S. S.I. Newhouse School of Public Communications School of Information Studies B.S. College of Visual and Performing Arts School of Education B.F.A. or B.Mus. * Students pursuing a B.S. degree in the College of Arts and Sciences must petition the department offering the major to be formally accepted as candidates. **The College of Arts and Sciences/School of Education dual program is intended for students pursuing teacher certification. Those wishing to pursue two majors not associated with teaching may continue as single degree program in the School of Education with a second major in The College of Arts and Sciences. 16.2 Second Undergraduate Degrees If you previously earned a bachelor’s degree at Syracuse University or another institution, you may or may not be admissible to a second undergraduate degree program, depending on the disciplinary and professional “proximity” of the completed and proposed programs. NYSED has ruled that “the conferral of two bachelor’s or associate degrees should be reserved as a means of recognizing that a candidate has competencies in two essentially different areas: when a second degree, as opposed to one degree with a double major, is academically justifiable and when the second degree requires one-fourth additional work (i.e., 30 credit hours for a 120-credit hour degree).” The University Registrar, in consultation with the associate provost for academic programs and appropriate academic advisors, will decide whether admission to a second undergraduate degree program is in accord with NYSED’s criteria. If you earned a B.A. degree you will not be admitted to a second B.A. degree program that falls within the same Syracuse University school/college (or comparable school/college, if the first degree was earned elsewhere), due to the significant overlap of degree requirements. Approval for admission to a second B.S. degree program requires a significant difference in overall degree requirements between the two degree programs. Students who meet these criteria must also meet all admissions requirements of the program to which they apply. Students whose first degree was earned at Syracuse University must file an Application for Readmission, available from the admitting school/college office. Students with first degrees from other institutions follow the normal admission application procedure. A minimum of 30 credits for a second undergraduate degree must be Syracuse University credit, as defined under the Residency Requirement. Transfer and other credit may be accepted only if the second degree requires more than 25 percent additional credits, and such credit is applied in excess of the 25 percent additional credits. At the time of matriculation in the second undergraduate degree, any courses previously taken as a non-matriculated student at Syracuse University will be entered on the undergraduate record if they do not already appear there. This coursework will calculate toward credit hour and grade point totals on the undergraduate record. The official Syracuse University transcript record for students with a prior Syracuse University undergraduate degree is cumulative, i.e., courses and grades for all undergraduate work, regardless of the degree program to which they apply, appear on one transcript with cumulative totals. The home school/college for the second undergraduate degree manually maintains and monitors the record of work related to the second degree. Calculations for satisfactory academic performance, honors, etc., are derived from the school/college or departmental records and may not be reflected on the official transcript. Students with a bachelor’s degree should contact the Office of Financial Aid to discuss available forms of aid for a second undergraduate degree. TABLE M Combined Undergraduate/Graduate Degree Programs Requirements Notes School/College Information Undergraduate and Non-Law Graduate Degree Program Students must fully meet the requirements for both degrees. Students are accepted for graduate study after completion of the third year of study but are not fully matriculated as graduate students until bachelor’s degree requirements have been met. Graduate courses may count toward fulfillment of both undergraduate and graduate degree requirements. The graduate courses are included in the undergraduate tuition and appear only on the undergraduate record, and grades calculate only toward the undergraduate GPA. A block of transfer credits labeled as “transferred from Syracuse University undergraduate record” appears on the graduate record, if needed, and applies credit hours toward the graduate degree. Please see Academic Offerings for the list of combined programs. Students who wish to pursue other combinations of undergraduate and graduate degree programs must obtain the prior written permission of both deans. Undergraduate and Law Graduate Degree Program Students must fully meet the requirements for both degrees. In this program, students matriculate in the law program after completion of the third year of undergraduate study. Courses taken in the first year of law study count toward fulfillment of both undergraduate and law degree requirements. They are billed at the College of Law tuition rate and appear only on the Law record, and grades calculate only toward the law GPA. A block of transfer credits labeled as “transferred from Syracuse University Law record” appears on the undergraduate record and applies credit hours toward the undergraduate degree. The undergraduate degree is awarded before completion of the graduate degree. not applicable 16.3 Undergraduate Certificate Programs A matriculated student who is studying for a certificate must satisfactorily complete a program of study of not less than 12 credits that is approved by the academic unit and by NYSED. 16.4 Degree Certification All students must complete the minimum number of credits required for their degree or certificate. Undergraduate students must have earned a cumulative GPA of 2.000 or better to qualify for graduation. Graduate students must have earned a cumulative GPA of 2.800 overall, with 3.000 in their program requirements, to qualify for graduation. The student’s school/college/graduate department may have additional degree specific requirements. School/college/graduate department officials provide certification to the Registrar’s Office that degree and certificate requirements have been met; this process generally takes four to six weeks after degree requirements have been satisfied. Students must apply for graduation through File Diploma in MySlice. For the degree award date in May, students must apply for graduation in My Slice by March 1st. For all other degree award dates (June/July, August, and December), students must apply no later than the beginning of their last semester of study. Students must have all requirements for the degree or certificate program completed and submitted before the degree date for which they have indicated they will graduate. No degrees will be certified with missing grades, incomplete/incomplete default grades, V grades or NG grades. If requirements are completed and/or submitted after the degree date, conferral of that degree or certificate will move to the next degree date. Degrees are not awarded retroactively. Degree award dates fall in May, June/July (depending on Summer Session I end date), August, and December. Degree award dates are published on the Registrar’s Office website each academic year. Schools and colleges may establish earlier deadlines. It is the student’s responsibility to know and fulfill all degree requirements for graduation. Participation in convocation and commencement ceremonies does not indicate that degree requirements have been completed. Students who are suspended, dismissed or on a leave of absence may not participate in convocation and commencement ceremonies. 16.5 Diplomas and Certificates Students must file a diploma request through My Slice no later than the beginning of their last semester of study. Failure to apply for the diploma may postpone the student’s graduation. Diplomas are ordered after program completion has been certified by schools/colleges and posted by the Registrar’s Office. Students will receive their diplomas/certificates four to six weeks after the certification/posting process has been completed. Diplomas are issued once. Diplomas can be reissued if lost or damaged. Syracuse University reserves the right to withhold diplomas/certificates/official transcripts from students with unsatisfied financial obligations to the University, or at the request of the Office of Student Rights and Responsibilities, or the Center for Learning and Student Success. Undergraduate diplomas: display the degree title; display University honors and “Renée Crown University Honors,” when awarded; do not list major or minor; and are signed by the Chancellor and the Dean(s) of the student’s school(s)/college(s) Undergraduate Certificates: display the certificate title; list the area of study; and are signed by the Chancellor and the Dean of the school/college that awards the certificate. 17.0 Majors A major consists of a minimum number of credit hours of courses in a formally approved program of study. The purpose of the major is to provide depth of knowledge and competence in a subject area of special interest. A student must declare a major and complete all requirements of the major in order to earn a Syracuse University degree. Each school/college determines the courses, number of credit hours, and other requirements for its majors. All students must apply for and be accepted into a major no later than the beginning of the semester in which they obtain junior standing. Failure to do so will prevent registration for future semesters. For the following schools/colleges, the indication of intended major on the application for admission and/or intra-University transfer is unofficial. All students in these schools/colleges must officially declare their major. Majors School/College Rules School/College Notes The College of Arts and Sciences Every B.S. degree program must include at least 30 credits of upper-division coursework in the field of study, or at least 6 credits more than the B.A. program in the same field (whichever is greater), in upper-division work in the field of study. Of the upper-division credits counted toward the completion of a major, at least 12 must be Syracuse University letter-graded course work. In order to be awarded a B.A. in a program, student must earn at least 12 upper division credits uniquely counting toward the B.A. In order to be awarded a B.S. in a program, a student must earn at least 15 upper division credits uniquely counting toward the B.S. In the case of the Integrated Learning Majors, a student must earn at least 12 upper division credits uniquely counting towards the B.A. or B.S. Students must earn a grade point average of at least 2.0 in upper-division courses taken at Syracuse University and counted toward the completion of a major. There are specific procedures for being officially admitted to a major, students should work with their home college Advisor. Martin J. Whitman School of Management, University College There are specific procedures for being officially admitted to a major. TABLE N Double Majors (in Single Degree Programs) School/College Notes School of Architecture The Bachelor of Architecture curriculum leaves little room for a second major. Requests for a second major will be approved only when circumstances allow. The College of Arts and Sciences In order to be awarded a B.A. in a program, a student must earn at least 12 upper division credits uniquely counting toward the B.A. In order to be awarded a B.S. in a program, a student must earn at least 15 upper division credits uniquely counting toward the B.S. In the case of the Integrated Learning Majors, a student must earn to least 12 upper division credits uniquely counting towards the B.A. or B.S. College of Engineering and Computer Science Completion of a second Engineering and Computer Science major within the college requires completion of all program of study requirements for each major. Students pursuing any combination of double majors where one or both are Engineering and Computer Science majors must complete the Engineering and Computer Science programs of study in their entirety. School of Information Studies School of Information Studies students may only have one major in the School of Information Studies. Martin J. Whitman School of Management To complete a double major in Management, students complete all required courses for each major. Courses that are applicable to multiple majors may only be used to fulfill the requirements of one major. Double majors outside Management usually require completion of additional credits. Management majors are not available to singly enrolled students in other schools/colleges. S.I. Newhouse School of Public Communications Public Communications students may only have one major in the School of Public Communications. Public Communications majors are not available to singly enrolled students in other schools/colleges. University College University College candidates may double major with any BPS program within University College. To complete a BPS double major, students complete the BPS requirements and all required courses for each major. Courses that are applicable to multiple majors may only be used to fulfill the requirements of one major. Double majors outside of the BPS usually require completion of additional credits. College of Visual and Performing Arts B.S. candidates may double major with any BFA program with in VPA. Students in the B.S. in Communication and Rhetorical Studies (CRS) may double major in a B.F.A. program. The courses required for the B.S. in CRS may count as academic electives for the B.F.A. BFA, BM and BID degree candidates may not double major in a BFA, BM or BID program. Exceptions may be granted to Art Education and Music Education students, after review of academic plans. 18.0 Minors Minors provide a systematic opportunity to focus on an area of interest. Minors may be required as part of a degree program, or they may be selected voluntarily. Because of limited space in high-demand courses, admission to some minors may be restricted. The proportion of liberal arts and sciences courses required for the degree must be maintained, and minors that are too closely related to your major will not be approved. Minors require a minimum of 18 credit hours, 12 of which must be in 300- to 400-level coursework. No courses may be taken as pass/fail. Minors must be declared no later than the first semester of the senior year unless otherwise restricted by school or college shown in the table below. The declared minor must be completed by the time the degree requirements are completed. If they are not the minor will be removed and the degree awarded without the minor. Minors School/College Rules School/college Rules School of Architecture Students in the Bachelor of Architecture program are permitted to declare a minor after successful completion of their first-year of study. Minors too closely related to the major will not be approved. A maximum of two classes may apply to both the Architecture major and a minor. All credit applied to the Architecture minor, regardless of home college, must be Syracuse University letter-graded credit. The College of Arts and Sciences In order to be awarded a minor in a program, Arts and Science students must earn at least 6 upper division credits uniquely counting toward the minor. At least 15 of the credit for an Arts and Science’s minor must be Syracuse University letter-graded coursework. Students must earn a grade point average of at least 2.0 in upper division courses taken at Syracuse University and counted toward the completion of a minor. School of Education Education students must declare any minor by the end of the junior year or 6th semester of study. Disability Studies - The minor requires 18 credits, with 12 credits in Disability Studies (DSP prefix) courses and 6 credits of approved electives. At least 12 credits must be taken in 300 level or above courses, and a minimum of 15 credits must be taken through Syracuse University. GPA requirement is 2.8. Education Studies - The minor will consist of 18 credits, including general courses in education and several that are focused on a particular area of education. At least 12 credits must be 300 level or above. GPA requirement is 2.5. Dance Appreciation Practice - The minor is 18 credits. Due to course sequencing and enrollment limitations, students must have four semesters available to complete the minor requirements. GPA requirement is 2.8. Physical Education (coaching) - The minor is 18 credits. The GPA requirement is 2.5. Atrocity Studies and the Practices of Social Justice - The minor requires 18 credits. At least 12 of the 18 credits must be upper division (300 level or above). The minor requires a 2.8 cumulative GPA. David B. Falk College of Sport and Human Dynamics Students in the College are strongly encouraged to complete a minor and should seek assistance from their academic advisors in choosing a minor that will enhance their academic programs and add breadth and depth to their college experience. Falk College minors are open to all University students and with careful and early planning, most minors can fit into the undergraduate curriculum without a need of extra coursework. Descriptions and requirements for minors in the College can be found in the list of academic programs in the course catalog. Please note that use of course work in multiple minors is limited to no more than 9 credits that can be counted for multiple Falk College minors. Martin J. Whitman School of Management Minors in Management must be declared by the end of the Sophomore year or 4th semester of study with a minimum cumulative GPA of 3.2 and a minimum of 4 remaining semesters on campus. All 18 credits must be letter-graded coursework taken at Syracuse University. Acceptance into the minor does not guarantee that the minor can be completed in the remaining timeframe due to pre-requisites and course availability. S.I. Newhouse School of Public Communications The Public Communications minor must be declared by the end of the Sophomore year or 4th semester of study. All 18 credits must be letter-graded coursework taken at Syracuse University. The Communications Photography minor requires five semesters on campus to complete. College of Visual and Performing Arts All credits counting towards a VPA minor must be letter-graded coursework taken at Syracuse University. This rule applies to all Syracuse University students accepted in the minor, regardless of the home college. University College University College minors are open to all Syracuse University undergraduate students in good standing. Minors require a minimum of 18 credit hours, 12 of which must be in 300 to 400 level coursework. No courses may be taken as pass/fail. Students must declare the minor no later than the first semester of junior year. At least 12 upper division credits must be uniquely counted toward the minor. The remaining six credits may be shared with the major. The department or school/college offering the minor determines the requirements, and any exception to the minor requirements must be granted by petition by the minor department and approved by the home college. Once the student’s school/college has certified completion of both the degree and minor, the minor will appear on the official transcript. Back to Top | Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) Facebook this Page (opens a new window) Tweet this Page (opens a new window) Global Search Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Schools and Colleges Academic Rules Entire Catalog Search Keyword Field Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Navigation Catalog Home General Information Academic Rules Undergraduate University Requirements Syracuse University’s Shared Competencies Academic Offerings Other Programs Courses School of Architecture College of Arts and Sciences School of Education College of Engineering and Computer Science David B. Falk College of Sport and Human Dynamics School of Information Studies Martin J. Whitman School of Management Maxwell School of Citizenship and Public Affairs S.I. Newhouse School of Public Communications University College College of Visual and Performing Arts SUNY-ESF (Partner Institution) Archived Catalogs All catalogs © 2022 Syracuse University. Powered by the Acalog™ Academic Catalog Management System™ (ACMS™).