Skip to main content. ADVISORY | COVID-19 Information × kumc.edu School of Health Professions School of Medicine School of Nursing University of Kansas The University of Kansas Health System The University of Kansas Cancer Center Search within this section Search all sites School of Health Professions Departments Academics Research Outreach Career Paths About Our Campuses Make a Gift Info for School of Health Professions School of Medicine School of Nursing Current Students Blackboard Webmail myKUMC Prospective Students Prospective Employees Alumni Faculty & Staff Residents & Fellows Patients Donors Researchers Visitors Department of Occupational Therapy Education Our Campuses Make a Gift Info for Department of Occupational Therapy Education Academics Academics Entry-level MOT Entry-level OTD Post-Professional OTD Ph.D. in Therapeutic Science Why Choose KU Research Outreach Outreach KU Sensory Enhanced Aquatics Career Paths Career Paths What is occupational therapy? About About History, Mission and Vision Faculty & Staff Contact Us Reed Professional Development Fund Help improve the lives of others and be part of their health journey with a career in occupational therapy or therapeutic science. Entry-Level Doctorate Post-Professional Doctorate Ph.D. Program in Therapeutic Science KU's OT program consistently ranks in the Top 20 nationally. Our alumni are named among the most influential occupational therapists. Nationally recognized for excellence and leadership in education and research. 5000+ hours of service provided annually by our students & faculty to build capacity in our community. Academic Programs KU's Occupational Therapy programs are among the top in the nation. For detailed information about each of our programs, visit each of our program websites. View Programs Prepare for a fulfilling career in occupational therapy! Attend one of our informational sessions or speak to our Program Manager to find the right program for you. Contact Us Gain clinical experience as a student. The JaySTART Clinic provides free occupational and physical therapy services to patients in the Kansas City community. JaySTART Clinic KU School of Health Professions Occupational Therapy Education KU Medical Center 3901 Rainbow Blvd MS2003 Kansas City, KS 66160 913-588-7195 • 711 TTY University of Kansas Occupational Therapy Education Make a Gift 3901 Rainbow Boulevard, Kansas City, KS 66160 | 913-588-5000 About Calendar News Equal Opportunity Statement Careers Facebook opens in new tab Twitter opens in new tab YouTube opens in new tab Instagram opens in new tab LinkedIn opens in new tab © 2022 The University of Kansas prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, ethnicity, religion, sex, national origin, age, ancestry, disability, status as a veteran, sexual orientation, marital status, parental status, gender identity, gender expression, and genetic information in the university's programs and activities. Retaliation is also prohibited by university policy. Inquiries regarding our non-discrimination policies should be directed to the Director for the Equal Opportunity & Academic Compliance Office, Mail Stop 7004, 4330 Shawnee Mission Parkway, Fairway, KS 66205, 913-588-5964, 711 TTY (for the Wichita, Salina, and Kansas City, Kansas medical center campuses). Inquiries regarding the University Sexual Harassment Policy should be directed to the Title IX Coordinator at 913-588-8011. Free Expression Statement | Privacy Statement | Notice of Privacy Practices | Consumer Information We use cookies to analyze our traffic & provide social media features. Visit the KU Medical Center Privacy Statement for more information. By closing this window & browsing this site, you agree to our use of cookies.