Skip to main content Go to site search Go to primary navigation Go to resources navigation Penn COVID-19 Response » Penn Home Toggle Site Navigation Toggle Site Search Academics More Academics Undergraduate Graduate Schools Global Initiatives Interdisciplinary Online Learning Off-campus Learning Libraries Admissions & Aid Athletics Research & Innovation More Research & Innovation Research Enterprise Research News Life at Penn More Life at Penn Arts & Culture Community Involvement More Community Involvement Penn & Philadelphia Diversity Groups & Organizations Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Safety & Security More Safety & Security Emergency Contacts Emergency Preparedness Spirituality & Religion About More About Introduction to Penn History Facts News, Media, & Communication Services Sustainability FAQ Penn’s Interim President, Wendell Pritchett Trustees & Administration Policies Toggle Site Search Resources Current Students Faculty & Staff Parents Alumni Visitors A-Z Directory Webmail Services Give to Penn Search Search Close Breadcrumb Home / Services / Residential Services Residential Services A comprehensive overview of the residential resources and services Penn provides. On-Campus Housing College Houses & Academic Services The academic life of the University is deeply integrated into 11 unique undergraduate communities where diverse faculty, staff, and students reside together. Housing Options Learn about the variety of housing options on campus. Assignments & Applications Information about the application and room assignment process. Residential Handbook Access the online Residential Handbook, rent schedules, and forms. Rates and Pricing Information on different room rates for undergraduate and graduate students. Off-Campus Housing Off-Campus Services Assistance and resources for Penn students, faculty, and staff who seek or currently occupy off-campus housing. Search Listings Search the online database to locate apartments, search for roommates, and find sublets. Graduate Student Housing Information for Graduate Students A starting point for graduate students looking to learn about all their housing options. Home Buying Resources for Faculty and Staff Penn Home Ownership Services PHOS offers extensive resources and services to eligible employees interested in moving to the greater West Philadelphia neighborhood. Penn Home Ownership Programs Learn about programs such as Penn's Forgivable Loan incentive, Closing Cost Reduction Program and more. Homebuyer Education Square one in the home buying process. Penn Home Ownership Services Offices & Services A complete directory of the administrative offices and services that keep the Penn community moving. Human Resources & Employment Questions about benefits, career opportunities, professional development, and more, all answered here. Human Resources Student Services Information about all aspects of student life, from housing, health, and wellness to student organizations and employment. Student Services Residential Services A comprehensive overview of the residential resources and services Penn provides. Residential Services Retail Penn offers a host of convenient retail options on and around campus and online. Look for special discounts for Penn students, faculty, and staff. Retail Transportation & Parking There are numerous convenient and sustainable ways to travel to, from, and around the Penn campus. Transportation & Parking Event Planning Your online resource for planning an event or reserving a space on campus Event Planning Offices & Services Landing Page A complete directory of the administrative offices and services that keep the Penn community moving. Services Philadelphia, PA 19104 Telephone: (215) 898-5000 Contact Us Maps Parking Navigate Alumni Athletics Diversity Health Care Libraries Online Learning Penn Global Penn's Heritage As America’s first university, Penn has a history that dates back to 1740 and shares many ties with the colonial city of Philadelphia and the birth of our nation. Our History Disclaimer Emergency Services Nondiscrimination Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement Back To Top