Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Online Professional Education Menu Online Professional Education at Baylor Baylor's online programs offer the academically rigorous, Christian education you need to get ahead. Our programs provide flexible education opportunities that are backed by over 175 years of experience. Requiring both field and project work, as well as strategically scheduled immersions, the online programs are comprised of high-quality students and led by gifted faculty. Explore Online Degree Programs CSD Master of Science Communication Sciences and Disorders Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences The Master of Science in Communication Sciences and Disorders (CSD) online program is designed for aspiring speech-language pathologists (SLPs) who are dedicated to enhancing the quality of life for children and adults with speech, language, and hearing disorders. Learn More DNP Doctor of Nursing Practice Adult-Gerontology Acute Care Nurse Practitioner Louise Herrington School of Nursing Develops exemplary nursing leaders by focusing on advanced methods to promote patient-centered care, knowledge of information systems and technology required to deliver transformative healthcare, and the skills needed to evaluate the healthcare needs of diverse and vulnerable populations. Learn More DNP Doctor of Nursing Practice Executive Nurse Leadership Louise Herrington School of Nursing Prepares nurses with executive knowledge and competencies for influential leadership, data-driven business strategy and transformative care models. Learn More DNP Doctor of Nursing Practice Family Nurse Practitioner Louise Herrington School of Nursing Prepares actively practicing RNs to lead the delivery of primary care to underserved populations, to implement new treatment methods and to improve patient outcomes for individuals, families and entire communities. Learn More DNP Doctor of Nursing Practice Neonatal Nurse Practitioner Louise Herrington School of Nursing Prepares actively practicing RNs for an advanced practice role leading nursing care for infants through the first two years of life. Learn More DNP Doctor of Nursing Practice Nurse-Midwifery Louise Herrington School of Nursing Provides holistic and women-centered care throughout the lifespan using the midwifery model of care. Learn More DNP Doctor of Nursing Practice Pediatric Nurse Practitioner Louise Herrington School of Nursing Prepares for a role as a Pediatric Nurse Practitioner in both primary and acute environments, giving you advanced knowledge and a wider range of opportunities. Learn More DPT Doctor of Physical Therapy Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences Blended learning format combines best practices in distance education, on-campus lab immersion sessions and clinical education experiences to prepare you as a physical therapist and servant leader in this vital profession. Learn More EDD Doctor of Education Learning and Organizational Change Baylor School of Education The online EdD in Learning and Organizational Change prepares students to apply essential principles of teaching and learning to manage the dynamics of organizational change. Learn More LLM Master of Laws Litigation Management Baylor Law Designed for lawyers who aspire to direct effective litigation strategy, control electronic discovery, leverage technology, manage a team, and lead their company or firm’s efforts to manage a high-volume, high-stakes docket. Learn More MA Master of Arts in Journalism Journalism, Public Relations, and New Media The master's degree in journalism, with a concentration in public relations and advertising, equips graduates with courses in leadership, research and creative skills that are mandatory to succeed in the fields of advertising and public relations. Learn More MA Master of Arts in School Leadership School of Education Dual-track master’s program in school leadership brings together emerging Christian leaders in public and independent schools in a hybrid model that combines the best of face-to-face and virtual learning that will allow you to complete your coursework in one year. Learn More MA Master of Arts in Theology and Sports Studies George W. Truett Theological Seminary Provides Christian leaders and ministers in sports with a strong theological foundation, contextually-relevant formation, and cultural literacy so that they can engage with the people and culture of sports as thoughtful, faithful, and responsible Christians. Learn More MBA Master of Business Administration Hankamer School of Business Study at a nationally ranked research institution and learn how to approach complex business problems with faith-based integrity. Learn More MSCS Master of Science in Computer Science Engineering and Computer Science Prepares its graduates for the highest-demand roles in software engineering, and data science. Learn More MPH Master of Public Health Community Health Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences Combines the concepts and professional competencies of both public health and community health and is designed to equip students to lead, administer, and promote public health in a wide variety of local or global health-related settings. Learn More MSW Master of Social Work Diana R. Garland School of Social Work Delivered by the Baylor University Diana R. Garland School of Social Work, the Master of Social Work (MSW) online program, MSW@Baylor, prepares passionate, aspiring social work professionals to serve and empower vulnerable populations worldwide and address injustice from a strengths-based perspective. Learn More OTD Doctor of Occupational Therapy Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences Integrate innovative technologies and hybrid learning strategies to prepare practice scholars, educational innovators, and professional leaders who utilize clinically meaningful research in the implementation of best practice and meet the changing demands of the Occupational Therapy profession. Learn More PhD PhD in Social Work Diana R. Garland School of Social Work Baylor's PhD program is designed to develop leaders and educators who can lead visionary social work education or service programs and conduct original research addressing the complex social issues of our world. Learn More Professional Education Graduate School General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 CSD DNP - Adult-Gerontology Acute Care Nurse Practitioner DNP - Executive Nurse Leadership DNP - Family Nurse Practitioner DNP - Neonatal Nurse Practitioner DNP - Nurse-Midwifery DNP - Pediatric Nurse Practitioner DPT EdD LLM MA - Journalism MA - School Leadership MA - Theology and Sports Studies MBA MSCS MPH MSW OTD PhD