Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. University Honors Program UHP right arrow down arrow About UHP right arrow down arrow Inclusive Excellence Competencies right arrow down arrow Community Engagement Creativity Global Studies Leadership Research News Directions Contact Us right arrow down arrow Raj Mehta Debbie Brawn Marcell Crawford Bria Howard Bene Khoury Neil Choudhury Ashley Webber Kyle Key Jason Autry Tricia Yee Claire Minton Yale Miller Shawna Obregon Danny Hagedorn Vikki Kowalczyk Current UHP Students right arrow down arrow UHP Student Database UHP Framework & Benefits Requirements Honors Experiences right arrow down arrow Honors Seminars right arrow down arrow Fall 2022 Honors Seminars Spring 2023 Honors Seminars Summer 2022 Honors Seminars Pre-Approved Experiences Self-Designed Experiences Study Abroad and Study Tours International Travel Biomedical Research and Mentoring Program right arrow down arrow RaMP Publications RaMP Project Descriptions How to Apply Matching and Participation Frequently Asked Questions Tips and Testimonials UHP Discover right arrow down arrow Students: Learn More Faculty: Get Involved 2022 UHP Discover Projects Past Honors Seminars right arrow down arrow Summer 2021 Seminars Fall 2021 Honors Seminars Spring 2022 Honors Seminars Summer 2022 Honors Seminars Welcome Experience Leaders UHP Ambassador Leadership Team Grants for Honors Experiences Learning Portfolios right arrow down arrow Reflection Structure and Content Showcase Guide Protected Information Featured Portfolios Year-in-Review Get Involved right arrow down arrow UHP Ambassadors right arrow down arrow Meet the Team Ambassador Application Honor Societies First Year in UHP right arrow down arrow Welcome Experience right arrow down arrow Welcome Experience Registration HNRS 1010: Gateway to the UHP Advising right arrow down arrow Scheduling Advising Meetings via My Bearcat Network Presidential Leadership Medal of Excellence Prospective Students right arrow down arrow High School Students Current UC Students right arrow down arrow Join our Outreach List and Teams University Honors Application Transfer Students University Honors Housing Faculty and Campus Partners right arrow down arrow Honors Seminar Call for Proposals right arrow down arrow Guidelines, Pedagogy and Structure Study Tour Guidelines Submission Process Required Documents Proposal Form Review and Notification Funding Resources Seminar Development Workshops Creating and Ordering Honors Seminars Home » Campus Life » University Honors Program » Current UHP Students » UHP Framework & Benefits Set Navigation title in component UHP Student Database UHP Framework & Benefits Requirements Honors Experiences Honors Seminars Fall 2022 Honors Seminars Spring 2023 Honors Seminars Summer 2022 Honors Seminars Pre-Approved Experiences Self-Designed Experiences Study Abroad and Study Tours International Travel Biomedical Research and Mentoring Program RaMP Publications RaMP Project Descriptions How to Apply Matching and Participation Frequently Asked Questions Tips and Testimonials UHP Discover Students: Learn More Faculty: Get Involved 2022 UHP Discover Projects Past Honors Seminars Summer 2021 Seminars Fall 2021 Honors Seminars Spring 2022 Honors Seminars Summer 2022 Honors Seminars Welcome Experience Leaders UHP Ambassador Leadership Team Grants for Honors Experiences Learning Portfolios Reflection Structure and Content Showcase Guide Protected Information Featured Portfolios Year-in-Review Get Involved UHP Ambassadors Meet the Team Madalyn O'Dea Somya Sharma Zakaria Bodiford Ambassador Application Honor Societies First Year in UHP Welcome Experience Welcome Experience Registration HNRS 1010: Gateway to the UHP Advising Scheduling Advising Meetings via My Bearcat Network Presidential Leadership Medal of Excellence UHP Framework & Benefits UHP Framework The purpose of the University Honors Program is not to make you do more or harder work because you are an honors student. Rather, it is about finding meaning and gaining deeper learning in what you are already doing. It’s about discovering and diving into your passions. It’s about taking risks and trying new things inside and outside the classroom. It’s about applying your knowledge and skills in real-world settings. Finally, it’s about transformation - academically, professionally and personally. Beginning spring semester of the first year, UHP students register for classes before other students. This allows our students to craft their schedules so that they avoid time conflicts and take advantage of opportunities on campus and in the community. Our program provides many opportunities to gain leadership skills. From Welcome Retreat coordinators and leaders to Honors Ambassadors, students have a voice and are a vital asset to the honors community. We have University Honors communities in Marian Spencer, Scioto, and Turner Halls. This offers students in the program priority for some of the most requested living spaces on campus. Click the image above for more information. These seminars are taught by some of the top faculty at UC and are selected by a panel of faculty, staff, and students. These 3 credit hours courses are interdisciplinary and count towards both BoK requirements and honors experiences. We offer more than 20 different seminars each year; at least five include study tours. The University Honors Program offers grants to help cover some of the cost of honors experiences. From trips to creative projects, UHP wants to support your unique learning experiences. Click on the image above to find more information to access this fantastic resource. Each student has their own University Honors advisor. UHP advisors work with you to develop your own individualized and flexible plan based on your unique interests, goals, and passions. The goal is to maximize on what you already want from college. We help students get connected to the larger University. Stay connected with our team, our student leaders, or the listserv to learn more throughout the year. Renovated in early 2018, the UHP suite in Swift Hall now has all new furniture, white-board walls, and a conference room. The classroom hosts a number of seminars and enables international web-conferencing. We host a ceremony for all graduates where each student is honored individually and receives a medal to be worn at University Commencement. A designation also appears on your UC transcript. Exclusive Opportunities University Honors Program 700 Swift Hall PO Box 210007 Cincinnati, OH 45221-0007 honors@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University Honors Program 700 Swift Hall PO Box 210007 Cincinnati, OH 45221-0007 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top