Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Health Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Our Services Appointments Health Topics Events Forms and Guidelines Our Organization News See All Services What's Open Now Patient Resources Quarantine and Isolation Support Coping Tools Immunization Compliance Top Services Birth Control Education Individual Counseling Primary Care Register with Disability Services Sexual Assault: Get Support STI Testing Support Groups Travel Medicine Urgent Medical Concerns Workshops and Trainings Cost of Service Overview Make an Appointment Same Day Service Emergency and After-hours Support Alcohol Body Image Concerns Marijuana Disabilities Other Drugs HIV Insurance Men's Health Mental Health and Well-Being Anxiety Depression Stress Nutrition Physical Activity Relationships Overview Academic Relationships Friendships Roommates Sexual and Reproductive Health Sleep Transgender and Gender Expansive Health Violence Prevention Prevention Consent What Is Sexual Assault? Supporting a Survivor What Is Relationship Abuse? Stalking What Is Sexual Harassment? Bystander Intervention-Step UP! Women's Health See All Events Sexual Assault Awareness Month Columbia Health Flu Season Information Virtual Naloxone Training About Columbia Health Who We Are Who We Serve Confidentiality, Patient Rights, & Patient Responsibilities Operating Philosophy Video Library Your Feedback Staff Directory Health Units Alice! Health Promotion Counseling and Psychological Services Disability Services Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) Insurance Office Medical Services Sexual Violence Response Columbia Health You are here: Home Working Group for Examining and Deconstructing Whiteness to Mitigate Racial Trauma Events Past Event Working Group for Examining and Deconstructing Whiteness to Mitigate Racial Trauma Share Add to Calendar: Calendar / Outlook Google Yahoo August 4, 2020 5:30 PM - 7:00 PM America/New_York Online Zoom This is a 5-week interactive curriculum for white-identified students to engage in exploration of their white identities and build community and accountability around deconstructing whiteness and white privilege to facilitate the development of an antiracist lens. This virtual group aims to begin to equip students with the time, space, and skills for the self-reflection and processing of privilege that is necessary to meaningfully dismantle systems of racial oppression from a position that has privilege. Through increasing self-awareness and centering justice, as well as the recognition of history and its impact on the present, students will build skills around empathy, responsibility in action, and interrogation of knowledges we use and value while centering compassion, healing, and vulnerable, open dialogue. * We ask that you be able to attend all 5 sessions in Zoom on 7/7; 7/14; 7/21; 7/28, 8/4. Although this space is not private, confidential, or considered a support group, participants are asked to be respectful and mindful of each other and practice discretion. REGISTRATION IS NOW CLOSED DUE TO OVERWHELMING INTEREST! WE INVITE YOU TO SHARE YOUR CONTACT INFORMATION TO LEARN ABOUT FUTURE OPPORTUNITIES: https://bit.ly/CUdeconstructingwhiteness Columbia Health makes every effort to accommodate individuals with disabilities. If you require disability accommodations to attend an event sponsored by Columbia Health, or by the University, contact Disability Services at 212-854-2388 at least 5 days in advance of the event. Contact Information Alice! Health Promotion 212-854-5453 [email protected] Upcoming Events Columbia Health Administration Wallach Hall, Suite 125, Mail Code 4202, 1116 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-2284 Contact Us [email protected] Internal Use Only Login to Access Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close