By continuing to use this site, you agree to the use of cookies in accordance with our privacy policy. Dismiss Stay Safe The official source of public health information for Syracuse University. Skip to Content Open menu About Admissions Academics Life Athletics More Search the University Open search Popular searches Close menu Home About Toggle dropdown Leadership Vision & Mission Consumer Information Facts & Figures Plan Your Visit Campus Map History News Partnerships Work at Syracuse Social Media Bookstore Brand Help & Contacts Admissions Toggle dropdown Undergraduate Graduate Online Part-Time Cost & Aid Request Information Visit & Tour Apply Academics Toggle dropdown Schools & Colleges Undergraduate Majors & Minors Graduate Degrees Online Programs Syracuse University Global Study Abroad Opportunities & Support Calendars Departments Research Centers & Institutes Libraries, Collections & Galleries Academic Administration Life Toggle dropdown Accessibility & Diversity Campus Highlights Events Calendar Services & Support Meals & Dining Housing Groups & Activities Recreation & Facilities For Students For Veterans & Military For Faculty & Staff For Parents & Families A-Z Index Sitemap Login Athletics Men’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Football Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Track and Field Women’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Field Hockey Ice Hockey Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Softball Tennis Track and Field Volleyball Athletics Dept. Toggle dropdown Facilities Staff Directory Academic Honors Community Service Spirit Program Varsity Club Sports Medicine Championships Fan Zone Toggle dropdown Dome Schedule Seating Information Orange All Access Otto’s Kids Club Game Photos Promotions Orange Club Schedules News Alumni About Toggle dropdown Notable Alumni Alumni Association Awards News Events and Clubs Toggle dropdown Orange Central Northeast Midwest South West World/Affinity Regions Toggle dropdown Atlanta Boston Chicago Los Angeles Middle East New York San Francisco Washington, DC Services Toggle dropdown Career Network Generation Orange Directory Profile Class Notes Giving Contact Contact Visit Apply Coronavirus Updates Forever Orange Home Admissions Undergraduate In this Section First-Year Counselors Transfer International Veterans Native American First Generation Students Apply Contacts & Questions Admitted Undergraduate Admissions Syracuse University is dedicated to student success. We offer you a support system that leads to big outcomes. So, get to know us! Take a virtual tour, browse majors and minors, plan a campus visit, or read on for everything you need to begin your application. Who Are You? First-Year Students Link There are so many exciting possibilities in front of you! Whatever you decide to do and become, we know it’s going to be amazing. And we know because of the opportunities you’ll have here. International Students Link Thousands of international students choose Syracuse every year for its blend of extraordinary academics, legendary spirit, and research, internship, and extracurricular opportunities—all offered in a classic campus setting. Veterans and Military-Connected Students Link Syracuse University ranks among the nation’s top schools for veterans. The support of military-connected scholars is central to the University’s mission. Part-Time Students Get the degree you want, on a timeline that works for you—with flexible formats and a supportive staff to guide you along the way. Transfer Students If you're thinking about transferring to Syracuse University, you have plenty of company. Hundreds of transfer students arrive on campus every year, ready to take advantage of all Syracuse has to offer. Admitted Students Prepare to make your mark intellectually while making a difference on campus and in the world. Native American Students Syracuse University is just minutes from the heartland of Haudenosaunee territory. We're invested in a relationship with our Native American neighbors that promotes cross-cultural dialogue, research opportunities, and stronger appreciation for Native American leadership, innovation, and contribution. First Generation Students Almost 20 percent of Syracuse University’s undergraduate student body identifies as first generation. Learn how we support students who are the first in their family to go to college – in and outside of the classroom. Counselors We honor the vital role counselors play in the daily lives of students searching for their next step. Read on for information curated specifically for counselors assisting students applying to Syracuse University. Current High School Students Want to experience college while you're still in high school? For more than 60 years, Syracuse University has been providing high school students with the opportunity to explore potential majors and careers in its renowned pre-college programs. Next Steps Link See Degree Outcomes Link Syracuse University prepares students with a distinctive education that can be applied across careers and throughout your lifetime. Visit and Tour Link The best way to know if Syracuse is the right fit for you is to visit our gorgeous campus in the heart of New York State. Contact Us Link If there's something you'd like to know more about, or if your have further questions, we'd love to hear from you. Apply Link If you’re ready to craft your own academic experience, conduct innovative research, and cheer on the Orange, Syracuse University is the place for you. Begin your application today! Frequently Asked Questions Link What are your requirements for admission? How do I locate my SUID? How do I monitor the status of my application materials online? Do you offer merit scholarships? When should I apply for financial aid? How much is the application fee? Can I receive a fee waiver? More frequently asked questions Popular Toggle dropdown Academic Calendar Campus Map Careers Libraries Majors and Minors Visit and Tour A-Z Toggle dropdown Academic Departments Schools and Colleges Sitemap Search Contact Toggle dropdown Admissions Financial Aid Emergency Contacts Human Resources Make a Gift Login Toggle dropdown MySlice Blackboard SUMail Syracuse University 900 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, NY 13244 Phone: +1.315.443.1870 Follow S.U. on Instagram Like S.U. on Facebook Follow S.U. on Twitter Follow S.U. on LinkedIn Follow S.U. on Tiktok Subscribe to S.U. on YouTube © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy