Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Division of Administration and Finance Administration and Finance right arrow down arrow About right arrow down arrow Leadership Units Policies Business right arrow down arrow Business Core Systems right arrow down arrow Catalyst UC Flex Community Development Travel Resources right arrow down arrow Concur Travel and Expense Management Concur Training right arrow down arrow Concur FAQs Best Practice Guide Training Guides and Videos Concur SSO Login Travel Resources Contacts Policy and Travel Tools Travel Cancellation Guidance Concur Guest Account Login Environmental Health & Safety right arrow down arrow Waste Management Training right arrow down arrow Advanced Laboratory Safety Training Animal Care Safety Training Defensive Driving Training Facilities Mgmt/Construction Training Laboratory Compliance Training Principal Investigators Training Orientation & Informational Courses Emergency Procedures right arrow down arrow Work-related Injuries & Illnesses Lab Safety Resources & Documents right arrow down arrow Advisories Additional Information Frequently Asked Questions Our Mission right arrow down arrow Laboratory Safety with an Attitude Programs right arrow down arrow Occupational Safety right arrow down arrow IACUC Information Hazardous Materials Management Environmental Engineering right arrow down arrow Pollution Control Asbestos/Lead Abatement Industrial Hygiene Health & Safety Administration Contact Us Facilities Management right arrow down arrow Departments right arrow down arrow Central Receiving Grounds Housekeeping Mail Services Maintenance & Operations Moving Services Project Services Transportation Services right arrow down arrow Shuttle Services UC*Metro Program Charters and Rentals Utilities right arrow down arrow Utilities: Production Utilities: Distribution Dashboards Energy Conservation Recycling @ UC COVID-19 Information right arrow down arrow Cleaning right arrow down arrow Classroom Cleaning Office Cleaning Hand Sanitizer Stations Specialized Cleaning Tools Physical Space right arrow down arrow HVAC - Indoor Air Quality Sneeze Guard Request Process Safe Work Environment and Wellness Resources Contact Us right arrow down arrow Service Requests Join Our Team Announcements Finance right arrow down arrow Vice President for Finance Office of the Controller right arrow down arrow Accounting & Reporting Accounts Payable right arrow down arrow Vendor Form Information Purchasing & Non-Purchasing Information Asset Management Capital Finance Payroll Operations right arrow down arrow Employee Self Service (ESS) for Former Employees Payroll Calendars Stop Payment Request Form W-2 Information Office of the Treasurer right arrow down arrow Debt Management Investment Operations Tax Compliance Treasury Operations Budget Management Investment Office right arrow down arrow Endowment Impact Stories Contact Us right arrow down arrow Karl Scheer | Chief Investment Officer Sam Ekis | Investment Director Tony Caccomo | Senior Investment Analyst Doreen Clark | Investment Operations Administrator Investment Intern Program History Planning + Design + Construction right arrow down arrow Maps and Space Management right arrow down arrow Scheduling Events at the Reading Campus 2021 Intermediate Space Survey User Guide Sustainability right arrow down arrow Get Involved right arrow down arrow Committees & Organizations Events & Programming Environmental Literacy Campus Initiatives right arrow down arrow Built Environment Energy Food Landscape Transportation Water Management Waste Diversion Purchasing Carbon Inventory & Climate Action Plan Links & Resources right arrow down arrow On-Campus Resources Off-Campus Resources Tools & Guides Partners In The News Naming right arrow down arrow General Criteria Monetary Guidelines Design Standards Naming Committee Naming Request Form Vendor Information Purchasing right arrow down arrow Purchasing Contacts Information for Suppliers Contract Compliance Supplier Diversity Home » About UC » Admin & Finance » Purchasing » Information for Suppliers Set Navigation title in component Purchasing Contacts Information for Suppliers Contract Compliance Supplier Diversity Information for Suppliers General Information The University of Cincinnati (UC) Central Purchasing Department is responsible for procurement of goods and services for the entire university, including Uptown West, Uptown East (Academic Health Center) and Reading Campuses, UC Blue Ash, and UC Clermont. Expenditures exceed three hundred and twenty five million dollars annually. Since the university must provide for administrative, academic, medical, research, and individual student needs, almost every product and service imaginable is purchased. UC will continue to follow the procurement requirement of OMB Circular A-110 and will utilize the grace period allowed in the Uniform Guidance. Making Sales Calls We welcome visits by all sales representatives and offer a few hints for a successful call: We suggest that you visit Central Purchasing before calling upon any "user" department. Please phone or e-mail for an appointment to ensure that the proper buyer is in the office and available. When calling the university's academic, medical, research or service departments, always visit their business manager unless requested to do otherwise. Make each call of maximum value to the university and to the firm you represent. Do you have any new products? Are there changes taking place in your industry? What is likely to happen to the price of your products within the next few months? What ideas can you give us that would save us money? Register with Us In order for a supplier to be added to the university’s vendor file the online Vendor Registration form must be submitted. Note: This process merely registers the vendor with the university. It does not give the vendor an "approved" or "preferred" status, nor does it preempt the need for Central Purchasing to solicit bids depending on the dollar amount. Bidding and Quotations All bidders are expected to thoroughly review their quotations and to abide by the terms and conditions contained therein and on the purchase order or term contract that may result. UC conducts two kinds of written bid openings: Informal Bids - These are date and time stamped upon receipt and tabulated after the due date. They are not opened in the presence of bidders. Formal Bids - Also called "sealed bids." These are always accompanied by an identifying blue envelope in which (or with which) the bidder submits his/her quotation. Formal bids are advertised in local newspapers and are opened on an appointed day and hour. They are opened in the presence of anyone who wished to attend and may or may not be read aloud. Award decisions are not always announced at that time. Protest of Award - Any protest of an award should be made within 48 hours and directly to the buyer. Verbal protests alone are insufficient and will not warrant further investigation. All letters of protest must contain a statement of the facts and reasons which form the basis of the protest. Vendors are assured that the lodging of any written protest will be promptly investigated and respectfully answered. Late protests which will prejudice the university or the successful vendor will not be accepted. Deliveries The university operates a Central Receiving and Distribution Center for suppliers' convenience. Each contract will identify the address. In the case of large shipments (truckloads or heavy items) or of equipment requiring your installation, delivery vehicles must stop at the Receiving Center to pick up a verifying store's clerk before proceeding to the final destination. Avoiding Problems Never supply goods or services without a bona fide purchase order. Never present any kind of contract, commitment, sales order, agreement or legal document to anyone outside this department for signature. Others are not authorized by our board of trustees to sign any form of purchase agreement and their signing it would only invalidate your document. Never loan equipment or perform design services with the expectation that you will receive an order without competition. We encourage you to communicate and demonstrate new equipment as it is added to your product line. However, in no case will a demonstration, explanation or loan of equipment be considered as obligatory on the university. Competitive bids will be obtained if the decision to purchase is made. You will receive an order if your bid is determined by the university to be lowest and best. You should make a rental charge for any unit that remains in our possession on trial beyond thirty (30) days. We would suggest 1/60 the value of the unit if no rental charge has been established by your firm. Rental payments must be applicable to any subsequent purchase. (The university department must initiate a requisition for us to recognize and process this invoice for the trial period in excess of 30 days. Remember, if we decide to buy, competition will be obtained.) This "no obligation assistance policy" must also be understood in advance with printers, business form providers and other vendors who offer advance design assistance as a normal adjunct to solicitation. Assistance provides exposure, not commitment. When competitively bid, the university will not pay for printing overruns. Otherwise, overruns and underruns must be limited to 5 percent. If this policy will cause a hardship for you in any way, please ask to see the Associate VP of Purchasing before a problem occurs. Division of Administration and Finance University Pavilion, Suite 630 2618 McMicken Circle PO Box 210620 Cincinnati, OH 45221-0620 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Division of Administration and Finance University Pavilion, Suite 630 2618 McMicken Circle PO Box 210620 Cincinnati, OH 45221-0620 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top