Skip to Main Content Brown University Division of Biology and Medicine Search Menu Site Navigation Home About the Division Leadership Strategic Plan Departments Affiliated Hospitals Contact Us Research Core Facilities Centers, Institutes, and Programs Offices and Services Diversity Search Division of Biology and Medicine Research Faculty, students and staff in the Division of Biology and Medicine students are unified in their mission to change the world through research. Sub Navigation In This Section Core Facilities Centers, Institutes, and Programs Innovation and Industry Engagement BioMed faculty are forging partnerships with industry leaders to translate their research findings into commercial treatments for the patients who need them. Learn more Find A Researcher Search Researchers @ Brown to find faculty research and scholarship at Brown. Researchers Research Faculty, students and staff in the Division of Biology and Medicine students are unified in their mission to change the world through research. BioMed Research Researchers at Brown collaborate across fields of inquiry to advance innovation in the life sciences. BioMed In the News News from Brown Brown researcher to lead $16M grant to explore potential cause, treatment for Alzheimer’s disease March 10, 2022 Led by principal investigator John Sedivy, a multi-university effort will build on recent discoveries about mechanisms of aging to understand causes and potential treatments for neurodegenerative diseases. Read Article Open details for Brown researcher to lead $16M grant to explore potential cause, treatment for Alzheimer’s disease News from Brown To research addiction, Brown senior Eve Glenn is combining empathy with cutting-edge brain science January 25, 2022 After witnessing challenges faced by childhood friends, Glenn is researching the neurobiological underpinnings of alcohol and substance abuse disorders with the goal of enabling more effective treatments. Read Article Open details for To research addiction, Brown senior Eve Glenn is combining empathy with cutting-edge brain science News from Brown Physician-scientist Dr. Mukesh K. Jain appointed dean of medicine and biological sciences at Brown October 20, 2021 A cardiovascular specialist and health care leader at University Hospitals and Case Western Reserve University in Cleveland, Dr. Jain will lead biomedical research and education, and serve as Warren Alpert Medical School dean. Read Article Open details for Physician-scientist Dr. Mukesh K. Jain appointed dean of medicine and biological sciences at Brown Show More Resources for Researchers Brown provides support services to investigators at every stage of research proposal development and implementation--from finding funding to commercialization. Research Administration The Office of BioMed Research Administration supports faculty, staff, and students in the Division of Biology and Medicine as they pursue research, training, and other scholarly activities. Visit Page Open details for Research Administration Research Evaluation BioMed Evaluation Services provides consultation, guidance and oversight for research programs and projects. Services include evaluation planning, design, and tool development. Visit Page Open details for Research Evaluation Library Services The Health and Biomedical Sciences Library offers a variety of resources and services to help you with your research. Their knowledgeable librarians can assist with research planning, conducting, and publishing research. Visit Page Open details for Library Services Major Proposal Coordination The BioMed Research Operations Office directs the preparation and submission of large multi-institutional grant proposals on behalf of the Division of Biology and Medicine. Visit Page Open details for Major Proposal Coordination Scientific Illustration and Visual Design the Office of BioMedical Communications offers medical and scientific illustrations for use in web, digital, and print media to faculty across the Division of Biology and Medicine. Visit Page Open details for Scientific Illustration and Visual Design Translational Research Services Advance-CTR provides funding, research resources and services, and professional development offerings to help investigators turn scientific discoveries into high-impact treatments and approaches population health. Visit Page Open details for Translational Research Services Center Spotlight Research centers at Brown are hubs of teaching and discovery that prepare the next generation of scientists while advancing biomedical knowledge and innovation. Center for Alternatives to Animals in Testing Faculty in the Center for Alternatives to Animals in Testing are developing cheaper, faster, and more effective testing models that better predict the safety of new drugs. Learn more Innovation and Industry Engagement BioMed faculty are forging partnerships with industry leaders to translate their research findings into commercial treatments for the patients who need them. Learn more Find A Researcher Search Researchers @ Brown to find faculty research and scholarship at Brown. Researchers Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Division of Biology and Medicine Program in Biology Affiliated Hospitals Footer Navigation Events Maps and Directions Contact Us Accessibility The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About the Division Leadership Strategic Plan Departments Affiliated Hospitals Contact Us Research Core Facilities Centers, Institutes, and Programs Offices and Services Diversity This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Research Open details for Research Bookmark this Page