Skip to main content Clemson University Degrees Home Degree Programs MENU Animal and Veterinary Sciences (B.S.) LEARN MORE ABOUT Do you love animals? Do you enjoy science? Then you’ll certainly find the animal and veterinary sciences major will blend your passions and academic interests. Students in our program learn to apply the core science foundations to issues in animal health, nutrition, food production and management. You’ll select from one of three concentration areas that include animal agribusiness, equine business, or pre-veterinary and science. Although this major has served Clemson students as the most successful means for entrance to veterinary medicine programs, there are many other opportunities to work with or study animals outside of professional school. FAST FACTS You'll work with livestock and poultry, gaining useful skills to prepare you for veterinary school, research or industry. Clemson has six livestock farms: beef, dairy, equine, poultry, swine and sheep. Our female freshmen have the opportunity to join our living-learning community, Women in Animal and Veterinary Sciences (WAVS). Women make up almost 94 percent of our undergraduate student body. A revolutionary fowl cholera vaccine invented by Clemson researchers has saved the international turkey industry more than $300 million. WHAT YOU'LL STUDY Through your coursework, you’ll be exposed to the science behind the animal. In addition to classes in your chosen major concentration, you’ll also take general courses in chemistry, biology, mathematics, English, social sciences and humanities. Advanced courses cover the practices and principles of feeding, breeding, management, and care of livestock and poultry. Animal Agribusiness Concentration Prepare for a career in the animal industries such as production, sales and marketing, business management, advertising and extension. Your courses will give you a global perspective of the animal agriculture industries, and a minor in business administration will support and expand your knowledge of this growing business arena. In addition, you’ll be able to choose classes that focus on one species or a variety. Equine Business Concentration Our equine business concentration covers the breadth of the equine species and industry. You must not only understand the use of horses as a recreational animal, but also recognize the complexities of exercise physiology, nutrition and management. In choosing this concentration, you must minor in business administration. Pre-veterinary and Science Concentration The pre-veterinary and science concentration allows you to fulfill the prerequisite coursework required for entrance into most veterinary schools as well as graduate, medical and dental programs. Curriculum Animal and Veterinary Sciences: Animal Agribusiness Concentration, B.S. Animal and Veterinary Sciences: Equine Business Concentration, B.S. Animal and Veterinary Sciences: Preveterinary and Science Concentration, B.S. Popular Minors Adult/Extension Education Agricultural Business Management Biological Sciences Business Administration Chemistry Microbiology Wildlife and Fisheries Biology Similar Majors Agricultural Education (B.S.) Biological Sciences (B.S./B.A.) Chemistry (B.S./B.A.) Genetics (B.S.) Wildlife and Fisheries Biology (B.S.) EXPERIENCES BEYOND THE CLASSROOM Along with an obvious passion for creatures big and small, it is important that you be able to work on and with animals and learn through a variety of avenues. Research Apply your classroom knowledge to solving problems. Research teams have been working to increase embryonic survival in cattle as well as investigating the pros and cons of raising poultry in cage-free production. Farms Clemson is home to six research and teaching livestock facilities where you'll get to work and study extensively starting your first semester. Our department also owns the Brick Barn (home to a flock of Southdown sheep) and a rodeo arena. Vet School This major provides unrivaled support to students working toward admission into D.V.M. programs. Our advisers guide you through required coursework, outside experiences and the complexities of preparing to be a viable candidate. WAVS A living-learning community is available to all freshman females in this major. It's a great way to collaborate for study groups and find support and friendship with upperclassmen mentors.Learn More » Study Abroad Students have diverse opportunities to study away from campus. Courses, research and veterinary missions can send students to Guatemala, Europe or India. Learn More » CONNECT WITH OTHER STUDENTS Block and Bridle Clemson Collegiate Horsemen's Association Dairy Science Club Clemson Pre-Veterinary Club AFTER GRADUATION Your college decision isn't really about the next four years. We get it. It's about what doors are opened by your degree and whether those opportunities are what you had envisioned for yourself. Here's a snapshot of what life after graduation looks like for some of our most recent students. WHERE OUR RECENT GRADUATES HAVE GONE KEY 41-100% 21-40% 11-20% 0-10% RECENT EMPLOYERS Animal Food Regulatory Program Standards Coordinator South Carolina Department of Agriculture Field Sales Development Representative Boehringer Ingelheim Animal Health Area Service Technician Smithfield Microbiologist Pharma Associates Inc. 4-H Agent Clemson University Cooperative Extension RECENT POSTGRADUATE STUDIES D.V.M. Ohio State University D.V.M. Virginia-Maryland College of Veterinary Medicine D.V.M. University of Florida D.V.M. Mississippi State University M.Ed. Agricultural Education North Carolina State University COMMON CAREER AREAS Farm Production and Management Livestock Production Livestock Feed Meat and Dairy Foods Agribusiness Sales (Livestock, Feed, Pharmaceuticals, Ag Chemical, Supplies and Equipment) Management Marketing Public Relations Customer Service Education Teaching Informal Education Extension Veterinary Medicine Small and Large Animal Food Safety and Inspection Specialty Science and Technology Research Product and Process Development Genetics and Animal Breeding Animal Nutrition, Health and Disease Control Animal Behavior, Training, Caretaking Quality Control Livestock Feed Inspection Harvest Operation Inspection Meat and Dairy Inspection FIND OUT MORE Have more questions or want more information? Fill out the form below, which goes directly to the following department contact. If you’d also like to receive general University information from Clemson’s admissions office, please follow the link to the right and sign up to join our mailing list. Madison Cutts Coordinator of Student Recruitment mcutts@clemson.edu Department Website College Website Loading... Department Website College Website Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Line Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2015 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on Google+ Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on YouTube Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram Search Clemson University degrees Clemson Degree Programs Search Alphabetical List Schedule a Visit Campus Life Admissions Costs & Financial Aid Similar Majors To Animal and Veterinary Sciences (B.S.) Agricultural Education (B.S.) Biological Sciences (B.S./B.A.) Chemistry (B.S./B.A.) Genetics (B.S.) Wildlife and Fisheries Biology (B.S.)