Skip to main content Information for: Current Students Alumni Give Today Admissions J.D. Admissions LL.M. Admissions (General) M.S.L.S. Admissions LL.M. Admissions (Cornell Tech) J.S.D. Admissions Academics Degree Programs J.D. Program LL.M. Program (General) M.S.L.S. Program LL.M. Program (Cornell Tech) J.S.D. Program Experiential Learning International Programs Centers & Programs Areas of Study Law Reviews Additional Resources Registrar Academic Support Academic Calendar Faculty & Research Faculty Research on SSRN Faculty Directory Careers For Alumni For Employers For Students Life at Cornell Law Campus Dean of Students Office Diversity and Inclusion Health, Wellness, and Safety Housing and Community Resources Ithaca Law Library Registrar’s Office Student Activities & Organizations Search Admissions J.D. Admissions LL.M. Admissions (General) M.S.L.S. Admissions LL.M. Admissions (Cornell Tech) J.S.D. Admissions Academics Degree Programs J.D. Program LL.M. Program (General) M.S.L.S. Program LL.M. Program (Cornell Tech) J.S.D. Program Experiential Learning International Programs Centers & Programs Areas of Study Law Reviews Additional Resources Registrar Academic Support Academic Calendar Faculty & Research Faculty Research on SSRN Faculty Directory Careers For Alumni For Employers For Students Life at Cornell Law Campus Dean of Students Office Diversity and Inclusion Health, Wellness, and Safety Housing and Community Resources Ithaca Law Library Registrar’s Office Student Activities & Organizations Information for: Current Students Alumni Give Today Close search Search Cornell Law School Or search: cornell.edu Careers Judicial Clerkships Explore this section Upcoming Events Contact Explore this section Upcoming Events Contact Judicial clerkships are postgraduate, full-time jobs which typically last one or two years. Clerks work for judges at all levels of the state and federal court systems, from trial courts to the courts of last resort. Duties vary according to the particular judge’s needs, but nearly all clerkships involve reading the parties’ submissions, conducting legal research, and writing memoranda or draft opinions for the judge’s review. Clerks often watch hearings, trials, oral arguments and mediations. Clerks see the inner workings of their judge’s chambers and the court house in which they work, which gives them a unique and valuable glimpse into the justice system. Most former clerks will tell you that their clerkship was one of the best professional experiences of their life. These are rich and rewarding positions, and yet many people are hesitant to enter the application process, believing that if their academic credentials are not at the top of their class they don’t have a realistic chance of securing a clerkship. The clerkship successes of Cornell students and alumni demonstrate that this myth just isn’t true. While some clerkships are more competitive than others, there are opportunities available for all applicants. We encourage you reach out to the clerkship team or other members of the clerkship committee to learn more about your possibilities and to begin developing an application strategy that will work for you. Contact us to learn more, or click here to make a Clerkship Counseling appointment. In 2020, 63 students and alumni secured clerkships with federal or state judges. 2021-2022 Faculty Clerkship Committee Maggie Gardner (chair) Nelson Tebbe Michelle Whelan John Blume Briana Beltran Rachel Goldberg Brian Richardson (fall) Mike Dorf Upcoming Events No upcoming events. Contact Judicial Clerkships Email: law.clerkships@cornell.edu Phone: (607) 254-8885 Address: 260 Myron Taylor Hall Ithaca, NY 14853 The Cornell Law School is committed to a policy against discrimination in employment. The facilities of our career-development offices (the Career Services Office, the Office of Public Service, and the Office of Judicial Engagement and Professional Development) may be denied to employers whose behavior contravenes our faculty policy prohibiting discrimination based on race, color, creed, religion, national or ethnic origin, citizenship, ancestry, sex, gender (including identity or expression), sexual orientation, marital status, age, disability, or protected veteran status. We require all employers using our career-development offices to comply with our nondiscrimination policy. Cornell Law School Myron Taylor Hall Ithaca, NY 14853-4901 Quick Links Current Students Alumni Quick Links Academics Admissions Careers Life at Cornell Law News ABA Required Disclosures About CLS Contact Law Library Legal Information Institute Facebook Instagram Twitter Linkedin ©2022 Cornell University Privacy Policy Accessibility This website uses cookies We use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. If you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it. Ok