Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Skip to primary site search Google Tag Manager Physics Show/Hide About Graduate Undergraduate Research Courses People Events Centers Diversity & Inclusion Room Reservations Resources During COVID Department of Physics 2022 Commencement Activities Read More> Research Group Successfully Observes the World’s Largest Tunnel Magnetocapacitance of 426% with Prospects for Applications in High-performance Magnetic Sensors and Memory Devices Read More> Department of Physics Debuts New Educational Video Series, Physics Fundamentals Physics Demonstrations manager Angella Johnson has begun publishing an ambitious series of educational videos on YouTube. Read More> News Stephon Alexander Appointed to Editorial Board of JCAP May 24, 2022 Brown University Professor of Physics Stephon Alexander has been named to the Editorial Board of the Journal of Cosmology and Astrophysics (JCAP). Research Group Successfully Observes the World’s Largest Tunnel Magnetocapacitance of 426% with Prospects for Applications in High-performance Magnetic Sensors and Memory Devices May 19, 2022 A research group, including Brown University Professor of Physics and Engineering Gang Xiao, has successfully observed the world's largest tunnel magnetocapacitance (TMC) ratio and explained its mechanism. Read More. Department of Physics Debuts New Educational Video Series, Physics Fundamentals April 26, 2022 Physics Demonstrations manager Angella Johnson has begun publishing an ambitious series of educational videos on YouTube that draw on her experience in demonstrations, the knowledge of Physics faculty members, and professional expertise throughout the university. Read More. Brad Marston Named to Editorial Board of Physical Review E April 4, 2022 Brown University Professor of Physics Brad Marston has been named to the editorial board of Physical Review E. Read More. Meenakshi Narain to Chair Department of Physics April 4, 2022 Brown University’s Dean of the Faculty Kevin McLaughlin announced that Meenakshi Narain would take over as Chair of the Department of Physics effective July 1, 2022. Read More. more news Visit us on social media Calendar There are no upcoming events. Explore Brown University Search Brown Show/Hide Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Department of Physics Department of Physics Brown University Box 1843 182 Hope Street Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-2641 Fax: 401-863-2024 Email [email protected] Twitter Twitter Facebook Facebook Make a Gift Giving to Brown Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat