Skip to main content Skip to main content SMU Home Giving Giving Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Simmons About Dean's Message Programs, Degrees, and Certifications Faculty and Staff Directory Simmons Governance Simmons School History Executive Board Simmons Luminary Award XPRIZE Honor Code Simmons Resources Travel-Study Programs Simmons Lecture Series AERA 2022 Graduation Ceremony May 2022 Paving the Way to Inclusion Conference Simmons Graduate Council Faculty and Administrative Position Openings Simmons Blogs and Social Media Hub Annette Caldwell Simmons Hall Harold Clark Simmons Hall Photo Tour Contact Us Academic Departments & Areas of Study Applied Physiology & Wellness B.S. | Applied Physiology & Sport Mgmt. Undergraduate Specializations Applied Physiology and Health Management Sport Management Sport Performance Leadership M.S. | Health Promotion Management M.S. | Sport Management Non-Degree | Wellness Dispute Resolution & Counseling M.S. | Counseling Specialties Clinical Mental Health Marriage, Couple and Family School Counseling M.A. | Dispute Resolution Non-Degree | Dispute Resolution Specialties Executive Coaching Education Policy & Leadership M.Ed. | PK-12 School Leadership M.Ed. | Higher Education Ed.D. | PK-12 School Leadership Ed.D. | Higher Education Graduate Liberal Studies MLS | Science, Arts, & Humanities DLS | Science, Arts, & Humanities Non-Degree | Science, Arts, & Humanities Ph.D. in Education Teaching & Learning B.S. | M.Ed | MBE | Ph.D. Graduate Specializations Bilingual Special Ed ESL Gifted Literacy Math STEM Urban Education Research Research A comprehensive list of Simmons research projects Faculty Research Publications & Presentations Recent research publications and presentations Center on Research & Evaluation (CORE) Offers comprehensive program evaluation services, largely in the non-profit sector, and performs education research Research in Mathematics Education Conducts research in mathematics education and disseminates findings Integrative Physiology Laboratory Investigates autonomic function and thermoregulation in healthy and clinical populations Locomotor Performance Laboratory Studies terrestrial locomotion and the relationship of muscle function to metabolic energy expenditure and performance Center for VR Learning Innovation Investigates the use of virtual, augmented and mixed reality for education and human development Youth Sports Impact Partnership SMU and the Children’s Health Andrews Institute have launched a collaboration dedicated to improving the health, activity levels, and well-being of kids. Research Resources for Simmons Faculty and Staff Technology and Education Cluster Our Faculty Community Engagement Advanced Placement Summer Institute Summer Institute for AP and Pre-AP Teachers The Budd Center Partners with community agencies to offer educational opportunities for disadvantaged children Center for Family Counseling Counseling services in Plano for individuals and families College Access Programs Programs and workshops that help students advance academically Institute for Leadership Impact Leaders in education, health and social enterprise enhance skills to lead organizations and solve real-world problems Project Connect A repository of ideas, activities and videos for educators interested in improving instruction for English Language Learners West Dallas STEM-Focused School Preparing students for the next generation of STEM jobs Alumni Search Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Graduate Liberal Studies Master of Liberal Studies Master of Liberal Studies Master of Liberal Studies Program Semester Schedules Course Descriptions Study Away MLS in the News Admissions Tuition and Scholarships Adjunct Faculty Alumni and Graduates Resources for Liberal Studies Request More Information Contact Information Doctor of Liberal Studies Doctor of Liberal Studies Program Components Semester Schedules Faculty Alumni and Graduates Curriculum Admissions Tuition & Financial Aid Contact Us Certificate of Advanced Graduate Study ☰ Doctor of Liberal Studies Academics Graduate Liberal Studies Doctor of Liberal Studies Innovative. Interdisciplinary. Self-Designed. The Doctor of Liberal Studies (DLS) degree is designed for adult learners who want to challenge themselves with rigorous advanced study on a part- or full-time basis in a variety of topics with the goal of benefiting their workplace, professions, and society. Attend Info Session Request More Info Apply Now For information on SMU’s response to COVID-19, please visit SMU’s blog. The priority application deadline for Fall 2022 admission is March 1st. Applications may be accepted after this deadline by permission of the department on a space-available basis. SMU's Doctor of Liberal Studies evening program serves the needs of working professionals who seek intellectual challenge at the doctoral level with an eye to contributing to their community, workplace and the world in new and creative ways. Under the guidance of senior faculty, DLS students engage in focused scholarly reading and research on a topic or issue, culminating in a doctoral thesis that demonstrates interdisciplinary analysis, synthesis, and interpretation. This part- or full-time degree is for the experienced adult learner who has earned a master’s degree but craves an opportunity to do more by pursuing rigorous interdisciplinary study guided by their own intellectual passion and commitment to community. Students graduate as experts in their chosen topic or issue prepared to make high-level contributions to their workplace, society and the world. To see our students in action perform their CRED talks (Creativity, Diversity, Empathy & Discovery), watch the videos below. “The Spark of Creation.” – Emmeline Miles, Doctor of Liberal Studies Student “Creativity: The Good, the Bad, and the Ugly.” – Michael Noble, Doctor of Liberal Studies Student Application Deadlines Applications for Fall 2022 will be accepted beginning September 1, 2021 with a priority deadline for all application materials due by March 2022. If you have questions, please call the DLS office at 214-768-4273 to discuss your application and/or candidacy for admission. Information Session If you have any questions about the DLS admissions process, please contact the Graduate Liberal Studies office at: Email: smudls@smu.edu | Request Information Phone: 214.768.4273 Doctor of Liberal Studies Program Components Semester Schedules Faculty Alumni and Graduates Curriculum Admissions Tuition & Financial Aid Contact Us Upcoming Events Request info Contact Graduate Liberal Studies Contact Us 214-768-4273 smudls@smu.edu Request Information Visit Us Annette Caldwell Simmons Hall 3101 University Blvd, Suite 234 Dallas, Texas 75205 Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 facebook twitter