By continuing to use this site, you agree to the use of cookies in accordance with our privacy policy. Dismiss Stay Safe The official source of public health information for Syracuse University. Skip to Content Open menu About Admissions Academics Life Athletics More Search the University Open search Popular searches Close menu Home About Toggle dropdown Leadership Vision & Mission Consumer Information Facts & Figures Plan Your Visit Campus Map History News Partnerships Work at Syracuse Social Media Bookstore Brand Help & Contacts Admissions Toggle dropdown Undergraduate Graduate Online Part-Time Cost & Aid Request Information Visit & Tour Apply Academics Toggle dropdown Schools & Colleges Undergraduate Majors & Minors Graduate Degrees Online Programs Syracuse University Global Study Abroad Opportunities & Support Calendars Departments Research Centers & Institutes Libraries, Collections & Galleries Academic Administration Life Toggle dropdown Accessibility & Diversity Campus Highlights Events Calendar Services & Support Meals & Dining Housing Groups & Activities Recreation & Facilities For Students For Veterans & Military For Faculty & Staff For Parents & Families A-Z Index Sitemap Login Athletics Men’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Football Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Track and Field Women’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Field Hockey Ice Hockey Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Softball Tennis Track and Field Volleyball Athletics Dept. Toggle dropdown Facilities Staff Directory Academic Honors Community Service Spirit Program Varsity Club Sports Medicine Championships Fan Zone Toggle dropdown Dome Schedule Seating Information Orange All Access Otto’s Kids Club Game Photos Promotions Orange Club Schedules News Alumni About Toggle dropdown Notable Alumni Alumni Association Awards News Events and Clubs Toggle dropdown Orange Central Northeast Midwest South West World/Affinity Regions Toggle dropdown Atlanta Boston Chicago Los Angeles Middle East New York San Francisco Washington, DC Services Toggle dropdown Career Network Generation Orange Directory Profile Class Notes Giving Contact Contact Visit Apply Coronavirus Updates Forever Orange Home Life Accessibility & Diversity In this Section Diversity & Inclusion Accessible Syracuse STOP Bias and Hate Center for International Services Multicultural Affairs LGBTQ Resource Center Disability Cultural Center Religious Groups Report a Concern Women in Leadership Initiative Accessibility and Diversity Syracuse University believes that everyone should be treated with dignity and respect. That’s why you'll find an environment of inclusion and diversity, providing opportunity for anyone and everyone who seek it. We also work to educate members of the University about their rights and responsibilities with regard to how they are treated and how they treat others. Diversity and Inclusion Link Our commitment to diversity and inclusion is rooted in the belief that an education informed by multiple points of view, life experiences, ethnicities, cultures, and belief systems is essential to academic excellence. Accessible Syracuse Link Syracuse University is an inclusive community. We seek to provide equal educational opportunities for all, including those with disabilities. Our varied services not only accommodate individuals with disabilities, but also recognize their potential to excel in the Syracuse environment. LGBTQ Resource Center Link Diversity is something we not only foster, but celebrate. At the LGBTQ Resource Center, and at Syracuse University as a whole, we learn from and lean on each other. Center for International Services As an international student, you can turn to the Center’s warm and knowledgeable staff for help in preparing to come to campus, navigating your new home, and getting accustomed to life in the United States. STOP Bias STOP Bias is a Universitywide effort managed by the Division of Enrollment and the Student Experience. It provides the campus community with resources focused on bias education and prevention. Multicultural Affairs The Office of Multicultural Affairs provides the necessary support and guidance needed to encourage students to become members of a community respectful of difference. Disability Cultural Center Syracuse University established the Disability Cultural Center to coordinate campus-wide social, educational, and cultural activities on disability issues for students, faculty, staff, and community members with and without disabilities. Religious Groups Hendricks Chapel is home to all religious and spiritual groups on campus. These groups span a wide diversity of religious traditions and spiritual interests. Participation is open to all students. Also of Interest Link Office of Equal Opportunity, Inclusion, and Resolution Services Link EOIRS works with students, faculty, and staff, to foster a climate of inclusion, access, and opportunity. Center for Disability Resources Link CDR engages the University community to empower students, enhance equity, and provide a platform for innovation and inclusion. Popular Toggle dropdown Academic Calendar Campus Map Careers Libraries Majors and Minors Visit and Tour A-Z Toggle dropdown Academic Departments Schools and Colleges Sitemap Search Contact Toggle dropdown Admissions Financial Aid Emergency Contacts Human Resources Make a Gift Login Toggle dropdown MySlice Blackboard SUMail Syracuse University 900 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, NY 13244 Phone: +1.315.443.1870 Follow S.U. on Instagram Like S.U. on Facebook Follow S.U. on Twitter Follow S.U. on LinkedIn Follow S.U. on Tiktok Subscribe to S.U. on YouTube © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy