Skip to main content Explore Sections open search open menu Close From the latest big breakthrough to the most influential and inspiring figures on campus to Pitt in the community, Pittwire is your official source for what’s happening now. Explore By Topics Health and Wellness Technology and Science Arts and Humanities Community Impact Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Global Innovation and Research Our City/Our Campus Explore By Category Features & Articles Accolades & Honors Ones to Watch Announcements and Updates Pittwire Other Links Pitt Magazine Event Calendar Social Media Directory Close Search Pitt Search Search for People Close Global Menu Apply Visit Give Pittwire Events Navigation Navigation About Academics Admissions Research Life at Pitt Athletics Colleges & Schools Colleges & Schools Arts & Sciences Business Computing & Information Dental Medicine Education Engineering General Studies Health & Rehabilitation Honors College Law Medicine Nursing Pharmacy Public & Intl Affairs Public Health Social Work Info For Info For Alumni Community Global Sustainability Twitter Instagram Facebook Youtube Close Search Pittwire Search Search www.pitt.edu Features & Articles In photos: Pitt celebrates new grads May 2, 2022 Tags University News Students Commencement 2022 Subscribe to Pittwire Get the most interesting and important stories from the University of Pittsburgh. Subscribe Friends and family of University of Pittsburgh graduates braved thunderstorms and marathon crowds yesterday to pack the Petersen Events Center and celebrate the Class of 2022 at Pitt’s first in-person, University-wide commencement ceremony since 2019. More than 2,200 Pitt undergrads crossed the stage to join a distinguished group of more than 350,000 Pitt alumni. ESPN analyst Louis Riddick (A&S ’91) addressed the crowd as the ceremony’s keynote speaker. A Pitt student-athlete who went on to a career as a pro football player and well-respected broadcaster, Riddick shared with students some of the unexpected twists in his own career, encouraging them to find what they’re passionate about. [Watch the full Class of 2022 ceremony.] “Let me be the first to tell you this: Success in life is never going to be linear. It’s never going to be a direct shot right to the top,” he said. “Stay the course. Reinvent. Be bold.” Riddick was granted an honorary doctorate from Pitt, along with sculptor Thaddeus Mosley (A&S ’50) and congresswoman Lauren Underwood. Undergraduate speaker Gabriella Ogude (CGS, A&S ’22) also shared words of encouragement with her peers in the Class of 2022. “I don’t know what’s in the water at this school, but we just care. We care for one another. We care about being our best,” she said. “They say life is about choices. And I can say wholeheartedly that coming to Pitt was one of the best choices I've ever made.” See photos from the ceremony, plus a few bonus shots from the long-awaited Class of 2020 in-person event. — Patrick Monahan The Petersen Events Center crowd at the Class of 2022 commencement. (Mike Drazdzinski/University of Pittsburgh) ESPN analyst and keynote speaker Louis Riddick (A&S ’91) addresses the crowd. (Mike Drazdzinski/University of Pittsburgh) Undergraduate speaker Gabriella Ogude (CGS, A&S ’22). (Mike Drazdzinski/University of Pittsburgh) Pitt junior Danielle Obisie-Orlu, Allegheny County Youth Poet Laureate, delivers a poem onstage. (Aimee Obidzinski/University of Pittsburgh) (Aimee Obidzinski/University of Pittsburgh) (Aimee Obidzinski/University of Pittsburgh) (Aimee Obidzinski/University of Pittsburgh) (Aimee Obidzinski/University of Pittsburgh) (Aimee Obidzinski/University of Pittsburgh) (Aimee Obidzinski/University of Pittsburgh) (Aimee Obidzinski/University of Pittsburgh) (Aimee Obidzinski/University of Pittsburgh) The Class of 2020 celebrates at their own commencement ceremony on Saturday, April 30, at the Petersen Events Center. (Tom Altany/University of Pittsburgh) The Class of 2020 celebrates at their own commencement ceremony on Saturday, April 30, at the Petersen Events Center. (Tom Altany/University of Pittsburgh) The Class of 2020 celebrates at their own commencement ceremony on Saturday, April 30, at the Petersen Events Center. (Tom Altany/University of Pittsburgh) The Class of 2020 celebrates at their own commencement ceremony on Saturday, April 30, at the Petersen Events Center. (Tom Altany/University of Pittsburgh) Trending The University of Pittsburgh will compete for $10 billion in military health contracts Register now for Pitt’s 2022 Diversity Forum How do monarch butterflies know where to migrate? Global Menu Apply Visit Give Pittwire Events About Academics Admissions Research Life at Pitt Athletics Quick Links & Resources Quick Links & Resources Accessibility Statement Careers Consumer Info/Achievement Contact Us Departments A-Z Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Find People Information Technology LGBTQ+ Nondiscrimination and Anti-Harassment Policy My Pitt Regional Campuses Regional Campuses Bradford Greensburg Johnstown Titusville Colleges & Schools Colleges & Schools Arts & Sciences Business Computing & Information Dental Medicine Education Engineering General Studies Health & Rehabilitation Honors College Law Medicine Nursing Pharmacy Public & Intl Affairs Public Health Social Work 4200 Fifth Ave. Pittsburgh, PA 15260 United States +1 412-624-4141 Twitter Instagram Facebook Youtube