Skip navigation Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Brown Grad School About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Graduate School Application Information International Applicants Graduate School Skip to Navigation International Applicants Graduates of non-U.S. colleges and universities who have completed the equivalent of a U.S. bachelor's degree may apply for admission to the Brown University Graduate School. Along with the application, international applicants must provide the Graduate School with original documents or official certified copies indicating the nature and scope of their educational program. Brown Graduate School remains unwavering in its commitment to attracting the most talented and promising students from all countries of origin, cultures, races, religions, identities and experiences, and to cultivating an environment that ensures the free exchange of ideas and advancement of knowledge. VISA AND IMMIGRATION INFORMATION Brown's Office of International Student & Scholar Services provides counsel and advice to admitted international students on matters related to visas and immigration status. ACADEMIC YEAR COSTS All academic year costs can be found on the bursar’s website. LIVING EXPENSES (EST.) 9 months: $24,885 12 months: $33,180 FINANCES Expenses for international students for the 2021-2022 academic year at Brown vary from depending on degree and program (see Bursar website). Incoming doctoral students receive five years of guaranteed financial support, including a stipend, tuition remission, a health-services fee, and a health-insurance subsidy. Doctoral students in the Humanities and Social Sciences are guaranteed six years of support. Those requiring additional time to complete degree requirements may apply for support through the Dissertation Completion or Extention Proposal process. International students who are not awarded full financial assistance will not be granted final admission in their master's program until they provide certified proof of financial support (including travel to and from the U.S.) adequate to meet annual expenses. Expenses will likely be highest during the first month at Brown, while settling into lodging. To plan for these costs, please see the Financial Considerations page, which provides a guideline and web resources. For those who will receive financial assistance, please note that the stipend checks are issued monthly and the first one comes on the last business day of September. International graduate students are advised to carefully consider the implications of bringing their families during the first semester of study. This time is meant for students to familiarize themselves with their surroundings, settle into their studies, and look for suitable living accommodations. Brown does not offer on-campus housing for married graduate students. To obtain permission to bring a spouse, a student must be in a position to provide additional evidence of funding of $6,916 for the spouse's support. The amount required to bring in each child is $4,872. For further information and to request issuance of a dependent document please consult the OISSS website. Language Proficiency: TOEFL or IELTS Information describing the TOEFL and IELTS exams: who needs to take them, minimum scores, registration, etc. Note: the Graduate School does not accept the Duolingo English proficiency test. English Language Training English language training is available to incoming international students during the academic year, through a collaborative effort of the Center for Language Studies (CLS) and the Graduate School. Home About the Graduate School Healthy Brown FAQs for Graduate Students Academics & Research Living & Resources Financing & Support Admitted Students & Orientation Application Information Application Components & Process GRE Information International Applicants Admissions Review Considering COVID-19 Disruptions Applicants Facing Extenuating Circumstances For Graduate Students For Faculty and Staff Apply Related Items Office of International Student & Scholar Services TOEFL & IELTS Info English Language Training Financial Considerations Accommodations for Applicants Facing Extenuating Circumstances Ph.D. Funding Doctoral Funding: Stipend Primer Master's Funding Immigration Order Information Brown University Brown University Graduate School Box 1867 Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-2600 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Resources Graduate School Handbook Academic Code CareerLAB Brown University Writing Center Sarah Doyle Center for Women and Gender Sheridan Center for Teaching & Learning Top Destinations Admission Inquiry Form Commencement Five-Year Ph.D. Support Open Graduate Education External Funding Application Process International Applicants