Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index Office of Communications & Marketing Menu Search TTU Office of Communications & Marketing Emergency Communications Center Emergency Procedures Evacuation Calmly and quietly walk to the nearest exit. Do not use elevators. Follow instructions of emergency personnel. Fire If it is safe to do so, activate the closest fire alarm. Evacuate to the designated evacuation area. Call 9-911 and report the location and nature of the fire. Flood Do not enter any flooded area, i.e., basement, first floor, vaulted area, etc. Minor Flooding: call the Physical Plant and report the location and nature of leak. Medical Dial 9-911 and report the nature of the illness or injury and the location. Stay with the victim until help arrives if there is no immediate danger to yourself. Violence and Workplace Threats Texas Tech recognizes the high cost of violent incidents and the disruptive effect they have on employees and productivity. Personal harassment (including stalking), abusive behavior, and violence are not tolerated in the workplace. Learn More. Tornado Take cover at the lowest level of the building. If an underground shelter is not available, move to an interior room or hallway on the lowest floor and get under a sturdy piece of furniture. Avoid places with wide-span roofs such as auditoriums, cafeterias or large hallways. Stay away from windows. If outdoors take cover, if possible, inside a building. If shelter is not available or there is no time to get indoors, lie in a ditch or low-lying area or crouch near a strong building. After tornado passes, remain alert for signs of additional tornadoes and/or flash flooding. Important Phone Numbers Emergency 911 Ambulance Fire Police Texas Tech Police Non-emergency 806-742-3931 Physical Plant Maintenance Emergencies 806-742-4OPS 806-742-3328 (after 5 pm) Information Technology 806-742-HELP Server-related issues 806-742-3649 Governor's Division of Emergency Management Texas Department of Public Safety 806-472-2700 First Aid Basic First Aid Training is available to all TTU faculty and staff. Learn more >>. Office of Communications & Marketing Address 2625 Memorial Circle, Administration 212, Lubbock, TX 79409 Phone 806.742.2136 Email webmaster@ttu.edu Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock, Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversityJan 15, 2020 3:18 PM Office of Communications & Marketing Marketing Office of Communications & Marketing Marketing Back Identity Guidelines Official Logos Communications Office of Communications & Marketing Communications Back News Office of Communications & Marketing Communications Back Texas Tech Today Monthly e-Newsletter Event Announcements A List Emergency Office of Communications & Marketing Communications Back Emergency Communications Center General Emergency Procedures Social Media Office of Communications & Marketing Communications Back YouTube Facebook Twitter Foursquare Flickr LinkedIn Wikipedia Experts Guide Office of Communications & Marketing Communications Experts Guide Back Experts Guide About Office of Communications & Marketing Back Staff Work With Us Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index