Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Equity, Civil Rights, and Title IX Menu About Us Equity Office Staff Robyn Driskell, Ph.D. Laura Johnson, Ph.D. Carolyn Hughes Shirl Brown Christina Jeong Michael Noble Tracey Tevis Elysa Bucci Melissa Morie Josh Stephens Candace Huskey Mito Diaz-Espinoza, Ph.D Civil Rights Sexual and Interpersonal Misconduct/Title IX Reporting Report Civil Rights Concern Report Sexual and Interpersonal Misconduct/Title IX Concern Notice Please be advised that due to construction projects adjacent to Clifton Robinson Tower, our team is primarily working remotely. We can still be reached for immediate assistance during normal business hours by calling 254-710-8454. We are also able to schedule in-person meetings as needed. We look forward to serving you. You may also email us at TitleIX_Coordinator@baylor.edu or Civil_Rights@baylor.edu. Equity, Civil Rights, and Title IX Office The mission of Baylor Equity, Civil Rights, and Title IX is to engage in issues of harassment and discrimination with care and integrity to actively shape a conscientious community where members are valued, empowered and recognized. Explore Civil Rights We handle matters concerning equal opportunity, affirmative action, and unlawful harassment or discrimination on the basis of protected characteristics. We also offer education, training, support, and resources related to these issues. Protected Characteristics include race, color, disability, national origin, ancestry, sex, age (over 40), citizenship, genetic information or the refusal to submit to a genetic test, past, current, or prospective service in the uniformed services, or any other characteristics protected under applicable federal, Texas, or local law. Read More Sexual and Interpersonal Misconduct/Title IX We handle matters concerning sexual and interpersonal misconduct including sexual harassment, sexual assault, domestic or dating violence, and stalking. We also offer education, training, support, and resources related to these issues. Read More Equity Office Robinson Tower, Suite 285 One Bear Place #97011 Waco, TX 76798 (254) 710-7100 Climate Survey Diversity & Inclusion Faculty Development and Diversity General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 About Us Equity Office Staff Robyn Driskell, Ph.D. Laura Johnson, Ph.D. Carolyn Hughes Shirl Brown Christina Jeong Michael Noble Tracey Tevis Elysa Bucci Melissa Morie Josh Stephens Candace Huskey Mito Diaz-Espinoza, Ph.D Civil Rights Sexual and Interpersonal Misconduct/Title IX Reporting Report Civil Rights Concern Report Sexual and Interpersonal Misconduct/Title IX Concern