Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Alumni Association Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Alumni Clubs Alumni Community Benefits CAA Arts Access Career Resources Events Get Involved News Columbia Alumni Association You are here: Home CAA Hong Kong | Cardio Party & Empowerment Through Movement Events Past Event CAA Hong Kong | Cardio Party & Empowerment Through Movement Share Add to Calendar: Calendar / Outlook Google Yahoo September 18, 2021 12:30 PM - 1:30 PM Asia/Hong_Kong Off-campus Cardio Party & Empowerment Through Movement with FLYE Fitness Need to release and sweat away your stress? Get up from your office chair and away from the computer screen to join us at a fun & experiential cardio movement party by FLYE Fitness on Saturday, 18 September 12:30pm - 1:30pm. It's a (party!) workout. Literally ran out of a club with lights, a hype team, upbeat energy, and the best pro DJ audio system. Location: Minh Club, 4/F, Fung Woo Building, 279-281 Des Voeux Rd Central, Sheung Wan (30 sec walk from Sheung Wan MTR, Exit B). Capacity: Max 15 people (must wear masks) -- register ASAP to avoid disappointment Price: HKD 200 for CUAAHK members and HKD300 non-members How to prep: Bring an open mind, towel, and sufficient water for hydration. And wear activewear. Please note that there are no showers on the premises but there are washrooms should you wish to bring a change of clothes. Masks: Attendees will be required to wear a mask to partake of the class unless all the attendees are fully vaccinated (have received all the dosages of their vaccines for at least 14 days prior to this event). Session breakdown: The session is divided into 3 parts with a total of 55 mins: i) 30 mins of rhythmic cardio to get your heart pumping ii) 15 mins of HIIT iii) 10 min of easy choreography of a select dance genre (hip hop, bellydance, jazz funk, samba, Latin). Registration: HERE Pay to reserve your spot. For CAA Members, you can WhatsApp Vivian at 6272 8313 for a special code for HKD100 off when you purchase your pass (so that it is HKD200 instead of HKD300). After registration please WhatsApp us to show us your vaccination record so we can reduce the registration time at the time of the event. (You will be redirected to FLYE's third party platform and will be asked to create an account with Flye Fitness studio at the time of registration. Government COVID regulations mandate that all attendees of a fitness event or class register with the fitness centre.) https://hongkong.alumni.columbia.edu/cardio_party_empowerment_through_movement_with_flye_fitness Contact Information CAA Global and Diversity Engagement [email protected] Upcoming Events Columbia Alumni Center 622 West 113th Street, Mail Code 4525 · New York, NY 10025 Phone 212-851-7800 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close