Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Department of English Undergraduate Graduate People Internships News/Events Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact News and Events Recent Faculty Articles, Essays, Poems, and Short Stories What's Happening? Naseeb Shaheen Memorial Lecture Series Harry Potter Study Abroad Wordsmith Writing Olympics River City Writers' Series AboutCurrent SeriesPast SpeakersMake a Gift Student Recognition Take Action Apply Now Alumni and Friends Course Offerings Contact Us Follow Us Online Facebooktwitter Home Department of English News and Events River City Writers' Series The River City Writers Series (RCWS) is one of the longest running reading series in the nation, serving the University of Memphis and Mid-South community since 1977. The series welcomes prominent authors to campus to participate in a public reading, an interview hosted by our MFA program and often, a workshop. Past speakers have included Gwendolyn Brooks, John Updike, Seamus Heaney and many others. The series not only serves the local literary community, but also is a key component in our Creative Writing program. Students have the opportunity to not only have a conversation with acclaimed authors but also learn the business side of a writer's craft as they help organize and publicize the series, useful skills as students look to become literary professionals. We are grateful for the support of our friends and alumni. Your gifts make an enormous difference in the experience we offer to our students and to the continuation of this exciting and celebrated series. You can make a gift to the RCWS through the University of Memphis secure online system, or by visiting the UofM Development office. The RCWS is sponsored by Student Event Allocation, the English Department, the Creative Writing Club, and Sigma Tau Delta. All events are free and open to the public. Contact River City Writers' Series Courtney Santo Director, River City Writers' Series University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 (901) 678-2226 Department of English Patterson 467 Phone: 901-678-2651 Fax: 901-678-2226 Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 2/2/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.