Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Safety FAQ You are here Home Life at Temple Safety Safety FAQ Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Preferred Name Use Pronoun Use and Gender Identity Temple Thought Leaders Housing & Dining Health & Wellness COVID-19: Keeping Our Community Safe & Healthy COVID-19 FAQ Testing & Tracing Vaccines Academics, Tuition & Aid Temple HEERF III Grant Student Housing & On-campus Life Work-life for Faculty & Staff Faculty Teaching Information Return Scenario Planning Temple Community Health Advisory Group University Communication Vaccination Rates and Active COVID-19 Cases at Temple University International Campuses and Programs City Life Philadelphia Visiting Temple Accommodations Dining Options Religious Services Information FAQs Safety Main Campus and Philadelphia Safety FAQ Contact Temple RAVE Temple Guardian App Community Programs and Research University News Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Campus Life Arts and Culture Clubs and Organizations Housing, Dining and OWLcards Parking and Transportation Safety Student Banking Student Centers Wireless, Computers and Phone Academics Advising and Academic Support Courses and Calendars International Students Libraries Registration, Grades and Books Schools and Colleges Health and Wellness Athletics and Fitness Health and Counseling Tuition and Financial Aid Financial Aid Tuition and Billing Careers and Internships Career Center Internships Student Jobs Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees Presidential Search President University Leadership Board of Trustees Updates Past Presidents 2019 State of the University History & Traditions Russell Conwell Temple Traditions Acres of Diamonds Honorary Degrees Past Honorary Degree Recipients Temple Health News & Media Media Mentions Temple University Wallpapers Temple's Impact Career in Charitable Change Fueled by Temple Experiences Advancing Breast Cancer Research Leaders in HIV Research 21st-century Learning Temple Firsts Paving the Way Medical & Community Support Student Support Contact members of Strategic Marketing and Communications Offices Public Information Facts About Temple Faculty & Staff Resources Working at Temple Calendars and Time Off Holiday Schedule Careers at Temple Human Resources Performance and Training Business Services Catering Exception Policy Double Tree Catering/ Conferences Contact Frequently Asked Questions Trademark Licensing Policy Corporate Responsibility Logo and Graphics Guide Guidelines for Trademark Use The Student, Faculty and Staff Guide to Ordering Licensed Temple Products Becoming Licensed Trademark and Licensing FAQ Where to Buy Temple Gear University-approved Hotels Club Quarters DoubleTree Hotel Hilton Garden Inn Hilton Philadelphia at Penn's Landing Loews Hotel Sonesta Philadelphia The Conwell Inn Campus Services Computers, Email and Phones Conferences and Meetings Health Sciences Center Form Main Campus Meeting Space Howard Gittis Student Center Form Documents & Insurance Facilities and Space ID Cards Parking and Transportation Faculty Resources Calendars, Schedules and Grades Courses and Curricula Instructional Resources Faculty Senate and News Research and Grants Finance and Travel Accounting and Budget Employee Banking and Finance Tuition Remission Travel and Expenses Wellness and Safety Fitness and Health Safety and Alerts Campus Development Frequently Asked Questions Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Data Integrity and Data Verification Unit In-scope Materials Quick Reference Guide Rankings Data Overview and Updates Additional Resources Frequently Asked Questions FAQ: Fox School of Business MBA rankings Enterprise Risk Management Key Terms and Definitions Helpline Frequently Asked Questions Resources Compliance With the Four Pillars Who We Are Libraries Charles Library Campus safety is of paramount importance for the students, faculty and families of Temple University. Find answers to some of the most frequently asked questions about safety at Temple. Contents Safety and Security ResourcesStudent SupportCampus SafetyCommunity Action Safety and Security Resources What is Temple FLIGHT? FLIGHT is Temple’s free, late-night, on-demand shuttle service, which operates between Main Campus and the boundaries of Cumberland Avenue to the north, 5th Street to the east, Girard Avenue to the south and 20th Street to the west. FLIGHT begins operating daily at 7 p.m. Trips on FLIGHT must begin or end at a residential address. FLIGHT stops on campus at the following locations. The bus shelter between Paley Hall and the TECH Center Johnson and Hardwick Halls The IBC Student Recreation building Morgan Hall The SEPTA Regional Rail station The Student Center The Tyler School of Art and Architecture How do I request a ride with FLIGHT? To request a ride with FLIGHT, follow these directions or watch a video with detailed instructions. Download the TapRide app and select Temple University. Log in with your AccessNet username and password. Select where you are and where you want to go. Once in the app, identify your current location by entering it manually or clicking the “Show me where I am” button. Gray location indicators automatically appear on a map to show campus pick-up and drop-off locations. Select your destination. Plan ahead. FLIGHT receives between 500 and 600 requests on weekdays and between 800 and 900 requests on weekends. Ensure you schedule your ride in advance to minimize wait times. What is Temple’s Walking Escort Program? Walking escorts are available daily between 4 p.m. and 6 a.m. to accompany individuals to locations within Temple’s patrol boundaries. Escorts are security bike officers that maintain communication with Temple Police. To request a walking escort, call 8-WALK (8-9255) from a campus phone or 215-777-9255 from a cell phone. FLIGHT is recommended for assistance traveling to off-campus residences outside of the university’s patrol area. Are there any plans to enhance/expand FLIGHT? Beginning in January 2022, FLIGHT will increase its service operations by 30% as its fleet of vehicles increases from six to eight. Additionally, we will be holding student focus groups to collect feedback on the program, and surveys will also be disseminated to riders. The information we collect will then be used to inform future enhancements of the service. What safety training is available for students at Orientation? Campus safety is covered during the mandatory Temple Preview experience at Orientation. Students may also choose to register for an optional Owls in the City session, which goes into more detail about navigating life and staying safe in a major American city. What additional training is available for students and employees? Campus Safety Services offers introductory self-defense workshops to students and employees upon request. For more information, contact Donna Gray at donna.gray@temple.edu. How are you changing safety services so that more students will actually use them? A recent survey led by Temple Student Government found that students are aware of the various campus safety services available at Temple, like the FLIGHT shuttle service, the walking escort service and the Code Blue Emergency Phone system. However, while respondents indicated they are aware of services, they noted that they do not use them. Temple continues to explore solutions concerning how to increase the number of users of these services. Some changes have already been made. This spring, for instance, there was a 30% expansion of FLIGHT, which added two new shuttles for the spring semester. This is designed to both increase ridership and cut down on wait times. Student Support Beyond safety and security resources, how else does the university support students? The university offers the Good Neighbor Initiative, which educates students about the surrounding neighborhood and how to be productive members of the community while attending Temple. For students who need assistance with mental health concerns, Tuttleman Counseling Center offers short-term individual and group counseling, and may make referrals to off-campus services for students that need longer-term care. As a parent, what can I do to help protect my student? Parents can empower students to apply crime prevention planning and measures wherever they are present. They can encourage students to use the services and resources available at Temple, including the new RAVE app, Temple Guardian as well as the resources available through its use; our walking escort service; and our FLIGHT shuttle service. Campus Safety What steps is Temple taking to increase safety and security on campus? The university is working to increase our Campus Safety force by 50% and work with the Philadelphia Police Department to increase their presence off campus. Additionally, university leaders are collaborating with city leaders to expand anti-violence initiatives to reduce shootings and homicides in North Philadelphia and across the city. In January, we announced a partnership with former Philadelphia Police Commissioner Charles Ramsey, who will audit all of our campus safety services. Ramsey began his audit on April 1 and will continue to work on this over the next several months, but he is already gathering information and meeting with key stakeholders and groups. Read the story highlighting the start of the audit. We continue to do our part to help bolster hiring efforts, both here at Temple and also regionally and nationally. In late May 2022, we hosted the largest law enforcement job fair on the East Coast. More than 100 law enforcement agencies were in attendance. As we work to continue to hire a number of TUPD officers, we have greatly increased our patrol numbers through the use of Philadelphia Police Department supplemental patrols. We have tripled the number of weekly patrol hours from 96 to 288. Further actions being taken by the university include enhancing and expanding our safety infrastructure, adding and/or upgrading lighting, cameras, and emergency phones; increasing the availability of the FLIGHT shuttle service and implementing improvements to our walking escort program; organizing instruction for students on safe behaviors; expanding our work with civic, business and education leaders in the city to identify ways to keep our communities and campuses safe; aggressively pursuing federal and state resources available for safety enhancements; and pursuing the establishment of a university institute focused on violence reduction. What safety measures are offered to Temple University students? Temple students can use several safety resources on campus, including walking escorts by Campus Safety staff, shuttle services and Temple’s new RAVE app. We also offer strategies that emphasize safety awareness. Emergency phones are positioned across campus, enabling students to communicate directly with our communication center if there is an emergency or if they simply need assistance. Temple University provides the following resources. Professionally trained and certified campus police officers that patrol the campus 24 hours a day. Officers receive training in law enforcement as well as emergency preparedness (e.g., active assailant/shooter training) A high-traffic patrol on weekends and during late hours comprised of Temple police and security officers in addition to Philadelphia Police Department officers and a supervisor to augment patrols along the western zone of campus. PA State Police Liquor Enforcement agents who, on certain days and hours, are visible on and around campus to promote safe social activity while keeping our community safe. Trained building security officers who greet visitors and students and help keep our buildings safe. Contracted security officers in uniforms and on bikes who patrol the campus. These officers provide walking escorts, serve as eyes and ears for Temple officers, and offer a highly visible crime deterrent. Professionally trained dispatchers who take all emergency phone calls and activate special services as necessary. Dispatchers have more than 1,000 cameras at their disposal throughout the campus. This provides a significant camera surveillance system that allows Temple officers to observe suspicious incidents and potentially identify the offender(s). Our dispatchers interface and communicate with Philadelphia Police, SEPTA Police and Pennsylvania State Police. A volunteer student emergency medical services program (TUEMS) with students who are trained to medically assess patients and provide basic medical support. TUEMS works during high-traffic hours and days, helping fellow students get immediate and basic medical support until other emergency personnel arrives. An External Relations Unit that provides Coffee with Cops, a program that allows officers to share crime prevention education with students; student employee orientation that highlights crime prevention education; a credited personal defense course; and a bicycle safety program, with the registration of bikes and locks to safeguard them. What is Campus Safety Services at Temple? The Department of Campus Safety Services provides service to the Temple community 24 hours a day, 365 days a year. The department monitors security operations for more than 130 buildings, spanning approximately 330 acres. Temple Police manages sites around Main Campus, as well as the Health Sciences Center and Ambler campuses. On a typical day, Campus Safety staff are visible around campus: directing traffic, responding to inquiries, conducting prevention programs and interacting with the community in various other functions. Officers maintain positive relations with the Temple community in their assigned sectors. They are highly visible, wearing distinctive uniforms and are available to respond to situations. Does Temple Police have relationships with external law enforcement agencies? Campus Safety maintains a collaborative network with the Philadelphia Police Department, Southeastern Pennsylvania Transportation Authority (SEPTA) Police Department, Pennsylvania State Police, Upper Dublin Police Department (Ambler Campus) and other law enforcement agencies. Temple Police maintains memoranda of understanding with both the Philadelphia Police Department and with the Upper Dublin Police Department. How are Temple police officers trained to protect campus? Temple Police is currently staffed by approximately 110 sworn police officers (including supervisors and detectives) patrolling area campuses. Each officer is a Pennsylvania-certified law enforcement officer who has received state-mandated police recruit training at an accredited police academy and is authorized to enforce the law and make arrests similar to any municipal police department officer. Annually, Temple Police are certified through state-mandated, inservice training in accordance with the Municipal Police Officers’ Education and Training Commission. Training modules include updates to the Pennsylvania Crimes Code, Vehicle Code and Rules of Criminal Procedure. Other training sessions focus on the core concepts of procedural justice and police legitimacy, and address how to build respectful and effective relationships with the community while improving officer safety. Additional training includes certification in CPR and the use of automated external defibrillators. What area does the Temple Police patrol? Temple Police patrols the area between 9th Street to the east and 18th Street to the west and from Susquehanna Avenue to the north and Jefferson Avenue to the south. An additional patrol area between 13th Street to the east and Broad Street to the west extends south to Girard Avenue to include the Temple Sports Complex. See the Main Campus patrol area. Areas falling outside of these borders are patrolled by the Philadelphia Police Department. Can Temple patrol any areas that it wants? No. State law sets limits as to Temple Police’s jurisdiction. How can I stay informed about incidents in Temple's patrol area? TUalerts are sent in accordance with the Temple University Emergency Communication and Timely Warnings Policy (PDF) to communicate information about an incident on or near Temple’s campuses that presents an imminent threat (e.g., a person with a weapon) and/or is deemed an emergency requiring immediate action (e.g., avoiding the area where the incident occurred). TUalerts are sent via text message and email to Temple students and employees. Alert information for the general public is also posted on Temple University’s Twitter feed. Parents and families are encouraged to follow @TempleAlert on Twitter to receive updates. When are TUalerts sent out? TUalerts are a system to communicate information about an incident that requires immediate action on the part of the campus community. These alerts only are sent when there is an imminent public safety danger and a threat to campus. Where can I learn more about crime at Temple? In compliance with the Clery Act, Temple publishes an Annual Security and Fire Safety report, which is published by Oct. 1 each year and discloses the most recent three years of Clery crime statistics, and maintains a public crime log. What is the Jeanne Clery Act? The Jeanne Clery Disclosure of Campus Security Police and Campus Crime Statistics Act is a federal law that, among other things, requires institutions of higher education in the U.S. to disclose campus security information including crime statistics and security information. The Clery Act requires higher education institutions to give timely warnings of crimes that represent a threat to the safety of students or employees, and to make public their campus security policies. It also requires that crime data is collected, reported and disseminated to the campus community and is also submitted to the U.S. Department of Education. Under the Clery Act, institutions of higher education are responsible for publishing an annual security report and maintaining a public crime log. Does the university have crime prevention technologies in use? Campus Safety Services at Temple makes use of a robust surveillance camera system. In addition to acting as a deterrent, the footage from these cameras is available to dispatchers to get information to responding officers when crimes are committed. Temple also offers RAVE Guardian, an app that allows students to set up a profile with Temple Police through the app. Temple’s communication center dispatchers can access this information should you contact Temple Police with a registered phone. RAVE Guardian also provides GPS coordinates from your phone, allowing more effective response to locate you in an emergency. Discreetly contact Temple Police by simply texting dispatchers with a tip or situation needing attention. Dispatchers can have two-way communication via text messaging. Set a virtual safety timer escort for an extra layer of protection while you travel on and around campus. Use an emergency contact button to direct police to your location using GPS technology. Get more information about this safety resource. What are recommended tips for staying safe on campus? We are proud to be Philadelphia’s public university and strive to make our community conscious of the safety considerations that are part of living in a large city. Be aware of your surroundings. Don’t leave your belongings unattended. Keep your doors locked. Do not prop open building doors. Report suspicious persons inside campus buildings. Don’t bring valuable or sentimental items with you to campus. Never walk alone at night. Walk in groups in well-lit areas or use the Walking Escort Program for destinations on campus. Need to go off campus? Schedule a ride with FLIGHT. Always let someone know where you’re going and who you’re with. Familiarize yourself with the blue phones located throughout campus. Trust your intuition. If something doesn’t seem right, it probably isn’t. Don’t fight if your wallet, phone, backpack, purse or other property is taken. Give it up immediately and then call 911. Your personal safety and well-being are far more important than any possession. If a crime does occur on campus, notify Campus Safety Services immediately by dialing 1-1234 from a campus phone or 215-204-1234 from a cell phone. What are recommended tips to stay safe in Philadelphia? We are proud to be Philadelphia’s public university and strive to make our community conscious of the safety considerations that are part of living in a large city. Be aware of your surroundings. Don’t leave your belongings unattended. Keep the doors and windows to your residence locked. Do not prop open building doors. Report suspicious persons inside campus buildings. If you have a car, keep valuables out of sight. Or, better yet, leave them at home. Never walk alone at night. Walk in groups in well-lit areas or schedule a ride to campus with FLIGHT. Always let someone know where you’re going and who you’re with. Trust your intuition. If something doesn’t seem right, it probably isn’t. Don’t fight if your wallet, phone, backpack, purse or other property is taken. Give it up immediately and then call 911. Your personal safety and well-being are far more important than any possession. If a crime does occur, call 911 and notify Campus Safety Services immediately by calling 215-204-1234 from a cell phone. Where can I get information about the university’s safety efforts? Details regarding Temple’s campus safety efforts can be found at temple.edu/safety. Does the Temple Police Department have enough officers? The department provides police and security services 24 hours a day, seven days a week directing resources where needed. Temple and the Philadelphia Police Department use a data-driven approach when deploying personnel. Through the new officers that have been hired as well as the increased Philadelphia Police Department’s supplemental patrols, the university has more than doubled the number of officers actively patrolling Main Campus, especially on nights and weekends. Can Temple expand the patrol zone to include off-campus housing? If not, why not? Temple’s Main Campus patrol map can be found here. The university has limited jurisdiction by state law and cannot expand its patrol zone beyond legal limits. Why do students have to live off campus? Students have the option of living in university housing. But in a vibrant and engaging city, college students often prefer the freedom of living independently and developing life skills that set them up for success in adulthood. Temple guarantees on-campus housing for first-year students. Limited housing in residence halls is available for students after their first year, but most students prefer to live off-campus with friends or commute from their permanent homes. Many apartment buildings around campus offer attractive housing options for students and the Office of Off-campus Living can assist with apartment searches, tenant rights, etc. We can find an available bed in either a university-owned residence hall or in a private complex near campus well within the university’s patrol borders for any student who needs one. Additionally, any landlord in the area can apply for a grant of up to $2,500 that can be used for installing either lighting and/or cameras to improve security. We have received more than 100 inquiries from area landlords expressing interest in this new program, and more than 10 landlords have already installed equipment and received funding from the university. We are also working to create an online landlord rating system, which can be used by students and families when they are seeking off-campus housing. We hope to have this program launch at some point within the next academic year. Have Temple Police considered reviewing their strategies? Yes. Temple Student Government recently conducted a campus safety survey, administered to the student community from Jan. 24 to Feb. 6, 2022. It went to 31,734 undergraduate, graduate and professional students on all domestic campuses. A total of 5,313 students submitted usable responses for an overall response rate of 16.7%. The findings from the survey will be used to inform Campus Safety Services. Additionally, the university has partnered with former Philadelphia Police Commissioner Charles Ramsey, who will audit all of Temple’s current campus safety services. Ramsey’s tenure as commissioner, from January 2008 to January 2016, saw the city’s homicide rate drop 37% while violent crime decreased 31%. Ramsey previously co-chaired President Barack Obama’s Task Force on 21st Century Policing. The police union says there are not enough officers. How is the department managing security? The Temple Police Department is not immune to the current employment market challenges. While this is a national issue among police departments, Temple has and will continue to supplement our patrol force by utilizing more Philadelphia Police Department officers and the Bureau of Liquor Control Enforcement officers, as well as employing contracted security patrols. Security officers carry radios and are in direct contact with the Police Department. Temple also hires Philadelphia police officers and supervisors to focus their patrol at the west end of our campus during our most active hours and days. In terms of hiring new Temple police, in addition to all of the traditional methods of finding excellent candidates, we have been working with elected and other community development leaders and employment resources to help market the available positions, and hopefully, hire as many officers as possible. Community Action Gun violence is a consequence of economic underdevelopment in the city. How can Temple be a leader in helping to alleviate poverty in North Philadelphia? Temple’s approach to solving violence in the region is a holistic one and it will continue to invest in, and support, programs that create educational opportunities, economic development and research regarding substance use disorders, trauma and violence reduction. Gun violence is partly a result of systemic systems of oppression. In the near future, we will establish a university institute focused on violence reduction. Temple University Hospital also continues to look at gun violence through a different lens with its Temple Safety Net, led by Amy Goldberg, surgeon-in-chief for Temple Health and interim dean of the Lewis Katz School of Medicine, and Scott Charles, trauma outreach manager. A number of its innovative outreach programs, like Cradle to the Grave, Fighting Chance and Safe Bet, continue to help reduce the number of Philadelphians who suffer firearm injuries. Is it true Temple University defunded the Philadelphia Police Department? No. In June 2020, Temple University announced it would no longer fund the Philadelphia Police Foundation. The funds previously allocated for this purpose were reallocated to support social justice programs at the university, including the creation of the Center for Anti-racism. The university continues to pay the Philadelphia Police Department for supplemental patrols and safety services. What is the role of the Philadelphia Police Department in campus safety? The university works closely with the Philadelphia Police Department. The Temple dispatching system is integrated with the Philadelphia Police 911. In addition to Temple patrol, officers from the 22nd police district patrol the areas surrounding the campus and collaborate daily with Temple regarding directing patrols. Temple University financially supports the supplemental Philadelphia Police patrols around the campus area into our neighboring community where students live off campus. Philadelphia Police Department officers on patrol in this area maintain communication through the coordination with Temple’s dispatchers and Philadelphia Police dispatchers. As a communication redundancy, Temple patrol supervisors have Philadelphia Police radios to coordinate communication in real time. They are able to respond in a timely, coordinated manner. How is Temple partnering with community members to improve safety? The university has begun discussions with neighborhood groups to establish a neighborhood watch program for the areas around campus. Through this new partnership, public safety ambassadors will regularly patrol through the neighborhoods in and around campus. Trained in crime prevention, these ambassadors will help amplify the efforts of the Temple University Police Department and the Allied security officers. How is Temple working with the city of Philadelphia to address safety? On March 22, 2022, Temple President Jason Wingard and Executive Director for Public Safety Charlie Leone met with Philadelphia Mayor Jim Kenney and Philadelphia Police Commissioner Danielle Outlaw. Together, they discussed a full spectrum of strategies to address the crisis of gun violence and new solutions to stemming the flood of violence we are seeing throughout the city. Conversations with city services occur regularly and they are critical to explore all options when it comes to ensuring the safety of our students, faculty, staff and neighbors in North Philadelphia. Go back to Life at TempleMore in Safety Main Campus and Philadelphia Safety FAQ Contact Temple RAVE Temple Guardian App Community Programs and Research University News Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community.