Current Students - University of Houston Skip to main content Submit Close Give to UH Search About Academics Admissions Campus Life Research Athletics Locations Sugar Land Katy UH Technology Bridge News & Events Giving UH Home Current Students Current Students Student Resources From freshman to transfer, local to international, starting a career or looking for a change, the University of Houston has programs that drive students to achieve greatness. Registration & Enrollment From registration to enrollment, we provide all the resources to succeed. Enrollment Schedule Enroll in Classes Core Curriculum Access UH Cougar Card Get a Transcript Tuition and Fees Payment Information Bookstore Student Assistance (Financial and Emergency Aid) Our staff can help you pursue grants, work-study and on-campus student jobs, loans (student and parent), and other types of aid. Financial Aid Types of Aid Find Available Scholarships CoogsCare Emergency Loans Calendars Academic Calendar Career Services Calendar Final Exam Schedule UH Events Calendar Holiday Schedule Academic Resources The University of Houston has a variety of resources that will help you succeed. Access your classes at Blackboard, or explore our academic catalog to check out your class options. At UH we challenge students to discover the world. Majors & Minors Academic Catalog Core Curriculum Access Blackboard Download academic forms Drop or withdraw from a class Graduate & Professional Programs Undergraduate Academic Advising Graduate Academic Advising LAUNCH Testing Services (CASA) Challenger Program Tutoring Urban Experience Program Writing Center Cougar Byte Creation Station Copy Center Explore UH is a beautiful campus near the heart of a major city. While you’re here get familiar with the state of the art campus and take advantage of all the benefits the fourth largest city in the nation has to offer. Campus Map Parking Map Motorcycle Map Student Center Shuttle Info & Routes Get a Parking Permit Pay a Ticket Zipcar (Car Rental) Metro (Discounts) Register Your Bicycle Live UH has a diverse community and takes pride in every student’s success. Students living in the spacious on-campus apartments will build memorable, life-long friendships, participate in workshops, engage with the UH community and discover a home away from home. Residential Requirements Tour a Residence Hall Housing Options Housing Rates Apply for Housing FixIt (Maintenance) Eat Being a student means you’ll be very busy. UH has you covered for healthy dining options. Students at UH have a variety to choose from: select from the on-campus dining halls, on campus restaurants and a great selection of rotating food trucks that visit campus every weekday. Meal Plans On-Campus Dining Nutrition Student Programs Get plugged in at UH. We offer well-rounded areas of interest—from academic services, languages to ping pong. Engage in the community or find an organization or check out our on and off-campus jobs. UH has the resources students need to discover their passions and build careers. Dean of Students Office Honors College Online and Off-Campus Education University Career Services Career Fairs Student Center Student Government Justin Dart, Jr. Student Accessibility Center Veteran Services LGBTQ Resource Center Religion Center Women and Gender Resource Center Child Care Center Health & Safety UH seeks to empower the campus community to make healthy choices across all dimensions of wellness through evidence-based programs and services that contribute to student success. Recreation & Wellness Center Wellness Program Health Center Speech, Language, & Hearing Clinic Counseling & Psychological Service Center University Eye Institute Emergency Call Boxes Security Walking Escort Fire & Life Safety Can’t find what you’re looking for? Find the answer to your question, ask a question, or live chat with us. Get Help University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies