Skip to main content Undergraduate Admissions Navigation Academics Admissions FreshmanTransferInternationalTransient, Non-Degree Seeking and Second Bachelor’sDual Enrollment and Early AdmissionAdmitted StudentsRequest InfoCheck Status Cost and Aid Visit FAQs View All FAQsFreshmanApplication ProcessAdmitted StudentsCost, Fees and Financial AidCampus Visits and ToursHousing and Campus Life Resources For High School StudentsFor ParentsFor CounselorsVirtual Info SessionsAdmission FormsJoin Our Mailing ListContact Us Apply Admitted Students Congratulations on Your Admission! As a newly admitted student, you’ll want to start planning for your transition to UCF right away. Here is a list of next steps to help make your first days at UCF easier. Print-friendly versions: Freshman Transfer Online Early Admission Dual Enrollment Skip to Section After Receiving an Offer of Admission Confirmation Secure your offer of admission by logging in to your Future Knight Portal and submitting your nonrefundable $200 enrollment deposit online. You cannot register for Orientation until this deposit has been paid. The enrollment deposit can be submitted online by credit or debit card. Visit our FAQ to learn how to request a waiver of the enrollment deposit on the basis of a financial hardship. Admission You must enroll for the term indicated on your admission letter. If you do not register for your original admission term, your classes will be dropped for subsequent terms and your admission revoked. If you wish to change your term of application, you must contact the Office of Undergraduate Admissions. Check your admission letter for the accuracy of your name, entrance term, address and major. Address, telephone and email changes can be made on your Future Knight Portal. All other changes must be submitted in writing to the Office of Undergraduate Admissions. If you are a transfer, transient, non-degree seeking or UCF Online student and wish to change your term of application, submit a Term Change Request Form or a new application and fee. Orientation We encourage students to register for the earliest Orientation session possible. The earlier you respond, the better your opportunity for your first-choice session. For more information about our mandatory Orientation, visit orientation.ucf.edu. Opportunities for Freshmen Incoming first-time-in-college students are encouraged to explore opportunities to enhance their learning through one or more engagement programs. Housing A variety of on- and off-campus living arrangements are available to all students (except UCF Online students). If you are interested in living in the residence halls, apply as soon as possible. It is recommended that you complete an application before the end of March. Knights Email You must register for a Knights Email account before you attend Orientation and register for classes. Once you register for classes, official UCF communication will only be sent to your Knights Email — no other email address will be used. Submit Required Documents Immunizations Prior to registration, you must submit a completed immunization form provided by UCF Health Services. If this is not completed prior to your Orientation session, you will not be able to register for classes during Orientation. UCF Online students must contact UCF Health Services at 407-823-3707. Residency for Tuition Purposes A Florida “resident for tuition purposes” is a person who has, or a dependent person whose parent or legal guardian has, established and maintained legal residency in Florida for at least 12 consecutive months preceding the first day of classes of the term for which Florida residency is sought. Confirm your residency status for tuition purposes on your Future Knight Portal. Once you register for classes, access your fee invoice and ensure that appropriate tuition fees are assessed. Final Transcripts FRESHMEN: A copy of your official final transcript showing the date of high school graduation is due no later than June 30 for students enrolling in the summer term and no later than July 15 for students enrolling in fall. If your transcript does not match information provided on your SPARK Form, your offer of admission may be rescinded. You must also submit official final transcripts from every post-secondary institution (i.e. dual enrollment) attended. TRANSFERS: A copy of your official final transcripts from each institution attended is required. If you satisfied the foreign language requirement in high school, a copy of your official final high school transcript must be submitted to the Office of Undergraduate Admissions. ALL: Failure to provide final transcripts to UCF may also delay the disbursement of financial aid. Failure to meet all admission criteria will result in a change in your eligibility for financial aid. Your admission is contingent upon your successful completion of all coursework at a level consistent with that at the time of admission. Your enrollment is not complete until all official final transcripts and test scores are on file in our office. The status of these transcripts is available on your Future Knight Portal. Failure to provide final transcripts will jeopardize your ability to adjust your schedule, register for future terms, receive grades or have transcripts sent to other institutions. NOTE: All documents, including documents submitted electronically, require processing time. Document processing time varies by time of year: Non-peak: 5-7 business days minimum Peak times (around application deadlines and first few weeks of each semester): 7-10 business days minimum To avoid delays, submit all required documents as early as possible and well before deadlines. Score Reports If you have taken AP, IB, AICE or CLEP exams, you must have official score reports sent to the Office of Undergraduate Admissions. Financial Assistance Financial aid is available to students who have been offered admission, determined eligible, filed the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA), classified as a degree-seeking student, enrolled in at least one UCF class for the term they have been admitted, and met all other eligibility requirements. If your first term of enrollment at UCF is the summer term, you must first complete the prior year’s FAFSA in order to receive financial aid for that term. If you are a financial aid recipient, your eligibility is based, in part, upon the assumption that you have met the admission contingencies specified in your admission letter. If it is later determined that you failed to meet an admission contingency, you will no longer be eligible for financial aid and it will be canceled. In addition, you will be responsible for repaying any financial aid disbursed to you. If you have questions, contact the Office of Student Financial Assistance at 407-823-2827. You can also schedule an appointment by calling 407-823-5285. For more steps on applying for financial aid, visit the Office of Student Financial Assistance. Dining UCF Dining Memberships are convenient, flexible and loaded with options. Anyone with a valid UCF ID may purchase a Dining Membership. All Members gain access to dining locations with a range of menus and offerings all across campus. All Dining Memberships are voluntary, providing an open-access community atmosphere that give members the opportunity to study, socialize and maintain a healthy diet. All Members will receive value, whether you eat on campus three times a week or three times a day! Transfer Credits For first-time-in-college students coming to UCF with transfer credits, college-level credits from accredited institutions of higher education (meeting university transfer eligibility requirements) will transfer. However, all of your credits may not meet your specific degree requirements. The department of your major will determine how these credits will be used. UCF currently uses a plus/minus system in calculating grade point average. In addition, grade forgiveness is honored only if it has been awarded as part of an A.A. or statewide articulated A.S. degree from a Florida public community college, state college or university. An official general listing (Transfer Summary Report) of your transfer courses, based on the courses listed on official transcripts received at the time of admission, will be available online at myUCF. Foreign Language The foreign language admission requirement consists of demonstration of competency of a foreign language or American Sign Language equivalent to the second high school level or the postsecondary elementary 2 level. If you have not met this requirement, you will be required to do so prior to graduation from UCF. If you satisfied this requirement in high school, you must submit an official high school transcript to the Office of Undergraduate Admissions. There may be additional foreign language graduation requirements for individual majors. Please contact the department of your major for details. Holds Failure to provide final transcripts, official test scores or residency documentation will result in a hold being placed on your account. These holds will affect your ability to adjust your schedule, register for future terms, receive grades or have transcripts sent to other institutions. These holds will also delay the disbursement of financial aid. Register for Classes Major and Career Exploration We’ve provided a road map and strategies for students in the process of exploring different majors and careers. These resources help you build self-knowledge, educational knowledge, occupational knowledge and decision-making knowledge as it relates to deciding on majors and careers. Course Catalog The Undergraduate Catalog will give you all the academic and administrative information that you need for your Orientation. Be sure you familiarize yourself with the catalog so you can be advised about the courses that you need. Post-Registration Pay for Classes Log in to the myUCF Student Center to view your fee invoice, or accept or decline awards, Acceptable forms of payment include checks, money orders, most major credit cards (excluding Visa) and international wire transfers. Textbooks You can order your textbooks online from the UCF bookstore. Enter your course schedule, and find a list of everything you’ll need. Student ID You will have the opportunity to receive your UCF Card while attending Orientation. In order to receive this card, you will need to know your UCFID and NID and bring a valid government-issued photo ID with you. Acceptable forms of ID include driver’s license, state ID card or passport. Parking Students who park a vehicle on the University of Central Florida campus must purchase a parking permit. The registered owner of the permit is responsible for all infractions and penalties attributed to the permit, even if expired. There are two choices: decal (stick-on) permits, which must be permanently attached to the vehicle as per the instruction on the back of the decal, or hang tag permits, which must be displayed on the rear view mirror. Campus Map Familiarizing yourself with a new school can be difficult for many students, but we make it easy with our Interactive Map. An easy way to learn the campus is to take a walk. At first, the UCF campus may seem overwhelming, but it’s one of the easier campuses to navigate. Don’t wait until the first day of classes to walk around — you’ll be late. Practice walking to your classes to be sure you have enough time between classes. Student Resources UCF provides students with a multitude of resources to help achieve success. The Student Development and Enrollment Services website has a list of student resources to help you succeed. Have Fun! College is an exciting time. While making good grades is your top priority, there will be plenty of time for fun. Join an intramural sports team, club or organization. Use your time at UCF to grow your resume but have fun doing it. Charge on! College Advice from Recent Grads Contact Us Mailing Address P.O. Box 160111 Orlando, FL 32816-0111 Contact Email: [email protected] Phone: 844-376-9160 Fax: 407-823-5625 Business Hours Mon - Fri: 9 a.m. - 5 p.m. Closed Weekends & Holidays Application Deadlines Freshman Applicants Fall: May 1 Spring: November 1 Summer: March 1 Transfer Applicants Fall: July 1 Spring: November 1 Summer: March 1 International Applicants Fall: March 1 Spring: September 1 Summer: January 1 More Resources FAQs Admission Forms Accreditation Annual Security Report Accessibility Request Info Let’s Get Social Facebook Twitter