Skip to main content Information For: Current Students Alumni Harvard Undergraduates Educators Recruiters Media Apply Give to HGSE Search Apply for Degree Programs Apply for Professional Education Donate Give back to HGSE and support the next generation of passionate educators and innovative leaders. Keywords Close Menu Degree Programs Professional Education Faculty & Research Usable Knowledge Keywords About HGSE About the Dean Dean's Welcome Messages from the Dean Commentary and Media Dean's Office History of HGSE Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Our Impact Campus and Facilities Office Directory Virtual Tour Gutman Conference Center Reservation Request Form Capacities and Cost Floor Plan Catering Policies Audio Visual Directions, Parking, and Hotels Map of HGSE Directions to HGSE History of HGSE Buildings Faculty & Staff Directory Work at HGSE Title IX Information Doctoral Degree Programs Doctor of Education Leadership Doctor of Philosophy in Education Brochures Academic Calendar Academic Catalog Doctoral Viewbook Master's Degree Program Master's in Education Programs Education Leadership, Organizations, and Entrepreneurship Education Policy and Analysis Human Development and Education Learning Design, Innovation, and Technology Teaching and Teacher Leadership Concentrations Arts and Learning Early Childhood Global, International, and Comparative Education Higher Education Identity, Power, and Justice in Education Literacy and Languages A Personalized Approach Online Master's in Education Leadership Foundations Brochures Academic Catalog Academic Calendar Academic Year 2020-22 Programs Professional Education About Us Programs Early Childhood K-12 Higher Education Online Programs For Organizations Group and Team Enrollment Custom Programs Admissions Payment & Tuition Assistance Refunds & Withdrawals Policies and Accessibility Campus Experience On-Campus Program Health and Safety Policies FAQs Events Contact Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Centers, Projects and Initiatives Faculty Recruitment Faculty Experts Admissions Introduce Yourself Explore Find the Right Program Brochures Life at HGSE Connect Apply Refer a Candidate Frequently Asked Questions Financial Aid HGSE & Harvard University Consumer Information Tuition & Costs Applying for Aid Incoming Students Incoming International Students Continuing Students Scholarships, Fellowships & Grants Need-Based Grant Awards HGSE Fellowships Additional Fellowships External Fellowships Student Loans Student Work International Students International Applicant FAQ Funding Sources Students with Families Financial Aid Appeals Presentations & Publications Budgeting & Financial Literacy Budget Calculator Registrar News & Events Harvard Edcast Education Now Askwith Education Forum Upcoming Events Submit an Event Usable Knowledge Ed. Magazine Harvard Education Publishing Group Information for Media Education Now Usable Knowledge Usable Knowledge Harvard EdCast Ed. Magazine HGSE Centennial Community Learning Beyond the Classroom Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Organizations and Initiatives Community Events and Action Resources Teaching and Learning Gutman Library Services Alumni Services Collections Special Collections Request for Library Purchase Library Hours Websites for Educators About the Library Facilities & Equipment Contact Information Coronavirus Response Information Directory Calendar Alumni Network & Connect Get Involved Learn & Grow Benefits & Services my.harvard Student Handbook Introduction Welcome to HGSE Preface Commitment to Diversity Part 1: Enrollment Policies Academic Programs and Affiliations Registration and Enrollment Policies Tuition and Fees Financial Aid Student Health Insurance Grading Part 2: Student Supports Advising HGSE Supports University Supports Campus Safety and Security Part 3: Program Policies Academic Governance Doctor of Education (Ed.D.) Program Policies Doctor of Philosophy in Education (Ph.D.) Program Policies Doctor of Education Leadership (Ed.L.D.) Program Policies Master of Education (Ed.M.) Program Policies Part 4: Academic Integrity and Standards of Conduct Resolution on Rights and Responsibilities Academic Standards and Integrity Standards of Conduct in the Harvard Community Committee on Rights and Responsibilities Policies on Harassment and Discrimination Policy on Consensual Romantic Relationships Policy on Physical Violence Policy on Misrepresentation of Status Policy on Illicit Substances Policy on Hazing Policy on Threats Part 5: Copyright and Publishing Policies Copyright Disclosure Use of the Harvard Name Information For Current Students Alumni Harvard Undergraduates Educators Recruiters Media Connect with HGSE Facebook Twitter Linked In LinkedIn Symbols Created with Sketch. Instagram Student Handbook Student Handbook: HGSE Committee on Rights and Responsibilities The HGSE Committee on Rights and Responsibilities (CRR) handles the resolution of alleged infractions of HGSE or university rules, breaches of community standards and/or other disciplinary matters involving students at the School. With respect to alleged violations of the university’s Interim Title IX Sexual Harassment Policy, Interim Other Sexual Misconduct Policy or Sexual and Gender-Based Harassment Policy (collectively, the “University’s Policies on Sexual and Gender Based Harassment”), the CRR imposes sanctions after an investigation has been concluded in accordance with the university’s grievance procedures, as described more fully below. The CRR is not intended to handle academic matters involving student progress, which are normally within the province of the Doctoral Program Steering Committees, and the Degree Programs Office. The Dean appoints the committee members and designates a faculty member to serve as Chair. Meetings include at least three faculty members plus the chair. Disciplinary cases ordinarily are considered by the CRR as quickly as is reasonably possible, given its schedule and the need to investigate matters carefully. The CRR does not meet during the summer months. It is important to recognize that the CRR’s disciplinary system is not a legal system, and that the procedures of the CRR are designed to achieve ends different from those of criminal or civil litigation. While a court of law may only be interested in establishing innocence or guilt, the CRR is interested in the larger educational, developmental, and community implications of conduct. Upon referral of a case, the CRR will send written notification to the respondent, providing the time and place (including virtual meetings) of the CRR hearing and inviting the respondent to attend. The notice shall provide sufficient specificity about the charges and the basis for the referral to permit the respondent to prepare a response. When a case has been referred to the CRR, the student’s transcript may be marked in the interim “disciplinary proceedings pending.” Conduct of Hearings The hearings of the Committee on Rights and Responsibilities will be conducted under the following conditions: The Chair will be responsible for initiating, moderating, and ending the hearing. Members of the committee who have a direct or personal interest in the hearing may submit a request to the Chair to be excused from that particular hearing. This request must be submitted prior to the hearing; the Dean or Dean’s designee will be responsible for appointing a substitute. If two or more people have been accused of the same violation, each person may request a separate hearing. During the hearing, only those directly involved in the case, that is, the members of the CRR, the complainant, the respondent, witnesses, faculty advisers or other personal advisers (officers of the University affiliated with HGSE), may be present. Either the complainant or respondent may request that particular witnesses appear before the CRR; however, the CRR retains final discretion over which witnesses are asked to appear, and may limit the number of witnesses if it so elects. Witnesses who appear before the CRR will be expected to answer questions from members of the Committee. Witnesses are not to discuss the case with one another throughout the duration of the hearing. The respondent has the option of appearing at the CRR hearing, but is not obliged to accept this opportunity. They may submit a written statement instead of making a personal appearance. Respondents who choose to appear before the Committee may participate to whatever extent they feel comfortable, within the bounds of standard CRR procedures. A faculty adviser or HGSE adviser (an officer of the University affiliated with HGSE) may accompany the student. Such an adviser does not participate in the questioning or discussion with the Committee, but is there as a resource for and support to the student. Members of student’s family may not serve as personal advisers for these purposes, even if affiliated with HGSE. Respondents who appear are entitled to rebut any information presented and to present their own information on pertinent matters. The respondent must indicate in writing to the Committee the name of his, her, or their faculty/HGSE or personal adviser at least 24 hours prior to the hearing. The Committee shall compose a written report of its findings and sanctions. The Director for Master’s Studies will notify the respondent of the CRR’s decision. A written copy of the Committee’s report shall be provided to the respondent. If the Committee finds a student to have engaged in acts of physical violence against another student or to have violated one or more of the University’s Policies on Sexual or Gender-Based Harassment, then the student making the complaint also may be informed of the Committee’s decision. In all other cases, only the respondent is informed of the Committee’s decision. Sanctions The Committee on Rights and Responsibilities may recommend any of the following sanctions: Censure: a written or oral rebuke without further conditions. Probation: conditional permission to remain in the university, with conditions established by the CRR. Any involvement in further violations would be grounds for separation from the university. Failure of the Assignment and/or Course: failing the assignment without makeup, having to redo the assignment, or failing the course. Usually, these dispositions of a case are made only where it is apparent that the student did not fully understand his or her obligations. Requirement to Withdraw: temporary separation from the university for a specified period of time, after which the person may be reinstated, sometimes under probation. Reinstatement ordinarily is contingent on the person’s demonstrating that they maintained a satisfactory standard of conduct during the time away, that they understand the reasons for previous difficulties, and that have taken steps to address these difficulties successfully. Dismissal: action taken in serious disciplinary cases that ends a student’s connection with the university. (The action taken by the CRR is a vote of separation with a recommendation to the Dean’s Cabinet that the student be dismissed.) Dismissal must be voted by a two-thirds majority of the Dean’s Cabinet. Dismissal does not necessarily preclude the student’s return, but readmission similarly requires a recommendation by the CRR to the Dean’s Cabinet and a two-thirds majority vote of the Dean’s Cabinet. Dismissed students are not in good standing unless and until they are officially readmitted. Expulsion: the most extreme disciplinary action possible. It signifies that the student is no longer welcome in the community. (The action taken by the CRR is a vote of separation with a recommendation to the Dean’s Cabinet that the student be expelled.) Expulsion must be voted by a two-thirds majority vote of the Dean’s Cabinet. A student who is expelled can never be readmitted and restored to good standing. The Committee on Rights and Responsibilities keeps a record of all cases that it hears. The record specifies the Committee’s recommendation and the rationale for this recommendation, and the final decision and disposition of the case. This record becomes part of the student’s educational record. Disciplinary findings may be reflected on a student’s transcript. Appeals and Special Cases Appeals A respondent who wishes to appeal a disciplinary decision must file a written appeal with the dean within one week after being notified of the decision. Decisions by the CRR will be given deference and reviewed by the Dean for clear error only. If there is new and compelling information potentially material to the outcome, that information must be included with the appeal and will be considered only if the student can show that the new information could not have been presented to the CRR at or before the hearing. If the Dean determines that the appeal has sufficient merit to warrant further consideration of the case, the Dean may alter the sanctions, request a rehearing by the CRR, or refer the matter to the full faculty for review. Ordinarily, the Dean’s review of an appeal will be completed within 30 days. Cases that Require Special Consideration Cases and Court Action HGSE may defer consideration of a case for as long as it considers appropriate if a criminal investigation or court process is pending and if the underlying allegations involve serious criminal misconduct. If, however, both the complainant and respondent (or all parties involved) prefer to have HGSE take up the case immediately, regardless of the status of legal matters, the CRR may proceed at its discretion. In all cases involving the potential for serious criminal sanctions as well as CRR review, respondents are advised to seek legal counsel. Possible Involuntary Leave of Absence or Restrictions As noted above in the section on Involuntary Leaves of Absence, Director for Master’s Studies or Director for Doctoral Studies in consultation with other officers of the University as appropriate, may place a student on involuntary leave of absence when the student has been arrested on allegations of serious criminal behavior or has been charged with such behavior by law enforcement authorities, or when the student allegedly has violated a disciplinary rule of HGSE and his or her presence on campus poses a significant risk to the safety of others or to the educational environment of the community. The Academic Dean also may place restrictions on an enrolled student’s activities or living arrangements during the course of a disciplinary case. In this section Student Handbook Introduction Welcome to HGSE Preface Commitment to Diversity Part 1: Enrollment Policies Academic Programs and Affiliations Registration and Enrollment Policies Tuition and Fees Financial Aid Student Health Insurance Grading Part 2: Student Supports Advising HGSE Supports University Supports Campus Safety and Security Part 3: Program Policies Academic Governance Doctor of Education (Ed.D.) Program Policies Doctor of Philosophy in Education (Ph.D.) Program Policies Doctor of Education Leadership (Ed.L.D.) Program Policies Master of Education (Ed.M.) Program Policies Part 4: Academic Integrity and Standards of Conduct Resolution on Rights and Responsibilities Academic Standards and Integrity Standards of Conduct in the Harvard Community Committee on Rights and Responsibilities Policies on Harassment and Discrimination Policy on Consensual Romantic Relationships Policy on Physical Violence Policy on Misrepresentation of Status Policy on Illicit Substances Policy on Hazing Policy on Threats Part 5: Copyright and Publishing Policies Copyright Disclosure Use of the Harvard Name Student Handbook Student Handbook Introduction Welcome to HGSE Preface Commitment to Diversity Part 1: Enrollment Policies Academic Programs and Affiliations Registration and Enrollment Policies Tuition and Fees Financial Aid Student Health Insurance Grading Part 2: Student Supports Advising HGSE Supports University Supports Campus Safety and Security Part 3: Program Policies Academic Governance Doctor of Education (Ed.D.) Program Policies Doctor of Philosophy in Education (Ph.D.) Program Policies Doctor of Education Leadership (Ed.L.D.) Program Policies Master of Education (Ed.M.) Program Policies Part 4: Academic Integrity and Standards of Conduct Resolution on Rights and Responsibilities Academic Standards and Integrity Standards of Conduct in the Harvard Community Committee on Rights and Responsibilities Policies on Harassment and Discrimination Policy on Consensual Romantic Relationships Policy on Physical Violence Policy on Misrepresentation of Status Policy on Illicit Substances Policy on Hazing Policy on Threats Part 5: Copyright and Publishing Policies Copyright Disclosure Use of the Harvard Name Sign up for our newsletters to get the latest from the Harvard Graduate School of Education. Sign Up Now Artboard 1 13 Appian Way | Cambridge, MA 02138 Centennial Contact Us Directory Directions Harvard University ©2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College Linked In Symbols Created with Sketch. Youtube RSS Podcast HGSE Publishing Policies & Disclaimers Digital Accessibility Policy Privacy Policy Trademark Notice