Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Office of the Vice President for Student Affairs Leadership Leadership Vice President VP's Leadership Team Diversity Officer Student Advisory Board Student Reps to BOT Committees Programs Programs Special Funding Student Boulevard Guidelines Courageous Change Leader Award Hilltop Excellence Awards Resources Resources Student Event Guidelines Student Values Statement Off Campus Party Registration Alcohol Request Form Student Employment Employment Opportunities Strategic Direction Get Help ☰ Office of the Vice President for Student Affairs Vice President's Leadership Team Chaplain Reverend Lisa Garvin (she/her/hers) Chaplain and Minister to the University The chaplain and minister to the University serves the entire SMU community, working with diverse campus religious organizations that support and nurture students in the development of faith and ethics. Rev. Garvin leads the Office of the Chaplain and Religious Life staff and affiliated campus ministries in creating an inclusive community that celebrates intellectual curiosity about religion and spirituality, nourishes ethical decision-making, cultivates deep spiritual exploration and supports faithful living in the world. She collaborates with campus colleagues to provide pastoral care, spiritual growth and social justice education to all students. Education and Credentials Bachelor of Arts, European Studies – Millsaps College Master of Divinity – Candler School of Theology at Emory University Juris Master, Human Rights – Emory University School of Law garvinl@smu.edu chaplain@smu.edu (214) 768-4502 About Rev. Garvin The Rev. Lisa Garvin joined SMU on Oct. 19, 2020 as chaplain and minister to the University, the first woman to serve in the role. SMU’s chaplain and minister to the University serves the entire SMU community, working with diverse campus religious organizations that support and nurture students in the development of faith and ethics. Building on SMU’s deep roots in the United Methodist tradition, Rev. Garvin is expanding the table of religious life at SMU and engaging the community’s rich diversity to foster spiritual life on The Hilltop. Garvin holds a bachelor degree in European Studies from Millsaps College. She also holds a Master of Divinity degree from Emory University’s Candler School of Theology and a Juris Master in Human Rights from Emory University School of Law. In 2015-2016, Garvin was participated in the HERS: Leadership Institute, a selective leadership program for women in higher education administration. In 2018, Garvin was selected as a KAICIID International Interfaith Fellow where, with 20 religious leaders from 13 countries and eight different religious traditions, she honed her skills for facilitating interreligious dialogue and developing leaders who advocate for peace in their communities. Garvin has a lifelong commitment to church-related higher education. A native of Hattiesburg, Mississippi, Garvin previously served Emory University as associate dean of the chapel and religious life (2012-2020) and her alma mater, Millsaps College, as college chaplain (2005-2008). She also served the Mississippi Conference of The United Methodist Church as director of ministerial Services (2008-2012). Garvin is an ordained deacon in the United Methodist Church and currently serves as a director of its General Board of Church and Society chairing the board’s Advocacy Work Area. As a Trustee at Millsaps College (2010-2018), Garvin chaired the Student Affairs Committee. Garvin has a special interest in human rights and racial justice, and has led travel seminars to South Africa, Bosnia and Herzegovina, the U.S.-Mexico border and Cuba. Favorite SMU Tradition Since I’ve only been at SMU during COVID (so far), I feel like I haven’t experienced the best of SMU’s traditions. I’m looking very forward to athletics events next year and cheering on the Mustangs in all the athletic arenas on campus and beyond! I love being outside (especially) in the Fall and Spring, watching athletes compete and excel in what they’ve trained to do, and the sense of community when we are all cheering them towards victory. Check out SMU Athletics Learn more about the Office of the Chaplain and Religious Life Visit the website Explore Other Student Affairs Leaders Dr. K.C. Mmeje Vice President for Student Affairs Read My Bio Dr. Mindy Sutton Associate Vice President and Dean of Students Read My Bio Dr. Adam Cebulski Assistant Vice President and Chief of Staff Read My Bio Ashley Wendler Dean of RLSH ad Interim Learn About RLSH Dr. Crystal Clayton Executive Director of the Hegi Family Career Development Center Read My Bio Apply Visit School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share