Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Office of the Registrar Menu Baylor>Registrar>FERPA>Student Annual Notification FERPA Annual Notification for Students Student Rights Related to Educational Records The Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act of 1974 (FERPA) affords students attending, or who have attended, certain rights with respect to their education records. Students are considered to be in attendance once they have registered for courses for their initial term of enrollment. These rights include: The right to inspect and review the student's educational records. Any student who desires to review his or her educational record in a University office may make a written request to the University custodian of the record. The custodian shall provide the opportunity to the student to inspect and review the record in not more than 45 days. The right to request an amendment of the student's educational records to ensure they are not inaccurate, misleading, or otherwise in violation of the student's privacy or other rights. Any student who desires amendment of his or her record shall follow the procedure set forth below: A student shall submit to the custodian of the record a written request asking that the record be amended if the student has reason to believe that the educational record contains information that is inaccurate, misleading, or in violation of the student's rights of privacy. The custodian of the record shall decide whether to amend the record as requested within a reasonable time after receiving the request. If the custodian decides not to amend the record, the student shall be informed of his or her right to a hearing regarding the amending of the record. In cases regarding academic records, a request for a hearing should be submitted in writing to the Provost. For all other educational records, a request for a hearing should be submitted in writing to the Vice President for Student Life. If a hearing is requested, the University shall follow the procedure set forth below: A hearing shall be held within a reasonable time after the request has been received. The student shall be given notice of the date, time, and place, reasonably in advance of the hearing. The Provost or Vice President for Student Life will determine the school official who will conduct the hearing; the school official must be an official of the institution who does not have a direct interest in the outcome of the hearing. The student may present relevant evidence and may be assisted by individuals of their choice at the hearing. The official in charge of the hearing shall make his or her decision in writing within a reasonable period of time after the hearing. The decision must be based solely on the evidence presented at the hearing and must include a summary of the evidence and the reasons for the decision. Note: The above procedure shall not be available to challenge the validity of a grade given by a professor or any other decision of a University professor or official but only whether the recording of such grade or decision is accurate and complete. The right to consent to disclosures of personally identifiable information contained in the student's educational records, except to the extent that FERPA authorizes disclosure without consent. Baylor University discloses education records without a student's prior written consent under the FERPA exception for disclosure to school officials with legitimate educational interest. School officials are those individuals who engage in the instructional, advisory, administrative, governance, public safety, and support functions of the University. They do not necessarily need to be paid employees of the University, which may include contractors, consultants, volunteers, or other parties to whom Baylor University has outsourced institutional services or functions. Legitimate educational interest is when a school official requires a student's educational record in the course of performing his or her duties for the University./pr> The right to file with the U.S. Department of Education a complaint regarding an alleged violation by Baylor University under FERPA or its implementing regulations. The department's address is: Student Privacy Policy Office U.S. Department of Education 400 Maryland Avenue, S.W. Washington, DC 20202-5920 Directory Information Directory information is that information that is customarily made public without the written consent of the student. However, under the provisions of the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act of 1974, a student may ask Baylor University not to disclose directory information by making written notice to the Office of the Registrar. Request for nondisclosure will be honored by the University until notified in writing that information should no longer be withheld. Directory information includes: name, address, telephone number, e-mail address, dates of attendance, level and classification, University ID card photograph, previous institution(s) attended, field(s) of study, awards, scholarships, honors, degree(s) conferred and date(s), full-time/part-time status, earned hours, expected graduation date or degree candidacy, thesis and dissertation titles and advisors, past and present participation in officially recognized sports and activities, physical factors of athletes (age, height, weight), and date and place of birth. (It is the practice of the University to not release a student's date of birth except as required by law or as a means to validate positive identification of a student when furnished by a person making an inquiry.) Additional information about FERPA may be found at: FERPA Policy. Registrar Dates and Deadlines Registering for Classes Steps for Registration Registration + Planning Instructional Videos View Class Schedule in BearWeb Summer/Fall 2022 BearWeb Early Registration Schedule Waitlist Information Waitlist FAQs Returning Student Reactivation Returning Student Reactivation FAQs Wintermester Academic Services Transcript Information Additional Information Current Student Online Ordering Former Student Online Ordering Name and Address Change Enrollment/Degree Certification Commencement Information Non-certified Commencement Participation Policy Diploma Information Diploma Distribution for Current Graduates Duplicate Diploma Orders for Alumni Duplicate Diploma Order Form Dean's Academic Honor List Degree Audits GPA Slip/Final Grades Enrollment Status Undergraduate Course Repeat Policy FAQ's - Undergraduate Course Repeat and Academic Forgiveness Policy U.Achieve Instructional Videos Schedule of Classes & Catalogs Schedule of Classes University Catalogs Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Law School Catalog Seminary Catalog Final Exam Schedule Spring 2022 Fall 2022 Transfer Credit Transfer Credit Policies Equivalent Course Tool (ECT) Search by Outside Institution Search by Baylor Course Equivalent Course Request (ECR) Transfer Credit FAQs Abroad Equivalent Course Approval VA Education Benefits Announcements Apply for VA Educational Benefits Meet our VA Benefits Team VA Benefits Contact Information Military Scholarships VA Chapter Benefits Chapter 33 John Fry Scholarship Chapter 35 Chapter 31 Chapter 30, 1606 VA Forms / Resources FAQs Ineligible Programs The Effects of Schedule Changes (Debt Info) Terminology VA COE Submission Yellow Ribbon Program Room Scheduling Faculty/Staff Resources Class Scheduling Schedule Build Timeline Development Grading Resources Class Roster Verification Electronic Catalog Implementation FERPA FERPA Policy Faculty/Staff Quick Guide Student Annual Notification FERPA Consent Form FAQs Office Information Mission Statement Staff Directory Activities and Responsibilities Organizational Chart Search the Site Show More General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 Dates and Deadlines Registering for Classes Steps for Registration Registration + Planning Instructional Videos View Class Schedule in BearWeb Summer/Fall 2022 BearWeb Early Registration Schedule Waitlist Information Waitlist FAQs Returning Student Reactivation Returning Student Reactivation FAQs Wintermester Academic Services Transcript Information Additional Information Current Student Online Ordering Former Student Online Ordering Name and Address Change Enrollment/Degree Certification Commencement Information Non-certified Commencement Participation Policy Diploma Information Diploma Distribution for Current Graduates Duplicate Diploma Orders for Alumni Duplicate Diploma Order Form Dean's Academic Honor List Degree Audits GPA Slip/Final Grades Enrollment Status Undergraduate Course Repeat Policy FAQ's - Undergraduate Course Repeat and Academic Forgiveness Policy U.Achieve Instructional Videos Schedule of Classes & Catalogs Schedule of Classes University Catalogs Undergraduate Catalog Previous Undergraduate Catalogs Graduate Catalog Law School Catalog Seminary Catalog Final Exam Schedule Spring 2022 Fall 2022 Transfer Credit Transfer Credit Policies Equivalent Course Tool (ECT) Search by Outside Institution Search by Baylor Course Equivalent Course Request (ECR) Transfer Credit FAQs Abroad Equivalent Course Approval VA Education Benefits Announcements Apply for VA Educational Benefits Meet our VA Benefits Team VA Benefits Contact Information VA Benefits Appointment Scheduling Military Scholarships VA Chapter Benefits Chapter 33 Chapter 33 Application Process - Veterans or Active Duty Chapter 33 Application Process - Spouses or Dependents Chapter 33 - Private School Tuition & Fee Cap Timeline of VA Chapter 33 Certification Procedure VA CH 33 Refund Procedure Example Email John Fry Scholarship Chapter 35 Chapter 31 VA CH 31 Refund Procedure Chapter 30, 1606 VA Forms / Resources FAQs Ineligible Programs The Effects of Schedule Changes (Debt Info) Terminology VA COE Submission Yellow Ribbon Program Room Scheduling Faculty/Staff Resources Class Scheduling Schedule Build Timeline Development Grading Resources Class Roster Verification Electronic Catalog Implementation FERPA FERPA Policy Faculty/Staff Quick Guide Student Annual Notification FERPA Consent Form FAQs Office Information Mission Statement Staff Directory Activities and Responsibilities Organizational Chart Search the Site