Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site More Sites Main College College News About Us College Leadership Dean's Message Vision & Mission Strategic Plan College Services Contact Us Academics Undergraduate Studies Graduate Studies Departments and Programs Honors Programs Dual Degree Programs Cooper Fellows Student Awards and Accomplishments Research & Outreach Centers & Institutes Resources for Researchers Faculty Support Young Scholars Program Research News Resources Find your Advisor Student Life Parents Resources Faculty and Staff A&S Academic Continuity Plan News & Events Events & Calendar Social Media Directory A&S Magazine Faculty Awards and Fellowships New Faculty Give About Us Academics Research & Outreach Resources News & Events Give Search About Us College Leadership Dean's Message Vision & Mission Strategic Plan College Services Contact Us Academics Undergraduate Studies Graduate Studies Departments and Programs Honors Programs Dual Degree Programs Cooper Fellows Student Awards and Accomplishments Research & Outreach Centers & Institutes Resources for Researchers Faculty Support Young Scholars Program Research News Resources Find your Advisor Student Life Parents Resources Faculty and Staff A&S Academic Continuity Plan News & Events Events & Calendar Social Media Directory A&S Magazine Faculty Awards and Fellowships New Faculty Give More Sites Main College College News New Faculty News Archive Events Calendar Social Media Directory A&S Magazine About Us Academics Research & Outreach Resources News & Events Giving Home New Faculty AAA Welcome Fall 2021 A&S New Faculty Christian Agatemor (Chemistry - Assistant Professor) Christian Agatemor completed his Ph.D. in Chemistry at the University of Prince Edward Island, Canada. He then conducted postdoctoral research at the interface of chemistry and biology at the Harvard University School of Engineering and Applied Sciences and the Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, USA. Dr. Agatemor received postdoctoral research fellowships from the Natural Sciences and Engineering Research Council of Canada and the Azrieli Foundation of Israel. His research at the Department of Chemistry, University of Miami, will integrate the chemistry of monosaccharides with molecular biology to dissect mechanisms underlying cell interactions, proliferation, differentiation, and reprogramming. Charles Frederick Bartlett (Classics - Visiting Assistant Professor) Charles Bartlett joins the Department of Classics at Miami for the Fall 2021 semester, having held postdoctoral fellowships at Duke University and at Harvard University. He is a historian specializing in the afterlife of Roman law and Roman political institutions, as well as the economic, legal, and political history of Greek and Roman antiquity. Charles is excited to engage with Miami’s students and to guide them in their exploration of all the ancient world has to offer. He also looks forward to building connections with colleagues in numerous departments across the University. Oliver Bracko (Biology - Research Assistant Professor) The focus of our research is to elucidate common mechanisms of vascular dysfunction and cognitive decline in neurodegenerative disease. The vascular network and brain blood flow are crucial to supply the brain with oxygen, nutrients and maintain a functional immune system to exert proper function. Although it has been known for many years that vascular dysregulation and cerebral blood flow (CBF) reductions are involved in neurodegeneration and stroke, the underlying mechanisms leading to CBF reductions are only beginning to be understood. Tenecia Bradley-Cousins (English - Lecturer) Tenecia Bradley-Cousins, Ed.D., possesses robust experience in the field of higher education at the faculty, staff, and administration levels. She has taught various writing and supplemental courses and is currently teaching ENG 105. Specializing in student affairs and academic support, throughout her career, she has consistently promoted overall student success in public and private institutions in the classroom environment and beyond. She holds a Doctor of Education from the University of Florida, Master of Business Administration from the University of Miami, and a Bachelor of Arts from Bethune-Cookman University. Michael Bustamante (History - Associate Professor) Michael J. Bustamante (Ph.D., Yale University) will join the University of Miami as Associate Professor of History and the Emilio Bacardí Moreau Chair in Cuban and Cuban-American Studies in fall 2021. He previously served as Assistant Professor of History at Florida International University. He is the author of Cuban Memory Wars: Retrospective Politics in Revolution and Exile (University of North Carolina Press, 2021). He is co-editor of The Revolution from Within: Cuba, 1959-1980 (Duke University Press, 2019). Dr. Bustamante's scholarship has also appeared in Journal of American Ethnic History, Latino Studies, and Cuban Studies, among other publications. Shai Cohen (Modern Languages & Literatures - Lecturer) Dr. Shai Cohen is a specialist in Spanish Philology (from the University of Navarra) and a certified Ulpan Hebrew Teacher for Foreigners (Rothberg Institute-HUJI). His most recent book, El poder de la palabra: la sátira política contra el conde duque de Olivares (CSIC, Madrid 2019), explores the relation between political satire and government in 17th century Spain. He is the editor of different volumes and the author of numerous articles and book chapters (e.g. El hebreo en España defendida de Quevedo, 2017). Shai also wrote the Historical Novel Strappado (original title: סטראפדו, Gvanim, 2013) and the dissemination work entitled El arte de hablar callando, El meme: transmisor de conceptos del Siglo de Oro (Leer-e, 2013). Alongside his research, he is also active in the field of Digital Humanities as the initiator and coordinator of various projects and workshops. At the moment, Shai is an active member in several associations, research groups and projects such as AISO, AIH, AEEHJ, and GRISO (active consultant in GRISOSFERA project). Javad Farrokhi (Physics - Lecturer) I join to the University of Miami as a lecture at the department of physics. After earning my bachelor’s degree in physics from the University of Tabriz (Tabriz, Iran), I received my Ph.D. degree in condensed matter physics from the University of Kentucky. Before my current position, I was a visiting faculty at the University of North Florida, teaching undergraduate physics and astronomy courses. My research focused on developing analytical and computational models explaining the electronic properties of atomically thin material heterostructures. Ali Hagverdiyev (Mathematics - Lecturer) Dr. Hagverdiyev earned his Bachelor's Degree in Applied Mathematics from Baku State University (Baku, Azerbaijan). He has 2 Masters Degrees one from University of Nottingham (Nottingham, UK) and Florida institute of Technology (Florida, USA) in Pure and Applied Mathematics respectively. Recently he received his Doctoral degree in Applied Mathematics from Florida Institute Of Technology. His research interests include Partial Differential Equations, Inverse Problems, Numerical Methods for PDEs. Claudia Hoffmann (English - Lecturer) Claudia Hoffmann received a PhD in English from the University of Florida with concentrations in African studies and film studies. Following a Mellon postdoctoral fellowship at UCLA, she worked at the University of Toronto Scarborough and Clarkson University before joining the University of Miami as a lecturer in the Writing Program. She has published papers on the Nigerian film industry, as well as on representations of undocumented migration in global cinema. Most recently, she co-edited a special journal issue featuring academic essays, poems, and artwork about and by undocumented and refugee art and artists. Simon Howard (Psychology - Assistant Professor) Dr. Simon Howard is a first-generation college graduate and Social Psychologist joining the faculty in the Department of Psychology at the University of Miami Spring 2022. He completed his undergraduate degree at San Jose State University where he was a McNair Scholar. He went on to earn his M.A. and Ph.D. in Social Psychology at Tufts University. Prior to joining the faculty at the University of Miami, he was a faculty member at Marquette University. His research and teaching interests broadly fall under the umbrella of the psychology of racism. Lilianne Lugo Herrera (Modern Languages & Literatures - Lecturer) Lugo Herrera obtained her PhD in Literary, Cultural, and Linguistic Studies from the Modern Languages and Literatures Department, University of Miami. She also holds a BFA from the Universidad de las Artes, in Cuba. Her awards include the Goizueta and Center for the Humanities Dissertation Fellowships, the NEH Summer Institute on Digital Technologies in Theatre and Performance Studies, and the Feministas Unidas Graduate Essay Award, among others. Her articles have appeared in The Palgrave Handbook of Theatre and Race, Reading Cuba, and in the journals Valenciana, Gestos, Conjunto, and Tablas. She currently works on her book project “Mediated Archipelagoes: Theater, Women, and Media”. Allannah Karas (Classics - Assistant Professor) Allannah Karas received her Ph.D. from The Graduate School and University Center, CUNY (2017). Before arriving at the University of Miami, she taught and directed the Greek and Roman Studies program at Valparaiso University, Indiana (2017-2021). Her primary research examines pre-rational inducement (in Greek, peithō) present in ancient Greek rhetoric and still today. She also is interested in reconfigurations of classical myth created by Black American artists. Throughout 2021-2022, she will be working on her book project, Not Quite Persuasion: Violence, Bondage, and the Ancient Roots of Rhetoric, with the support an American Council for Learned Societies (ACLS) Fellowship. Quang C. Ly (English - Lecturer) Quang Ly is a current Ph.D. candidate (ABD) in rhetoric and composition at Ohio University. He is finishing up his dissertation, which focuses on collaborative writing among business students. Quang received his MA in English from Ohio University, where he taught English (first-year and junior composition) for five years. He holds a BA in English from the University of Florida. His research interests include collaborative and cooperative writing, computer-mediated communication, professional writing, and genre studies. Shazrene Mohamed (Physics - Associate Professor) Shazrene S. Mohamed is an astrophysicist specializing in supercomputer simulations of the explosions and outflows of dying stars - systems that not only provide the raw material for planets, but also play a central role in the evolution of galaxies. She received her A.B. in Astrophysics and Mathematics from Harvard, and her DPhil in Astrophysics on a Rhodes scholarship from Oxford University. She has held an Argelander fellowship in Germany, an NRF Career Advancement fellowship in South Africa, and was an Associate Professor at the University of Cape Town and the South African Astronomical Observatory. Shazrene looks forward to joining the Department of Physics and the broader community at the University of Miami. Marlon Rachquel Moore (English - Associate Professor) Marlon Moore studies 20th-century African American literary and popular culture with special concern for representations of gender and sexual queerness in conjunction with disability, the US South, or (religious and secular) spirituality. She is the author of In the Life and In the Spirit: Homoerotic Spirituality in African American Literature. Her work has appeared in African American Review, Black Camera, Medical Humanities, Souls, and numerous critical anthologies. She has also published short stories and nonfiction prose in literary magazines and edited collections. She is currently co-editor of the CEA Mid-Atlantic Review, an affiliate journal of the College English Association. Amila Muthunayake (Mathematics - Research Assistant Professor) Amila Muthunayake is a research assistant professor in the department of mathematics at the University of Miami. His research interests are in mathematical analysis of models arising in ecology, mathematical analysis of semipositone problems, and computational study of nonlinear elliptic boundary value problems. He received his Ph.D. in Computational Mathematics from the University of North Carolina at Greensboro (UNCG). He holds a doctorate minor in Statistics, an M.A. in Mathematics from UNCG, and a B.Sc.(Hons.) in Mathematics from the University of Peradeniya, Sri Lanka. Patoimbasba Nikiema (Modern Languages & Literatures - Assistant Professor) Dr. Patoimbasba Nikiema is an Assistant Professor in the Department of Modern Languages and Literatures. He received his MA. in French, and a University Teaching Certificate at West Virginia University, as well as a Ph.D. in French and Francophone Studies, and a Graduate Ph.D. Certificate in Gender, Sexuality, and Women Studies at the University of Pittsburgh. Dr. Nikiema is the president of the Francophone Caucus of the African Literature Association. He is the recipient of the Humanities Engage Summer Immersive Fellowship, and the Summer A&S Research Fellowship. His research interests lie in the fields of Postcolonial Studies, with a particular focus on Afropean, Sub-Saharan, and Caribbean Literatures and Cultures, around questions of migration, race, gender, transnationalism, and diaspora. Meaghan Parladé (Assistant Professor of Clinical (Educator Faculty) ) Dr. Meaghan Parladé is a licensed clinical psychologist, Co-Director of the University of Miami Autism Spectrum Assessment Clinic (UM ASAC), Division Director of Assessment and Intervention Services at the University of Miami-Nova Southeastern University Center for Autism and Related Disabilities (UM-NSU CARD), and Clinical Assistant Professor of Psychology at the University of Miami. She is also a supervising psychologist at the University of Miami Parent-Child Interaction Therapy (PCIT) Program. She received her Ph.D. in Clinical and Developmental Psychology at the University of Pittsburgh. She completed her Predoctoral Internship in Clinical Psychology at the Mailman Center for Child Development at the University of Miami, Miller School of Medicine with a specialization in autism spectrum disorder (ASD) and other neurodevelopmental disorders. Dr. Parladé was a Postdoctoral Associate at UM ASAC and UM-NSU CARD before being hired as a staff psychologist in 2014. She joined the faculty in 2021. Dr. Parladé currently oversees the assessment and intervention training and supervises predoctoral practicum students, predoctoral interns, and post-doctoral associates at UM ASAC and UM-NSU CARD. Her clinical and research interests include the early screening, assessment, and diagnosis of ASD, as well as the development and evaluation of interventions to improve behavior, parent-child interactions, and social skills in preschool- and school-aged children with ASD. She has over 10 years of experience in the assessment of children, adolescents, and adults with or suspected of ASD using evidence-based measures (e.g., ADOS-2, ADI-R, CARS2), as well as training in state-of-the-art teleassessment methods. Dr. Parladé has published and presented locally and nationally on topics related to child development, intervention, and ASD. She also serves as a clinician and consultant to ASD-related research projects at the University of Miami. Delia Shelton (Biology - Professor) Dr. Delia Shelton joins the Department of Biology at the University of Miami as an assistant professor in January 2022. She received her BS from Southwestern University, K-12 teaching certificate from Prairie View A&M University, and a dual PhD in Psychological and Brain Sciences and Evolution Ecology and Behavior from Indiana University. Dr. Shelton has secured funding from National Institutes of Health, National Science Foundation, and United Negro College Fund. She serves as Member-At-Large of the Animal Behavior Society and technical lead of Visioglow, an NSF supported aquaculture technology. Her research passion lies in using basic research to translate science into practical solutions while cultivating a diverse talent pool. She is currently understanding how environmental features impact multi-level organizations (e.g., individuals, groups, populations) using animal behavior, advanced chemistry, field studies, neuroscience, social network analyses, and molecular biology. Richard Fredrick Simpson (English - Lecturer) Richard Simpson received his PhD in Modern Thought and Literature from Stanford University. His research on the pedagogical force of urban space has been awarded a Humanities Center Postdoctoral Fellowship at Carnegie Mellon University. Richard is recipient of a Louis O. Kelso Fellowship from the Rutgers School of Labor and Management Relations for his research examining the impact of cooperative theories of labor on late-nineteenth century geographies of education. Richard leads the Environment, Space, and Place workshop of the Cultural Studies Association and is currently completing a manuscript on the relationship between identity and urbanism in the global city.; Mina Teicher (Mathematics - Visiting Professor) Mina Teicher, Prof. of Mathematics and Computational Neuroscience, with international reputation in Computer Vision, Cryptography, Cyber Security, Complex Systems, Epilepsy research, and Math Education. She has the highest academic international reputation: Phd from Tel-Aviv university, postdoc from the IAS in Princeton, visiting positions in the leading world institutions, 140 published papers, 5 books, advisor to 80 graduate students and postdocs, member of 6 editorial boards and organizer of 20 conferences worldwide. She is the former Chief Scientist of Israel, and the former VP for R&D of Bar-Ilan Univ, former Chair of the USA-Israel Binational Science Foundation, and advised to governments on Innovation schemes, and to Universities on commercialization of IP (Intellectual Property Currently, she is the VP and Founding member of the UNESCO Digital Campus for Complex Systems, a member of the Ethics panel of the USA Brain initiative, member of the Advisory Board of the IAS of Gottingen Uni. member of the Advisory Board of the Brain center of NYU Abu Dhabi, Delegate of Israel to the International Mathematical Union and sits on Advisory Boards of USA based startup companies in Artificial Intelligence, Blockchain and Cyber security. Carlos Vega (Mathematics - Lecturer) Julia Wester (Anthropology - Lecturer) Julia Wester is a lecturer and Associate Director of the undergraduate program in Ecosystem Science and Policy. She completed her Master's at Oxford in conservation biology and management before working in Florida state politics. She then completed her Ph.D. at the Abess Center studying how emotions and norms shape attitudes toward water recycling and related policy development. She has collaborated on projects funded by the Save Our Seas Foundation and National Geographic Explorer to study human-wildlife interactions in south Florida and the southern Caribbean. Her current research focuses on stakeholder engagement and local policy, mostly around Miami and Biscayne Bay. Diana Woodward (Mathematics - Lecturer) I am an applied mathematician who is primarily interested in mathematical biology, and mathematical finance. I obtained my BA(Hons) from Oxford University, England, and my PhD from the University of Utah. After doing a postdoc at Brown University, I was on the mathematics faculty of Southern Methodist University and University of Washington, and a consultant at Los Alamos National Laboratory. From 1996 to 2012, I was a market and credit risk manager at Barclays Capital, Société Générale, Bank of Tokyo Mitsubishi, and Morgan Stanley, and a freelance consultant to trading firms in New York and London. I am the co-developer of the SABR stochastic volatility model, which is now the industry standard for managing volatility risks. In 2014, I returned to academia, and prior to joining UM, was on the faculty at Florida Atlantic University, and Bentley University. Mark Yeager (Chemistry - Professor) Dr. Mark Yeager is a physician-scientist with training in biophysics and cardiology at Yale and Stanford, respectively. His basic research uses electron cryomicroscopy (cryo-EM), X-ray crystallography and molecular modeling to explore the structure and function of macromolecular complexes. One research program is focused on membrane channels, receptors and transporters, exemplified by gap junction membrane channels, which mediate propagation of action potentials between cells in the heart, thereby playing a critical role in maintaining the normal heartbeat but also being involved in arrhythmias causing sudden death. A second research program in structural virology is currently focused on the structure and assembly of HIV-1. Translational research is focused on the use of a preclinical porcine model of myocardial infarction to identify small molecule therapeutics to abrogate the long term development of heart failure. Yelena Yesha (Computer Science - Professor) Dr. Yesha received her B.Sc. degrees in Computer Science and in Applied Mathematics from York University, Toronto, Canada, and her M.Sc. degree and Ph.D. degree in Computer Science from The Ohio State University. She has published 11 books as author or editor, and more than 200 papers in prestigious refereed journals and refereed conference proceedings, and she has been awarded external funding in a total amount exceeding 45 million dollars. She is currently working with leading industrial companies and government agencies on new innovative technology in the areas of blockchains, cybersecurity, and big data analytics with applications to electronic commerce, climate change, and digital healthcare. Dr. Yesha is a fellow of the IBM Centre for Advanced Studies. Amy Elise Zanne (Biology - Professor) Amy Zanne is joining as Professor and Aresty Endowed Chair in Tropical Biology in the Department of Biology. Previously she was on the faculty for 9 years at George Washington University and 4 years at University of Missouri - St. Louis. As a postdoctoral scholar, she received joint funding from the National Evolutionary Synthesis Center and NSF International Research Fellow, spending time at University of Minnesota, University of California - Berkeley, Macquarie University and Duke University. Her first postdoctoral position was at Tufts University. She received her MSc and PhD degrees at University of Florida and her BS degree at Dartmouth College. University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 College of Arts and Sciences 1252 Memorial Drive Ashe Building - Rm # 227 Coral Gables, FL 33146 305- 284-4117 305- 284-4117 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard WebMail Leave Feedback UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Library Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Contact Us Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices