Skip to main content Main navigation Mobile Educational Programs Master’s Programs Executive Education Doctoral Programs Public Leadership Credential Courses Academic Calendars & Policies Admissions & Aid Master's Program Admissions Executive Education Admissions Doctoral Program Admissions Funding Your Education Faculty & Research Faculty Profiles Publications Policy Topics PolicyCast Library & Knowledge Services Centers & Initiatives Ash Center for Democratic Governance and Innovation Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs Carr Center for Human Rights Policy Center for International Development Center for Public Leadership Institute of Politics Malcolm Wiener Center for Social Policy Mossavar-Rahmani Center for Business and Government Shorenstein Center on Media, Politics and Public Policy Taubman Center for State and Local Government Women and Public Policy Program All Initiatives Alumni Connect Volunteer Give Back Benefits Events About More COVID-19: Keep HKS Healthy Commencement About News & Announcements Events Student Life Directory Employers HKS Magazine Contact Us Search Search Main navigation Educational Programs Master’s Programs Executive Education Doctoral Programs Public Leadership Credential Courses Academic Calendars & Policies Admissions & Aid Master's Program Admissions Executive Education Admissions Doctoral Program Admissions Funding Your Education Faculty & Research Faculty Profiles Publications Policy Topics PolicyCast Library & Knowledge Services Centers & Initiatives Ash Center for Democratic Governance and Innovation Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs Carr Center for Human Rights Policy Center for International Development Center for Public Leadership Institute of Politics Malcolm Wiener Center for Social Policy Mossavar-Rahmani Center for Business and Government Shorenstein Center on Media, Politics and Public Policy Taubman Center for State and Local Government Women and Public Policy Program All Initiatives Alumni Connect Volunteer Give Back Benefits Events About More COVID-19: Keep HKS Healthy Commencement About News & Announcements Events Student Life Directory Employers HKS Magazine Contact Us Search Search Faculty & Research Explore by Topic Search Publications In This Section Faculty & Research Faculty Profiles Publications Policy Topics PolicyCast Library & Knowledge Services You are here Home Faculty & Research Your initiative. Our expertise. Illuminating solutions. The Harvard Kennedy School faculty is at the forefront of public policy innovation. From politics to policy, from the local to the global, our scholars and practitioners advance the public interest and generate solutions to the world’s most daunting problems. The Kennedy School is unparalleled in its ability to bring together the brightest minds from every sector of society. Each member of our community contributes curiosity, rigor, and dedication to offer incisive thinking that bridges disciplines and boundaries. Discover a world of ideas. Ask what you can do. Our experts are leaders in numerous disciplines view topics Research and insights are published across platforms view publications Additional Research Resources Library & Knowledge Services HKS Library & Knowledge Services supports the research, learning, and curricular needs of faculty, students, and staff. It also provides researchers around the world with information related to public policy, public administration, and international affairs. Guide to Center & Program Fellows Review a summary of the positions offered to visiting scholars, researchers, and practitioners who participate in the School’s academic life through the various programs offered by centers and programs. Sponsored Awards History This is a historical list from 2001 to present of Sponsored Program award history. Each year can be downloaded in a PDF for reference. 79 John F. Kennedy Street Cambridge, MA 02138 617-495-1100 Ask What You Can Do Master’s Programs Executive Education Doctoral Programs Public Leadership Credential Admissions Events Give Now Alumni Jobs Contact Us Privacy Web Accessibility Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College. https://www.facebook.com/harvardkennedyschool/ https://twitter.com/kennedy_school https://www.linkedin.com/school/harvard-kennedy-school-of-government/ https://www.youtube.com/user/HarvardKennedySchool http://instagram.com/harvardkennedyschool/