COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Transcript FAQ Section Menu Registrar Home Links for Faculty and Staff Links for Students Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA) University Catalog Semester & Academic Calendars Schedule of Courses Residency Registration Final Exam Schedule Reactivation Transcripts Certifications Degree Works (degree audit) FAQ Diplomas Granting Student Record Access to Others (Proxy) Transfer to WSU General Transcript FAQ Do I need to know my WSU ID to order a transcript? No, you do not. Simply include your Social Security number and date of birth on the transcript request forms. Can I pick up my transcript? Yes, you can! In-person pick-ups cannot be requested prior to arriving at the window. All transcripts picked up in person are marked with "Issued to Student." Make sure you bring a government issued photo ID or your myWSU ID card. I am writing a check to accompany my transcript request; who do I make my check out to? Please make checks payable to Wichita State University. Is a transcript stamped “Issued to Student” an official transcript? It is an official transcript, although at this time not all institutions accept transcripts that are stamped “Issued to Student.” Please check with the recipient before you order a transcript. Why was my transcript marked “Issued to Student” when I had it addressed to a third party? If the address provided indicates the transcript is being sent to the student’s home address, it will be marked “Issued to Student” because we are giving you, the student, the transcript and not the third party. To avoid this, please send the transcript directly to the intended third party. I am applying for Graduate School at WSU. Do I need to send them a transcript? Prior WSU students will be required to upload an unofficial copy of their transcript through the Graduate School application portal. Current students can request an unofficial copy ("blockout') from their college office, or print to pdf or print and scan their academic records from the myWSU portal. Official transcripts from WSU will never have to be sent to the Graduate School. I have had transcripts from other universities sent to WSU. Can I get a copy of those? No, once a transcript has been sent to WSU it becomes property of the University. Are transcripts on colored paper? Printed transcripts are on maroon paper with the Wichita State University seal and the Registrar’s signature. Electronic transcripts are delivered on white paper with the Wichita State University seal and the Registrar's signature. How can I get an unofficial copy of my transcript? Students can print unofficial copies of their transcript free of charge by logging into myWSU. Select Banner Self Service, Student Menu, Student Records and then Academic Transcript. If you do not know your myWSU ID, you can obtain it by visiting System Access and following the prompts. Who do I contact about the transcript I had sent from WSU? Please contact the Office of the Registrar at 316-978-3057. 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©