Skip to main content iastate.edu Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons AccessPlus Canvas CyBox CyMail Okta Outlook Workday More Sign Ons... Iowa State University Department of Chemical and Biological Engineering Menu Toggle Search Toggle Search Make a Gift CBE Directory CBE Department About Iowa State Chemical and Biological Engineering Mission and Vision Accreditation Diversity and Inclusion Faculty/Staff Graduate Seminar Series Advisory Council CBE Hall of Fame CBE Department Documents Prospective Students What is Chemical and Biological Engineering? Undergraduate Program Graduate Programs Core Concepts in Chemical Engineering Current Students Advising Undergraduate FAQs Registration Information CH E Electives Guides and Handbooks Student Forms Student Organizations Career and Study Opportunities Internships and Co-ops Learning Communities, Centers and Help Rooms International Study Undergraduate Research/Independent Study Bachelor’s/Master’s Concurrent Degree Programs Graduation University Honors Program CBE Feedback Research Faculty Research Pages Research Funding Awards Recent Faculty Publications Research Areas Advanced and Nanostructured Materials Biorenewables Catalysis and Reaction Engineering Computational Fluid Dynamics Health Care Technology and Biomedical Engineering Renewable Energy Research Brochure Facilities Collaborative Research Centers The Ames Laboratory Bioeconomy Institute at ISU ISU Plant Sciences Institute National Animal Disease Center NSF Engineering Research Center for Biorenewable Chemicals BioMaP REU Undergraduate Research Program Alumni Alumni News Alumni Awards Make A Gift Safety 1 2 3 4 5 Welcome to the Department of Chemical and Biological Engineering (CBE) at Iowa State University Faculty, students and graduates of Iowa State University’s Department of Chemical and Biological Engineering impact the world in countless ways – with work involving consumer products, fuels, biorenewable energy, medical and health care advancements and much more – incorporating the disciplines of engineering, math and chemistry. The undergraduate curriculum can also be used as a springboard to medical school or law school. An internationally recognized program, CBE at Iowa State continues to grow and uphold a strong tradition in the College of Engineering and Iowa State University. We’re hiring! Faculty position: Chemical & Biological Engineering Assistant/Associate/Full Teaching Professor CBE Hours Sweeney Hall Regular Building Hours 6 a.m. – 8 p.m. Monday – Friday, closed Saturday & Sunday CBE Office Summer Hours (through August 12) 8:00 a.m. – 5:00 p.m. Monday – Friday. Student Advising Office: The CBE student advising office is open for in-person meetings by appointment only. Students can choose to meet with their advisor by phone, video, or in-person. Please use the Navigate Student app to schedule an appointment with your advisor. What Is Chemical Engineering? Thinking about studying chemical engineering at Iowa State? Wondering what chemical engineers do? Check out this video of how chemical engineers impact everyone’s life, as told by our students. CBE Points of Pride Female undergraduate enrollment: 36%, one of the largest in the College of Engineering (fall 2021) CBE B.S. undergrad average starting salary $73,000/yr. CBE Spotlight Catalyst technology converts methane greenhouse gas into useful, valuable chemicals Herbert L. Stiles Professor of Chemical and Biological Engineering Yue Wu and his research group at Iowa State have been searching for a safe, efficient and economical conversion method for methane. Now, they and a group of collaborators have found and tested a catalyst technology that appears to be an answer. Learn more about this game-changing engineering. CBE Publications activesite Newsletter – 2021 Download PDF View on ISSUU CBE Research Brochure (PDF) COVID-19 : Moving Forward News Fulbright-Tocqueville Distinguished Chair Award for CBE’s Fox Jedidiah Chukwusom: College of Engineering outstanding senior representing chemical engineering Chemical engineering grad student, Abigail Koep, awarded Graduate Research Fellowship from prestigious NSF program All news Events No events all events Latest Tweets Tweets by ISU_CoE Apply Now CoE A-Z Index Safety Department of Chemical and Biological Engineering 2114 Sweeney Hall 618 Bissell Road Ames, Iowa 50011-1098 cbe@iastate.edu (515) 294-7642 phone Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram Copyright © 1995- Iowa State University of Science and Technology All rights reserved. Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility Loading...