Skip to main content Skip to main content SMU Home Giving Giving Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Simmons About Dean's Message Programs, Degrees, and Certifications Faculty and Staff Directory Simmons Governance Simmons School History Executive Board Simmons Luminary Award XPRIZE Honor Code Simmons Resources Travel-Study Programs Simmons Lecture Series AERA 2022 Graduation Ceremony May 2022 Paving the Way to Inclusion Conference Simmons Graduate Council Faculty and Administrative Position Openings Simmons Blogs and Social Media Hub Annette Caldwell Simmons Hall Harold Clark Simmons Hall Photo Tour Contact Us Academic Departments & Areas of Study Applied Physiology & Wellness B.S. | Applied Physiology & Sport Mgmt. Undergraduate Specializations Applied Physiology and Health Management Sport Management Sport Performance Leadership M.S. | Health Promotion Management M.S. | Sport Management Non-Degree | Wellness Dispute Resolution & Counseling M.S. | Counseling Specialties Clinical Mental Health Marriage, Couple and Family School Counseling M.A. | Dispute Resolution Non-Degree | Dispute Resolution Specialties Executive Coaching Education Policy & Leadership M.Ed. | PK-12 School Leadership M.Ed. | Higher Education Ed.D. | PK-12 School Leadership Ed.D. | Higher Education Graduate Liberal Studies MLS | Science, Arts, & Humanities DLS | Science, Arts, & Humanities Non-Degree | Science, Arts, & Humanities Ph.D. in Education Teaching & Learning B.S. | M.Ed | MBE | Ph.D. Graduate Specializations Bilingual Special Ed ESL Gifted Literacy Math STEM Urban Education Research Research A comprehensive list of Simmons research projects Faculty Research Publications & Presentations Recent research publications and presentations Center on Research & Evaluation (CORE) Offers comprehensive program evaluation services, largely in the non-profit sector, and performs education research Research in Mathematics Education Conducts research in mathematics education and disseminates findings Integrative Physiology Laboratory Investigates autonomic function and thermoregulation in healthy and clinical populations Locomotor Performance Laboratory Studies terrestrial locomotion and the relationship of muscle function to metabolic energy expenditure and performance Center for VR Learning Innovation Investigates the use of virtual, augmented and mixed reality for education and human development Youth Sports Impact Partnership SMU and the Children’s Health Andrews Institute have launched a collaboration dedicated to improving the health, activity levels, and well-being of kids. Research Resources for Simmons Faculty and Staff Technology and Education Cluster Our Faculty Community Engagement Advanced Placement Summer Institute Summer Institute for AP and Pre-AP Teachers The Budd Center Partners with community agencies to offer educational opportunities for disadvantaged children Center for Family Counseling Counseling services in Plano for individuals and families College Access Programs Programs and workshops that help students advance academically Institute for Leadership Impact Leaders in education, health and social enterprise enhance skills to lead organizations and solve real-world problems Project Connect A repository of ideas, activities and videos for educators interested in improving instruction for English Language Learners West Dallas STEM-Focused School Preparing students for the next generation of STEM jobs Alumni Search Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Simmons About Simmons About Simmons Graduation Ceremony May 2022 Simmons COVID-19 Information Fall 2021 Important Student Information Dean's Message Faculty and Staff Directory Academic Integrity and Code of Conduct History: from 1920 Executive Board Simmons News Catalogs Giving Academic Services Simmons Strategic Plan Simmons Resources Travel-Study Programs Simmons Lecture Series AERA 2022 Simmons Luminary Award Paving the Way to Inclusion Simmons Graduate Council Faculty and Administrative Openings Simmons Governance Simmons Newsletters Simmons Blogs and Social Media XPRIZE Alumni Contact Us Academics Academics Applied Physiology and Sports Management Dispute Resolution Counseling Education Policy and Leadership Graduate Liberal Studies Ph.D. Teacher Education Programs & Degrees Fall 2021 Graduate Student Orientation Our Faculty Our Faculty Faculty Research Publications & Presentations Research Research Research Projects Archive 2020-21: Research Snapshot Research Resources Virtual Reality Surgery Simulator (VRSS) Integrative Physiology Laboratory CORE Locomotor Performance Laboratory Research in Mathematics Education Center for VR Learning Innovation Youth Sports Impact Partnership Faculty Research Publications and Presentations Dallas Noyce: A Community-Focused Mathematics Teacher Pipeline Technology and Education Cluster Community Engagement Community Engagement Advanced Placement Summer Institute College Access Programs The Budd Center: Involving Communities in Education Institute for Leadership Impact Center for Family Counseling Project Connect West Dallas STEM-Focused School Alumni ☰ Research Resources for Faculty and Staff SMU Simmons: Ranked among the top 12 private graduate schools of education nationally and among the top 3 public & private schools in Texas. Simmons Research Research Resources In conjunction with SMU’s Office of Research and Graduate Studies (ORGS), the Simmons School offers a variety of services that assist Simmons researchers with all stages of a funded project—from the 1st stage of identifying a funding source to the final stage of closing a project. Project Stages Identifying Grant Opportunities and Funding Sources SMU’s Office of Research and Graduate Studies (ORGS) can guide you through the process of finding funding. ORGS maintains databases such as the SPINplus database, Foundation Director Online Professional, Duke University Funding database, and the Office of National Fellowships and Awards. ORGS' research specialists are available for consultation, and Evelyn Day, a research librarian with CUL, can help you identify grants that align with your particular research interests. Simmons’ Center on Research and Evaluation (CORE) also regularly sends Grants Alerts emails to keep researchers abreast of current opportunities as they arise. Please contact the Center on Research and Evaluation (CORE) if you would like to receive these emails or have any suggestions to expand the funding agencies highlighted in these. CORE's Study Design Services CORE offers a variety of valuable services to assist Simmons faculty and staff in the design and analysis of research. Their services include instrument design, data collection, data processing and management, quantitative and qualitative data analytics, and consulting on all aspects of research development. Writing the Grant Proposal Once you are ready to apply for a sponsored research project, please contact Kathryn Canterbury, Simmons Assistant Dean for Grants and Research. Both ORGS and CORE offers resources to help you write the proposal. For ORGS writing assistance, visit ORGS’ guide to grants; for CORE’s writing assistance, visit CORE’s consulting page. Preparing SMU's Proposal Initiation and Approval Form (PIAF) Kathryn can help you prepare the SMU Proposal Initiation and Approval Form (PIAF), which is an internal review and approval document that is required for all proposals for external funding. Kathryn must submit the PIAF with an abstract/statement of work and budget justification to ORGS at least 10 days prior to the proposal submission deadline. The form comprises 8 sections, 6 of which are completed by the PI and Kathryn, 1 of which is developed by Kathryn, and 1 of which constitutes a signatures section that is processed by ORGS. Proposal Initiation and Approval Form (PIAF): Completed by PI with Kathryn Canterbury's assistance: Section I: PI & CoPI Information Section II: Proposal/Agency Information Section III: Subcontract Information (if applicable) Section IV: Proposal Characteristics Section V: Antiplagiarism Scan Instructions: Submit a Turnitin plagiarism report to ORGS as a PDF. If you do not have access to this service through Canvas, please contact the Help Desk (8-HELP) to request enrollment in the "Office of Research and Graduate Studies" course and for assistance building the plagiarism report. Section VI: Research Compliance Completed by Kathryn: Section VII: Budget: If cost sharing is involved, Kathryn will help the PI complete a Cost Share Form. Cost Sharing is the formal assumption by the University for part of the cost of a project or a purchase. Please see the following resources for more information: - Research Administration Policy Number 7.15 Sponsored Project Cost Sharing - NSB—0920, Investing in the Future: NSF Cost Sharing Policies for ad Robust Federal Research Enterprise Routed via DocuSign by ORGS: Section VIII: Signatures: As soon as all signatures are secured, each signatory receives an email with an executed copy of the form. Submitting the Proposal The P.I. should work with Kathryn and ORGS to submit the grant application to the agency. Setting up the Project A formal notification of an award from the funding agency must be received by ORGS and approved by an ORGS Authorized Organization Representative (AOR) before expenses are incurred on a new grant or contract. When the notification is received, ORGS prepares an Award Authorization & Approval Form (AAAF), which provides an audit trail and serves as a university record-keeping document that informs the administration of earned awards with expected commitments to resources, effort, and possible cost sharing. The AAAF--including the form, award document, and SMU budget form--is routed through DocuSign. Once all signatures are secured, each signatory receives a fully executed copy along with a timeline summary of the signatures. For new awards, the executed copy contains the new assigned Grant Number (GXXXXXX), fund, and organization account numbers. Requesting Research Space: Discuss your project space needs with Kathryn, who will in turn initiate the process to secure appropriate space. Research Compliance Training: All investigators and key personnel must complete compliance training prior to initiating research at SMU. Refer to SMU’s Research Compliance Training site for specific training opportunities, and pay particular attention to the requirements for Human Subjects Training and Responsible Conduct of Research. Consult Kathryn for additional information or interpretation of requirements. Pre-Award Spending: If your grant-funded project is eligible for pre-award spending, Kathryn will complete the Pre-Award Approval Form and provide the requested information and a justification for the pre-award costs. ORGS routes the form for signatures through DocuSign. Grant Management & Closeout Over the life of a project, Kathryn can assist with staff and consultant hiring and with the preparation and submission of miscellaneous post-award transactions, including Budget Change Requests (BCRs), invoices, travel documents, payroll, purchasing, accounts receivable, audit preparation, and closeout reporting. Should you have questions regarding research compliance, including the protection of human subjects, please refer to the Institutional Review Board. For issues regarding the protection and commercialization of intellectual property (IP), refer to IP and Technology Management. For additional information about Simmons' Research Resources for Faculty and Staff, please contact: Kathryn Canterbury Simmons Assistant Dean for Grants & Research 214-768-4932 kcanterb@smu.edu Research Research Projects Archive 2020-21: Research Snapshot Research Resources Virtual Reality Surgery Simulator Integrative Physiology Laboratory Center on Research and Evaluation (CORE) Locomotor Performance Laboratory Research in Mathematics Education Center for VR Learning Innovation Youth Sports Impact Partnership Faculty Research Publications and Presentations Dallas Noyce @ SMU Technology and Education Cluster Contact Simmons Contact Us 214-768-7587 sehd@smu.edu Visit Us Annette Caldwell Simmons Hall Southern Methodist University 3101 University Boulevard Dallas, Texas 75205 Connect with Us Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 facebook twitter