Skip to main navigation Skip to main content School of Theology and Ministry STM Information For Incoming Students – Summer 2022 Current Students Employers Alumni Veterans Search BC.edu Links Menu Main Nav STM Online: Crossroads Register Back Back Close About Overview Frequently Asked Questions Facilitators Course Schedule Full Course Catalog Overview Spirituality and Prayer Sacred Scripture Sacraments and Liturgy The Moral Life Themes from our Christian Tradition Ministries Online Book Club Signs of the Times Certificates Resources Overview Mini-Courses The Birth of Jesus - Two Gospel Narratives The Death of Jesus - Four Gospel Narratives El Nacimiento De Jesús La Muerte De Jesús: Cuatro Narrativas Evangélicas Preaching Resources Flesh Made Word Touchstones for Preaching Canvas - FAQ Bulletin Announcements Close Register Directory A to Z Listing Search STM site Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Incoming Students – Summer 2022 Current Students Employers Alumni Veterans BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Featured Courses Enroll now Teaching Religion to Adolescents July 20 - Aug. 23, 2022 | $60 Young people today are growing up into a world making complex demands of them: in school, the marketplace, personal relationships, and in the use of technology. Join us to explore the developing capacities and needs of adolescents. Draw from Scripture and Church teaching to increase your skills as a teacher (or parent) for helping teens understand and deepen their faith, strengthening them as they rise up to respond to the world around them. This course equips catechists and religion teachers with the resources and strategies needed to teach adolescents about the Catholic faith with inspiration and confidence. Drawing upon experts in theology, developmental psychology, and religious education, the course addresses pressing questions: Who are my students? What should I teach? and How do I teach it effectively? Enroll now St. Mary of Magdala Aug 3 - Aug 30, 2022 | $30 Who was St. Mary of Magdala? What does scripture tell us about her ministry? What impact does her saintly life have on us today? This course explores the imagery of St. Mary of Magdala, both positive and negative, that have shaped our view of the Apostle to the Apostles. This course also explores the impact of her life on the ministry of women in the church. To complement the informative text and videos, a scripture study text is included to provide an optional prayer experience of St. Mary of Magdala as portrayed in the Gospels. Enroll now Spiritual Practices Aug 3 - Aug 23, 2022 | $30 The popular contemporary identification of “spiritual but not religious” reflects a deep and unmet need in the life of many people in the early 21st Century for an approach to faith that balances interior experience with exterior norms and morals. This course “draws from the storeroom both the old and the new” (Mt. 13:52) a range of concrete spiritual practices from the Catholic Christian tradition. Explore how the examen, praying with images, hospitality, retreats, and more can be sources of inspiration and meaning, not only for an incidental activity, but for an entire way of life. Online Certificates Structured Intentional Learning Self-Directed Mini-Courses Always Available Group Study Modules Engage Your Community Full Course Listings Join Email List Cursos en Español Back To Top Back To Top STM Online: Crossroads 617-552-4075 crossroads@bc.edu Facebook Twitter Youtube School of Theology and Ministry Simboli Hall 9 Lake Street Brighton, MA 02135-3841 617-552-6501 About Admission Academics Faculty & Research Continuing Ed/Formación Continua Community Apply Visit Give Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube LinkedIn Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College