Skip navigation Columbia University Faculty & Staff Students Info for - Choose - Faculty & Staff Students News Events Forums Alumni Give Experience SIPA Dean's Messages About SIPA Why SIPA? SIPA Stories Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Centers & Institutes Columbia & New York City Global & UN Connections Student Organizations Ideas Lab Dean's Public Policy Challenge Grant Tech & Policy @ SIPA Entrepreneurship & Policy @ SIPA Central Banking and Financial Policy @ SIPA Kent Global Leadership Program on Conflict Resolution Academics Degree Programs Concentrations & Specializations International Fellows Program Dual Degree Programs Courses Capstone Workshops Executive Education Admissions What We Look For How to Apply Financial Aid Application Status Accept Your Offer Connect with SIPA Admissions FAQs Meet a Current Student Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Research & Publications Libraries & Campus Resources Careers Career Education Career Resources Internship Program Job & Internship Postings Employment Statistics Career FAQs For Employers Experience SIPA Dean's Messages About SIPA Why SIPA? SIPA Stories Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Centers & Institutes Columbia & New York City Global & UN Connections Student Organizations Ideas Lab Dean's Public Policy Challenge Grant Tech & Policy @ SIPA Entrepreneurship & Policy @ SIPA Central Banking and Financial Policy @ SIPA Kent Global Leadership Program on Conflict Resolution Academics Degree Programs Concentrations & Specializations International Fellows Program Dual Degree Programs Courses Capstone Workshops Executive Education Admissions What We Look For How to Apply Financial Aid Application Status Accept Your Offer Connect with SIPA Admissions FAQs Meet a Current Student Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Research & Publications Libraries & Campus Resources Careers Career Education Career Resources Internship Program Job & Internship Postings Employment Statistics Career FAQs For Employers Search form Search Page A View from the Class: Lucas Toh MPA '23 Page A View from the Class: Florentina Pruteanu MPA '22 News Celebrating a Rich History of Climate Change Expertise Page Donor Profile: Grace Frisone MIA '76, '77BUS You are here Home Giving to the School of International and Public Affairs (SIPA) SIPA’s mission–to educate the next generation of leaders and problem-solvers and contribute our knowledge to advance human progress–has never been more relevant, nor your support more essential to our success. Whether seeking to reduce poverty, improve economic growth, foster well-governed and more sustainable cities, or understand and reduce conflict, we work around the globe to bring fresh ideas and new approaches to policy analysis and implementation in the 21st century. Our community spans the globe but we share a common commitment: to drive progress on the critical challenges facing humanity. SIPA is one of the special places in the world that can bridge the gap between the academy and public policy and work for global solutions, informed by deep knowledge of the world and local conditions. We hope our work will inspire you to join us in this effort. There has never been a more important time. DSC_5698-sm.jpg How to Give Grad2019_sm.jpeg What to Support CREA_20050602Gates_06-dev.jpg SIPA Student Support Initiative DSC07318E-sml.jpg Thank You to Our Donors Eduarda-Zoghbi.jpg SIPA | A VIEW FROM THE CLASS Meet some of SIPA’s remarkable students. sipa_reunion_dinner_2019.jpg Get Involved Your connection to SIPA is lifelong and global. Explore the many ways to stay engaged with the School. Justin-Peter-JP-Leous-06SIPA.jpg Making a Difference Meet some of SIPA's inspiring donors. Make a Gift Make an Online Gift Explore Other Ways to Give carousel-what-can-be_sm.png Thank you for making What Can Be: The Campaign for SIPA a success! We are grateful beyond measure to the more than 4,700 donors who have given so generously over the past five years. Your gifts helped fund areas essential to SIPA’s future, including increased financial aid for our students, expanded support of high-impact research, and critical resources to ensure new hiring and to create new and innovative programming. Thank you for your generosity and for helping to make SIPA a policy school uniquely prepared to address the world’s challenges—today, tomorrow, and for many years to come. We look forward to sharing details about the campaign's impact in the months ahead, and to keeping you engaged with our critical work. Contact Us SIPA Office of Alumni & Development Columbia Alumni Center 212-851-9607 [email protected] Our Team Share This Top Connect with Us Facebook LinkedIn YouTube Twitter Instagram Twitter June 1, 2022 RT @ColumbiaUEnergy: "There are going to be tipping points with this transition and tipping points in technology, and I have no doubt th… https://t.co/Kl0BvFY4gk June 1, 2022 RT @Columbia: Explore the rich history of the LGBTQ+ movement at Columbia, the scholarship of our faculty on related issues, even… https://t.co/SQC3HllMcz COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY School of International and Public Affairs Main Address 420 West 118th Street New York, NY 10027 Non-Discrimination Statement and Policy Office of Admissions and Financial Aid 514 West 113th Street New York, NY 10025 SIPA Admission Tel (212) 854-6216