Newsroom Skip to content Skip to primary navigation Skip to search box Skip to admissions quick links Skip to secondary navigation Skip to breadcrumb TC Menu Search for people, news & websites Go Resource Links Prospective Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links Columbia Library myTC Directory Apply Now Request Info Search Bar Primary Navigation About Academics Admission & Aid Faculty & Research News Give to TC Newsroom Secondary Navigation Main Stories Views on the News Publications Podcasts TC In the Media Social Media TC Generation TC Newsroom In the News COVID-19 Racial Justice Pre-K-12 Education Student Pathways Digital Learning Media Literacy Wellness News and Views You Can Use Now Stories and series featuring TC insight, expertise, and opinion on critical issues in today's complex and fast-changing world. Luring Covid-Cautious Parents Back to School Luring Covid-Cautious Parents Back to School For some parents, a return to in-person learning requires soul-searching — and some district persuasion. Sonya Douglass Horsford weighs in Allegrante Selected for the Inaugural Charles Irwin Lambert Endowed Professorship Allegrante Selected for the Inaugural Charles Irwin Lambert Endowed Professorship Teachers College has named John Allegrante, Professor of Health Education, the Charles Irwin Lambert Professor of Health Behavior and Education. A Call to Action: Affinity Alumni Groups Further the TC Embrace of Diversity and Inclusion A Call to Action: Affinity Alumni Groups Further the TC Embrace of Diversity and Inclusion After graduating from Teachers College, alumni can now deepen their connections through affiliate groups designed to support historically under-represented groups. (Photo: TC Archives) How to Talk to Kids About the Russia-Ukraine War How to Talk to Kids About the Russia-Ukraine War A conversation with Prerna Arora, Assistant Professor of School Psychology, and Cindy Huang, Assistant Professor of Counseling Psychology Erica Walker: ‘Deeply Honored’ 2022 AERA Fellow Recognized for Excellence in Education Research Erica Walker: ‘Deeply Honored’ 2022 AERA Fellow Recognized for Excellence in Education Research Youth at the Center: Connecting the Dots of Climate Change Through Activism and Storytelling Youth at the Center: Connecting the Dots of Climate Change Through Activism and Storytelling Graduates Gallery 2022 Triumphantly moving forward in their next stages of life, the Teachers College Class of 2022 includes the next generation of leaders at the helm of education, health and psychology. Views on the News Timely analysis and lively commentary on news events and current trends in education, health, psychology, and leadership. Faculty & Research News Innovative research led by Teachers College faculty creates new knowledge aimed at solving the world's most pressing challenges. Featured Series Crucial advice to the Biden-Harris administration and Congress for getting things right Stories of TC students and recent alumni who are making their mark A series on education during the pandemic Fulfilling the Promise of Online Learning Profiles in innovation, creativity and courage Recent Articles View As View as grid View as list All Stories In the Media The Los Angeles Times Op-Ed: Why our response to school shootings is all wrong Louis Klarevas, Sonali Rajan and Charles Branas outline the public policy that reseasrch shows can curb gun violence, paritcularly in schools. Truthout New Laws Make It Hard for Some Educators to Discuss Buffalo Shooting in Class As some educators face restrictions that limit classroom discussion of current events and race, Prerna Arora weighs in on the potential harms to student mental health – and how teachers can still help. Scientific American U.S. Kids Are Falling behind Global Competition, but Brain Science Shows How to Catch Up Kimberly Noble's landmark research on how poverty affects brain development is cited in this examination of how American policy can better support the education and success of youth. New York One To Prevent Racist Extremism, Parents Must Engage Teens, Experts Say Amra Sabic-El-Rayess comments on how social dynamics in the classroom may play a role in the radicalization of youth. View All Media Mentions Featured Videos Courtney Parent (M.A. Expected ’22): Developmental Psychology Courtney Parent (M.A. Expected ’22): Developmental Psychology “Hearing stories of past generations really makes me proud to be a farm girl. It also makes me proud to be here because it’s like everybody before me has really provided me with this opportunity.” Play Media First Steps at TC and Beyond Joey Uy, a master's student in the International Educational Development program, is one of several students who began their scholarship at TC virtually, and stepped on campus for the first time this fall. Play Media Gabriel Reyes (M.S. ’21) in Neuroscience & Education: Exploring Poverty’s Impact on Learning Gabriel Reyes (M.S. ’21) in Neuroscience & Education: Exploring Poverty’s Impact on Learning Gabriel Reyes grew up in a poor family — but it wasn’t until he was an undergraduate at Brown University that he decided to pursue the topic that would earn him honors as the winner of TC’s 2020 Student Research Poster Contest, held as part of Academic Festival. Play Media Carolyn Swen (M.A. ’21): International Education Development Carolyn Swen fled with her family from Liberia and sat in her first classroom at age 8. At TC she designed a human rights and gender-based curriculum now in use in Ethiopia. Next up: law school, and then, one day, starting a school in Sierra Leone. Play Media Cheng Stahl in front of Vienna Museum Catherine Cheng Stahl: Aspiring researcher, administrator and teacher Catherine Cheng Stahl was born in China and lived in Sweden, Nashville, Massachusetts, Vienna and Connecticut before coming to New York City and Teachers College three years ago. “It sometimes feels that crossing borders is the theme of my life,” she says. Certainly, that’s the theme of Cheng Stahl’s work right now, both as a third-year doctoral student in the Department of Curriculum & Teaching and as an Editorial and Digital Publishing Associate with the Teachers College Record. Play Media Shavonna Hinton: A Changemaker’s Approach to Overcoming Education Disparities “I try to find a common thread in everything I do,” says Hinton, a master’s degree student in Education Policy who has created a Self-Designed Specialization in People, Policy and Higher Education Opportunity. “And it all goes back to the same thing: ‘Let me give you the resources, information, and opportunities you need to set yourself up for success.’” Play Media Publications TC Today The magazine of Teachers College, Columbia University Annual Report The Teachers College Annual Report More TC Media Community College Research Center Mixed Methods Blog Insights and research on the impact of COVID-19 on community colleges and more The Hechinger Report Covering Innovation & Inequality in Education Podcasts @ TC Illuminating critical issues and trends Teachers College Record The Voice of Scholarship in Education TC Coming Together … Right Now! Inspiration for our TC Community and friends Have a Story Idea or News Tip? The Office of External Affairs is committed to writing and producing news and feature stories that highlight the accomplishments, achievements and impact of TC faculty, students, alumni and staff. We welcome suggestions for stories focused on teaching and learning, research, experience, and other ways that TC is creating a smarter, healthier and more equitable world, for publication across the College’s communications channels. Submit a Story Idea Follow us on Social Media Loading... Tweet by @ {{item.user_screen_name}} {{parseDateToFromNow(item.source_created_at)}} - View Post Show Actions {{ai.link_label}} @{{ai.retweet_from}} Watch Video View Image Instagram Post by @ {{item.user_screen_name}} {{parseDateToFromNow(item.source_created_at)}} - View Post Show Actions Watch Video View Images View Image Facebook Post by @ {{item.user_screen_name}} {{parseDateToFromNow(item.source_created_at)}} - View Post Show Actions {{ai.link_label}} Watch Video View Image LinkedIn Post by @ {{item.user_screen_name}} {{parseDateToFromNow(item.source_created_at)}} - View Post Show Actions Watch Video View Image Contact Us Teachers College Newsroom Address: Institutional Advancement 193-197 Grace Dodge Hall Box: 306 * Phone: (212) 678-3231 * Email: views@tc.columbia.edu Contact Us Teachers College, Columbia University 525 West 120th Street New York, NY 10027 Tel: +1 (212) 678-3000 Map & Directions Directory Ask a Question Resources Admission & Aid Student Life Courses Academic Calendar Office of the Registrar Office of Teacher Education TC NEXT Employment Legal Consumer Information / Student Right to Know Legal Notices Policy Library Non-Discrimination Title IX Compliance Ethics Reporting Public Safety GDPR Notice Make a Gift to TC Diversity Work at TC TC Facebook TC Twitter TC Instagram TC Youtube TC LinkedIn © 2022, Teachers College, Columbia University, New York, NY 10027. Back to skip to quick links