Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu Division of Student Affairs Career Center Main Navigation Students Show Extended Virtual Career Center Titan Connection: Jobs & Internships Workshops & Information Sessions Networking Career Fairs & Expos Resumes & Cover Letters Interviewing Titan Takeover: Career Exploration Program Career & Major Exploration Graduate & Professional School College Specific Resources Online Recorded Webinars I Am First Titan Career Ambassadors Resources for Diverse Populations Parker Dewey: Micro-Internships Alumni Show Extended Alumni Career Services Help a Titan Hire a Titan Recruiters Show Extended Post Positions On Titan Connection Recruiting Calendar On-Campus Interviewing (OCI) Connect With Students Employer Partnerships Learn About Our Diverse Students Titan Takeover: Career Exploration Program Parker Dewey: Micro-Internships Faculty & Staff Show Extended Meet your Career Specialist Career Center Commercial (4 minutes) Request a Workshop Get a Titan Connection Account Post a Position Faculty Development Certificate Workshops & Info Sessions Career Fairs & Expos Online Career Guide Reports Schedule Appointment About Us Blog Help a Titan Hire a Titan Contact Us 800 N. State College Blvd Fullerton, CA LH-208 Office: Mon.-Fri. 8AM to 5PM Summer Drive-Thru Hours: In-Person Monday and Thursday: 10:00am - 1:45pm Virtual: Tuesday and Wednesday: 10:00am - 1:45pm Friday: Closed **Career Center Closed on Monday, May 30, 2022 for Memorial Day** Please go to our Main Page to Schedule a Virtual Appointment: Schedule an appointment through our Online Appointment System Help A Titan CSUF Alumni - Thank you for your interest in volunteering to assist the Career Center! Contact the Career Center to help us in the following ways: Panel Presenter Share your experiences and perspective on wide ranging topics that students want to hear about most. From career advice to industry know-how, alumni panelists provide a unique perspective that resonates with CSUF students. Panel presentations are a great way to bring your message directly to students, and a perfect excuse to return to campus for a visit! Professional Insight Provide one-on-one advice for students looking for guidance. Activities include informational interviews, resume review, mock-interviews, and industry or academic mentoring. By volunteering, you provide the opportunity for a student to contact you for this purpose. Interviews and mentoring may take place in person, by phone, email or via Titan Pro Network Conduct a Workshop Give us the scoop! Host or co-host a workshop on topics such as resume writing, interviewing, networking, and more. Ensure that students stay up-to-date with vital information about the workplace. We rely on you to keep us current on industry practices to help students succeed. Other Do you have a unique career resource we haven't thought of? Let us know and let's work together to leverage it on the behalf of the Titan community. Contact us 657-278-3121 and ask for any member of our Employer Relations Team. This site is maintained by Career Center. Last Published 5/23/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact careercenter@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.3.5 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.