Skip to content Columbia University Irving Medical Center Find People Events Faculty and Staff Resources Give Now Search About Us About Us Facts and Figures Explore CUIMC Events Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion at CUIMC Community Development and Alumni Explore CUIMC Leadership and Administration A-Z Listing Affiliated Hospitals Campus Map and Directions Campus Resources Contact CUIMC Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion At CUIMC, we are committed to continuous improvement in providing culturally inclusive medical education and clinical care. Learn About Our Commitment Education Education Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Mailman School of Public Health School of Nursing College of Dental Medicine VP&S Columbia Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons is dedicated to developing the next generation of leaders in medicine Learn About Our Academic Programs Research Research The Louisa Gross Horwitz Prize Columbia Technology Ventures Research Administration Columbia Clinical Innovation Lab Patient Care Patient Care ColumbiaDoctors Children's Health Columbia Primary Care Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Digital Health Services at Columbia Find a Doctor Search for a provider by specialty, expertise, location and insurance. Schedule an appointment online. Find a Doctor News News For the Media Share Your News CUIMC Update CUIMC Celebrates Columbia Medicine Read the latest news stories about CUIMC faculty, research, and events Explore Our News COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Information for Patients COVID-19 Campus Safety for Employees and Students COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students COVID-19 Information and Resources for Clinical Staff COVID-19 Vaccine Information Learn about COVID-19 vaccine availability and requirements for employees and students at CUIMC Get the Latest Information You are here Home > COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC > COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students > Update on COVID-19 Vaccine Distribution COVID-19 Information for Patients COVID-19 Campus Safety for Employees and Students COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students COVID-19 Information and Resources for Clinical Staff December 30, 2020: Update on COVID-19 Vaccine Distribution Dear colleagues, Vaccinations continue today, December 30. The focus still remains on vaccinating individuals delivering direct patient care and all care team members and staff supporting them in person. We will keep everyone updated as more groups are added. Vaccines will be administered on a limited schedule tomorrow, from 6:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m., and will resume on Saturday. As of this morning, over 20,000 staff at NewYork-Presbyterian, Weill Cornell, and Columbia have been vaccinated. This includes nearly more than 7,000 individuals on the Columbia Campus who are working in patient care areas, with over 3,100 of them Columbia employees. For those already vaccinated, second dose reminders will be sent via Connect. If you have not yet signed up for Connect, please do so, at: https://www.myconnectnyc.org/mychart/accesscheck.asp Please stay tuned for instructions on where to return for your second dose. Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) Even though you can find the latest FAQ documents on the CUIMC COVID Vaccine Information page we are also going to highlight key Question(s) of the Day to keep you informed. Some of the most common questions are about allergies and vaccines: I have a shellfish allergy. Is this a contraindication to vaccination? Aside from the 15 minute wait for monitoring after getting the vaccine, are epi pens available in case they are needed? Anaphylaxis to shellfish is not considered a contraindication to vaccination. However, past history of anaphylaxis to anything, must be indicated on the Employee Screening Questionnaire for COVID Vaccine when registering for vaccination. The employee will also need to be observed for 30 minutes. Each of the vaccine administration sites has personnel and medications to care for anaphylactic and other allergic reactions. Is there any issue with a person who has allergies, for example, to latex, dust, and penicillin, but no food allergies, getting vaccinated? People with allergies can be vaccinated, but please be sure to discuss your allergies when you go to get vaccinated. It is important to let the vaccination team know if you have ever had a severe allergic reaction/anaphylaxis. Thank you! Magda Sobieszczyk, MD, MPH Chief of Infectious Diseases and Co-Chair of the CUIMC COVID-19 Vaccine Committee Melissa Stockwell, MD, MPH Chief of the Division of Child and Adolescent Health and Co-Chair of the CUIMC COVID-19 Vaccine Committee Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian About Us Careers News Education Patient Care Research Resources at CUIMC Columbia University Irving Medical Center 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Back to top