Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Division of Student Affairs Student Affairs Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links Student Conduct Menu Main Nav Office of Student Conduct Request Your Record Back Back Close About Policies & Expectations Overview Hate Crimes and Bias-Related Incidents Protocol Formative Programs Services & Forms Request Your Record Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Division of Student Affairs Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Policies & Expectations Home Policies & Expectations Being a member of the Boston College community is a privilege, and comes with the responsibility to act in accordance with all institutional rules and policies. The Student Code of Conduct exists to provide information on these behavioral expectations, and to articulate the process of addressing violations. The Division of Student Affairs website contains an exhaustive list of policies, documents, and guides. Visit Division of Student Affairs COVID-19 COVID-19 health and safety protocols and University and public health policies and guidelines. Review Policies Student Code of Conduct The Student Code of Conduct outlines behavioral expectations and procedures for BC students. Review Code Student Sexual Misconduct Policy Boston College seeks to foster a campus environment free from exploitation and intimidation, as well as discrimination based upon gender. Review Policy Title IX Harassment Policy Boston College seeks to foster a campus environment free from sexual harassment, including sexual assault, dating violence, domestic violence, and stalking. Review Policy Copyright Policy This document describes professional standards and business conduct concerning the use of University technology and information resources. Review Policy Bias Motivated Conduct This protocol, developed by the Office of Institutional Diversity, outlines the process for reporting a hate crime or bias related incident as well as the resources available. Review Protocol Hazing Policy This policy provides definitions for different types of hazing and outlines state laws related to reporting and punishment protocol. Review Policy Help-Seeking Policy Students are expected and encouraged to seek immediate assistance for themselves or others in situations where help is needed due to intoxication or drug ingestion. Review Policy Residential Life Policies In addition to the Student Code of Conduct, students living in University housing are also expected to adhere to the Conditions for Residency. Review Policies Back To Top Back To Top Office of Student Conduct Maloney Hall, Suite 448 617-552-3470 About Policies & Expectations Formative Programs Services & Forms Division of Student Affairs Division of Student Affairs BAIC BC Bands Business Service Center Career Center Counseling Services Graduate Student Life Health Promotion Health Services Residential Life Robsham Theater Student Conduct Student Involvement Student Outreach & Support Women’s Center Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College