Toggle navigation Sign up Log in About Leadership History Young Alumni Committee News Events An Earth Institute Sustainability Primer: Managing Environmental Conflict, with Joshua D. Fisher Bachata: Cross-Ivy dance night The Watergate Affair at 50th: The scandal that shook the nation, with Richard Ben-Veniste Revolutionary Mothers: Women in the Struggle for America's Independence, with Prof. Carol Berkin American Masterplan: Commemorating the 75th anniversary of the Marshall Plan, with Prof. Volker Berghahn Civil Rights Queen: Constance Baker Motley and the Struggle for Equality, with Tomiko Brown-Nagin & Rhonda Colvin Past Events DC United: New York RedBulls at DC United The History of NYC Restaurants and Nightlife with Kevin Draper Membership New Alumni Barnard-Columbia Joint Member Pay by Check Contributing Member Students Columbians Helping Community Roar like a lion Become a member Upcoming event American Masterplan: Commemorating the 75th anniversary of the Marshall Plan Volker R. Berghahn Seth Low Professor Emeritus of History, Columbia University The implementation of the Marshall Plan following its announcement by Secretary of State George C. Marshall on June 5, 1947 in his Commencement speech at Harvard University has rightly been hailed... Read more June 01, 2022 at 6:30pm WHERE Webinar Washington, DC, United States Google map TICKETS RSVP Upcoming event Bachata: Cross-Ivy dance night Known for its love stories and distinctive, syncopated rhythm, bachata originated in the Dominican Republic during the 1960s. Repressive politics in that era stifled broad awareness of the dance form, but at long last it has become a true, international sensation! Keep your dance card open for... Read more June 10, 2022 at 8:30pm WHERE 618 Cocktail and Whiskey Lounge 618 H St NW, Second Floor, Washington, DC 20001, United States Google map TICKETS $17.00 USD RSVP Upcoming event The Watergate Affair at 50th: The scandal that shook the nation Richard Ben-Veniste Law '67, former chief of the Watergate Special Prosecutor’s Watergate Task Force Host: James M. Banner, Jr. GSAS '68, Historian and Author To commemorate the 50th anniversary of the Watergate scandal, please join us as Richard Ben-Veniste, former chief of the Watergate Special Prosecutor’s Watergate... Read more June 15, 2022 at 6:30pm WHERE Webinar Washington, DC, United States Google map TICKETS RSVP Upcoming event Civil Rights Queen: Constance Baker Motley and the Struggle for Equality Tomiko Brown-Nagin Dean of Harvard Radcliffe InstituteDaniel P.S. Paul Professor of Constitutional Law at Harvard Law SchoolProfessor of History at Harvard University Moderated by: Rhonda Colvin JRN '13, Senior Political Correspondent for The Washington Post As Ketanji Brown Jackson, the first Black female Supreme Court... Read more July 12, 2022 at 6:00pm WHERE Webinar Washington, DC, United States Google map TICKETS RSVP Upcoming event DC United: New York RedBulls at DC United Saturday, August 6, 2022, at 7:30 PM Celebrate the soccer season with us on August 6 (7:30PM EDT) at the Audi Field! Take in the return match of DC United against their New York rivals RedBulls in special seating with local Columbians.... Read more August 06, 2022 at 7:30pm WHERE Audi Field 100 Potomac Ave SW, Washington, DC 20024, United States Google map TICKETS $40.00 USD RSVP Privacy Policy CAA Alumni Events Worldwide Log in Sign up for email updates: Optional email code Follow us on Twitter Like us on Facebook SITE PROVIDED BY Are you an alumni group leader? Please contact your liaison in the Office of Alumni Relations or email [email protected] to learn how to create an alumni group website. Content on this page is the responsibility of the Columbia alumni organization represented here, and does not reflect the official views of Columbia University. If you have any concerns about this page, please e-mail [email protected]