COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: General Studies, Major MajorGeneral Studies All Programs Fairmount College of Liberal Arts and Sciences A Bachelor of General Studies (BGS) from Wichita State will allow you to focus your studies in multiple areas of interest—equipping you with skills and knowledge tailored to your career goals or graduate school plans. The degree program also offers several pre-structured interdisciplinary field majors in the Fairmount College of Liberal Arts and Sciences (LAS). Learn how general studies is the right fit for you. Request Info Start Your Application Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the program To be admitted into the Fairmount College of Liberal Arts and Sciences, you must first be admitted to Wichita State. For WSU's admission requirements, and to apply, click the link below. Admission requirements Inside the Program Real-world work outside class helps student gain perspective Devin Martin began his journey as a general studies major after transferring to WSU from Highland Community College. His struggles have only built character. Devin says he learned just as much from his time working outside the classroom as he did in class. Working in his field while still a student gave him perspective that, combined with technical skills taught by his instructors, helped prepare him to graduate and take on the workforce. Curriculum You'll choose a main area of study within the Fairmount College of Liberal Arts and Sciences—and two additional areas, which may be from any department or college. Pre-structured LAS majors include: Aging Studies Ethnic Studies Geography German Religion View the curriculum Careers Thanks to WSU's extensive network of employer connections, students in every major have opportunities to gain real-world experience—helping them build a resume, make professional connections and land their dream jobs. Learn more about careers in this field Similar Programs Aging Studies Ethnic Studies Geography (Minor) German (Minor) Religion (Minor) 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©