Skip to main content Harvard University 1 site notification Latest COVID Information Search Search Quick Links Find a Person A to Z Index Menu Academics Academics Explore all programs Browse all of our undergraduate concentrations, graduate degrees, and professional certificates. Harvard Schools Academics Visit each School for information on admissions and financial aid. Explore more Harvard College Harvard Business School Harvard Division of Continuing Education Harvard Divinity School Harvard Faculty of Arts and Sciences Harvard Graduate School of Arts and Sciences Harvard Graduate School of Design Harvard Graduate School of Education Harvard John A. Paulson School of Engineering and Applied Sciences Harvard Kennedy School Harvard Law School Harvard Medical School Harvard Radcliffe Institute Harvard School of Dental Medicine Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health Professional and lifelong learning Free online courses More about academics at Harvard Campus Campus Harvard's Campus Get tickets to our next game, hours and locations for our libraries and museums, and information about your next career move. Libraries Campus Explore our libraries Arnold Arboretum Horticultural Library Baker Library and Special Collections Biblioteca Berenson Botany Libraries Cabot Science Library Countway Library Dumbarton Oaks Research Library Ernst Mayr Library Fine Arts Library Frances Loeb Library Fung Library Gutman Library Harvard Divinity School Library Harvard Film Archive Harvard Law School Library Harvard Map Collection Harvard University Archives Harvard-Yenching Library HKS Library and Knowledge Services Houghton Library Lamont Library Loeb Music Library Robbins Library of Philosophy Schlesinger Library on the History of Women in America Tozzer Library Widener Library Wolbach Library Woodberry Poetry Room Museums Campus Explore our museums The Arnold Arboretum Carpenter Center for the Visual Arts Collection of Historical Scientific Instruments Graduate School of Design Exhibitions Harvard Art Museums Harvard Forest Harvard Museum of Natural History The Harvard Museum of the Ancient Near East Harvard Museums of Science and Culture Harvard University Herbaria Mineralogical and Geological Museum Museum of Comparative Zoology The Peabody Museum of Archaeology and Ethnology Warren Anatomical Museum Athletics Work at Harvard Events Commencement Campus Harvard Commencement for the Class of 2022 Harvard Commencement for the Classes of 2020 & 2021 In Focus In Focus Explore and understand the world with Harvard In Focus is a curated examination of Harvard's research, scholarly work, and community. Recent topics include: Commencement 2022 In Focus Celebrating the Graduates Highlighting the accomplishments and celebrating the bright futures of Harvard’s most recent grads Meet this year's graduates What's inside? The Harvard Gazette's coverage of this year's Commencement Explore each School's events Mental Health In Focus Mental Health Awareness Month To commemorate Mental Health Awareness Month, the Harvard community is exploring how we cope with, manage, and understand mental health and how it impacts our lives. View the feature What's inside? Is a mobile app as good as a therapist? Bipolar breakthrough Climate Solutions In Focus Climate Solutions Faculty and students from across the Harvard community are working on ways to address climate change and its effects. Explore these adaptations What's inside? Zero-waste architecture Better batteries inspired by a BLT Explore the In Focus archives Visit Visit Visit Harvard Ideas and assistance for your trip to our campus. Tours Maps and Directions About About About Harvard Information on how Harvard is structured, explore our long history, and discover our extended community. History of Harvard About History of Harvard Harvard is perhaps best-known because of its enduring history of innovation in education. But even die-hard Harvard buffs are not likely to know all of these Harvard firsts and historical snippets. Learn more History timeline Nobel Laureates Honorary Degrees Harvard Shields Leadership and Governance About Learn about our Leadership Officers and Deans Harvard Corporation Board of Overseers University Professorships Diversity and Inclusion Endowment Harvard in the Community Harvard in the World News News The Harvard Gazette Official news from Harvard University about science, medicine, art, campus life, University issues, and broader national and global concerns. Trending News Stories News Read more news Jacinda Ardern’s forceful reminder: Democracies can die New Zealand Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern delivers warning on erosion of trust in her Commencement address, urging social media reforms and calling on individuals to reject tribalism. Harvard awards seven honorary degrees During today’s Commencement ceremony in Tercentenary Theatre, Harvard will recognize seven with an honorary degree. Humans hot, sweaty, natural-born runners Hairless, clawless, and largely weaponless, ancient humans used the unlikely combination of sweatiness and relentlessness to gain the upper hand over their faster, stronger, generally more dangerous animal prey, Harvard Anthropology Professor Daniel Lieberman said Thursday (April 12). Pursuit of joy starts with truth, Wu tells graduates Class Day speaker Michelle Wu ’07, J.D. ’12, urged the class of 2022 to hold fast to Harvard’s founding motto “veritas,” or truth. Sign up for the Daily Gazette Navigation Quick Links A to Z Index Find a Person Events Media Relations Alumni Give Now Harvard University Close Leadership and Governance Board of Overseers About Harvard History of Harvard Timeline Nobel Laureates Harvard’s Laureates in Economic Science Harvard’s Nobel Laureates in Chemistry Harvard’s Nobel Laureates in Literature Harvard’s Nobel Laureates in Medicine Harvard’s Nobel Laureates in Peace Harvard’s Nobel Laureates in Physics History of honorary degrees Harvard Shields Harvard in the Community Harvard in the World Leadership and Governance Officers and Deans Harvard Corporation Board of Overseers Endowment About Harvard History of Harvard Timeline Nobel Laureates Harvard’s Laureates in Economic Science Harvard’s Nobel Laureates in Chemistry Harvard’s Nobel Laureates in Literature Harvard’s Nobel Laureates in Medicine Harvard’s Nobel Laureates in Peace Harvard’s Nobel Laureates in Physics History of honorary degrees Harvard Shields Harvard in the Community Harvard in the World Leadership and Governance Officers and Deans Harvard Corporation Board of Overseers Endowment More Formally established in 1642 The Board is made up of Harvard University alumni who bring to bear their best judgment and deep commitment to Harvard’s overarching academic mission and long-term institutional interests. News & Reports Paul Choi and Leslie Tolbert to lead Board of Overseers Paul Choi ’86, J.D. ’89, has been elected president of Harvard University’s Board of Overseers for the 2022–23 academic year. Leslie Tolbert ’73, Ph.D. ’78, will serve as vice chair of the board’s executive committee. View Article Learning more about the role of the alumni nominating committee A former Overseer and the executive director of the Harvard Alumni Association discuss the work of the HAA nominating committees. View Article Eight current Overseers share their unique stories Profiles of eight current members of the Board of Overseers who share their unique stories of experience and service. View Article Report to the Harvard Governing Boards on Aspects of the Board of Overseers Read the report Accompanying Letter to the Report Letter on the report from R. Martin Chávez, President of the Harvard Board of Overseers, and William F. Lee, Senior Fellow of the Harvard Corporation. Read the letter What is Your Harvard Story? Learning from leaders In a one-on-one conversation, Board of Overseers leaders Marty Chávez and Helena Buonanno Foulkes explain what an Overseer is and how they lead, and then discuss their hopes for the future. Explore the full playlist Members of the Board New members of the board are elected each spring by Harvard degree holders (other than officers of government or instruction at the University and members of the Corporation). Aspects of their role are set forth in a statement on Expectations of Service. Geraldine Acuña-Sunshine (2018-2024) Boston, MA President, Sunshine Care Foundation for Neurological Care and Research, and Senior Counsel, Bracebridge Capital Monica Bharel (2022-2026) Brookline, MA Senior Advisor/Cabinet Member for the Mayor of Boston Raphael W. Bostic (2020-2026) Decatur, GA President and CEO, Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta Mark J. Carney (2021-2027) Gatineau, Québec, Canada Special Envoy to UN Secretary General on Climate Action and Finance, Finance Advisor for COP26 to Prime Minister Boris Johnson, and Vice Chair, Brookfield Asset Management Alice Hm Chen (2019-2025) Berkeley, CA Chief Medical Officer, Covered California, and Professor of Medicine, University of California, San Francisco Paul L. Choi (2017-2023) Chicago, IL Partner, Sidley Austin LLP Philip Hart Cullom (2018-2024) Gaithersburg, MD Vice Admiral (retired), U.S. Navy Sangu J. Delle (2022-2028) Accra, Ghana Chairman & Chief Executive Officer, Africa Health Holdings Janet Echelman (2019-2023) Tampa, FL, and Brookline, MA Visual Artist; President, Studio Echelman Carla Harris (2017-2023) New York, NY Vice Chair of Wealth Management, Senior Client Advisor and Managing Director, Morgan Stanley Meredith (Max) Hodges (2018-2024) Boston, MA Executive Director, Boston Ballet Marilyn Holifield (2018-2024) Miami, FL Partner, Holland & Knight LLP Christopher B. Howard (2021-2027) Tempe, AZ Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, Arizona State University Enterprise Darienne Driver Hudson (2017-2023) Detroit, MI President and CEO, United Way for Southeastern Michigan Vivian Hunt (2019-2025) London, England Senior Partner, McKinsey & Company Tyler Jacks (2019-2025) Cambridge, MA Koch Professor of Biology and Founding Director, Koch Institute for Integrative Cancer Research, Massachusetts Institute of Technology and President, Break Through Cancer John B. King, Jr. (2019-2025) Washington, DC President, The Education Trust Raymond J. Lohier Jr. (2021-2027) New York, NY U.S. Circuit Judge, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit Scott Mead (2022-2026) London, England Fine Art Photographer Lauren Ancel Meyers (2022-2028) Austin, TX Cooley Centennial Professor, The University of Texas at Austin Todd Y. Park (2022-2028) Los Altos Hills, CA Co-Founder and Executive Chairman, Devoted Health Margaret Purce (2020-2026) Silver Spring, MD Soccer player, U.S. Women’s National Team and Sky Blue Football Club Reshma Saujani (2019-2025) New York, NY Founder, Girls Who Code and Marshall Plan for Moms Thea Sebastian (2020-2026) Washington, DC Policy Director, Civil Rights Corps Vikas P. Sukhatme (2022-2028) Atlanta, GA Robert W. Woodruff Professor of Medicine and Dean, Emory School of Medicine Chief Academic Officer Megan Red Shirt-Shaw (2021-2027) Vermillion, SD Director of Native Student Services, University of South Dakota Leslie P. Tolbert (2017-2023) Tucson, AZ Regents’ Professor Emerita, Department of Neuroscience, University of Arizona Jayson Toweh (2020-2026) Stanford, CA Doctoral Student and Graduate Research Assistant, Emmett Interdisciplinary Program in Environment and Resources, Stanford University Wilhelmina “Mimi” Wright (2022-2028) St. Paul, MN U. S. District Court Judge, District of Minnesota Sheryl WuDunn (2021-2027) Yamhill, Oregon Pulitzer Prize-winning Journalist, Co-founder, FullSky Partners, Co-author of Tightrope, Senior Managing Director, Mid-Market Securities Lawrence S. Bacow President, Harvard University Ex officio Paul J. Finnegan Treasurer, Harvard University Ex officio About the Board History, mission and activities The Board of Overseers is one of Harvard’s two governing boards, along with the President and Fellows, also known as the Corporation. Formally established in 1642, the Board plays an integral role in the governance of the University. As a central part of its work, the Board directs the visitation process, the primary means for periodic external assessment of Harvard’s schools and departments. Through its array of standing committees, and the roughly fifty visiting committees that report to them, the Board probes the quality of Harvard’s programs and assures that the University remains true to its charter as a place of learning. More generally, drawing on its members’ diverse experience and expertise, the Board provides counsel to the University’s leadership on priorities, plans, and strategic initiatives. The Board typically gathers five times a year for plenary and committee meetings, in addition to the time Overseers devote to other Harvard service. The plenary sessions commonly focus on a topic prominent on the University’s agenda—in areas such as innovations in teaching and learning, research initiatives throughout the arts and sciences and the professions, and efforts to enhance connections across the University’s schools and to amplify Harvard programs’ beneficial impact on the wider world. Plenary sessions typically include reports from standing committees and a discussion with the President of the University about key issues and challenges. The Board also has the power of consent to certain actions such as the election of Corporation members. In all their activities, the Overseers bring to bear their best judgment and their deep commitment to Harvard’s overarching academic mission and long-term institutional interests. Security & Brand Report Copyright Infringement Report Security Issue Trademark Notice Website Accessibility Digital Accessibility Privacy Statement Get In Touch Contact Harvard Maps & Directions Jobs © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube 0:00 0:00