Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Department of Journalism and Strategic Media About B.A. Program M.A. Program People Syllabi Student Resources News Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact About Accreditation Program Rankings Public Accountability Tenure and Promotion Policy Community Outreach Contact Us Take Action Apply to our Undergraduate Program Apply to our Master's Program Contact Us AEJMC 2022 Southeast Colloquium Follow Us Online FacebooktwitterYoutubeLinkedn Home JRSM About Us About Journalism and Strategic Media Greetings from Department Chair David Arant, Ph.D. I am pleased that you are interested in joining one of our dynamic media programs. The department has a distinguished faculty helping more than 400 students develop professional careers in advertising, public relations and news. Please visit the faculty profile page to meet our outstanding faculty members. Visit our news page to learn about our outstanding students winning awards in regional and national competitions. You can also find more about the day-to-day activities of our department by visiting us on Facebook. We are fortunate to have great support from alumni and friends who have endowed scholarship and enrichment funds to support the education of our students. Visit our scholarship pages to learn more about awards for which you may qualify. Let me know if I can help you prepare for a career in journalism, advertising, public relations and social and visual media. Thank you. David Arant, Ph.D. Professor and Chair Department of Journalism and Strategic Media Our Vision The University of Memphis Department of Journalism and Strategic Media and its programs has been recognized as one of the country's best, noted for its comprehensive and innovative approach preparing undergraduate and graduate students for meaningful and ethical practice in the journalism, advertising, public relations, visual media and other media professions. It seeks to provide a supportive environment for its faculty members as they educate and mentor the next generation of media professionals and conduct research that develops media knowledge for the field and engaged scholarship for the local community and the world at large. Our Mission The University of Memphis Department of Journalism and Strategic Media is a learner-centered, professional program providing high-quality educational experiences while pursuing new knowledge through research, professional outreach and engaged scholarship. Highest Priorities Increase enrollment, retention and graduation rates for students and prepare them for careers in the journalism and strategic media profession. Maintain up-to-date professional knowledge and skills in journalism and strategic media through professional training and research and incorporate that knowledge into the classroom. Create excellent scholarly and creative activities to expand knowledge in the fields of journalism and strategic media as well as enhance the instructional effectiveness of faculty members by incorporating their own research and that of contemporary scholars in the classroom. Build and nurture partnerships with local businesses, non-profits and other organizations. Incorporate entrepreneurialism at all levels of the curriculum and deepen ties with the Memphis entrepreneurship community. Provide a welcoming and nurturing learning and mentorship environment that supports the diversity and richness of expression of our student body and offer educational and professional resources that equip our students, many first-generation college students, for meaningful and productive journalism and strategic media careers. Develop mastery of skills in students in five key areas: Critical Thinking, Media Literacy, Multimedia, Professionalism and Writing. Values The University of Memphis Department of Journalism and Strategic Media, as an engaged learning professional program, celebrates: The pursuit of excellence in journalism and strategic media teaching and re-search as the highest measures of successful achievement. Careful academic advising and professional mentoring to the department's students. High ethical standards, superior fact-gathering ability and excellence in story-telling as the core of journalism and strategic media. Global perspectives by encouraging and supporting student participation in study-abroad experiences as well as by hosting international media professionals and exchange students in the Department of Journalism and Strategic Media. A collegial work and learning environment that supports cultural diversity, encourages a richness of academic expression and offers ample resources to make possible excellent research and teaching. Faculty service to the department, college, university and the media professions. Through service, the department's interconnectivity to its many and varied, internal and external publics is enhanced. Continued assessment and revision of its programs and their outcomes to ensure our students are prepared for the dynamic and constantly evolving media industries and technologies. THE FIVE PILLARS OF of Education in Journalism and Strategic Media The Department of Journalism and Strategic Media emphasizes five key areas of education and addresses each of them in every course. 1. Critical thinking Students will develop skills to think critically and independently, to process ideas and information and to evaluate sources of information. 2. Writing Students will learn to write clearly, concisely and accurately for varying styles applicable to the different disciplines addressed in the media. 3. Professionalism Students will dedicate themselves to excellence, observing the highest legal, ethical and professional standards and learn the importance of diversity and inclusiveness. 4. Multimedia Students will develop skills in the application and execution of multimedia communication, with emphasis on creative and visual storytelling. 5. Media literacy Students will learn the role of media in society, as well as the ways in which media are used to communicate with mass audiences. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 9/9/21 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.