By continuing to use this site, you agree to the use of cookies in accordance with our privacy policy. Dismiss Stay Safe The official source of public health information for Syracuse University. Skip to Content Open menu About Admissions Academics Life Athletics More Search the University Open search Popular searches Close menu Home About Toggle dropdown Leadership Vision & Mission Consumer Information Facts & Figures Plan Your Visit Campus Map History News Partnerships Work at Syracuse Social Media Bookstore Brand Help & Contacts Admissions Toggle dropdown Undergraduate Graduate Online Part-Time Cost & Aid Request Information Visit & Tour Apply Academics Toggle dropdown Schools & Colleges Undergraduate Majors & Minors Graduate Degrees Online Programs Syracuse University Global Study Abroad Opportunities & Support Calendars Departments Research Centers & Institutes Libraries, Collections & Galleries Academic Administration Life Toggle dropdown Accessibility & Diversity Campus Highlights Events Calendar Services & Support Meals & Dining Housing Groups & Activities Recreation & Facilities For Students For Veterans & Military For Faculty & Staff For Parents & Families A-Z Index Sitemap Login Athletics Men’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Football Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Track and Field Women’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Field Hockey Ice Hockey Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Softball Tennis Track and Field Volleyball Athletics Dept. Toggle dropdown Facilities Staff Directory Academic Honors Community Service Spirit Program Varsity Club Sports Medicine Championships Fan Zone Toggle dropdown Dome Schedule Seating Information Orange All Access Otto’s Kids Club Game Photos Promotions Orange Club Schedules News Alumni About Toggle dropdown Notable Alumni Alumni Association Awards News Events and Clubs Toggle dropdown Orange Central Northeast Midwest South West World/Affinity Regions Toggle dropdown Atlanta Boston Chicago Los Angeles Middle East New York San Francisco Washington, DC Services Toggle dropdown Career Network Generation Orange Directory Profile Class Notes Giving Contact Contact Visit Apply Coronavirus Updates Forever Orange Home Admissions Cost & Aid Cost of Attendance Undergraduate Bill vs. COA More from this Section Net Price Calculator Your Bill vs. Cost of Attendance When determining how much financial assistance you might need, the Office of Financial Aid and Scholarship Programs looks at a bigger picture. Speak with a financial aid counselor Cost of Attendance Calculation Generally, the Bursar is going to charge you for four things: tuition fees residence hall room meal plan An estimate is made of how much it’s going to cost the average student to live for the academic year while attending school. This is called “Cost of Attendance.” So in addition to the tuition, fees, and room/board charges (also known as “billable costs”), an estimate is made of how much you’ll be paying for books and supplies, travel, and general living expenses (also known as “non-billable” costs, meaning they don’t appear your bill). For these estimates, general averages for schools or colleges are used so you’ll notice that your Cost of Attendance is larger than your Bursar charges that appear on your bill. View the Cost of Attendance: Cost of Attendance for Students Enrolled Prior to Fall 2018 Cost of attendance for Students Entering Fall 2018/Spring 2019 Financial Aid Calculation To calculate the amount of financial aid you’ll need, start with the Cost of Attendance (how much you’ll be paying to live for the academic year) and then subtract your Estimated Family Contribution (the amount that your family has been calculated to be able to contribute based on the information you provided on your FAFSA and CSS/PROFILE). The remaining amount is the total of financial aid you may receive. This amount is then split evenly-half for the fall term and half for the spring term. Net Price Calculator The Net Price Calculator provides an early indication of how much and what types of financial aid you might qualify for. Your Bill Provided that you’ve submitted all documents necessary as listed on your MySlice Financial Aid To Do List (promissory notes, etc.), your financial aid will appear on your bill as “anticipated financial aid”. This means that the aid isn’t on your Bursar account yet but is being used to reduce your charges–in anticipation of it showing up. Around the time classes begin for the semester, almost all of your financial aid is transferred to your Bursar account. (This disbursement of financial aid occurs no earlier than 10 days before the first day of class.) The exception is Federal Work-Study for which you’ll have to work and earn a paycheck (visit the Student Employment page for more details). Want to know more details about your charges, fees, and other policies? Take a look at the tuition, fees, and related policies bulletin . What is a Refund? Your financial aid is first used to cover any charges on your Bursar account (tuition, fees, residence hall, and meal plan). You may have more financial aid than you do charges, in which case the “extra” money will be available to you as a refund. You can fill out a refund request form to let the Bursar know where you want the refund to go and how you want it to get there. The Bursar usually sends out these refunds about 10 days after classes start. Then you’re free to use that refund for those “non-billable” costs such as books, rent, and food. Syracuse University offers other payment options including a monthly payment plan. Learn more by visiting the Bursar’s Office or call 315.443.2444 to discuss additional payment options. Important: If you or your family are experiencing special circumstances that affect your ability to pay your bill, please contact your financial aid counselor for advice and possible solutions by calling 315.443.1513 or via email . Related Pages Meal Plans and Rates Meal plans are a required part of living in on-campus housing, unless you live in South Campus apartments that have kitchens. Residence Facilities and Rates You'll find it easy to make yourself at home in one of Syracuse's 21 residence halls, with accommodations to meet diverse needs. Student Employment Federal Work-Study (FWS) is a part-time employment program. Students can work on- or off-campus, and wages vary depending on the position. Popular Toggle dropdown Academic Calendar Campus Map Careers Libraries Majors and Minors Visit and Tour A-Z Toggle dropdown Academic Departments Schools and Colleges Sitemap Search Contact Toggle dropdown Admissions Financial Aid Emergency Contacts Human Resources Make a Gift Login Toggle dropdown MySlice Blackboard SUMail Syracuse University 900 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, NY 13244 Phone: +1.315.443.1870 Follow S.U. on Instagram Like S.U. on Facebook Follow S.U. on Twitter Follow S.U. on LinkedIn Follow S.U. on Tiktok Subscribe to S.U. on YouTube © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy