Your browser does not support iframes. Skip to main content Menu Scheller College of Business Request More Information Attend an Info Session Contact Us Directory Apply Now Search Why Scheller? Programs Executive Education Academics Centers & Initiatives News & Events Overview & History Dean's Message and Report Meet Ernest Scheller Jr. Advisory Board Accreditation Strategic Plan Business at Tech Graduates Get Hired Return on Investment Faculty and Advisors Global Perspective A Good Fit Corporate Engagement Trading Floor Georgia Tech Community Student Life Making Connections and Learning Opportunities Diversity Diversity News Career and Recruiter Services Career Services for Students Hire Our Students Giving to the College Meeting the Challenge Priorities and Needs Faculty Support Student Support Program Enrichment Unrestricted Endowment The Impact of Your Gift How to Make a Gift FAQs Scheller MBA Annual Fund Alumni Network Alumni News Alumni Resources Update Contact Information Visit Campus Tech Square and Atlanta Full-time MBA Admissions Curriculum Career Development Leadership Development Student Organizations Student & Alumni Profiles Meet an MBA Ambassador FAQsEvening MBA Admissions Curriculum Career Advancement Leadership Development Student Organizations Student & Alumni Profiles Meet an MBA Ambassador FAQs Executive MBA Admissions Curriculum Career Development Student & Alumni Profiles FAQsMBA Programs Which Georgia Tech MBA is Right for Me? Commitment to Diversity, Inclusion, and Equity Dual Degree Options Experiential Learning For Engineers For Military Community MD/MBA Option MBA Early Admission for Undergrads Rankings The Intersection Podcast Earn Your MBA in Atlanta Graduate Certificate Business Analytics Certificate Undergraduate Admissions Curriculum Career Services Student Services Student Life Scholarships & Awards Rankings & Stats Connect With Us The Intersection Podcast, Undergrad PhD Concentrations Program Milestones Faculty and Staff Funding Admissions FAQs Recruiting Events Student Bios Program News Request Program Information Interdisciplinary M.S. M.S. in Quantitative & Computational Finance (QCF) Master of Science in Analytics at Georgia Tech Lean Six Sigma Certification Lean Six Sigma Green Belt Certification Lean Six Sigma Black Belt Certification FAQs Custom Programs FAQs Accounting Finance Information Technology Management Law & Ethics Marketing Operations Management Organizational Behavior Strategy & Innovation Student Certificates Engineering Entrepreneurship Entrepreneurship International Management Management of Technology Technology Innovation: Generating Economic Results Academic Speaker Series Guest Speakers in Accounting Guest Speakers in Finance Guest Speakers in Marketing Current Faculty Opportunities Business Analytics Center Engage with Us Executive Council News Research Education People Cecil B. Day Program for Business Ethics About Cecil B. Day The Cecil B. Day Prize Speakers and Events Faculty Support Net Impact Center for International Business Education and Research Projects Research Events Books People at CIBER Inside CIBER News and Events Archives International Management Certificate Sign Up for Future CIBER News Financial Analysis Lab Subscribe to Reports Institute for Leadership and Social Impact About Us Programs News Impact Speaker Series Leadership for Social Good Study Abroad Program Social Impact Fellows Ideas to Serve (I2S) Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Servant Leadership Programs Minor in Leadership Studies Excel Alumni Other ILSI Programs Partnerships Program for Engineering Entrepreneurship Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business About Us Sustainable Business Insights Research Briefs Sustainable Business Events Sustainable Business News Blog Research & Thought Leadership Empowering Students Industry Engagement Newsletter Participating in the Drawdown Georgia Compact Drawdown Georgia Business Compact Meet the Team Alumni Steven A. Denning Technology & Management Program Director's Message About Steven A. Denning T&M Curriculum Program Faculty & Staff Admissions T&M Corporate Affiliates Denning T&M Program News TI:GER® and CDL-Atlanta Program Network TI:GER MBA & PhD FAQs News Apply Inquire Resources in Technology Innovation and Entrepreneurship Scheller News Event Calendar The Intersection Podcast Media Inquiry Marketing Innovation Conference @ Scheller Giving to the College Program Enrichment Home » Why Scheller? » Giving to the College » Program Enrichment Menu Giving to the College Meeting the Challenge Priorities and Needs Faculty Support Student Support Program Enrichment Unrestricted Endowment The Impact of Your Gift How to Make a Gift FAQs Scheller MBA Annual Fund Georgia Tech's emphasis on creating and sustaining innovative program offerings is increasingly attracting the best and brightest students to the Scheller College of Business. Private philanthropy for program enrichment is vital to maintaining the College's standard of excellence and distinguishing our programs from the competition. The long list of transformative educational opportunities has grown to include the following: Steven A. Denning Technology & Management Program The Steven A. Denning Technology & Management Program is a partnership between the Scheller College of Business, the College of Engineering and the College of Computing, allowing undergraduates to receive a degree in their major and a minor in engineering and management or computing and management. The College is exploring opportunities to expand the Program to include other Colleges. The College is seeking 10 endowed named scholarships for this program from $ 200 thousand. Learn more about the Denning Program TI: GER Program (Technological Innovation: Generating Economic Results) The TI: GER Program is an award-winning collaboration between Georgia Tech and Emory Law School teaching engineering and science PhD, MBA and law students how to commercialize innovative technologies. Seeking endowment for named program from $ 10 million Seeking endowments for named interdisciplinary tracks from $ 5 million: Named Biomedical Track Named Sustainability Track Named Nanotechnology Track Named General TI: GER Track Seeking endowed MBA Fellowships with a preference for TI: GER students from $ 250 thousand Seeking TI: GER team sponsorship from $ 1.25 million (endowed) or $ 100 thousand (expendable - $ 50 thousand a year for two years) Learn more about the TI: GER Program Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business In the spring of 2013 the Scheller College established the Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business, thanks to a three-year, $ 750,000 grant awarded by the Ray C. Anderson Foundation. Our College's strong focus in the management of technology, innovation and commercialization is highly relevant to the adoption and management of “green tech.” Sustainability is one of Georgia Tech's strategic priority areas, with important investments in energy and sustainable systems. The opportunity to leverage these core strengths for high-visibility, high-impact leadership in sustainable business has never been greater. The vision of the Center on Business Strategies for Sustainability is to: Become a center of excellence for generating and disseminating high-impact research in business strategies and innovation for sustainability; Educate the student (tomorrow’s engineer/manager/CEO/entrepreneur) who appreciates and integrates cutting-edge business principles, science, and technology to further sustainability objectives throughout Partner effectively with industry to not only to accelerate the adoption of best practices, but also to push the envelope on what constitutes best practice. Learn more about the Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainability Entrepreneurial Programs Georgia Tech Business Plan Competition The Georgia Tech Business Plan Competition succeeds at both educating students and facilitating the creation of technology-based businesses; the annual competition is open to all Georgia Tech students and alumni who have graduated within the last five years. Seeking endowment for named Business Plan Competition from $ 2.5 million Seeking annual sponsorship from $ 100 thousand Learn more about the Business Plan Competition Christine Esposito Senior Development Assistant Read bio Scheller College of Business Home Why Scheller? Overview & History Business at Tech Georgia Tech Community Career and Recruiter Services Giving to the College Alumni Network Visit Campus Tech Square and Atlanta Programs MBA Undergraduate PhD Interdisciplinary M.S. Executive Education Lean Six Sigma Certification Custom Programs Academics Accounting Finance Information Technology Management Law & Ethics Marketing Operations Management Organizational Behavior Strategy & Innovation Student Certificates Academic Speaker Series Current Faculty Opportunities Centers & Initiatives Business Analytics Center Cecil B. Day Program for Business Ethics Center for International Business Education and Research Financial Analysis Lab Institute for Leadership and Social Impact Program for Engineering Entrepreneurship Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business Steven A. Denning Technology & Management Program TI:GER® and CDL-Atlanta News & Events Scheller News Event Calendar The Intersection Podcast Media Inquiry Marketing Innovation Conference @ Scheller LinkedIn Instagram Facebook Twitter Youtube Flickr Georgia Institute of Technology Scheller College of Business 800 W. Peachtree St. NW Atlanta, GA 30308 404.894.2600 © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology Intranet Emergency Information Contact the College Privacy & Legal Notice Accountability Web Accessibility Resources for People with Disabilities Plugins Youtube Usage Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures