Utah State University sites use cookies. By continuing to use this site you accept our privacy and cookie policy. I agree Skip to content Apply Visit Give Calendar A-Z Index Directory Libraries QUICK LINKS MyUSU SEARCH Close search Search Utah State University: I want to search All USU sites People Search terms Submit search × Open main menu Close Open search About Close About Who we are Meet Utah State Fast Facts Diversity and Inclusion Leadership History and Traditions Notable Alumni Newsroom Utah State Today Utah State Magazine Pressroom USU Experts Locations Visit Campus Statewide Campuses USU Eastern Maps Cache Valley and Utah Information Contact USU Calendars Directory Employment Giving Admission Close Admission Become an Aggie How to Apply Campus Tours Undergraduate Admissions School of Graduate Studies International Admissions Concurrent Enrollment Financial Aid and Cost Tuition and Fees Financial Aid Scholarships Graduate Funding Registration Academic Calendar Online Catalog Dates and Deadlines Tuition and Payment Register for Classes Transcript Requests After Admission New Student Orientation Parent & Family Resources USU 1010: Connections Deferment Notification of Leave Academics Close Academics Overview Learning at Utah State Colleges and Schools Statewide Campuses USU Online Study Abroad Honors Program Majors and Minors Degree Finder Undergraduate Degrees Graduate Degrees Online Degrees Professional and Technical Education Find Help Advising Academic Support Veterans Resources Center Academic Success Programs Disability Resources Center Career Design Center Resources Academic Calendar Academic Catalog Libraries Graduation Campus Life Close Campus Life Student Experience Experience USU Living on Campus Health and Wellness Safety at Utah State Things to do Get Involved Athletics Recreation Arts and Culture Information Events Calendar Clubs and Organizations Student Affairs Resources Aggie Wellness Inclusion Center Involvement Ready Center for Community Engagement Wellness Ready Research Athletics Extension For You Close For You Prospective Students Current Students Parents Faculty and Staff Donors Alumni & Friends Ask USU Quick Links Close Quick Links Apply Visit Give Calendar A-Z Index Directory Libraries MyUSU Colleges and Schools Our colleges and schools are each unique in their respective areas of expertise — some degrees are even unique to Utah. School of Graduate Studies The School of Graduate Studies serves as the central administrative body that promotes, supports, and reviews graduate education at Utah State University to ensure consistency and excellence in all graduate degree programs. The School of Graduate Studies works closely and cooperatively with the central administration, colleges, and academic departments to provide the best possible intellectual and physical environment for graduate student education. Visit Graduate Degrees Graduate Admissions Finance and Support College of Agriculture and Applied Sciences Agriculture today is a dynamic, rapidly changing industry. It includes more than farming or producing food and fiber. It embodies all the occupations connected with the production, processing, marketing, and distribution of farm products. Departments Animal, Dairy, and Veterinary Sciences Applied Economics Applied Sciences, Technology and Education (ASTE) Aviation and Technical Education Landscape Architecture and Environmental Planning Nutrition, Dietetics, and Food Sciences Plants, Soils, and Climate School of Veterinary Medicine Learn More Visit Undergraduate Degrees Graduate Degrees Caine College of the Arts Utah State University's Caine College of the Arts represents the broadest interpretation of the arts: art as personal expression, art for art's sake, art as communication, art as an important social and political force, art for personal enjoyment, and art as a contribution to what it means to be both an individual and a part of the larger cultures that connect us. Departments Art and Design Music Theatre Arts Learn More Visit Undergraduate Degrees Graduate Degrees Jon M. Huntsman School of Business The Jon M. Huntsman School of Business has created a dynamic culture that encourages students to take charge of their own education. The phrase "Dare Mighty Things" from a speech given by President Theodore Roosevelt is often cited. "Far better is it to dare mighty things, to win glorious triumphs, even though checkered by failure, than to rank with those poor spirits who neither enjoy nor suffer much, because they live in a gray twilight that knows not victory nor defeat." - President Theodore Roosevelt Departments Data Analytics and Information Economics and Finance Management Marketing and Strategy School of Accountancy Learn More Visit Undergraduate Degrees Graduate Degrees Emma Eccles Jones College of Education & Human Services The Emma Eccles Jones College of Education and Human Services is dedicated to providing service and research opportunities for prospective teachers, family educators and counselors, psychologists, nursing professionals, instructional technology specialists, and a broad range of other human services professionals. Our college is ranked in the top 3% nationally and #1 in Utah, with over $40 million annually in external research funding. Through focused outreach and clinical services, we serve thousands of individuals, couples, and families across Utah and the region. Departments Communicative Disorders and Deaf Education Human Development and Family Studies Instructional Technology and Learning Sciences Kinesiology and Health Science Nursing Psychology School of Teacher Education and Leadership Special Education and Rehabilitation Counseling Learn More Visit Undergraduate Degrees Graduate Degrees College of Engineering The overall mission of the College of Engineering is to prepare engineers and technologists to work in a complex technological world and create a better future by solving today's problems, engaging in research and development that will improve engineering design and practice, and extending knowledge and research to industry and government. Departments Biological Engineering Civil and Environmental Engineering Electrical and Computer Engineering Engineering Education Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering Learn More Visit Undergraduate Degrees Graduate Degrees College of Humanities and Social Sciences Within the College of Humanities and Social Sciences are departments which provide career preparation in some of the most interesting and vital academic fields: the study of society, the governing of society and its history, communication in a number of languages and the various aspects of culture. Departments Aerospace Studies Program Center for Anticipatory Intelligence Communication Studies and Philosophy English History Journalism and Communication Military Science Program Political Science Social Work Sociology and Anthropology World Languages and Cultures Learn More Visit Undergraduate Degrees Graduate Degrees S.J. & Jessie E. Quinney College of Natural Resources The earth we live on. The air we breathe. The water that sustains us. These are the essential elements of life, and students in Utah State's College of Natural Resources (CNR) are the people who will manage them for future generations. They study in a program that's considered one of the best in the country. Departments Environment and Society Watershed Sciences Wildland Resources Learn More Visit Undergraduate Degrees Graduate Degrees College of Science "Prove it." Haven't heard that statement since you were on the grade-school playground? Well, get ready to hear it again. For the students and professors in Utah State's College of Science, it's the spirited challenge to discover that enlivens classrooms and labs with intellectual curiosity and inspires our students and faculty to create new knowledge for the betterment of humankind. Departments Biology Chemistry and Biochemistry Computer Science Geosciences Mathematics and Statistics Physics Learn More Visit Undergraduate Degrees Graduate Degrees Want to learn more about USU? Request Information FOLLOW US USU Facebook USU Twitter USU YouTube USU Instagram USU LinkedIn Old Main Hill, Logan, UT 84322 (435) 797-1000 ABOUT USU Contact Quick Facts News For Media Career EDUCATION Find a Degree Colleges & Schools Graduate School USU Online Statewide Campuses RESOURCES Academic Calendar University Catalog Library Canvas IT Service Desk Quick Links Directory Events Visit Campus Maps Giving Maps & Directions Search USU Campus Safety Jobs Contact Disclaimers Copyright Privacy Accessibility Non-Discrimination Back to top of the page