Returning Adult Students - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to Counseling and Psychological Services Submit Close Student Affairs and Enrollment Services Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Counseling and Psychological Services Home About Us Accreditations Contact & Location Information Statement on Diversity Office Hours Mission and Vision CAPS Staff Confidentiality Eligibility for CAPS Services Fees Services First Visit (Triage) Essential Skills Workshops Single Session Therapy (SST) Group Counseling Couples Counseling (Short-Term) Individual Counseling (Short-Term) Community Referrals Crisis Intervention CAPS Defusing and Debriefing Process Conduct Assessment and Response Team Helping Students of Concern Get help for Sexual Assault What to do if you are in crisis Resources Harrassment, Assault/Abuse English Language Learners Faculty & Staff Parents & Loved Ones Race Related Stress Resources Self-Help Resources Students First Generation College Students What is Greek Life? International Students LGBTQIA Career Resources Student Athletes Students of Color Students with Children Students with DisABILITIES Returning Adult Students Veterans Texas Sanctuary Cities FAQ Undocumented Students DACA: What You Need to Know DACA FAQ Dream Scholars UH Resources COVID-19 Resources Outreach Outreach Request College Student Grief Awareness Let's Talk Program CAPS Liaisons Suicide Prevention Training: QPR Coogs Conquer (C-2) Series Support Groups Latinas REACH Sista Circle: Black Grads Rainbow Wellness Group Newsletters Calendar Clinical Training APA Internship Practicum Training Forms Appeals Authorization to Release of Medical Records Informed Consent for Counseling Services Medical Withdrawal Application Giving UH Home Counseling and Psychological Services Resources Students Returning Adult Students Resources Harrassment, Assault/Abuse English Language Learners Faculty & Staff Parents & Loved Ones Race Related Stress Resources Self-Help Resources Students First Generation College Students Greek Life International Students LGBTQIA Career Resources Student Athletes Students of Color Students with Children Students with DisABILITIES Returning Adult Students Veterans Texas Sanctuary Cities FAQ UH Resources Undocumented Students COVID-19 Resources ADHD/ LD/ Autism Assessment Returning Adult Students Adult learners face challenges that many traditional students do not. While being out of school may increase the difficultly in transitioning to life as a student again, adult learners often bring valuable experience and diverse skills to the classroom. Many adult learns have had previous careers, while others may be joining the workforce for the first time after graduation. Either way, many of these students will have the added pressures of balancing work and family commitments, increasing computer literacy, and regaining the confidence needed to excel in their classes. As an adult learner, you may find the transition to a student stressful, and at times overwhelming. Here are a couple of tips to keep in mind: Be patient, relaxed, and focused when dealing with school-related people and situations. Do not be intimidated by the idea of returning to school as an adult student. Remember: You are not alone. Be aware of your surroundings. Take a campus tour and learn where buildings and offices are located. Get a copy of a campus map! Become familiar with school administrators. It will help you to know your financial aid advisor, admissions counselor, and academic advisor. Take advantage of on-campus childcare! Ask about your educational options. Your program may offer night or weekend classes. Get to know your advisor! Get involved. Check out organizations with similar professional development goals or special interests. There may be people in these organizations that can offer support. Center for Student Involvement Be efficient and creative with your study time. Utilize shorter time spans to study rather than trying to set aside 2 hours at once. Review your notes at lunch or while waiting for a doctor's appointment. The amount of possible study time will surprise you. Check out other strategies offered by Learning Advancements for UNdergraduate Cougars of Houston. Be flexible with your normal routines. Don't get stressed out over a dirty house or an overgrown lawn. Ask your family or friends to help you out. Find more information about the services offered at the Career Services Center! Meet with professional career counselors, enjoy access to job posting services, on-campus recruiting fairs, internship programs, career workshops, and an extensive career resource library. Try to remain positive and enthusiastic about your educational adventure. Still feeling overwhelmed? If you still feel like you are struggling and/or not receiving the support you need, please visit CAPS. Initial appointments are available on a walk-in basis. Trained professionals will discuss your concerns and provide support and an objective perspective on how to best manage your daily stressors. Related Links On-Campus Child Care Center for Student Involvement Learning Advancements for Undergraduate Cougars of Houston Career Services Center University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies