Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. UC News UC News right arrow down arrow UC News Search Topics right arrow down arrow UC Answers #UCtheGood In The News Arts & Culture Science & Tech International Athletics Health College Bound Impact right arrow down arrow #UCtheGood Insights Diversity Experience-Based Learning Next Lives Here Bicentennial COVID-19 Student Experience Colleges right arrow down arrow College of Allied Health Sciences College of Arts & Sciences College of Business Blue Ash College Clermont College College-Conservatory of Music College of Design, Architecture, Art, and Planning College of Education, Criminal Justice, & Human Services College of Engineering and Applied Science Graduate School College of Law College of Medicine College of Nursing College of Pharmacy Units right arrow down arrow Academic Health Center Admissions Alumni Association Board of Trustees Campus Services Equity and Inclusion Hoxworth Human Resources IT@UC Libraries Office of Innovation Office of Research President's Office Provost Public Safety Student Affairs UC Foundation Veteran's Affairs Continuing Education Media Contacts Featured News Local 12 News: ‘It’s changing my life’: Ten students awarded... May 30, 2022 Benya Coleman, a recent graduate of Hughes STEM High School, spoke with Local 12 News reporter Jenna Cisneros about her award of the Marian Spencer Scholarship to attend the University of Cincinnati this fall. CPS grad finds ‘UC makes dreams come true’ May 19, 2022 Benya Colleman is one of 10 students who has been awarded the University of Cincinnati’s Marian Spencer Scholarship created to recognize high-achieving students in Cincinnati Public Schools (CPS). UC celebrates grand opening of Student Wellness Center March 24, 2022 The University of Cincinnati’s new and expanded Student Wellness Center space, which opened to students last fall, celebrated its grand opening earlier this month. The team, who work to empower students to make informed decisions regarding their health and wellness through evidence-based education, inclusive resources, and non-judgmental support, have seen an almost immediate impact. 96% of visitors said their overall well-being was improved after visiting the space. 75% of visitors indicated their visit made them feel less lonely. Debug Query for this Latest News Keyword topics Select topics Answers Arts & Culture Athletics Bicentennial College bound COVID-19 Diversity Entrepreneurship Experience-based Learning Faculty Staff Health Impact In The News Insights International Must Read Next Lives Here Science & Tech Student Experience Thought Leadership colleges Select colleges College of Arts and Sciences Blue Ash College College of Allied Health Sciences College-Conservatory of Music College of Engineering and Applied Science College of Education, Criminal Justice, & Human Services Clermont College Lindner College of Business College of Design, Architecture, Art, and Planning Graduate School College of Law College of Medicine College of Nursing Online College of Pharmacy Clear All Filters {{facet.display}} remove {{facet.display}} remove {{facet.display}} remove {{facet.display}} remove Local 12 News: ‘It’s changing my life’: Ten students awarded... May 30, 2022 Benya Coleman, a recent graduate of Hughes STEM High School, spoke with Local 12 News reporter Jenna Cisneros about her award of the Marian Spencer Scholarship to attend the University of Cincinnati this fall. CPS grad finds ‘UC makes dreams come true’ May 19, 2022 Benya Colleman is one of 10 students who has been awarded the University of Cincinnati’s Marian Spencer Scholarship created to recognize high-achieving students in Cincinnati Public Schools (CPS). UC celebrates grand opening of Student Wellness Center March 24, 2022 The University of Cincinnati’s new and expanded Student Wellness Center space, which opened to students last fall, celebrated its grand opening earlier this month. The team, who work to empower students to make informed decisions regarding their health and wellness through evidence-based education, inclusive resources, and non-judgmental support, have seen an almost immediate impact. 96% of visitors said their overall well-being was improved after visiting the space. 75% of visitors indicated their visit made them feel less lonely. UC celebrates Women’s History Month March 8, 2022 While University of Cincinnati pioneers Elizabeth Dyer and Marian Spencer broke critical sex and racial barriers across campus and the community throughout history, today’s UC changemakers are leading the way across the globe. UC celebrates its women leaders with many fun and enlightening Women's History Month campus events. ‘College Tour’ spotlight: Camryn Morrow January 28, 2022 Camryn Morrow is one of 10 students and alumni featured in UC’s episode of “The College Tour,” an Amazon Prime series that features universities from across the country ‘College Tour’ spotlight: April Gable January 17, 2022 April Gable is one of 10 students and alumni featured in UC’s episode of “The College Tour,” an Amazon Prime series that features universities from across the country. WCPO: UC marching band revving-up for a ‘once-in-a-lifetime... December 31, 2021 Members of the UC marching band travel to the Cotton Bowl to perform as the fourth-ranked Cincinnati Bearcats take on top-seeded University of Alabama in a College Football Playoff Appearance. Band members spoke with Cincinnati TV stations about their chance to play during a historic moment in sports history for UC. President Pinto's 2021 year-in-review message December 17, 2021 University of Cincinnati President Neville G. Pinto looks back on a historic year that brought students, faculty, staff and the community back together like never before. UC among top bowl-bound football teams for academic performance December 14, 2021 When it comes to Academic Progress among top bowl-bound teams, UC ties Alabama for the No. 1 spot among the top four CFP teams; is No. 1 among the seven qualifying AAC teams; and is also No. 1 in Ohio. Who is that behind the Bearcat? December 13, 2021 The term 'Bearcat' has been part of the University of Cincinnati tradition for more than a century. The Bearcat mascot has been the face of UC to students, community members, sports fans and others. The mascot's persona and antics entertain and inspire excellence at the university on and off of the sports field. UC, CPS partner for first Marian Spencer Scholarship awards November 23, 2021 The University of Cincinnati continues its dedicated partnership with Cincinnati Public Schools (CPS) and commitment to underrepresented students with the launch of the Marian Spencer Scholars Program for high-achieving CPS students. Local 12 News: UC to waive all application fees for prospective... November 16, 2021 The University of Cincinnati is home to 7,992 first-generation college students.. Karrington Rainey, a third-year sociology major, is among these first-generation Bearcats. She shared her journey to UC during a segment with Cincinnati TV station Local 12 News. 'Unforgettable weekend': GameDay, Homecoming help Bearcats make... November 9, 2021 The University of Cincinnati was in the national spotlight with ESPN’s College GameDay and Good Morning America featuring the UC Bearcat football team's rise in football ranking. UC defeated the University of Tulsa on the football field during Homecoming. Become a Mental Health Champion November 9, 2021 Our university community is filled with empathetic and compassionate Bearcats who care about supporting each other. Many of these individuals are designated Mental Health Champions who have gone through training to learn more about supporting student, faculty, and staff mental health. There are two graduated cohorts of about 235 faculty and staff who have earned this designation. This initiative is coordinated by Healthy UC, UC's well-being collaborative. Coming Home: When two sisters gave UC a second chance, African... November 8, 2021 The UC that Brenda Woods, A&S ’80, and her sister, Audrey Woods, A&S ’82 experienced as African Americans in the late ’70s and early ’80s was far different from the UC of today. Load More Debug Query for this University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45220 513-556-0000 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45220 513-556-0000 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top