Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Prospective Newly Admitted Current Alumni Columbia University School of General Studies Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Admissions Educational Financing Academics Student Services About Undergraduate Admissions How to Apply Eligibility Application Deadlines and Decisions Information Sessions/Campus Visits Transfer Students Postbac Premed Admissions How to Apply Eligibility Application Deadlines and Decisions Information Sessions/Campus Visits Newly Admitted Students International Students Planning Day Placement Exams University-Wide Placement Exams U.S. Military Veterans International Dual Degree Programs Types of Financial Aid Institutional Scholarships Federal and State Grants Loans Private Scholarships and Grants Student Employment Financial Aid for Military Veterans Post-9/11 GI Bill® and the Yellow Ribbon Program Veterans Request for Certification Cost of Attendance Applying for Financial Aid Prospective Students Newly Admitted Students Current Students University Employees Postbac Premed Students Counseling Appointments Enrollment Update Form Student Account Refunds Undergraduate The Core Curriculum Degree Fulfillment Course Listings Majors and Concentrations Research Opportunities Study Abroad Academic Calendar Postbac Premed Program Curriculum & Courses Sample Schedule Course Listings Preparatory Coursework Previously Completed Coursework Glide Year Master’s Programs Academic Calendar Applying to Medical School General Admission Linkage Admission Linkage Specific Program Requirements Reapplicants Letters of Recommendation Academic Policies Registration Enrollment and Courseload Leaves and Withdrawals Academic Integrity and Standards Faculty of Arts and Sciences Undergraduate Announcements Postbac Premed Announcements Academic Advising Academic Resource Center Programs & Services Jumpstart Series Tutoring Peer Advising Campus Services Forms and Guides Graduation Health and Wellness Housing International Students Medical School Fair Planning Your Future Accelerated Master's Programs Fellowships and Research Premedical Clinical and Research Positions Student Life Leadership Development Multicultural & Social Justice Education Programs Student Organizations Upcoming Events Veterans Resources and Initiatives Leadership Mission History Statistics and Facts Notable Alumni University Policies Events Staff Directory Faculty News Press Coverage Media Inquiries School of General Studies You are here: Home News 2022 Grad Profile: Kristen Magnatta Profile 2022 Grad Profile: Kristen Magnatta May 05, 2022 Kristen Magnatta Undergraduate Where are you from? New Jersey Major: Psychology Tell us about your path to GS! A college education once seemed unattainable, but today I am proud to call myself a Columbia University graduate. In true GS fashion, my path here was anything but traditional. Growing up in a household affected by addiction left my mind elsewhere, never fully applying myself academically. After years of summer school and barely graduating high school, I unknowingly spiraled into a state of anxiety and depression—with no college plans in sight. However, overcoming these hardships and learning to cope helped shape me into who I am today. After high school, I attended a teaching certificate program and began working as a preschool teacher. I loved working with children and enjoyed watching them grow, which led me to do the same. While working, I decided to enroll at Bergen Community College, where I began to gain academic confidence and met some truly inspiring individuals who saw potential in me and supported me. I chose to study psychology with the goal of one day working clinically. My experience at BCC left me motivated and wanting to pursue a higher education, which is when I applied to GS. What has been your proudest Columbia moment? While a student at GS, I worked as a research assistant in the psychology department and served as a peer mentor. I am honored to have been a recipient of the Edward P. Merkel Endowed Scholarship and a Columbia GS Service Award. It's an incredible feeling to give back to the community that gave me so many opportunities. I was also inducted into the GS Honor Society and graduated magna cum laude. My journey to GS and my time at Columbia have taught me that growth is an infinite process of endless opportunities. Thank you, GS! Who are some people who have contributed the most to your Columbia experience? One particular person who was instrumental to me during my time at GS was my advising dean. She was not only an advisor who helped guide me academically, but also an outlet, there to listen to all of what comes along with being a nontraditional student. I am lucky to have crossed paths with her at the start of my GS journey. What are your plans for after graduation? After graduating in February, I became part of the greater Columbia community: I was thrilled to accept a job offer as the Project Assistant for the Division of Narrative Medicine at Columbia University Irving Medical Center. I'm enjoying getting to know the narrative medicine community and settling into my position. Within the next few years, I plan to apply to graduate school while continuing to work. What advice would you give to a Columbia student starting their GS journey? The advice I would give to a student about to start their GS journey is to be kind to yourself and always remain patient. Explore and absorb everything Columbia has to offer, and don't be afraid to ask for help when you need it. Work hard and when things seem challenging, remind yourself what led you here. Tags Student Profile Undergraduate News May 27, 2022 Join Us: Columbia Reunion Weekend in New York City May 26, 2022 Lewisohn Hall Summer Closure | Summer 2022 Temporary Relocation to Uris Hall May 26, 2022 Postbac Premed Program Institutional Scholarship Application May 24, 2022 GS Celebrates the Class of 2022 at Class Day Ceremony May 24, 2022 Academic Resource Center Summer Offerings Admissions Undergraduate Admissions Postbac Premed Admissions Newly Admitted Students U.S. Military Veterans International Dual Degree Programs Educational Financing Types of Financial Aid Financial Aid for Military Veterans Cost of Attendance Applying for Financial Aid Counseling Appointments Enrollment Update Form Student Account Refunds Academics Undergraduate Postbac Premed Program Applying to Medical School Academic Policies Faculty of Arts and Sciences Student Services Undergraduate Announcements Postbac Premed Announcements Academic Advising Academic Resource Center Campus Services Forms and Guides Graduation Health and Wellness Housing International Students Medical School Fair Planning Your Future Premedical Clinical and Research Positions Student Life Veterans Resources and Initiatives About Leadership Mission History Statistics and Facts Notable Alumni University Policies Events Staff Directory Faculty News Press Coverage Media Inquiries Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close