Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Parking Services Parking right arrow down arrow Locations right arrow down arrow Maps Visitors right arrow down arrow Maps Uptown UC Blue Ash UC Clermont 1819 Innovation Hub UC Reading Victory Parkway Students right arrow down arrow Uptown UC Blue Ash UC Clermont Leased Properties Parking Permits Faculty & Staff right arrow down arrow Uptown UC Blue Ash UC Clermont 1819 Innovation Hub Victory Parkway UC Reading Value Pass Mobile Pay Instructions Citations right arrow down arrow View Account Events right arrow down arrow Events Calendar Football Basketball College-Conservatory of Music Event & Meeting Planners Other Event Prepaid Parking Instructions Athletic Events Prepaid Parking Resources right arrow down arrow Policies How-To Videos Alternative Transportation FAQ Home » About UC » Parking Services » Faculty & Staff » Value Pass Set Navigation title in component Uptown UC Blue Ash UC Clermont 1819 Innovation Hub Victory Parkway UC Reading Value Pass Mobile Pay Instructions Value Pass Parking Option Description The Parking Value Pass offers faculty and staff, who pay daily for parking, a chance to pre-purchase a bundle of daily parking at a discounted rate. Parking Pass Policies Pass availability: At this time, UC faculty/staff and UC Foundation employees are eligible. Please note: Individuals in a waitlisted facility that opt to purchase a Parking Value Pass will lose their permit rights to the waitlisted facility, and will need to go back on the waiting list if a waitlisted-facility permit purchase becomes necessary. Waitlisted garages include: Corry, CCM, Varsity Village and University Avenue. Please note: Passes are only valid in visitor parking garages. If a visitor parking garage is full, a Value Pass will not be valid in that garage. Dependent upon parking availability, there is no guarantee that space will be available in a facility. University Avenue & Stratford Garages do not have visitor parking. Passes cannot be altered, extended, or refunded. Passes expire 4 months from the purchase date. Unused parking cannot be rolled over. Passes allow 2 entry/exits per day of use to allow for individuals to leave for lunch if necessary. Passes are assigned to an individual (not to a department or unit). Pass can be purchased online. Parking access will be available within 2 hours of purchase. Valid Pass must be purchased prior to parking in a garage facility. Pass cannot be redeemed if parked prior to its purchase. Individuals are responsible for keeping vehicle(s) information accurate in the parking system to avoid possible citations. Customers parking in Eden Garage are required to park on levels 7 & 8 with the Value Pass. Value Passes are not: Transferable Valid during event parking Refundable Eligible for reciprocity parking Available for motorcycle parking Parking Pass Options Value Pass 15: 15 days of parking in 4-month period Cost: $127.50 A savings of $1.50 per day Value Pass 30: 30 days of parking in a 4-month period Cost: $210 A savings of $3 per day To purchase a Value Pass, log into the UC Parking Portal, or by visiting the Parking Services office at 4 Edwards Center. Access Access to a facility will be by Bearcat ID or Fast Pass Individuals will need to hit help button if there are issues upon entry/exit. Parking Services University of Cincinnati 4 Edwards Center 51 Corry Boulevard Cincinnati, OH 45221-0624 513-556-2283 parking@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Parking Services University of Cincinnati 4 Edwards Center 51 Corry Boulevard Cincinnati, OH 45221-0624 513-556-2283 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top