By continuing to use this site, you agree to the use of cookies in accordance with our privacy policy. Dismiss Stay Safe The official source of public health information for Syracuse University. Skip to Content Open menu About Admissions Academics Life Athletics More Search the University Open search Popular searches Close menu Home About Toggle dropdown Leadership Vision & Mission Consumer Information Facts & Figures Plan Your Visit Campus Map History News Partnerships Work at Syracuse Social Media Bookstore Brand Help & Contacts Admissions Toggle dropdown Undergraduate Graduate Online Part-Time Cost & Aid Request Information Visit & Tour Apply Academics Toggle dropdown Schools & Colleges Undergraduate Majors & Minors Graduate Degrees Online Programs Syracuse University Global Study Abroad Opportunities & Support Calendars Departments Research Centers & Institutes Libraries, Collections & Galleries Academic Administration Life Toggle dropdown Accessibility & Diversity Campus Highlights Events Calendar Services & Support Meals & Dining Housing Groups & Activities Recreation & Facilities For Students For Veterans & Military For Faculty & Staff For Parents & Families A-Z Index Sitemap Login Athletics Men’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Football Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Track and Field Women’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Field Hockey Ice Hockey Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Softball Tennis Track and Field Volleyball Athletics Dept. Toggle dropdown Facilities Staff Directory Academic Honors Community Service Spirit Program Varsity Club Sports Medicine Championships Fan Zone Toggle dropdown Dome Schedule Seating Information Orange All Access Otto’s Kids Club Game Photos Promotions Orange Club Schedules News Alumni About Toggle dropdown Notable Alumni Alumni Association Awards News Events and Clubs Toggle dropdown Orange Central Northeast Midwest South West World/Affinity Regions Toggle dropdown Atlanta Boston Chicago Los Angeles Middle East New York San Francisco Washington, DC Services Toggle dropdown Career Network Generation Orange Directory Profile Class Notes Giving Contact Contact Visit Apply Coronavirus Updates Forever Orange Home Stories Building Skills, Exchanging Ideas Building Skills, Exchanging Ideas Bioengineering student takes advantage of academic and social activities while seeking to create opportunities and access for others. Bianca Andrada ’22, a bioengineering major and Renée Crown University Honors student, does research on double-network hydrogels with Professor Pranav Soman’s lab team at the BioInspired Institute in Bowne Hall. When Bianca Andrada ’22 reflects on how her time at Syracuse University influenced her life’s journey, she’ll have plenty of experiences to draw from. She wanted to grow academically and socially, and she did just that. As a bioengineering major in the College of Engineering and Computer Science (ECS) and a member of the Renée Crown University Honors Program, Andrada joined a research team at the BioInspired Institute. She worked as a resident advisor for three years, which included the memorable experience of supervising a cohort of first-year engineering and computer science students in the ECS Living Learning Community. She also participated in a variety of social and cultural activities, including serving as president of both the Engineering World Health student organization and Kappa Phi Lambda Sorority. “I’m a firm believer that if you’re with other motivated people, then you will feed off their energy and be motivated, too,” she says. “That’s why I found myself active in so many things on campus. I wanted to meet more people and understand their stories and create opportunities with them to further ideas on campus.” My biggest takeaway is that I obtained the skills to create my next chapter. I’m ready to take all the skills I learned socially and academically at Syracuse to wherever they bring me next. That’s what I wanted out of my college experience. I love learning, and I just want to keep learning. —Bianca Andrada ’22 Invent@SU—a summer program in which students design, prototype and pitch inventions—proved influential for Andrada as well. She worked with a biotechnology major and an industrial and interaction design major to create Glisten, a dental health device. The experience introduced her to collaborative product creation and captivated her so much that she took an industrial design class this semester. “I love working with other people and hearing their perspectives,” she says. “Exchanging ideas is my biggest attraction to this kind of collaborative environment. I think learning about different perspectives increases the inclusivity of your product.” As Andrada’s future unfolds, she is focused on studying robotics and autonomous systems in a master’s program at Boston University, with a particular interest in exploring the world of medical robotics, especially soft robotics and prosthetics. Admittedly, her view on robotics has completely flipped since The Terminator terrified her as a child. Instead, she thinks about her late grandfather, who died of leukemia when she was young, and how helping people live longer or overcome physical disabilities improves life for them and their families. She cites classes in mobile health devices, biomechanics and sports engineering for inspiring her interest in medical devices and human movement. “If I can help design a robot that can essentially eliminate or minimize human flaws, then it’s creating an opportunity to save more lives,” she says. “I’ve become more fascinated with robotics because I want to use robots to create opportunities for people.” Andrada learned how to solder as a member of Engineering World Health, for which she served as president this past year. She’s passed on the skill, teaching other members of the student organization. Discovering Research Before arriving at Syracuse, the Staten Island native attended Talent Unlimited, a performing arts public high school where she excelled as a flutist. In her junior year, Andrada discovered her affinity for research while volunteering at the Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai in New York City. Over the course of two years, she became involved in research focused on Alzheimer’s disease and on drug addiction. “I realized it’s not just music that I’m good at,” she says. “I’m good with numbers, so any opportunity I had to do science, I took it.” I’m a firm believer that if you’re with other motivated people, then you will feed off their energy and be motivated, too. That’s why I found myself active in so many things on campus. I wanted to meet more people and understand their stories and create opportunities with them to further ideas on campus. —Bianca Andrada ’22 When Andrada visited Syracuse University, she remembers how struck she was by the beauty of the campus as well as her introduction to the BioInspired Institute. After learning about her interest in research, ECS undergraduate recruitment specialist Jonathan Hoster ’02, G’11 took her there for a tour—and the attraction was immediate. “I was amazed by the BioInspired Institute,” she says. “There were so many things that I thought could come true here, and the most important part to me was obtaining skills.” For the past two years, Andrada has been a member of Professor Pranav Soman’s lab team at the BioInspired Institute. One expertise of the team is using 3D printing to create complex, double-network hydrogels—crosslinked, water-absorbing polymers that are tough, stretchable and transparent, and can be infused with optical properties. As part of her honors thesis, Andrada has worked with postdoctoral researcher Puskal Kunwar, exploring the development of stretchable optics using double-network hydrogels. They constructed a mold for producing a double-network hydrogel lens, and she also helped design and create a stretchable optics mechanism to test the lens’ tensile strength. “I was really interested in the elasticity of materials, and if you stretch the double-network hydrogel material, you can increase the magnification of it,” she says. “Stretchable optics is an emerging research field right now, but we believe it might be popular for use in the future for optics as an alternative to glass.” As part of her research at the BioInspired Institute, Andrada explores stretchable optics using double-network hydrogels. Embracing Social Activities Andrada cites her time as a resident advisor for helping her develop leadership skills and inspiring social interactions. One of her initiatives was a “pop-up laundry” lesson, which she hosted after realizing many of her residents didn’t know how to do laundry. It earned her a 2020 Education Initiative of the Year Award from the National Residence Hall Honorary, an organization that recognizes residence hall leaders. “That’s where a lot of the residents met and made friends—they all bonded on the fact they couldn’t do laundry,” she says. “It was also a great opportunity for me to get to know all of them. One thing I loved about being a resident advisor is that I became friends with everyone and still am. I got to see my residents grow into who they are at Syracuse today, and that’s been one of my most enriching experiences.” One thing I loved about being a resident advisor is that I became friends with everyone and still am. I got to see my residents grow into who they are at Syracuse today, and that’s been one of my most enriching experiences. —Bianca Andrada ’22 Along with being a Dean’s List student and working in guest services at the Barnes Center at The Arch, Andrada serves as an Engineering Excelerator, an ECS student ambassador who assists in the recruitment of prospective students. She’s also a member of the Filipino Student Association, and as president of Kappa Phi Lambda takes pride in the sorority’s support system, the friendships she’s made, and the opportunities the sorority provides as a platform for people of color to tell their stories and educate the campus community about different cultures. During the sorority’s Asian Awareness Week, for example, it hosted Hidden Gems of Asia, an event that welcomed individuals from the Hmong, Tibetan and Karen communities to share stories of their struggles and cultures. “Kappa Phi Lambda is a multicultural sorority, and our pillars are sisterhood, service and cultural diversity,” she says. For Andrada, creating opportunity and access for others is a way to give back. She also looks back knowing she accomplished at Syracuse what she set out to do. “My biggest takeaway is that I obtained the skills to create my next chapter,” she says. “I’m ready to take all the skills I learned socially and academically at Syracuse to wherever they bring me next. That’s what I wanted out of my college experience. I love learning, and I just want to keep learning.” Jay Cox This story was published on May 4, 2022. Also of Interest Link The College of Engineering and Computer Science (ECS) Link Future engineers and computer scientists learn to create new knowledge and technologies through ten undergraduate majors. Students have access to nationally regarded research centers, state-of-the-art lab spaces, and challenging internships. Living Learning Communities Link Are you looking to connect with students who share your passions? Participating in a living learning community provides you the opportunity to live and learn with other students who have similar interests. Popular Toggle dropdown Academic Calendar Campus Map Careers Libraries Majors and Minors Visit and Tour A-Z Toggle dropdown Academic Departments Schools and Colleges Sitemap Search Contact Toggle dropdown Admissions Financial Aid Emergency Contacts Human Resources Make a Gift Login Toggle dropdown MySlice Blackboard SUMail Syracuse University 900 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, NY 13244 Phone: +1.315.443.1870 Follow S.U. on Instagram Like S.U. on Facebook Follow S.U. on Twitter Follow S.U. on LinkedIn Follow S.U. on Tiktok Subscribe to S.U. on YouTube © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy