Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Contact Us Contact Us Follow Us Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Google+ Follow Us Twitter Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us Tumblr Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Instagram Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content CIQ About Resources News News Poolside Musings Quick Tips for creating a culturally intelligent classroom for your international students What Yale tells us about race on college campuses ☰ The Cultural Intelligence Initiative@SMU About the Office of Diversity & Inclusion The Cultural Intelligence Initiative at SMU Resources Resources The Generation Z Student The Last Class of Millineals graduated in May...Ready or not Generation Z is here! Read more Welcoming your International Roommate and Colleagues Bridging the cultural divide when you work and live closely can be even more tricky. This great guidebook provides some easy suggestions Roommate Power The Research behind the initiative Scholars in psychology, business, theology, strategic communication and cultural anthropology are leading the charge in the growing body of research exploring Cultural Intelligence. CQ: Developing Cultural Intelligence at Work (2006) This early text remains central to theorizing about Cultural Intelligence. Earley, Ang, and Tan (2006) establish the business case and theoretical foundation for Cultural Intelligence. Read more Cultures and Organizations: The Software for the Mind (2010) In the field of cross-cultural research no name looms larger than Geert Hofstede. In this groundbreaking book that explores his two decade study of organizations all over the world, Hofstede explains how culture impacts our lives and organizations. More about Hofstede's work The Cultural Intelligence Difference (2011) No scholar has done more to operationalize cultural intelligence than David Livermore. Writing for business and theology, Livermore's Cultural Intelligence Difference expanded the concept of Cultural Intelligence into new areas of influence. Learn more about Livermore Apply Visit School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series (214) 768-3393 Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © The SMU Cultural Intelligence Initiative The Office of the Provost 6425 Boaz Lane Dallas, TX 75205, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter