<form runat="server"></form>
<WebPartPages:SPWebPartManager runat="server"/>
 Skip to Main Content HBS Home About Academic Programs Alumni Faculty & Research Baker Library Giving Harvard Business Review Initiatives News Recruit Map / Directions MBA FAQ Introduce Yourself Blog Visit Apply Academic Experience Entrepreneurship Student Life Career Path Admissions Financial Aid …→ Harvard Business School→ MBA→ Student Life Student Life Activities, Government & Clubs Campus People Community Values The First-Year Experience The Second Year Experience The HBS Community → The Second Year Experience→ The Second-Year Experience The Second-Year Experience An inside look at student life as it unfolds for ECs. An inside look at student life as it unfolds for ECs. View The First-Year Experience Sep Hitting The Books The Elective Curriculum (EC) follows the RC's breadth of experience with an opportunity for depth, breadth, or both: students choose from among 97 courses in ten subject areas as well as field-based learning opportunities—including Immersive Field Courses (IFCs)—to gain a more concentrated expertise in the industries, functions, and ideas that interest them most. Cross-registration enables students to take classes at other select graduate programs during their EC year. 90 Elective Courses 507 Independent Projects 938 EC Students Learn more about the MBA curriculum → Sep Exploring Entrepreneurial Opportunities HBS Entrepreneurship Immersion - Four Highlights Paul Jun | Author Alumni tag Entrepreneurship, Finance, Technology Since graduation, I have spent a lot of time in the entrepreneurial space! Currently, I am the CFO at Pilot.com, a $1.2Bn Series C FinTech startup backed by Sequoia Capital, Index Ventures, Stripe, and Bezos Expeditions. Pilot builds advanced automation technology to streamline accounting, tax, and analytics for startups and small businesses. [...] →Read more Oct Harvard in the Fall Students enjoy the vibrant New England colors during the Autumn season at HBS. Harvard In the Fall Watch Video Nov Student Clubs Student clubs are a vital part of the HBS community experience supporting the school's mission to educate leaders who make a difference in the world. Clubs sponsor a variety of events such as workshops, speakers, and conferences that provide distinct opportunities for learning, networking, and socializing outside of the classroom. 95 Student Clubs 23 Annual Club Conferences 1,017 Members in the Women's Student Association (the largest club on campus) 24 Oct 2018 The Energy & Environment Club Akshar Wunnava AuthorMBA Students tag Energy This year, students’ experiences ranged from startups like Advanced Microgrid Solutions to larger players like NextEra Energy – and from finance/investment banking at the New York Green Bank to operations at Tesla. [...] →Read more 21 JAN 2021 How I Used the HBS Community to Hone My Professional Goals Charity Tarn AuthorAlumni tag Alumni, Career and Professional Development, Finance, Health Care / BioTech I had some idea early on in my career that I wanted to get my MBA, but to be honest I did not have a plan or roadmap for when I wanted to pursue this goal. I graduated from the University of Michigan with degrees in Psychology and Business. My first job was with Cardinal Health in their leadership development rotational program. [...] →Read more Nov Reflecting on Friendship Students come to HBS to hone their leadership skills and business acumen. They leave with friendships that will stay with them throughout their lives. Watch Video Jan Immersive Field Courses In the January of their second year, students have the opportunity to take Immersive Field Courses around the globe. The vast majority of content consists of an on-the-ground assignment to learn about and advise on real business problems. 223 Students 52 Projects 6 IFCs HBS Immersive Field Courses (IFCs): A Deeper Look (video) Jan Short Intensive Programs (SIPs) SIPS are no-fee, no credit elective courses for RCs and ECS that offer the opportunity to think about career choices, gain practical skills, and explore topics you might otherwise never get to study. Apr The Bridges Capstone To close out their time at HBS, all graduating students participate in Bridges—a three day capstone experience. ECs return to their first year section where they take time to reflect on the past two years and consider next steps on their career and life journeys. Bridges: Remembering the “Why” Pooja Venkatraman | AuthorAlumni tag 2nd Year, Student Life, Women But that's the thing about life, I realized over the next three days: it's never the right time. There's always more work to do, another email to send, the unexpected curveball upsetting your plans [...] →Read more May The Portrait Project Since 2002, graduating students have been asked to answer a simple question taken from the last lines of a poem by Pulitzer Prize-winning author, Mary Oliver. From the submissions, 32 winning essays are selected. Alum Tony Deifell (MBA 2002) first came up with the concept during his time at HBS, and returns each year to photograph the finalists. Mary Oliver "Tell me, what is it you plan to do with your one wild and precious life?" Read Kamoy Smalling's Essay Read Robert Carpenter's Essay Read Joe Coleman's Essay Read Shreya Saraf's Essay Read Mike Contillo's Essay May Class Day On the day before commencement, HBS honors its graduates through a variety of school sponsored activities. This includes a Dean's Award breakfast, a Leadership Fellows brunch, and a Baker Scholar luncheon. The 2018 Class Day Ceremony featured faculty awards and keynotes from Carla A. Harris (Morgan Stanley) and Serrena Iyer (MBA 2018). 2018 Class Day Student Speaker Serrena Iyer (video) May Commencement And just like that, two years at HBS comes to a close. Surrounded by family and friends, the Class of 2018 receive their diplomas on a beautiful May day on campus. Celebrating the 2018 Harvard Business School Commencement (video) You Might Want to Read 9 Reasons to Look Forward to Commencement → ǁ MBA Admissions Harvard Business School Spangler Welcome Center (Spangler 107) Boston, MA 02163 Phone: 1.617.495.6128 Email: admissions@hbs.edu →Map & Directions →More Contact Information Make a Gift Site Map Jobs Harvard University Trademarks Policies Digital Accessibility Copyright © President & Fellows of Harvard College