Georgetown University Open Search Form Who We Are The Whole Person Our Catholic & Jesuit Heritage Our History Student Stories Faculty Stories Alumni Stories Campus & City Living in DC Opportunities Getting Around Service & Action Campus Life Housing On-Campus Dining Clubs & Organizations Arts & Culture Community & Diversity Student Life Blog Wellness & Safety Sports & Fitness Health Center Safety & Emergency Preparedness Athletics External Link Academic Life Restless Inquiry Our Schools Areas of Study Study Abroad Research Centers and Programs Global Initiatives External Link Library System Admissions & Aid Undergraduate Admissions External Link Graduate Admissions Financial Aid External Link Commitment to Access News Events Giving Alumni Info For Students Faculty Staff/AAP Alumni Parents Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Content Skip to Footer News Events Giving Alumni Info For Students Faculty Staff/AAP Alumni Parents Georgetown University Who We Are The Whole Person Our Catholic & Jesuit Heritage Our History Student Stories Faculty Stories Alumni Stories Campus & City Living in DC Opportunities Getting Around Service & Action Campus Life Housing On-Campus Dining Clubs & Organizations Arts & Culture Community & Diversity Student Life Blog Wellness & Safety Sports & Fitness Health Center Safety & Emergency Preparedness Athletics External Link Academic Life Restless Inquiry Our Schools Areas of Study Study Abroad Research Centers and Programs Global Initiatives External Link Library System Admissions & Aid Undergraduate Admissions External Link Graduate Admissions Financial Aid External Link Commitment to Access Open Search Form Georgetown University Georgetown University Pause Guidance Related to COVID-19 Georgetown continues to monitor the COVID-19 situation and respond in support of the University community. Quick Links Updates and University Guidance Updates From President DeGioia Mental Well-Being Resources 1 of 1 Previous Slide Next Slide An Education for the Mind & Heart Intellectual rigor. Social justice. Self-reflection. They’re knitted together in every facet of your Georgetown experience – in your studies, your research, your interactions with faculty and the career decisions you make. Who We Are Play Youtube Video DC: The World at Your Doorstep Washington is the epicenter of global politics. It’s also your hotspot for art, activism, entrepreneurship and public service. Think of the city as an extension of campus. Whether you intern on Capitol Hill, conduct research for an NGO or take time out at an embassy party, it’s your DC. DC: Our City Quick Links Explore Programs Events Virtual Tour 1 of 4 Previous Slide Next Slide A Sense of Belonging The Hilltop: It’s a community that’s bursting with energy and ideas. You feel it in residences built around shared passions and in graduate co-living spaces. You see it in the way we own our many differences. At Georgetown, you belong. Explore Campus Life All News All News The Class of 2020 Celebrates a Milestone Two Years in the Making: Commencement Early Recipient of DACA Earns His Ph.D. at Georgetown Abel Cruz Flores (G’21) was among the first recipients of the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program 10 years ago. Last week he finished his journey to a Ph.D. Class of 2020 Graduates: Where Are They Now? As the Class of 2020 returns to the Hilltop for their Commencement, meet three alumni who have been advocating in health care, law and finance since their graduation. Upcoming Events All Upcoming Events June 1 DC Mayoral Debate with Fox 5 DC Gaston Hall, 3rd Floor of Healy Hall 5:30pm – 8:30pm June 2 Dean’s Seminar Series featuring Aviv Regev, PhD – “Cell atlases as roadmaps to understand and treat disease” Virtual 4:00pm – 5:00pm June 3 – 5 Georgetown University Reunion Weekend Georgetown University All Day @GeorgetownUniversity Contact Us Directory Visit Maps About Academic Calendar Careers Media Resources FacebookFacebook TwitterTwitter InstagramInstagram LinkedInLinkedIn YouTubeYouTube Georgetown University 37th and O Streets, N.W. Washington, D.C. 20057 P. 202-687-0100 Georgetown University Privacy Policy Copyright Web Accessibility Notice of Non-Discrimination © 2022 Georgetown University Search Georgetown Search Close the Search Dialog