Skip to main content Menu Resources Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply or Give Apply Now Make a Gift Research Compliance Training RCR Training Matrix Funding Source Career Stage Undergrad Graduate Postdoc Faculty & Staff NSF Online & 5 hr In-Person Online & 5 hr In-Person Online & 5 hr In-Person Strongly Recommended NIH* Online & 5 hr In-Person Online & 8 hr In-Person Online & 8 hr In-Person Strongly Recommended USDA-NIFA Online & 5 hr In-Person Online & 5 hr In-Person Online & 5 hr In-Person Online & 5 hr In-Person * NIH applies to the following awards: D43, D71, F05, F30, F31, F32, F33, F34, F37, F38, K01, K02, K05, K07, K08, K12, K18, K22, K23, K24, K25, K26, K30, K99/R00, KL1, KL2, R25, R36, T15, T32, T34, T35, T36, T37, T90/R90, TL1, TU2, and U2R. (NIH policy) CITI online training must be completed within 12 months of being appointed to a covered project or before the applicable person graduates or leaves the institution. In-person training gives the opportunity for discussion and questions pertaining to the 10 RCR topics. In-person training can include: RCR Workshops, RCR Brown Bag Seminars, speakers offered by various departments, certain seminars offered by the library, Grad360 (etc.), or lab meetings where RCR topics are discussed. The in-person training must be completed within 24 months of being appointed to a covered project or before the applicable person graduates or leaves the institution. The CU RCR training program includes both interdisciplinary general and program-specific RCR content. The phased program is intended to provide quality training experiences while offering flexibility for the learner. Phase 1 Basic RCR Training Covered individuals (described above) are required to complete an online RCR training program provided by the Collaborative Institutional Training Initiative (CITI). If you are not registered with CITI, access the CITI login/registration page. The registration will guide you through a series of questions to help you select the correct course. You will choose the “Responsible Conduct of Research (RCR)” course then choose a discipline specific course that is most appropriate for you. If you have completed the one of the RCR courses previously, you may choose the “RCR refresher” option. Important: Since you may not be able to complete all the required modules in one session, remember your username and password because you will need these to re-enter the course site. This requirement must be completed within the first 12 months of support/employment/participation on the award (or earlier, at the discretion of the PI). Documentation of basic training: Documentation of completion of this component will be maintained by the ORC. Additionally, a completion certificate is available for printing via CITI. A copy of this certificate should be maintained by the individual completing the training and the PI. PI should attach this documentation to the RCR training documentation form he/she keeps on each covered individual. Phase 2 Advanced RCR training, described below, must be completed in the first 24 months of support/employment on the award. Covered individuals are also required to engage in an additional 5(NSF/USDA)/8(NIH) contact hours of discussion-based RCR training (see Advanced Training) . These discussions will encompass both general and discipline-specific material. The 5/8 contact hours may include a variety of activities determined by the PI to be effective and engaging. The contact hours must include more than one topic area. Custom-designed workshops, forums, and classes, or existing classes and seminars offered by the college or department, and/or participation in external offerings may all be included. ORC offers a brown bag series each semester. See Advanced Training for these and other offerings. For an existing course or program to be suitable for fulfilling one of the training requirements, the PI must document that relevant topics from the above list are covered in the course/program. Documentation of advanced training: Documentation of completion of this component must be maintained by the covered individual and the PI (on the RCR training documentation form) and provided to the University and/or the funding agency upon request. This component will be implemented by PIs with the assistance of their college and department in a way that meets the particular needs of each unit. Retention of documentation- The completed RCR training documentation form with attachments (copy of online training certificate, case study, etc.) must be maintained by the PI for a period of three years after the conclusion of the award. Copies of case studies will be forwarded to ORC to serve as a resource for future RCR training. Please see the FAQ for more information Home Welcome InfoEd Institutional Review Board Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee Institutional Biosafety Committee Responsible Conduct of Research Training Advanced RCR Training Resources Forms FAQ Contact Us Research Misconduct Office of the Vice President for Research Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram