Brown University Quick Exit General Health Physical Health Acne Asthma Breast Exams Bronchitis Colds Concussion Headaches Meningitis Mononucleosis Sleep Seasonal Flu Sun Safety and Skin Cancer Stomach Flu Testicular Self-Exams Travel and Health Yeast Infection Emotional Wellbeing Mindfulness Sleep Stress Self-Care Techniques for Stress Relief Wellness on Campus Social Wellbeing Community, Connection and Coping: Remote Resources Consent Economic Stress Roommate Relationships Unlearning Toxic Masculinity Reproductive Health Abortion Adoption Amenorrhea Bacterial Vaginosis Colposcopy Erectile Dysfunction Pregnancy Gender Care GYN Visits HPV Vaccine Menstruation Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pregnancy Tests Premature Ejaculation Prenatal Care Testicular Self-Exams Accessing Care Gender Care GYN Visits LGBTQ Health Care at Health Services Men's Health Exams Pregnancy Tests STI Testing Options Resources and Links Nutrition & Eating Concerns Eating Well at Brown Being a Vegetarian Dietary Guidelines Eating Off Meal Plan Meal Plan And Dining Information Supplements Eating Concerns and Body Image Body Image Concerns Eating Concerns Help at Brown Sports Nutrition Relative Energy Deficiency in Sport (RED-S) Sports Nutrition Accessing Care Help at Brown Worried about a Friend Sexual Health Sex 101 SHAG! Erectile Dysfunction Orgasm Premature Ejaculation Sex and Alcohol Sex Toys Sexually Explicit Media Contraception Birth Control Pills Cervical Cap Condoms Depo-Provera Emergency Contraception Fertility Awareness Method Implant Internal Condoms IUD Ortho Evra (The Patch) Ring Spermicides and Lubricants The Recent Election & Contraception Access Withdrawal (Pull Out Method) Reproductive Health Abortion Adoption Amenorrhea Colposcopy Erectile Dysfunction Pregnancy GYN Visits HPV Vaccine Menstruation Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pregnancy Tests Prenatal Care Testicular Self-Exams Yeast Infection Safer Sex Ship n SHAG! Sexual Health and Safer Sex During Covid-19 Abstinence Condoms Dental Dams Internal Condoms Post Exposure Prophylaxis (PEP) Pre Exposure Prophylaxis (PrEP) Safer Sex Withdrawal (Pull Out Method) STIs AIDS/HIV Bacterial Vaginosis Chlamydia Colposcopy Gonorrhea Hepatitis B Herpes HPV and Genital Warts HPV Vaccine Molluscum Contagiosum Oral Sex and STIs Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pubic Lice and Scabies Sexually Transmitted Infections Syphilis Talking with a Partner STI Testing Options Trichomoniasis Urinary Tract Infections Yeast Infection Sexual Assault & Dating Violence Get Help Sexual Assault Response Line SHARE Advocates Dating Violence First Five Days After an Assault Male Survivors Sexual Violence and Assault Sexual Harassment Stalking Help a Friend SHARE Advocates How to Help a Friend Get Involved in Prevention Interrupting the Red Zone: How we keep each other safe Culture of Respect Collective Sexual Assault Peer Education (SAPE) Help Prevent Sexual Assault Unlearning Toxic Masculinity Relationships and Communication Consent Dating Violence Learn More Common Reactions to Sexual Violence and Assault Predatory Drugs Sexual Misconduct and Title IX Sexual Violence: Key Terms Resources and Links Alcohol & Other Drugs Alcohol Alcohol and Your Body Recognizing a Problem Risks and Realities Sex and Alcohol Ways to Cut Down Other Drugs Caffeine Cocaine Ecstasy Energy Drinks GHB Inhalants Ketamine LSD Marijuana Methamphetamine Predatory Drugs Psilocybin (Mushrooms) Rohypnol Tobacco Smokeless Tobacco Smoking Cessation Tobacco Learn More Law and Policy Summary Educational Links Accessing Care Resources at Brown Off Campus Resources Calling EMS How to Help a Friend Quit Smoking How to Talk to a Friend about Drinking or Drug Use Google Tag Manager Accessing Care Men's Health Exams Should I get a yearly physical exam? Several professional groups including the National Academy of Sciences, the American Medical Association and the U.S. Preventive Services Task Force, have determined that routine annual physicals for healthy adults are unnecessary. Rather, healthy people are better served by seeing medical providers for specific age and risk-related screening tests, designed to detect medical conditions that are treatable when discovered early. What screening tests do I need? For healthy people under age 40, the current guidelines recommend the following: Testicular exam by a medical provider every 1 to 2 years. Testicular cancer is one of the most common forms of cancer in men age 18 to 35. Testicular self exam every month Blood pressure screening every 2 years Blood test for cholesterol every 5 years Please note that these guidelines are intended for people without symptoms. Specific risk factors or your previous history may lead your medical provider to request testing and visits at more frequent intervals. Who performs the screening tests? You can request a specific medical provider at Health Services by name or by gender. How much do the screening tests cost? These screenings are free for all Brown students as part of your Health Services fee. Who will see the results? All of your medical records are confidential by state law. Health Services cannot release any of your medical information to anyone-including your parents or any other department at Brown-without your written consent. There are a very few exceptions when information is required to be released without your written consent in the cases of emergencies or when required by law. Your medical provider will address any concerns you have during your visit. What can I do to keep myself healthy? If you are sexually active, use condoms and get tested for sexually transmitted infections (STIs). If you have sex with women, understand the risks of pregnancy and the contraceptive options that are available. Be an active partner in pregnancy prevention and STI prevention. Begin healthy eating habits now to reduce your risk of heart disease and prostate cancer. Limit your consumption of alcohol and other drugs. If you smoke cigarettes or chew tobacco, click here for information on how to quit or cut down. Practice monthly testicular self-exams to detect testicular cancer. Recognize the importance of support. Everyone's well-being depends on a supportive network of family and friends. Asking for help from those people and from resources at Brown is a sign of strength. What else does Health Services have to offer? Dermatology appointments Appointments with the Health Services nutritionist. Pharmacy services, including over-the-counter medications that are cheaper than local pharmacies. Confidential STI testing Condoms and dental dams are available in the bathrooms on the 1st and 3rd floors of Health Services. FC2 condoms, non-latex condoms and lube can be purchased at Health Promotion, Room 310. Allergy injections and immunizations What if I have a form that I need completed and it requires a general physical exam? Health Services will provide routine physical exams if you need a form completed for a sports team, travel abroad, pre-employment requirements or any other reason. Related Links Men's Health Center from the Mayo Clinic Learn what's normal and what's not, take an interactive quiz about your body and read about sex and relationships from this informative site. Men and Depression Learn about depression in men, signs and symptoms, treatments available and how to get help. You can also listen to five men of different ages and backgrounds talk about their experiences with depression. CDC Men's Health Portal This site includes a wide range of health information for men. There are links to research articles, medical and health screenings information, and a collection of health quizzes. About BWell: Quick Links About Us Staff Confidential Appointments Sexual Assault Response Line Workshops Peer Education Programs Health Empowerment Tools PHONE NUMBERS 401.863-2794 Health Promotion 401.863-3953 Health Services 401.863-6000 Sexual Assault Response Line 401.863-4111 EMS 401.863-3476 Counseling & Psychological Services 401.863-4111 DPS Make an Appointment What is Peer Education? Learn about BWell's Peer Education Programs! Get involved in empowerment and prevention work at Brown. Get Involved Meet Our Staff About Us Make an Appointment Brown University BWell Health Promotion Health and Wellness Brown University Box 1928 450 Brook Street Providence, Rhode Island, 02912 Phone 401-863-2794 Fax 401-863-7953 [email protected] © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Related Offices Brown EMS Counseling and Psychological Services Health Services Social Media BWell on Facebook SHAG on Facebook BURP on Facebook Health Services on Facebook