<form runat="server"></form>
<WebPartPages:SPWebPartManager runat="server"/>
 Skip to Main Content HBS Home About Academic Programs Alumni Faculty & Research Baker Library Giving Harvard Business Review Initiatives News Recruit Map / Directions HBS Home About Academic Programs Alumni Faculty & Research Baker Library Campaign Harvard Business Review Initiatives News Recruit Map / Directions Executive Education Apply / Log-in Program Finder Blog Subscribe Health & Safety FAQs Executive Education Programs for IndividualsPrograms for OrganizationsHBS ExperienceFacultyAdmissionsParticipant Stories Programs for Individuals Dropdown Comprehensive Leadership Programs Topic-Focused Programs Regional Programs Virtual Programs Certificate of Management Excellence Corporate Director Certificate Programs for Organizations HBS Experience Dropdown The Value The Learning Experience The Virtual Experience Alumni Network Admitted? Plan Your Stay Insights Faculty Admissions Dropdown Admissions Requirements Admissions Process International Applicants Payment, Cancellation, and Deferral Already Admitted Participant Stories Executive Education ... Right arrow Harvard Business School Right arrow Executive Education Right arrow Programs for Individuals Right arrow Topic-Focused Programs Right arrow Public Education Leadership Project Right arrow OverviewCurriculumTeaching Team ... Right arrow Harvard Business School Right arrow Executive Education Right arrow Programs for Individuals Right arrow Topic-Focused Programs Right arrow Public Education Leadership Project Right arrow OverviewCurriculumTeaching Team Public Education Leadership Project Public Education Leadership Project Upcoming Session Carousel left arrow (1 of 1) Carousel right arrow Waitlisted Dates: 05–09 JUL 2022 Format: In-Person Location: HBS Campus Fee: $34,000 for a district team of 8 For more details, please visit the PELP project page. Download Brochure Download Brochure Download Brochure Program Finder Need Help? Contact Us: Ms. Carina Traub Email: pelp@gse.harvard.edu Telephone: 1.617.496.1819 Send a Letter of Interest Download Brochure Program Finder Need Help? Contact Us: Ms. Carina Traub Email: pelp@gse.harvard.edu Telephone: 1.617.496.1819 Send a Letter of Interest Download Brochure Program Finder Need Help? Contact Us: Ms. Carina Traub Email: pelp@gse.harvard.edu Telephone: 1.617.496.1819 Send a Letter of Interest Download Brochure Program Finder Need Help? Contact Us: Ms. Carina Traub Email: pelp@gse.harvard.edu Telephone: 1.617.496.1819 Send a Letter of Interest Public Education Leadership Project Brochure Download the program details. Learn More Download Brochure Program Finder Need Help? Contact Us: Ms. Carina Traub Email: pelp@gse.harvard.edu Telephone: 1.617.496.1819 Send a Letter of Interest Public Education Leadership Project Brochure Download the program details. Learn More Program Finder Download Brochure Need Help? Contact Us: Ms. Carina Traub Email: pelp@gse.harvard.edu Telephone: 1.617.496.1819 Send a Letter of Interest Print Overview Curriculum Teaching Team Overview Dropdown down Overview Curriculum Teaching Team Program Announcement The July 2022 session is filled to capacity, and additional applications will not be accepted. However, if you have strong interest for this summer's institute, and would like to be added to the waitlist in case another district needs to withdraw, please email carinatraub@gse.harvard.edu with your questions and/or intent to commit to the waitlist. Otherwise, please consider submitting a letter of interest for the 2023 PELP Summer Institute. Summary Improved student performance depends on strong leadership, a culture of collaboration, and a dedication to accountability across a school district. This program helps leaders from U.S.-based urban school systems apply proven management concepts to their districts' unique challenges. Joining with other administrators and educators from across the country, your team of eight leaders from your district will refine your management model, develop new improvement strategies, and learn how to serve your students more effectively. This program is offered through collaboration between its namesake, the Public Education Leadership Project (PELP), which is a joint initiative of the Harvard Graduate School of Education (HGSE) and Harvard Business School (HBS), and the HBS Social Enterprise Initiative. Dropdown down Dropdown up Summary Improved student performance depends on strong leadership, a culture of collaboration, and a dedication to accountability across a school district. This program helps leaders from U.S.-based urban school systems apply proven management concepts to their districts' unique challenges. Joining with other administrators and educators from across the country, your team of eight leaders from your district will refine your management model, develop new improvement strategies, and learn how to serve your students more effectively. This program is offered through collaboration between its namesake, the Public Education Leadership Project (PELP), which is a joint initiative of the Harvard Graduate School of Education (HGSE) and Harvard Business School (HBS), and the HBS Social Enterprise Initiative. Key Benefits In this unique program, your district team will learn and grow together, build management and leadership skills, and acquire new ability to achieve long-term excellence across all schools in your district. You will return to your district with new ideas and strategies that you can implement successfully. Read More Dropdown down Develop, communicate, and execute a strategy for improving your schools Build high-performance leadership teams that continue to learn and grow Adapt successful practices from other school systems to the needs of your district Expand your personal and professional network Extend your network by living and working with accomplished executives from various backgrounds, industries, and countries across the globe Build relationships with a diverse group of peers who can provide wide-ranging insights into your business challenges and career decisions Gain access to a valuable network of previous program participants Key Benefits Dropdown down Key Benefits Dropdown down In this unique program, your district team will learn and grow together, build management and leadership skills, and acquire new ability to achieve long-term excellence across all schools in your district. You will return to your district with new ideas and strategies that you can implement successfully. Develop, communicate, and execute a strategy for improving your schools Build high-performance leadership teams that continue to learn and grow Adapt successful practices from other school systems to the needs of your district Expand your personal and professional network Extend your network by living and working with accomplished executives from various backgrounds, industries, and countries across the globe Build relationships with a diverse group of peers who can provide wide-ranging insights into your business challenges and career decisions Gain access to a valuable network of previous program participants Who Should Attend The program is designed for teams of eight participants who are responsible for urban school systems with at least 20,000 enrolled students. Read More Dropdown down The district's superintendent must always be among the eight team participants. Other members of the multilevel leadership team might include: Central office administrators School principals Regional supervisors Union leaders Teacher leaders Community liaisons Members of the school board, board of education, or school committee that governs the district Districts can build capability by sending new teams to the program over three or more consecutive years. To facilitate continuity, teams from districts returning to the program may send one additional past participant beyond the superintendent. Who Should Attend Dropdown down Who Should Attend Dropdown down The program is designed for teams of eight participants who are responsible for urban school systems with at least 20,000 enrolled students. The district's superintendent must always be among the eight team participants. Other members of the multilevel leadership team might include: Central office administrators School principals Regional supervisors Union leaders Teacher leaders Community liaisons Members of the school board, board of education, or school committee that governs the district Districts can build capability by sending new teams to the program over three or more consecutive years. To facilitate continuity, teams from districts returning to the program may send one additional past participant beyond the superintendent. Participating Companies Have Included: Austin Independent School District Boston Public Schools Chicago Public Schools Denver Public Schools Los Angeles Unified School District Madison Metropolitan School District (Wisconsin) Montgomery County Public Schools Orange County Public Schools (Orlando) Saint Louis Public Schools San Francisco Unified School District Dive Deeper into the Experience Play video Play video Inside the ClassroomInside the Classroom See how exchange with faculty and peers yields new insights into critical business trends. Watch the VideoWatch the Video Play video Play video We Celebrate New Ways of Thinking. Are You Ready?We Celebrate New Ways of Thinking. Are You Ready? Thrive in a learning environment that welcomes diverse ideas and perspectives. Watch the VideoWatch the Video Play video Play video Discover more about business. And yourself.Discover more about business. And yourself. Global perspectives > Leadership growth > Organizational impact. Watch the VideoWatch the Video Learning and Living at HBS When you participate in an Executive Education program on the HBS campus, you enter an immersive experience where every aspect of the learning model has been carefully designed to facilitate your growth. Your learning will take place on your own, in your living group, and in the larger classroom, driven by the renowned HBS case method. Review Our Campus Health & Safety Protocols Dropdown down Dropdown up Learning and Living at HBS Participating Companies Have Included: Austin Independent School District Boston Public Schools Chicago Public Schools Denver Public Schools Los Angeles Unified School District Madison Metropolitan School District (Wisconsin) Montgomery County Public Schools Orange County Public Schools (Orlando) Saint Louis Public Schools San Francisco Unified School District Dive Deeper into the Experience Play video Play video Inside the ClassroomInside the Classroom See how exchange with faculty and peers yields new insights into critical business trends. Watch the VideoWatch the Video Play video Play video We Celebrate New Ways of Thinking. Are You Ready?We Celebrate New Ways of Thinking. Are You Ready? Thrive in a learning environment that welcomes diverse ideas and perspectives. Watch the VideoWatch the Video Play video Play video Discover more about business. And yourself.Discover more about business. And yourself. Global perspectives > Leadership growth > Organizational impact. Watch the VideoWatch the Video When you participate in an Executive Education program on the HBS campus, you enter an immersive experience where every aspect of the learning model has been carefully designed to facilitate your growth. Your learning will take place on your own, in your living group, and in the larger classroom, driven by the renowned HBS case method. Review Our Campus Health & Safety Protocols Admissions Criteria and Process Participation in this program requires that the school district's superintendent or designee submit a letter of interest due by February 28, 2022. For more information, please contact the Public Education Leadership Program at pelp@gse.harvard.edu or +1.617.496.1819. Read More Dropdown down Application Submission We recommend that you apply at least four weeks before the program start date. You may use our online form or download an application. HBS maintains all application information in strict confidentiality. We acknowledge receipt of applications via email. In the unlikely event that you do not receive an acknowledgment, please email us at exed_admissions@hbs.edu or call us at +1.617.495.6226. Application Review To optimize the learning experience and maximize the exchange of ideas, our Admissions Committee makes selections that balance each participant's experience, scope of current responsibilities, and type of organization. HBS seeks candidates who reflect a broad range of industries, functions, countries, and backgrounds. We review applications monthly and will contact you via email with the Admissions Committee's decision. In March 2022, the PELP staff will reach out directly to your school district's superintendent and designated point of contact to notify you of your acceptance status. At that time, you will be provided further instructions on how to register your eight-member district team. Answering Your Questions For further assistance, contact: Harvard Graduate School of Education, Carina Traub, Senior Project Manager, Email: pelp@gse.harvard.edu; Telephone: +1.617.496.1819, or Program Advising team at: 1.800.427.5577 (outside the U.S., call +1.617.495.6555) Fee, Payment, and Cancellations The program fee covers tuition, books, case materials, accommodations, and most meals. You will be invoiced upon admission to the program. Invoices are due within 30 days of receipt, or upon receipt if the program start date is less than 30 days from the invoice date. If you need to cancel or defer your participation, you must submit your request in writing more than 30 days before the start of the program to receive a full refund. Cancellation or deferral requests received 14 to 30 days prior to the start of the program are subject to a fee of one-half of the program fee. Requests received within 14 days are subject to full payment. Admissions Criteria and Process Dropdown down Admissions Criteria and Process Dropdown down Participation in this program requires that the school district's superintendent or designee submit a letter of interest due by February 28, 2022. For more information, please contact the Public Education Leadership Program at pelp@gse.harvard.edu or +1.617.496.1819. Application Submission We recommend that you apply at least four weeks before the program start date. You may use our online form or download an application. HBS maintains all application information in strict confidentiality. We acknowledge receipt of applications via email. In the unlikely event that you do not receive an acknowledgment, please email us at exed_admissions@hbs.edu or call us at +1.617.495.6226. Application Review To optimize the learning experience and maximize the exchange of ideas, our Admissions Committee makes selections that balance each participant's experience, scope of current responsibilities, and type of organization. HBS seeks candidates who reflect a broad range of industries, functions, countries, and backgrounds. We review applications monthly and will contact you via email with the Admissions Committee's decision. In March 2022, the PELP staff will reach out directly to your school district's superintendent and designated point of contact to notify you of your acceptance status. At that time, you will be provided further instructions on how to register your eight-member district team. Answering Your Questions For further assistance, contact: Harvard Graduate School of Education, Carina Traub, Senior Project Manager, Email: pelp@gse.harvard.edu; Telephone: +1.617.496.1819, or Program Advising team at: 1.800.427.5577 (outside the U.S., call +1.617.495.6555) Fee, Payment, and Cancellations The program fee covers tuition, books, case materials, accommodations, and most meals. You will be invoiced upon admission to the program. Invoices are due within 30 days of receipt, or upon receipt if the program start date is less than 30 days from the invoice date. If you need to cancel or defer your participation, you must submit your request in writing more than 30 days before the start of the program to receive a full refund. Cancellation or deferral requests received 14 to 30 days prior to the start of the program are subject to a fee of one-half of the program fee. Requests received within 14 days are subject to full payment. What You Will Learn This rich learning experience features faculty presentations, case studies, and dynamic discussions with faculty and other public education leaders whose insights will help you grow both during the program and well beyond. As you analyze management and leadership best practices in successful school districts, businesses, and nonprofit organizations, you will broaden and deepen your leadership and management capabilities, improve your ability to deliver measurable results—and learn how to establish a culture of high expectations and accountability. Dropdown down Dropdown up What You Will Learn This rich learning experience features faculty presentations, case studies, and dynamic discussions with faculty and other public education leaders whose insights will help you grow both during the program and well beyond. As you analyze management and leadership best practices in successful school districts, businesses, and nonprofit organizations, you will broaden and deepen your leadership and management capabilities, improve your ability to deliver measurable results—and learn how to establish a culture of high expectations and accountability. Key TopicsExpand AllCollapse All Make strategy and coherence concreteMake strategy and coherence concrete Dropdown down Understanding how cultures, systems, and environments reinforce one another and support strategy implementation Enabling people at all levels to implement their piece of the strategy Envisioning and managing districts as integrated systems with interdependent parts that directly link to the classroom Establishing a collaborative process for designing plans that principals and teachers can use effectively Attract and retain the best peopleAttract and retain the best people Dropdown down Developing and managing human capital Recruiting the best people for hard-to-staff schools Aligning the recruiting process with the district strategy Improving leadership capabilities at all levels Manage for high performanceManage for high performance Dropdown down Building strategies for effective, long-term administrative performance Applying performance data to guide decisions and measure accountability Allocating resources to support strategic goals Create a culture of performanceCreate a culture of performance Dropdown down Establishing a culture of performance that values results more than efforts Analyzing data to improve performance Motivating the best teachers and administrators to take on the most challenging assignments Key Topics Dropdown up Key Topics Dropdown down Make strategy and coherence concrete Understanding how cultures, systems, and environments reinforce one another and support strategy implementation Enabling people at all levels to implement their piece of the strategy Envisioning and managing districts as integrated systems with interdependent parts that directly link to the classroom Establishing a collaborative process for designing plans that principals and teachers can use effectively Attract and retain the best people Developing and managing human capital Recruiting the best people for hard-to-staff schools Aligning the recruiting process with the district strategy Improving leadership capabilities at all levels Manage for high performance Building strategies for effective, long-term administrative performance Applying performance data to guide decisions and measure accountability Allocating resources to support strategic goals Create a culture of performance Establishing a culture of performance that values results more than efforts Analyzing data to improve performance Motivating the best teachers and administrators to take on the most challenging assignments The HBS Advantage Our Executive Education programs are developed and taught by HBS faculty who are widely recognized as skilled educators, groundbreaking researchers, and award-winning authors. Through their board memberships, consulting, and field-based research, they address the complex challenges facing business leaders across the globe. Faculty Cochairs Jennifer Perry Cheatham Harvard Graduate School of Education: Senior Lecturer on Education Read Full Bio John Jong-Hyun Kim Senior Lecturer of Business Administration HBS Unit: General Management Read Full Bio Faculty Amy C. Edmondson Novartis Professor of Leadership and Management HBS Unit: Technology and Operations Management Read Full Bio Monica C. Higgins Harvard Graduate School of Education: Kathleen McCartney Professor of Education Leadership Read Full Bio Jal Mehta Harvard Graduate School of Education Read Full Bio Monique Burns Thompson Senior Lecturer of Business Administration HBS Unit: Organizational Behavior Read Full Bio Dropdown down Dropdown up The HBS Advantage Our Executive Education programs are developed and taught by HBS faculty who are widely recognized as skilled educators, groundbreaking researchers, and award-winning authors. Through their board memberships, consulting, and field-based research, they address the complex challenges facing business leaders across the globe. Faculty Cochairs Jennifer Perry Cheatham Harvard Graduate School of Education: Senior Lecturer on Education Read Full Bio John Jong-Hyun Kim Senior Lecturer of Business Administration HBS Unit: General Management Read Full Bio Faculty Amy C. Edmondson Novartis Professor of Leadership and Management HBS Unit: Technology and Operations Management Read Full Bio Monica C. Higgins Harvard Graduate School of Education: Kathleen McCartney Professor of Education Leadership Read Full Bio Jal Mehta Harvard Graduate School of Education Read Full Bio Monique Burns Thompson Senior Lecturer of Business Administration HBS Unit: Organizational Behavior Read Full Bio Download Brochure Download Brochure Download Brochure Program content, dates, schedule, fees, technology platforms, and faculty are subject to change. In accordance with Harvard University policy, Harvard Business School does not discriminate against any person on the basis of race, color, sex or sexual orientation, gender identity, religion, age, national or ethnic origin, political beliefs, veteran status, or disability in admission to, access to, treatment in, or employment in its programs and activities. Download Brochure Program Finder Need Help? Contact Us: Ms. Carina Traub Email: pelp@gse.harvard.edu Telephone: 1.617.496.1819 Send a Letter of Interest Download Brochure Program Finder Need Help? Contact Us: Ms. Carina Traub Email: pelp@gse.harvard.edu Telephone: 1.617.496.1819 Send a Letter of Interest Download Brochure Program Finder Need Help? Contact Us: Ms. Carina Traub Email: pelp@gse.harvard.edu Telephone: 1.617.496.1819 Send a Letter of Interest Download Brochure Program Finder Need Help? Contact Us: Ms. Carina Traub Email: pelp@gse.harvard.edu Telephone: 1.617.496.1819 Send a Letter of Interest Public Education Leadership Project Brochure Download the program details. Learn More Download Brochure Program Finder Need Help? Contact Us: Ms. Carina Traub Email: pelp@gse.harvard.edu Telephone: 1.617.496.1819 Send a Letter of Interest Public Education Leadership Project Brochure Download the program details. Learn More Program Finder Download Brochure Need Help? Contact Us: Ms. Carina Traub Email: pelp@gse.harvard.edu Telephone: 1.617.496.1819 Send a Letter of Interest Related Programs Governing for Nonprofit Excellence—Virtual Date 20–28 OCT 2022 Format Virtual Download Download Brochure Strategic Perspectives in Nonprofit Management Date 09–15 JUL 2023 Format In-Person Location HBS Campus Download Download Brochure Explore All ProgramsView Full Program Schedule Explore All ProgramsView Full Program Schedule Explore All ProgramsApplication PDF View Frequently Asked Questions Subscribe to Our Emails Back to Top Arrow up ǁ Executive Education Harvard Business School Soldiers Field Boston, MA 02163 Contact Us →Virtual Tour →Map & Directions →More Contact Information Make a Gift Site Map Jobs Harvard University Trademarks Policies Digital Accessibility Copyright © President & Fellows of Harvard College