Skip to main content Responding to COVID-19 Current Students Alumni Faculty and Staff Apply (Graduate) Apply (Undergraduate) Give About The Weitzman School Fast Facts Justice and Belonging at Weitzman: Beyond DEI People Development + Alumni Relations Press Room Support the School Policies Contact Us Academics Graduate Architecture Undergraduate Architecture City and Regional Planning Graduate Fine Arts Undergraduate Fine Arts & Design Historic Preservation Landscape Architecture Urban Spatial Analytics All Degrees + Certificates Admissions Get to Know Us Visit Us Admissions Events How to Apply International Applicants Tuition & Aid Admitted Students Undergraduate Applicants Impact Weitzman News Events + Exhibitions Global Engagement PennPraxis Annual Weitzman School Awards Partners Penn Planning Equity Initiative Making Sense Research Advanced Research & Innovation Lab Kleinman Center For Energy Policy The McHarg Center Penn Institute For Urban Research Center for Environmental Building & Design The Center for Architectural Conservation Applying for Research Funds Center for Public Art and Space Center for the Preservation of Civil Rights Sites Resources Architectural Archives Fisher Fine Arts Library Institute of Contemporary Art The Common Press IT Services Fabrication Lab Career Resources All Resources Student Council (Graduate Students) Search form Search Historic Preservation About Work People Events News Resources Courses Program Student Work Studio The Preservation Studio is part of the core MSHP curriculum and is taken in the fall of the second-year building on the professional skills learned in the first-year core. The Preservation Studio is a practical course making architectural, urban and landscape conservation operations, bringing to bear the wide range of skills and ideas at play in the field of historic preservation. The work requires intense collaboration as well as individual projects. The Graduate Program in Historic Preservation also offers elective studios in the spring, like the required Preservation Studio, the elective topics and sites vary semester to semester. https://www.design.upenn.edu/node/9376 Internships Between their first and second years of study Weitzman MSHP graduate students are required to complete a summer internship with a preservation-related organization. Internship opportunities vary; students typically perform site and condition surveys, documentation, inventories, mapping, historical research, feasibility studies, material analysis and treatment, etc. https://www.design.upenn.edu/node/9377 Thesis The thesis is a requirement for the Master of Science in Historic Preservation and a foundation of the Graduate Program in Historic Preservation’s curriculum. Mastery of the research process is essential for professional success and the progressive evolution of the field. Theses are built on original research, and in some cases original design work or laboratory experimentation. Individually and collectively, the hundreds of Penn Preservation theses represent an impressive intellectual achievement – and a good reflection on the intellectual and practical questions driving preservation practice. https://www.design.upenn.edu/node/9378 Initiatives + Centers The Center for Architectural Conservation The Center for Architectural Conservation conducts a full agenda of research and teaching dedicated to documentation, recording, field survey, material analysis, condition assessment, risk analysis, and the development of new treatments and treatment evaluation of historic structures and sites. https://www.design.upenn.edu/node/9379 PennPraxis PennPraxis supports design action and thought leadership to advance inclusion, innovation, and impact in communities that design doesn't typically serve. https://www.design.upenn.edu/pennpraxis/home Making Sense Making Sense: Interpreting Place in the 21st Century is a new initiative of the Historic Preservation Program dedicated to exploring next-generation ideas and practices of creative heritage place-making through innovative research and experimentation in interpretation. https://www.design.upenn.edu/making-sense/about The Center for the Preservation of Civil Rights Sites The Center for the Preservation of Civil Rights Sites (CPCRS) is devoted to the preservation of built environments that reflect and symbolize the civil rights movement in the US. CPCRS is committed to advancing the understanding and sustainable conservation of heritage places commemorating the African-American struggle, before and after the passage of the 14th Amendment. https://cpcrs.upenn.edu/ Architectural Conservation Lab The Architectural Conservation Laboratory (ACL) of the Graduate Program in Historic Preservation supports the program’s curriculum in a state-of-the art facility where conservation science and technical studies come together to advance teaching and research in Architectural Conservation. https://www.design.upenn.edu/historic-preservation/resources/architectural-conse… Urban Heritage Project The Urban Heritage Project addresses issues at the intersection of built heritage, cultural landscape, societal change through multi-disciplinary research and practice. https://www.design.upenn.edu/pennpraxis/resources/urban-heritage-project Recent Projects Taliesin | Machine Shed Reconstruction Plan 10.12.21 Image Source STG Design. Julia Marchetti | Unseen Synergies: The Intersection of Historic Preservation & Climate Justice 10.07.21 Photo courtesy of KBPS News and U.S. Border Patrol. Jennifer Boggs | Waiver Authority vs. Federal Preservation Laws: A Case Study on the U.S.-Mexico Border Wall 10.07.21 © 2021 University of Pennsylvania Stuart Weitzman School of Design Sitemap | Privacy Policy Support Weitzman Your contribution positively impacts our ability to educate the creative leaders of the future. Report accessibility issues and get help Office of the Dean 102 Meyerson Hall 210 South 34th Street Philadelphia, PA 19104 Connect Subscribe to Design Weekly: News from Weitzman Login Log In