HOME Make a Gift Clemson Home Students Faculty/Staff Alumni Partners A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps CU Safety Phonebook Webcams Make a Gift Toggle navigation FACILITIES Facilities Homepage Fike Recreation Center Featuring Swann Fitness Center Douthit Hills Fitness Center Snow Family Outdoor Fitness and Wellness Complex Policies and Procedures Facility Hours Facility Counts Floor Plan FITNESS AND WELLNESS Group Fitness F45 Small Group Training Fitness Assessments Personal Training Wellness Zone INTRAMURAL SPORTS CORE CORE Homepage Register for a Trip Rent Outdoor Equipment Develop Your Skills Request a Custom Trip Apply for a Job Explore Spring Break Trips Explore Winter Break Trips Explore Trips for Incoming Students Contact Us CLUB SPORTS Club Sports Homepage Club Officer Resources Visiting Team Resources Homepage Register for a Trip Rent Outdoor Equipment Develop Your Skills Request a Custom Trip Apply for a Job Explore Spring Break Trips Explore Winter Break Trips Explore Trips for Incoming Students Contact Us CORE Custom Trips Are you looking to plan an exciting outdoor adventure trip for your group but are unsure of where to start? Custom group experiences with Clemson Outdoor Recreation and Education (CORE) provide trained staff leadership, equipment, transportation, logistical planning, food and more. Simply choose your activity, and let us do the rest! Please review the information below, and then fill out the custom group experience intake form at the bottom of the page. Popular Trips: Whitewater Rafting on the Nantahala River Kayaking and stand–up paddleboarding on Lake Jocassee Mountain biking at the Clemson Experimental Forest or, SWU Day hike to local trails Service and Adventure Trip in the Clemson Experimental Forest Group Bonfire with S'mores outside the Andy Quattlebaum Outdoor Education Center Have another idea for your adventure? CORE is happy to create a custom trip for you! Reservation Information: Reservation requests should be submitted at least a full semester ahead of time in order to ensure availability of one's desired trip date or, a minimum of one month prior to request date. If you do not receive confirmation within 5 days of submitting your request, please contact us at customrec@clemson.edu referencing your group name and date of the request submittal. Cancellations: Cancellations must be made at least 30 days prior to the event in order to be eligible for a full refund. If cancellations are made less than 30 days before the start of your CORE trip, your group may be subject to a non-refundable reservation fee of $50 in addition to a prorated refund amount based upon how many days are left before the trip start date. Cancellations made by Campus Recreation (due to weather, etc.) will be fully refundable. Cancellation fees can be paid by IDO, check, or credit card. Liability: All group members participating in Clemson University Campus Recreation Custom Group Experience programs are required to complete the risk management, liability, and health forms specific to the activity. These forms will be sent to the participants or group leader approximately one week prior to the event. For more information email customrec@clemson.edu. CUSTOM GROUP EXPERIENCE INTAKE FORM LEARN MORE ABOUT CUSTOM GROUP EXPERIENCES CONTACT DIVISION OF STUDENT AFFAIRS 202 Sikes Hall, Clemson, SC Copyright 2020 Webmaster