Visit Apply Give Search Goucher.edu Search Goucher.edu Become A Student Apply Visit Paying for Goucher Transfer Students International Students Admitted Students New Students Graduate Programs Learn Everywhere Undergraduate Programs Global Education The Commons Curriculum Study Abroad Community-Based Learning Academic Support & Resources Graduate & Professional Programs Experience Goucher Where You Live Who You'll Meet Where You Eat Living Well Getting Involved Athletics Equity & Identity Explore Goucher Who We Are Virtual Tour The College Tour Facts & Stats Why Goucher? Location Notable People of Goucher Prepare for Life Career Explorer Success Stories Recent Employers Graduate Schools Career Education Internships Accolades Prospective Students Current Students Athletes Graduate Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumnae/i Home Home Learn Everywhere Graduate Programs Post-Baccalaureate Premed Program Post-Baccalaureate Premed Program It's never too late to decide you want to be a doctor—even if you didn't take the right courses in college. If you have the commitment, motivation, and desire to become a doctor, but lack the undergraduate science prerequisites for medical school, the Post-Baccalaureate Premedical Program at Goucher College is the place for you. You will learn alongside people like you, in small classes focused on the distinctive needs of post-baccalaureate premedical students. You will receive close, personal attention and guidance from your professors, tutors, and advisors. You will be encouraged to take advantage of the many opportunities for practical experience available in the Baltimore area and the linkages Goucher has developed with prominent medical schools. And in one year, you will earn a certificate by completing the courses necessary to pursue a career in medicine. Goucher's Post-Baccalaureate Premedical Program is one of the oldest and best in the nation. We've been developing and refining it for more than 30 years. It's built upon Goucher's long tradition of rigorous undergraduate science education—and the expertise of Goucher's outstanding faculty—providing you with an intensive premedical education so thorough and strong that, in the last fifteen years, 99.5 percent of our graduates have been accepted into U.S. medical schools. We're also very proud that over the past three years, medical schools have awarded more than $6 million in merit scholarships to 38 Goucher post-bacs. Supportive, rigorous, and challenging, the Goucher Post-Baccalaureate Premedical Program provides the best preparation for men and women dedicated to changing their lives—and touching the lives of others—by pursuing a career in medicine. Since Goucher is a member of the Common Application Service for post-bac programs (PostBacCAS), applicants must submit their materials to PostBacCAS. The 'Application and Admission' link has further information. As of April 6, 2022 admissions to the class entering June 2022 is closed to new applications. Contact If you would prefer to contact us by phone, please call 1-800-414-3437. If you have a question regarding the Post-Bac Premed Program or your particular situation, please email us and we will contact you shortly. Follow us on Instagram: goucher.pbpm View Navigation Application & Admission Curriculum Advising & Support Faculty & Staff Alumni Profiles Current Class Linkage to Medical School Medical Opportunities Medical School Outcomes Glide Year Goucher & Baltimore How to Pay FAQ Contact Contact Information 1.800.414.3437 pbpm@goucher.edu Follow us on Instagram Goucher College has partnered with Sasaki to develop its campus master plan. News Events Graduate Programs Athletics Employment Library Offices & Centers Directory 1021 Dulaney Valley Road, Baltimore, MD 21204 410.337.6000 | admissions@goucher.edu Contact & Directions | Emergency Info Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube Snapchat Flickr LinkedIn Copyright © 2022 Goucher College Privacy Policy | Accessibility | About this Website ©