Skip to main content Responding to COVID-19 Current Students Alumni Faculty and Staff Apply (Graduate) Apply (Undergraduate) Give About The Weitzman School Fast Facts Justice and Belonging at Weitzman: Beyond DEI People Development + Alumni Relations Press Room Support the School Policies Contact Us Academics Graduate Architecture Undergraduate Architecture City and Regional Planning Graduate Fine Arts Undergraduate Fine Arts & Design Historic Preservation Landscape Architecture Urban Spatial Analytics All Degrees + Certificates Admissions Get to Know Us Visit Us Admissions Events How to Apply International Applicants Tuition & Aid Admitted Students Undergraduate Applicants Impact Weitzman News Events + Exhibitions Global Engagement PennPraxis Annual Weitzman School Awards Partners Penn Planning Equity Initiative Making Sense Research Advanced Research & Innovation Lab Kleinman Center For Energy Policy The McHarg Center Penn Institute For Urban Research Center for Environmental Building & Design The Center for Architectural Conservation Applying for Research Funds Center for Public Art and Space Center for the Preservation of Civil Rights Sites Resources Architectural Archives Fisher Fine Arts Library Institute of Contemporary Art The Common Press IT Services Fabrication Lab Career Resources All Resources Student Council (Graduate Students) Search form Search Historic Preservation About Work People Events News Resources Courses Program Subscribe to Design Weekly e-News Email Address * Leave this field blank Preserving Neighborhoods: How Urban Policy Shapes Baltimore and Brooklyn Wednesday, June 1, 2022 5:30pm Add to Calendar iCalendar Outlook Google Yahoo Register Zoom Visitors to Penn’s campus are required to complete PennOpen Campus on the day of their visit and present a Green Pass for entry to events. This requirement does not apply to virtual events. While masking is still strongly encouraged in indoor public settings, it is not currently mandated by the City of Philadelphia. Join us for a presentation and Q&A session with Dr. Aaron Passell of Barnard College. Historic preservation is often regarded as an elitist practice and assumed to lead to gentrification and rising property values. Preserving Neighborhoods complicates this story, exploring how community activists and local governments use historic preservation to influence neighborhood change. In Baltimore, it is part of a primarily top-down strategy for channeling investment into historic neighborhoods, many of them plagued by vacancy and abandonment. In central Brooklyn, neighborhood groups have discovered that landmark district designation can serve as a tool to mitigate rapid change. Whether or not neighborhood groups succeed in their stated goals, the designation process often functions as a community-building one. This program is part of the Changing the Face of the City speaker series, a collaboration between the Weitzman School of Design and The Carpenters' Company, and curated by Francesca Ammon. Throughout this year, we will present a series of programs and events that explore the intersection of historic preservation and urban planning/renewal through the lens of equity and social justice. “Changing the Face of the City” was the phrase renowned urban planner Edmund Bacon used to describe Philadelphia’s renaissance in his classic 1967 book Design of Cities, unintentionally alluding to the literal consequences of many preservation, planning, and renewal efforts. If you require any accessibility accommodation, such as live captioning, audio description, or a sign language interpreter, please email news@design.upenn.edu to let us know what you need. Please note, we require at least 48 hours’ notice. If you register within 48 hours of this event, we won’t be able to secure the appropriate accommodations. © 2021 University of Pennsylvania Stuart Weitzman School of Design Sitemap | Privacy Policy Support Weitzman Your contribution positively impacts our ability to educate the creative leaders of the future. Report accessibility issues and get help Office of the Dean 102 Meyerson Hall 210 South 34th Street Philadelphia, PA 19104 Connect Subscribe to Design Weekly: News from Weitzman Login Log In