Navigation Home About COVID-19 Work Overview Contact Tracing Social Needs Response Team (SNRT) COVID-19 Communications University’s COVID Response Initiatives Overview Penn Community Scholars Service Link Junior Scholars Forum Walk with a Future Doc Walks 2 Wellness NatureRx at Penn Penn Food and Wellness Collaborative Healthy Penn Service Corps Public Health Pipeline Program Healthy Library Initiative Education and Training Overview Master of Public Health Program Fieldwork: Host a Student Seminars Learning Institutes Fellows Overview Fellow Information Fellows-in-Residence Senior Fellows Associate Fellows Adjunct Fellows Events Overview Seminar Series Learning Institutes CPHI Events Archive About COVID-19 Work Overview Contact Tracing Social Needs Response Team (SNRT) COVID-19 Communications University’s COVID Response Initiatives Overview Penn Community Scholars Service Link Junior Scholars Forum Walk with a Future Doc Walks 2 Wellness NatureRx at Penn Penn Food and Wellness Collaborative Healthy Penn Service Corps Public Health Pipeline Program Healthy Library Initiative Education and Training Overview Master of Public Health Program Fieldwork: Host a Student Seminars Learning Institutes Fellows Overview Fellow Information Fellows-in-Residence Senior Fellows Associate Fellows Adjunct Fellows Events Overview Seminar Series Learning Institutes CPHI Events Archive Engage with CPHI Join Our Mailing List Search The Center for Public Health Initiatives What is Public Health @ Penn? Find out more information The Penn MPH Read more on Master of Public Health Program (MPH) Join CPHI! Become a fellow, attend an Institute, or check out an event. CPHI Banner Slideshow About Us The Center for Public Health Initiatives (CPHI) is a university-wide center founded in 2007 by the Provost's Office. We promote interdisciplinary research, education and practice in public health. Seminar Series CPHI offers high quality seminars to increase public health knowledge and leadership. Seminar Series 2021-2022 We are pleased to announce this year's seminar series, "Public Health has Entered the Chat: How we sustain the focus on public health." Our first seminar is Thursday 9/23, titled The Opioid Crisis: The Epidemic within the Pandemic. To register, click here Our Mission The University of Pennsylvania's Center for Public Health Initiatives' mission is to educate and train public health leaders and practitioners, foster multi-disciplinary collaboration, and promote excellence in public health research and community partnerships. Read More CPHI Announcements @PennPubHealth RT @HNelsonMPH: So excited that the 2020 and 2021 @PennPubHealth MPH grads get a chance to experience an in person commencement to… https://t.co/6dDO57hc4a @PennPubHealth RT @naseernawar: Got hooded and walked for my @pennbgs @CAMBUpenn @PennMicro PhD and @PennPubHealth MPH degrees today! Grateful to t… https://t.co/8Ts9fmrYc1 @PennPubHealth RT @AmeliaVanPelt: I finally got to wear the floppy hat! A little rain couldn’t ruin the celebration. Grateful to have been surrounded… https://t.co/f6PVyZ3JRH Read More News Center for Public Health Initiatives Anatomy Chemistry Building, Room 148 3620 Hamilton Walk Philadelphia, PA 19104 Directions to CPHI Email:  Fax: 215.573.9025 University Mail Code: 6011 Links to Public Health-Related Programs at UPenn ASPPH News and Events Campus Health at UPenn Check Out CPHI on Twitter Follow Us on Facebook Follow Us on Instagram © The Trustees of the University of Pennsylvania | Site best viewed in a supported browser. | Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help | Privacy Policy | Site Design: DART Web Team.