Skip to main content Toggle subitems Main navigation Meet Princeton Toggle sub-items In Service of Humanity Facts & Figures History Honors & Awards Contact Us Visit Us Our Faculty Our Students Our Alumni Our Staff Our Leadership Academic Freedom and Free Expression Academics Toggle sub-items Studying at Princeton Library Areas of Study Humanities Social Sciences Engineering Natural Sciences Advising Academic Calendar Course Tools Learning Abroad Career Development Continuing Education Innovative Learning Research Toggle sub-items Engineering & Applied Science Humanities Natural Sciences Social Sciences Interdisciplinary Approach Dean for Research Office External Partnerships Facilities & Labs One Community Toggle sub-items Lifelong Connections Student Life Arts & Culture Athletics Living in Princeton, N.J. Housing & Dining Activities & Organizations Cultural & Affinity Groups Health & Wellness Religious Life Serving the Public Good Families Admission & Aid Toggle sub-items Affordable for All About Financial Aid Current Undergraduate Financial Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission For International Students Utility menu News Events Work at Princeton Services & Resources Work-Life Balance Links for Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Giving Search Sites & People × Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on LinkedIn Email Print Video feature: Student venture provides phone-based English language education in India by Danielle Alio, Office of Communications May 9, 2016, noon Play video: Play Video: Video feature: Student venture provides phone-based English language education in India; Video embed #1 Princeton students Kasturi Shah and Vaasvi Goyal, both of whom grew up in India, met through the University and started a service that provides English language instruction in India. They have spent their senior year trying to build up the service and figure out its future. (Video by Danielle Alio, Office of Communications) During their sophomore year, Princeton University students Kasturi Shah and Vaasvi Goyal decided to list all of the problems they wanted to fix in India, their home country. Once they realized that they shared a passion for education, they brainstormed ideas for how to expand access to education to children in India who may not have resources or support in school. Hello, Seekho was born. Hello, Seekho provides free audio education through a toll-free number in India. By using a basic mobile phone, users can dial the number to connect to over 60 lessons teaching the English language at various levels of difficulty. "Seekho" means "to learn" in Hindi. "When we decided to tackle education in India, we decided to focus on access and quality," said Shah, of Mumbai. "We thought of all the existing platforms for free, quality education like Coursera and then the wide-reaching impact of mobile phones in India." Now seniors, Shah, a physics major pursuing certificates in Latin American studies and visual arts, and Goyal, an economics major from Delhi, have been wrestling with the question of whether to continue growing their social venture after Commencement or to pursue careers in fields related to their majors. Hello, Seekho has attracted support since its founding. The idea won third place at Tiger Launch 2014, a student-run competition, and the funding was used to launch Hello, Seekho in five slums in East Delhi. Over summer 2015, Hello, Seekho expanded to include slums in Mumbai with funding from another student event, the Princeton Social Innovation Competition. Shah and Goyal also participated in the Princeton Keller Center's eLab Incubator Program, which gives students access to work space in the Entrepreneurial Hub at 34 Chambers St. They also have access to experienced mentors in the field as well as workshops, networking opportunities, seed funding and on-campus summer housing. "Princeton has given us access to the funding to make the start possible," Shah said. "It has brought us together. It surrounded us with people with amazing ideas, and it is a place where ideas are always bubbling." Throughout the academic year, Shah and Goyal devoted countless hours to developing Hello, Seekho further while completing their senior theses and final classes. In April 2016, Hello, Seekho was featured in multiple news articles throughout India, resulting in a surge of over 70,000 calls to the venture's phone lines. "It's so gratifying to see kids from now all over the country, not just like pockets or areas where we marketed this, calling into the service," said Goyal. Related Stories Student venture provides English language education in India Read more Keller Center: A decade of 'broadening pathways' to positive impact in society Read more In full swing: Student teams build and pitch businesses in summer program Read more Student entrepreneurs pitch innovations at annual Demo Days Read more Demo Day emphasizes intersection of education and entrepreneurship Read more Committee recommends initiatives to foster entrepreneurship 'the Princeton way' Read more Princeton students' desire to improve campus tours leads to successful start-up company Read more View All News Contact links Contact Us Accessibility Advanced People Search Media Inquiries Website Feedback Visiting links Plan a Visit Maps & Shuttles Varsity Athletics Giving to Princeton Academic links Library Academic Calendar Student Links Faculty & Staff Links Footer social media Facebook Twitter Instagram Snapchat LinkedIn YouTube Social Media Directory Equal Opportunity and Nondiscrimination at Princeton University: Princeton University believes that commitment to principles of fairness and respect for all is favorable to the free and open exchange of ideas, and the University seeks to reach out as widely as possible in order to attract the ablest individuals as students, faculty, and staff. In applying this policy, the University is committed to nondiscrimination on the basis of personal beliefs or characteristics such as political views, religion, national or ethnic origin, race, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, pregnancy, age, marital or domestic partnership status, veteran status, disability, genetic information and/or other characteristics protected by applicable law in any phase of its education or employment programs or activities. In addition, pursuant to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 and supporting regulations, Princeton does not discriminate on the basis of sex in the education programs or activities that it operates; this extends to admission and employment. Inquiries about the application of Title IX and its supporting regulations may be directed to the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, Office for Civil Rights, U.S. Department of Education or to the University's Sexual Misconduct/Title IX Coordinator. See Princeton’s full Equal Opportunity Policy and Nondiscrimination Statement. Princeton University Princeton, NJ 08544 Operator: (609) 258-3000 © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Subfooter links Copyright Infringement Privacy Notice