Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Global Health Certificate (Graduate) You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Global Health Certificate (Graduate) Global Health Certificate (Graduate) Accreditation Admissions Required Courses Global Health Certificate In the Graduate Certificate in Global Health at Temple’s College of Public Health, students develop the core skills and theoretical foundations they need to address public health issues that are prevalent in the majority of the world, including access to basic preventive care; emergency disaster relief; maternal and child healthcare; and water, sanitation and hygiene. This academic certificate is open to all students who are currently completing graduate degrees in the College of Public Health. Courses in the Global Health Certificate program provide a global health perspective on your existing area of graduate study and provide a foundation for international careers in public health or health services. What sets apart our Global Health Certificate? Open international career prospects: Gain global health experience in your area of expertise, and strengthen your ability to work in an international setting. Gain real-world experience on a global scale: You may choose to count international fieldwork or a study-abroad experience as one of your electives, which will give you the opportunity to both earn academic credit and improve your professional networking in global or international health. Learn from our renowned faculty: Our faculty are experts in environmental toxicology; global health program development; water, sanitation and hygiene; and more. Program Format This program can be taken as a supplement a full graduate degree in the College of Public Health. It cannot be taken independently. The Global Health Certificate is 12 credits, including a public health core course, one of two seminars in international or global health, and two elective courses. You may apply international fieldwork or a study-abroad experience to one of your elective course requirements, which will help you find professional placements in global or international health. Learn more about courses you'll be taking as part of the program. Our Advisors The College of Public Health offers extensive, personalized advising services to students in each department. If you have questions about the Global Health Certificate program, contact the following faculty members. Graciela Jaschek Assistant Professor Phone: 215-204-4083 Email: graciela.jaschek@temple.edu Aimee Palumbo Graduate Program Director Phone: 215-204-4023 Email: aimee.palumbo@temple.edu Related Graduate Degrees MPH in Social and Behavioral Sciences MPH in Health Policy and Management MPH in Epidemiology MPH in Environmental Health MPH in Applied Biostatistics MS in Epidemiology PhD in Epidemiology PhD in Social and Behavioral Health Sciences PhD in Health Policy and Health Services Research Related Graduate Certificates Public Health Preparedness and Response Maternal and Child Health Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Graduate Certificate offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $1,020.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,398.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. HP-GLHL-GRAD Additional Program Information Available online. Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Global Health Certificate (Graduate) Accreditation Admissions Required Courses Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community.