Skip to main content MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links About Our Units Working at UW Student Life COVID-19 Info & Updates Support Student Life Living & dining On-Campus Housing Off-Campus Housing Fraternity Housing Sorority Housing Residential Dining Husky Den Food Court Groups & activities Associated Students of UW CIRCLE The Daily Ethnic Cultural Center Fraternity and Sorority Life Graduate and Professional Student Senate The HUB Husky Neighborhood Interns Peer Health Educators Q Center Recreation Residential Life Student Activities Office Unite UW: Once united, never divided Health Campus Food Pantry Counseling Crisis Connections Emergency Care Health Advocacy, Training & Education Medical Care Mental Health Recreation Digital Wellness 101: Taking Control of Your Life Online Task Force on Student Mental Health Campus safety Bias Incident Advisory Committee Community Standards and Student Conduct Husky NightWalk SafeCampus Sexual Assault Resources Student Care and Consultation UW Police Department UWPD Victim Advocacy Career prep Career & Internship Center Finding and maximizing campus jobs Blog Student Life Menu About Our Units Working at UW Student Life COVID-19 Info & Updates Support Student Life Living & dining On-Campus Housing Off-Campus Housing Fraternity Housing Sorority Housing Residential Dining Husky Den Food Court Groups & activities Associated Students of UW CIRCLE The Daily Ethnic Cultural Center Fraternity and Sorority Life Graduate and Professional Student Senate The HUB Husky Neighborhood Interns Peer Health Educators Q Center Recreation Residential Life Student Activities Office Unite UW: Once united, never divided Health Campus Food Pantry Counseling Crisis Connections Emergency Care Health Advocacy, Training & Education Medical Care Mental Health Recreation Digital Wellness 101: Taking Control of Your Life Online Task Force on Student Mental Health Campus safety Bias Incident Advisory Committee Community Standards and Student Conduct Husky NightWalk SafeCampus Sexual Assault Resources Student Care and Consultation UW Police Department UWPD Victim Advocacy Career prep Career & Internship Center Finding and maximizing campus jobs Blog Home Student Life Blog Blog Welcome to the UW Student Life Blog! News, updates and resources around UW to promote a great Husky Experience. We love featuring original content from students and the greater UW community! If you have anything you would like us to consider for publication here, connect with us at dawglife@uw.edu. Spring 2022 Resources & Opportunities (Vol. 4) - Husky Pawket Guide May 17, 2022 Hi Huskies, As sunnier, warmer weather (hopefully) becomes increasingly the norm, consider taking time away from your screen(s) and your studies to get outside and enjoy some of the outdoor wonders that Seattle and the Pacific Northwest have to offer. And, for the times you feel stuck in your books, remember – summer is near,… Read more Spring 2022 Resources & Opportunities (Vol. 3) - Husky Pawket Guide May 3, 2022 Hi Huskies, Amidst midterms and the many roles and responsibilities that come with being a student, a reminder to please make time to relax and care for yourself. Nothing is more important than your health and well-being! Be sure to check out the opportunities below to build community and continue having a successful spring. A… Read more Spring 2022 Resources & Opportunities (Vol. 2) - Husky Pawket Guide April 20, 2022 Hi Huskies, We’re still early in the quarter and there are plenty of ways to get engaged with activities around campus and make the most of your Husky Experience. Below are some opportunities to connect with others, as well as a handful of resources to help you succeed. Contents Health and Safety Connecting with Community… Read more Spring 2022 Resources & Opportunities (Vol. 1) - Husky Pawket Guide April 6, 2022 Hi Huskies, I hope you had a restful spring break and that your quarter is off to a good start. Between cherry blossoms and a much-needed increase in sunshine, spring is one of my favorite times on campus. Below is a collection of resources and opportunities to help you make the most of spring quarter.… Read more Winter 2022 Resources & Opportunities (Vol. 5) - Husky Pawket Guide March 9, 2022 Hi Huskies, As you likely saw in the message from President Cauce and Provost Richards on Tuesday, UW will continue largely in-person classes during spring quarter and masks will be optional inside most University facilities starting the first day of spring quarter (Mar. 28) – please read their message for full details. We strongly recommend… Read more Winter 2022 Resources & Opportunities (Vol. 4) - Husky Pawket Guide February 23, 2022 Hi Huskies, I hope you had a restful long weekend. Governor Jay Inslee announced that the statewide mask requirement will lift for most indoor spaces starting on Mar. 21. However, mask mandates in Seattle and King County may not follow the same schedule. Stay tuned for more information from the University on any subsequent changes… Read more Winter 2022 Resources & Opportunities (Vol. 3) - Husky Pawket Guide February 9, 2022 Hi Huskies, We’re about halfway through winter quarter. Days are gradually getting longer, and before we know it, cherry blossoms and spring weather will be upon us. And, another hopeful sign – UW’s public health metrics related to COVID are continuing to improve. I want to thank each of you for how diligently and thoughtfully… Read more Winter 2022 Resources & Opportunities (Vol. 2) - Husky Pawket Guide January 25, 2022 Hi Huskies, There are promising indications out of early omicron epicenters in the US that this COVID variant could begin to draw down sooner than later, and according to experts (including UW/IHME’s own Christopher Murray), there is reason to believe that emerging from the omicron outbreak could mark a meaningful turning point in the pandemic.… Read more Winter 2022 Resources & Opportunities (Vol. 1) - Husky Pawket Guide January 12, 2022 Hi Huskies, I hope you had a restful and enjoyable break, and that your winter quarter is off to a good start in spite of the complications brought by the current omicron surge. Being just under two weeks into 2022, it is a good time to check in with ourselves on how we are doing… Read more Autumn 2021 Resources & Opportunities (Vol. 5) - Husky Pawket Guide December 1, 2021 Hi Huskies, I hope you had a relaxing and rejuvenating long weekend. With the Thanksgiving and Native American Heritage Day holidays behind us and winter break coming up quickly, it’s time for one final push. Sending you encouragement and general good vibes for finals, along with some updates and resources that I hope you’ll find… Read more Connect with us Email us or call 206-543-4972 University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms Newsletter © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA