Skip to content Clemson University Clemson University Search Menu Close Sorry, your browser does not support inline SVG. Sorry, your browser does not support inline SVG. Apply Giving News Resources for Students Faculty & Staff Parents Alumni Clemson University Academics Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Academics Home Employment Opportunities Apply for Admission Colleges College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business College of Education College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences College of Science Graduate School Academic Resources Academic Calendar Registrar Division of Undergraduate Studies Center for Career and Professional Development Academic Success Center GRAD 360° Libraries Outside the Classroom PEER/WISE Call Me MISTER® Creative Inquiry and Undergraduate Research Cooperative Education University Professional Internship and Co-op Program (UPIC) Study Abroad Admissions Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Admissions Home Schedule a Tour Apply for Admission Applying to Clemson First-Year Undergraduate Transfer Undergraduate International Undergraduate Graduate Students Academic Opportunities Majors Graduate Programs Online Graduate Programs Scholar Programs Paths to Graduate School Honors College Experiential Learning Financial Aid Tuition and Fee Calculator Undergraduate Financial Aid Graduate Fellowships and Awards Residency Requirements Campus Life Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Campus Life Home Club Sports Brooks Center for the Performing Arts Join Your Clemson Family Finding Your Community Living-Learning Communities Student Veterans Multicultural Programs FIRST Army ROTC Air Force ROTC Services On Campus Housing & Dining Campus Recreation Parking and Transportation Student Health Services TigerOne Card Services Clemson Athletics Get Involved Clubs and Organizations Fraternity and Sorority Life Orientation Ambassadors Tiger Media Graduate Student Government Undergraduate Student Government Research Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Research Home Clemson University Research Foundation (CURF) Division of Research Research Opportunities Student Research at Clemson Creative Inquiry Research Facilities Postdoctoral Affairs Serving South Carolina Through Research School of Health Research Public Service and Agriculture Clemson Experimental Forest Clemson Extension Clemson Research and Education Centers Public Service and Agriculture Research Farm Services Innovation and Economic Development Corporate Partnerships and Strategic Initiatives Clemson University International Center for Automotive Research (CU-ICAR) Clemson University Restoration Institute (CURI) Clemson University Biomedical Engineering Innovation Campus (CUBEInC) Center for Human Genetics Innovation Campus and Technology Park About Clemson Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back About Clemson Home Clemson News Clemson Athletics For Tigers Applying to Clemson Working at Clemson Traditions Military Heritage Things To Do in Clemson Visit Clemson Campus Resources Employment Opportunities Home and Garden Information Center Brand Guidelines CCIT Academic Calendar Training ClemsonForward Campus Leadership Board of Trustees President Academic Affairs and Provost Inclusion and Equity Student Affairs Faculty Senate Staff Senate Search Resources for Current Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni CU Honors College Academics Forward Arrow Academics Curriculum Tracks Forward Arrow Curriculum Tracks General Honors Departmental Honors Interdisciplinary Honors Back Arrow Back Honors Courses and Seminars Honors Graduation Back Arrow Back Admissions Forward Arrow Admissions First-Year Clemson Honors Students Enrolled Clemson Students Transfer Students Clemson Honors Student Ambassadors Schedule a Visit Newly Admitted Students Back Arrow Back Opportunities Forward Arrow Opportunities Intellectual Growth Forward Arrow Intellectual Growth Dixon Global Policy Scholars Dixon Fellows Program EUREKA! Summer Program for Research Interns Back Arrow Back Professional Development Forward Arrow Professional Development Professional Development Opportunities Employer Networking Back Arrow Back Travel Forward Arrow Travel Conference Travel Grants Christopher J. Duckenfield Scholars Program Educational Enrichment Travel Grants London Internship Program Summer 2022 Mini Grants Back Arrow Back Honors Center Honors Residential College Grants Breakthrough Scholars Program Back Arrow Back Student Support Forward Arrow Student Support Honors Advising Peer Mentors SASH Wellness Ambassadors Connections Welcome Week Back Arrow Back About Forward Arrow About Honors Faculty and Staff Departmental Honors Contacts Honors College Advisory Board Honors Student Advisory Board Inclusive Excellence COVID-19 Information Back Arrow Back Resources Forward Arrow Resources Faculty Forward Arrow Faculty Create an Honors Course Honors Faculty Award Back Arrow Back Alumni School Counselors Parents Back Arrow Back Apply Giving News Sikes Hall Icon Main Menu Forward Arrow Icon Back Arrow Icon Back Clemson University Academics Academics Home Employment Opportunities Apply for Admission Colleges College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business College of Education College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences College of Science Graduate School Academic Resources Academic Calendar Registrar Division of Undergraduate Studies Center for Career and Professional Development Academic Success Center GRAD 360° Libraries Outside the Classroom PEER/WISE Call Me MISTER® Creative Inquiry and Undergraduate Research Cooperative Education University Professional Internship and Co-op Program (UPIC) Study Abroad Admissions Admissions Home Schedule a Tour Apply for Admission Applying to Clemson First-Year Undergraduate Transfer Undergraduate International Undergraduate Graduate Students Academic Opportunities Majors Graduate Programs Online Graduate Programs Scholar Programs Paths to Graduate School Honors College Experiential Learning Financial Aid Tuition and Fee Calculator Undergraduate Financial Aid Graduate Fellowships and Awards Residency Requirements Campus Life Campus Life Home Club Sports Brooks Center for the Performing Arts Join Your Clemson Family Finding Your Community Living-Learning Communities Student Veterans Multicultural Programs FIRST Army ROTC Air Force ROTC Services On Campus Housing & Dining Campus Recreation Parking and Transportation Student Health Services TigerOne Card Services Clemson Athletics Get Involved Clubs and Organizations Fraternity and Sorority Life Orientation Ambassadors Tiger Media Graduate Student Government Undergraduate Student Government Research Research Home Clemson University Research Foundation (CURF) Division of Research Research Opportunities Student Research at Clemson Creative Inquiry Research Facilities Postdoctoral Affairs Serving South Carolina Through Research School of Health Research Public Service and Agriculture Clemson Experimental Forest Clemson Extension Clemson Research and Education Centers Public Service and Agriculture Research Farm Services Innovation and Economic Development Corporate Partnerships and Strategic Initiatives Clemson University International Center for Automotive Research (CU-ICAR) Clemson University Restoration Institute (CURI) Clemson University Biomedical Engineering Innovation Campus (CUBEInC) Center for Human Genetics Innovation Campus and Technology Park About Clemson About Clemson Home Clemson News Clemson Athletics For Tigers Applying to Clemson Working at Clemson Traditions Military Heritage Things To Do in Clemson Visit Clemson Campus Resources Employment Opportunities Home and Garden Information Center Brand Guidelines CCIT Academic Calendar Training ClemsonForward Campus Leadership Board of Trustees President Academic Affairs and Provost Inclusion and Equity Student Affairs Faculty Senate Staff Senate Search close CU Honors College Academics show submenu for Academics Curriculum Tracks show submenu for Curriculum Tracks General Honors Departmental Honors Interdisciplinary Honors Honors Courses and Seminars Honors Graduation Admissions show submenu for Admissions First-Year Clemson Honors Students Enrolled Clemson Students Transfer Students Clemson Honors Student Ambassadors Schedule a Visit Newly Admitted Students Opportunities show submenu for Opportunities Intellectual Growth show submenu for Intellectual Growth Dixon Global Policy Scholars Dixon Fellows Program EUREKA! Summer Program for Research Interns Professional Development show submenu for Professional Development Professional Development Opportunities Employer Networking Travel show submenu for Travel Conference Travel Grants Christopher J. Duckenfield Scholars Program Educational Enrichment Travel Grants London Internship Program Summer 2022 Mini Grants Honors Center Honors Residential College Grants Breakthrough Scholars Program Student Support show submenu for Student Support Honors Advising Peer Mentors SASH Wellness Ambassadors Connections Welcome Week About show submenu for About Honors Faculty and Staff Departmental Honors Contacts Honors College Advisory Board Honors Student Advisory Board Inclusive Excellence COVID-19 Information Resources show submenu for Resources Faculty show submenu for Faculty Create an Honors Course Honors Faculty Award Alumni School Counselors Parents Clemson Home CU Honors College Opportunities Current: Grants Funding Opportunities and Information The Honors College offers funding opportunities for students to explore global learning, research or professional initiatives, including Departmental Honors Research Grants. Interested in pursuing a major scholarship or fellowship? Clemson University's Office of Major Fellowships (OMF) supports all Clemson students (current and alumni) through the application process for significant fellowship opportunities, such as the prestigious Hertz Fellowship and Rhodes, Truman, Udall and Gates-Cambridge Scholarships. Contact the OMF Departmental Honors Research Grants Supporting student research and development Students who are participating in a Departmental Honors Program may apply for funds to support their Departmental Honors Research projects in the fall and spring semesters. These competitive grants may be used for such needs as equipment, supplies, travel to research facilities or other items beyond the capacity of the student's department to provide. Application Deadlines Priority Deadlines for Spring 2022 DHRG Student Application - Sunday, January 23, 2022 (11:59p.m.) DHRG FACULTY ENDORSEMENTS - Sunday, January 30, 2022 (11:59p.m) Non-Priority Deadlines for Spring 2022 DHRG Student Application - Sunday, February 20, 2022 (11:59p.m.) DHRG FACULTY ENDORSEMENTS - Sunday, February 27, 2022 (11:59p.m.) Priority Deadlines for Fall 2022 DHRG Student Application - Sunday, September 4, 2022 (11:59p.m.) DHRG FACULTY ENDORSEMENTS - Sunday, September 11, 2022 (11:59p.m.) Non-Priority Deadlines for Fall 2022 DHRG Student Application - Sunday, October 2, 2022 (11:59p.m.) DHRG FACULTY ENDORSEMENTS - Sunday, October 9, 2022 - 11:59p.m Grant applications submitted after the priority deadline will be funded only upon availability of funds; grant applications submitted after the non-priority deadline will not be funded. Eligibility An applicant must be a member in good standing of the Clemson University Honors College. To receive funding, students must be enrolled in an honors course included as a requirement of an approved Departmental Honors Program. Preference is given to students engaged in a two-semester independent study or research experience as part of their Departmental Honors requirements. Also, preference is given to proposals that provide evidence of cost-sharing by other funding sources. Funding is normally given only for individual research projects, not for field trips, class projects or other activities that are part of general course requirements. Normally, students may receive funds for a maximum of two semesters. Only under exceptional circumstances and depending on availability of funds will a student be eligible for a third semester of funding. Students have 24/7 access to their Departmental Honors Research Grant application via the ApplyWeb application status portal (Departmental Honors Research Grant section). No reminders are distributed regarding missing faculty endorsements. It is applicant’s responsibility to be aware of and follow-up concerning missing endorsements. Endorsements submitted after the semesters final deadline are not considered. How to Apply To get started with the Departmental Honors Research Grant application process you must visit the Application Menu page to CREATE YOUR ACCOUNT (ApplyWeb user ID and Password — not your Clemson ID and password) If you ever forget your ApplyWeb ID and Password you may return to the Application Menu page and get help with that under Manage Your Account. After creating your ApplyWeb ID and Password, click on this Research Grant Application link. It will ask for the ID and Password you just created. Application Procedure To get started with the Departmental Honors Research Grant application process you must first CREATE YOUR ACCOUNT (ApplyWeb user ID and Password, not your Clemson ID and password) on the Online Admissions page. If you ever forget your ApplyWeb ID and Password, you may return to the Online Admissions page and get help under Manage Your Account. The Departmental Honors Research Grant application consists of the following sections: Objective/problem statement Research/project summary Assessment plan Budget (including matching funds) IMPORTANT: The research/project summary must be written by the student in a manner that can be understood by reviewers from diverse academic disciplines. Proposals laden with jargon, technical terms or complicated formulae will be rejected. In cases where an individual project is part of a research program involving others (honors students, faculty, etc), the project summary should clearly explain its relationship to the team endeavor. The budget form must itemize all anticipated expenses. Projects that request lump sums for unspecified or insufficiently justified expenses will not be funded. (see Expenditure Conditions) In cases where the student is requesting a second semester of funding the proposal must include a brief summary of what was accomplished the previous semester. An online endorsement form completed by the student’s principal research advisor must be submitted in support of all student grant applications. When the student application is submitted, an email is automatically generated to the research advisor identified within the student application. The email will contain the URL for the Faculty Endorsement Form. Faculty returning to the Departmental Honors Research Grant Form system will be greeted by their name and asked to log in to their account. New users will be prompted to create an account by choosing a password before proceeding to the recommendation form. The Faculty Endorsement Form requires a 23-digit account number as well as the name and email address of the department accountant for financial transactions. This information is necessary to transfer grant funds to the academic department upon approval of grant funding. Grant requests accompanied by a faculty endorsement providing an invalid or incorrect CUBS account information will be automatically disqualified for funding consideration. Institutional Review Board Approval In situations where the research project requires Institutional Review Board approval the applicant/student will be asked to submit an IRB Approval Information form. This form will be automatically generated to the student by email upon submission of the Departmental Honors Research Grant application and the receipt of the Faculty Advisor Endorsement form. The student will need knowledge and access to the following information to complete the IRB Approval Information form: IRB approval status Not yet submitted Submitted (not yet approved) Approved IRB approval request date IRB approval anticipated date IRB approval date (can be left blank if approval has not yet been received) IRB approval number (can be left blank if approval has not yet been received) When IRB approval is received the applicant/student is also asked to submit a digital copy of the IRB approval notification by uploading it to the ApplyWeb Departmental Honors Research Grant Checklist. In most instances research grant funding will not be released to the academic department until the IRB Approval Information form has been submitted and the digital copy of the IRB approval notification has been uploaded to the ApplyWeb Departmental Honors Research Grant Checklist. IRB approval documentation must be received in the same semester as the grant application. IRB approval documentation that is received after the end of the award semester will not be considered, and the student shall be required to re-apply for funding in a future semester. Expenditure Conditions If funds to purchase equipment are requested, the proposal must clearly explain the purpose of the items and how they will be used. All non-perishable items are to remain in the department’s possession following the completion of the student’s research. Normal supplies (e.g., typing paper, notebooks, pens, drawing pads) should not be requested. Funds may be provided for project-related travel. Funds may not be used for conferences. Students that need conference attendance funding should apply for Conference Travel Grants. Funds may not be used for photocopying, printing and binding. Funds may not be used to compensate faculty or consultants for services rendered. Awarded funds must be expended by the end of the academic year in May, unless permission has been granted for use during the summer. Students who anticipate doing their research in the summer should apply for funding in the preceding spring semester. Selection and Transfer of Funds Proposals are reviewed and evaluated by faculty and staff members of the Clemson Honors College. Proposals will be evaluated on quality of grant writing in addition to research merit. Awards are made on a semester basis in fall and spring. Normally, grants may not exceed $500. All Faculty Endorsement forms must be submitted with a valid and accurate 23-digit CUBS account number for use in transferring funds. Grant applications accompanied by endorsement containing an invalid or inaccurate CUBS account number will be automatically disqualified for funding consideration. Find Out More For questions about the grant process you may contact Susan Falendysz a sfalend@clemson.edu. Other Funding Opportunities Conference Travel Grants Students attending or presenting at professional academic conferences may request Conference Travel Funds to register for and travel to the events. Explore Conference Travel Grants >> Educational Enrichment Travel Grants Designed to fund out of the classroom, life-changing experiences that take place away from Clemson and the Upstate of South Carolina. Explore EETGs >> Summer 2021 Mini Grants Clemson Honors students used these grants for virtual/home-based experiences during summer 2021, when they were unable to travel. Explore Summer 2021 Mini Grants >> Clemson University Facebook Instagram Twitter Linkedin Youtube Tiktok Policy/Terms of Use Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Copyright © 2022 Clemson University • Clemson, South Carolina 29634 Clemson University Facebook Instagram Twitter Linkedin Youtube Tiktok Resources A-Z Index Campus Map CU Safety Directory Webcams Apply to Clemson