Skip to main content Menu Discover Majors and Careers Admissions and Aid Campus Life Spirit and Traditions Athletics Raleigh, N.C. Apply Visit Give About NC State 101 Chancellor Rankings and Facts Think and Do Education Undergraduate Graduate Online Colleges and Departments Innovation Research Partnerships Centennial Campus Entrepreneurship Community Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Global Engagement Outreach and Extension Philanthropy and Giving Apply Visit Give Information For: Students Faculty and Staff Parents and Families Alumni NC State Resources Discover NC State By centering equity and inclusion, NC State researchers create better solutions that benefit everyone. Explore three examples In the Spotlight Video Graduation 2022: Best of Friends Research and Innovation No. 2 Nationally for Tech Transfer A new report by Heartland Forward ranks NC State among the best public universities in the country at commercialization. Veterinary Medicine A School of Fishes At NC State’s Center for Marine Sciences and Technology in Morehead City, 18 veterinary medicine students get hands-on experience operating on fish. More From NC State Admissions Applications Soar as NC State Grows to Meet Workforce Needs Philanthropy and Giving Krispy Kreme Challenge Meets $2 Million Commitment We Are the Wolfpack Meet Monica Osburn, Executive Director of the Counseling Center Awards and Honors National Inventors Hall of Fame Honors 3 With Ties to NC State Discover NC State Think and Do With Us An NC State education is the key to whatever door you want to open. We offer more than 100 undergraduate majors and more than 200 master’s and doctoral programs. Our students graduate ready for successful careers and meaningful lives. Our Pack is strong, and we’re always looking for more thinkers and doers from all over the world to help us get even stronger. Majors and Careers Admissions and Aid Top 1% Worldwide The Center for World University Rankings puts NC State among the best universities on the planet. #1 in the Southeast for Entrepreneurship You won’t find better student entrepreneurship programs in the region, according to The Princeton Review and Entrepreneur. ncstate 2,501 Honoring all who gave their lives in service to ... Open Good night from Raleigh. ✨ 📸: ... Open On all levels except physical, I am a wolf. ... Open And, graduation. Good night. 🐺🥹🎓 ... Open Campus Life See Yourself Here NC State’s campus is full of legendary landmarks, beautiful outdoor spaces, state-of-the-art facilities and ways to find — and celebrate with — your community. Stay updated on our university’s biggest moments all year long. Follow us on Instagram Research We Solve Problems At NC State, we focus on real-world solutions for real-world problems. Our university is a research powerhouse where experts — and budding experts — work together across disciplines to make a difference in the world. Whether we’re advancing quantum computing, creating wearable technology solutions, uncovering the causes of liver cancer or creating artificial intelligence tools, we’re always driving innovation. Take a deeper dive Research and Innovation Research Through an Equitable Lens By centering equity and inclusion, NC State researchers create better solutions that benefit everyone. Explore three examples Virtual Tour Visit NC State You’ll find extraordinary spaces around every corner of our campus. Get a glimpse of your future home on a virtual tour. Dive in Upcoming Events More Events May 30 Monday Memorial day (University Closed; No classes) May 30 Monday10:00 AM University Theatre Presents TheatreFEST 2022 May 31 Tuesday Participants Needed for Black Health Lab Research Studies May 31 Tuesday10:00 AM Across the Threshold of India – Photographs by Martha Strawn May 31 Tuesday10:00 AM Eric Serritella – Sharing Spaces Home Raleigh, NC 27695 919.515.2011 Campus Map Academic Calendar Accessibility Apply Contact Copyright COVID-19 Updates Directory Emergency Information Free Speech Jobs Libraries MyPack Portal Policies Privacy Statement Resources Strategic Plan Connect With Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.