Skip To Top Navigation Skip To Main Content Skip To Footer search Loading... Careers Ask-HR Current Employees Search Menu Clemson Main Site Index Events Calendar Campus Map CU Safety Phonebook Careers AskHR Current Employees HR Self Service Kronos Login COVID-19 Resources Employee Assistance Program Benefits and Well-being Tigers at Work Payroll Training and Development Performance Management Staff and Faculty Relations Transition and Separation International Employment Talent Acquisition Employment Verification HR Resource Library HR Policies and Procedures HR Service Teams Clemson Main Site Index Events Calendar Campus Map CU Safety Phonebook play pause Cultivating opportunities for staff development Learn More Scroll What is CU Grow? CU Grow provides a framework to support the personal and professional growth of Clemson University staff in full-time positions. Through workshops and training, skills development, experiential learning and volunteer service, CU Grow makes transformational change possible. Meet the 2021-2022 Cohort! CU Grow News Program Duration 12 Months Application Window Fall 2022 Cost to Enroll 0 Dollars Testimonials from graduates If you are looking for a challenge and an opportunity for development in your current job, I strongly suggest signing up for CU Grow! - Deveraux Williams Info Tech/Training Manager The CU Grow program allowed me to succeed in my growth and learn how Clemson's internal entities work together to make Clemson what it is today. - Darlene Fink Banner Development Manager I am truly blessed to have had the opportunity to experience the wonderful leadership and guidance this program offers. It added value to everything I do. I highly recommend taking advantage of this opportunity! - Gary Mathis Research Associate It broadened my knowledge of everything Clemson has to offer. I know I am a better person and employee after going through CU Grow, and I really enjoyed my time in the program! - Lindsey Ricketts Associate Director - Athletic Academic Services Who Should Apply? Eligibility criteria: Full-time employees, from any discipline, pay band or educational level, who have been at Clemson for at least three years Performance evaluation ratings of Successful or higher Interest in professional development, career progression and personal growth Supervisor approval and support Program Overview Brand YOU! Participate in reflective training and activities to enhance unique skills. Competencies Development Focus on job-specific development to build upon strengths and put them into practice. University Framework Extension Experience operational and governance-related sessions. Give Back! Work collaboratively on an approved community-service project. Apply in Fall 2022! The acceptance process is competitive, so thoughtfully answer questions regarding growth, development and plans. Participants will need supervisor approval to complete the application process. It is due before the application deadline. Check back here in Fall 2022 for more application details. CU Grow Team Jaz Hamilton-Allen Program Founder and Lead Contact us at cugrow@clemson.edu CLEMSON HR Administrative Services Building 108 Perimeter Road Clemson, SC 29634-5337 864.656.2000 RESOURCES Careers Benefits Forms Training Security and Safety Report Quick Links Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Line Privacy Policy Site Information Contact HR Clemson, SC Ask-HR Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram Copyright © Clemson University. All rights reserved. Clemson University is an AA/EEO employer. Scroll To Top