COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Alert Student and Employee COVID-19 Testing Current WSU students, faculty and staff can now walk in for a free COVID-19 test at Student Health Services. If you have pre registered through MDL you can enter through the Wesley clinic door on the east side of the building. For registration information visit our COVID-19 testing page. WSU COVID-19 info for Advising Section Menu COVID-19 Response Home University Announcements Current Students Guide Future Shockers Guide WSU Employees and Supervisors Guide Instructors FAQ Index of FAQ Questions COVID-19 Vaccination Information COVID-19 Research Student Health COVID-19 Page COVID-19 Self-Observation questionnaires COVID-19 Dashboard Timeline of WSU's COVID response Advising Frequently Asked Questions - COVID-19 Can I still meet with my academic advisor if no classes are in session? Yes, all advising offices will continue to hold appointments. Appointments will take place primarily over the phone. Some advising offices will be using other forms of meeting, including chat or video appointments. Please confirm with your advising area before your appointment as to which format will be used. How do I schedule an appointment with my academic advisor? You can schedule an appointment with your academic advisor online through your myWSU portal. Get step by step directions You are also able to call your advising office and schedule an appointment over the phone. College of Health Professions 316-978-3304, Option 2 Chp.advisor@wichita.edu W. Frank Barton School of Business 316-978-3203, Option 2 Business.advisor@wichita.edu College of Applied Studies 316-978-3300, Option 2 coedu@wichita.edu Fairmount College of Liberal Arts and Sciences 316-978-3700, Option 2 • Las.adivsor@wichita.edu College of Fine Arts 316-978-6634, Option 2 • Cfa.advisor@wichita.edu College of Engineering Aerospace Engineering 316-978-2820, Option 2 • angela.blackerby@wichita.edu Biomedical Engineering 316-978-2821, Option 2 • BMEadvising@wichita.edu Electrical Engineering, Computer Engineering, & Computer Science 316-978-2822, Option 2 • eecs.ugadvising@wichita.edu Engineering Technology and Applied Computing 316-978-2823, Option 2 • ETadvising@wichita.edu Industrial Engineering and Product Design & Manufacturing Engineering 316-978-2826, Option 2 • IMEadvising@wichita.edu Mechanical Engineering 316-978-2825, Option 2 • lena.lamei@wichita.edu Undecided Engineering 316-978-3420, Option 2 • erin.shields@wichita.edu Office of Online Learning 316-978-7757 • online@wichita.edu Honors 316-978-3375, Option 2 • Jessica.Raburn@wichita.edu First-Year Advising 316-978-3909 • onestop@wichita.edu Will I still have a full advising appointment, even if it’s not in person? Yes, appointments will be scheduled for 30 minutes or one hour, depending on the needs of your appointment. If additional time is needed, a follow-up appointment can be scheduled. When does registration begin for the Summer and Fall 2020 semesters? Registration will begin for the Summer and Fall 2020 semesters on Monday, April 6, 2020. Registration will open as follows: Monday, April 6 at 7:00 a.m. – Seniors and Honors Students Tuesday, April 7 at 12:01 a.m. – Juniors Wednesday, April 8 at 12:01 a.m. – Sophomores Thursday, April 9 at 12:01 a.m. - Freshman Do I have to meet with an academic advisor before I register in classes? First-Year Advising All new incoming domestic freshmen students (straight from high school) will work with a First-Year Advisor at OneStop. March 1-July 31: After completing the Orientation Registration and Enrollment Questionnaire, a First-Year Advisor will build a schedule based on the answers you provide. You will receive an email instructing you to log in to your myWSU portal to accept the schedule or deny it and request your First-Year Advisor contact you for possible changes. You will have two (2) weeks to complete this enrollment step. Once accepted, you are officially enrolled in classes and financially responsible for them. Your second semester you will have an advising appointment with your First-Year Advisor to enroll for classes and prepare for your upcoming semester. August 1-February 28: After completing the Orientation Registration, you will need to work directly with your First-Year Advisor to complete the enrollment process. Barton School of Business First semester transfer students new to WSU Students who need authorization to enroll in MGMT 681 can request permission or meet with an academic advisor Current non-degree WSU students who have been admitted into a degree-bound program NOTE: Business students who have not completed the Advance Standing Exams will have a hold and will not be able to enroll until these are completed. College of Applied Studies First semester transfer students new to WSU Current WSU students who have changed their major to Education Current non-degree WSU students who have been admitted into a degree-bound program Pre-Education majors who have less than 48 hours and less than a 2.0 GPA College of Engineering All students College of Fine Arts All students College of Health Professions All freshman and sophomores First semester transfer students new to WSU Current non-degree WSU students who have been admitted into a degree-bound program Undecided Health Professions students College of Liberal Arts and Sciences First semester transfer students new to WSU Current non-degree WSU students who have been admitted into a degree-bound program Undecided Liberal Arts and Sciences students Honors College At least once per year, you should meet with your Honors advisor, and especially as questions arise regarding your Honors curriculum. Honors advising is a supplement to advising with your major. Contact Jessica.Raburn@wichita.edu to set up an appointment. How do I access the course schedule online? The Wichita State University schedule of courses, can be viewed online at wichita.edu/schedule. How do I add or drop classes online? If you do not have active holds on your account preventing registration, and you have met your possible advising requirement for the semester, you can add or drop classes through Banner 9 Self Service available in your myWSU portal. Get step by step instructions of how to add classes online Get step by step instructions of how to drop classes What do I need to do if I get errors in the registration system? Get troubleshooting help How do I access or run my Degree Audit? You are able to access your Degree Works Audit through your myWSU portal. For step by step directions of how to run your Degree Audit. When will in-person classes resume? Students will return to campus in the fall of 2020. All Fall courses at WSU will be either hybrid, or fully online. Hybrid might include limited in-person instruction, some synchronous online engagement (with participants meeting at the same time), and / or asynchronous content delivery (with participants engaging the materials independently). There are no additional fees for hybrid courses. Do you plan to have classes this summer? Summer 2020 courses will be held all via remote or online instruction. No in-person classes will be held. What is the best way to stay connected and make sure I am getting current information? The best way to stay connected to any university information to check your Wichita State student email regularly. 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©