COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Dr. John Bardo, 1948-2019 Section Menu In Memoriam: Dr. John William Bardo Dr. Bardo Retrospective Timeline: The Bardo Years Dr. Bardo and Athletics Bardo Gallery Comments and Memories Submit a comment or memory Bardo Memorial Fund WSU President Dr. John W. Bardo died March 12, 2019, after a long illness. In his nearly seven years leading WSU, Dr. Bardo strategically and physically transformed the university and set us on an exciting course of innovation and creativity. Champion of Innovation Wichita State University has never seen a more effective, vibrant agent of change than Dr. John Bardo. From the first days of his presidency, he began to outline the path to a bold, audacious new future for the university and the city of Wichita. Read about Bardo's vision WSU News story about his death Board of Regents' statement Timeline: The Bardo Years Under Dr. Bardo's leadership, WSU has experienced an unprecedented period of rapid growth, with new buildings, partnerships, infrastructure and much more on the way. Making WSU All American Buoyed by the success of WSU's basketball team, Dr. Bardo helped engineer a move to the American Athletic Conference to align with nationally recognized, city-centered research universities. He was the right person at the right moment in time. I can’t envision anyone else who could have done it better. He was looking 40 years into the future. His creativity and broad vision of education that he brought to the university has changed it forever.David Mitchell, 1970, 1972 alumnus and WSU Innovation Alliance board member He was a breath of fresh air and a visionary who saw where this community could go and how this university could lead us there better than anybody else.Harvey Sorensen, partner, Foulston Siefkin LLP Read more comments about Dr. Bardo Bardo Gallery 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©