Skip To Main Content U-TuRN: Translational Research Network Open Mobile Menu Supporting translational scholarship, teaching, and outreach at Iowa State University and beyond. Fostering community-campus partnerships by connecting researchers and community stakeholders. Facilitating the translation of evidence-based programs into practice in an array of settings and systems. inline-Arrow-Shapes inline-Arrow-Shapes inline-Arrow-Shapes U-Turn_Logo_reverse_dcw Who We Are Who We Are The Iowa State University – Translational Research Network (U-TuRN) works to break down the barriers that separate science and practice by empowering researchers to work directly with community partners to translate scientific knowledge into real action. What We Do What We Do We provide support and training to faculty, staff, and students around best practices in community-engaged scholarship to help communities address social, economic and environmental conditions that effect health. How We Help How We Help U-TuRN connects researchers and community leaders and supports translational scholarship in many ways, such as assisting with grant writing, needs assessments, intervention design, program evaluation, or visualizing and tracking data. U-Turn makes an impact We manage the ISU GivePulse network to facilitate and support community-campus partnerships (locally and across the state) to advance our research, teaching, and outreach efforts! Learn More Motivational Interviewing (MI) Hub The MI Hub provides online training through the Learn@ISU network to provide foundational knowledge to begin utilizing the skill of motivational interviewing Learn More Engage with Us The network is open to anyone interested in contributing to our mission: Enabling healthy lifestyles by empowering communities to take action informed by science Learn More Calendar View All No Events Scheduled Stay tuned for more upcoming events. News View All Members of U-TuRN Team 1 will be the lead on a $320,267 grant a demonstration project on PROSPERing Step-by-step, State-by-state (P2S) Members of U-TuRN Team 1 will be the lead on a $320,267 grant a demonstration project on PROSPERing … View More Human Development and Family Studies chair and U-TuRN Co-Director Carl Weems named APS fellow An Iowa State University researcher with expertise in traumatic stress, emotional development, and t… View More New Staff Join U-TuRN! U-TuRN is excited to welcome 2 new additions to the team for 2019. Ashley Scudder, Ph.D., appointed … View More Close Video Player College of Human Sciences Iowa State University Ames, Iowa 50011 E. uturn@iastate.edu P. 515-294-3583 Copyright © 1995-2022, Iowa State University of Science and Technology. All rights reserved. Non-discrimination Policy.