Skip to content Columbia University Irving Medical Center Find People Events Faculty and Staff Resources Give Now Search About Us About Us Facts and Figures Explore CUIMC Events Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion at CUIMC Community Development and Alumni Explore CUIMC Leadership and Administration A-Z Listing Affiliated Hospitals Campus Map and Directions Campus Resources Contact CUIMC Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion At CUIMC, we are committed to continuous improvement in providing culturally inclusive medical education and clinical care. Learn About Our Commitment Education Education Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Mailman School of Public Health School of Nursing College of Dental Medicine VP&S Columbia Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons is dedicated to developing the next generation of leaders in medicine Learn About Our Academic Programs Research Research The Louisa Gross Horwitz Prize Columbia Technology Ventures Research Administration Columbia Clinical Innovation Lab Patient Care Patient Care ColumbiaDoctors Children's Health Columbia Primary Care Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Digital Health Services at Columbia Find a Doctor Search for a provider by specialty, expertise, location and insurance. Schedule an appointment online. Find a Doctor News News For the Media Share Your News CUIMC Update CUIMC Celebrates Columbia Medicine Read the latest news stories about CUIMC faculty, research, and events Explore Our News COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Information for Patients COVID-19 Campus Safety for Employees and Students COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students COVID-19 Information and Resources for Clinical Staff COVID-19 Vaccine Information Learn about COVID-19 vaccine availability and requirements for employees and students at CUIMC Get the Latest Information You are here Home > COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC > COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students > January 5, 2022: COVID-19 Updates COVID-19 Information for Patients COVID-19 Campus Safety for Employees and Students COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students COVID-19 Information and Resources for Clinical Staff January 5, 2022: COVID-19 Updates Dear fellow members of the Columbia community, We are writing to provide updates on our December messages regarding Columbia University COVID-19 policies and procedures. We are carefully monitoring the COVID-19 pandemic status in the New York City metro area and among our affiliates. While Columbia is doing its own asymptomatic testing on campus, we also urge you to report any outside positive test results you do receive to covidtesttrace@columbia.edu so that we have an accurate picture of COVID-19 positive cases amongst our affiliates and can provide you with information on available resources. As you are aware, the Omicron variant has been shown to be more transmissible than prior virus variants. However, there are reassuring data suggesting that this variant causes less severe illness and that our vaccines, and particularly once boosted, also protect against symptomatic and severe COVID-19. We have three important updates to share with you. Changes in isolation and quarantine guidelines: New York State, acting on guidance from the CDC, has modified isolation and quarantine as follows. Isolation: All individuals who test positive for COVID-19 can end their isolation after 5 days if they are asymptomatic. Day 0 is considered the first day of symptom onset and/or the day of a positive test result. Quarantine: Individuals who are fully vaccinated and have received booster dose, do not need to quarantine. Such individuals are recommended to get tested on day 5-7 after last exposure. Individuals who are not vaccinated or not fully vaccinated or are eligible for a booster but have not yet received one should quarantine for 5 days – where day 0 is the last day of exposure – provided symptoms do not appear. Such individuals are recommended to get tested on day 5-7. Full details can be found on the New York State Department of Health website. Changes in gathering/events and dining policies: In addition to the policies that were announced on December 20 and December 22, Columbia-related non-academic gatherings on and off campus are prohibited until the end of January. In all dining halls, only grab-and-go food will be available for the first week of the undergraduate return beginning January 18th. All affiliates are strongly urged to avoid indoor social gatherings wherever they are located, unless aware of vaccination and testing status of all attendees. Masking in these locations is also strongly recommended as well as in crowded outdoor social gatherings. Masking indoors at Columbia will continue through March 31, and we urge wearing of masks indoors in all public settings as well as in crowded settings when outdoors. Columbia athletic events will permit no fans for the first two weeks of January. Uploading vaccine and booster information: Next week, we will provide you with the links to be able to upload your booster information. New hires seeking to upload any vaccine (not booster) information may do so on our ReopenCU website. Students can currently upload their vaccine and booster information. For CUIMC students go here. For all other students, go here. Sincerely, Donna Lynne Senior Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, CUIMC University COVID Director Gerry Rosberg Senior Executive Vice President Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian About Us Careers News Education Patient Care Research Resources at CUIMC Columbia University Irving Medical Center 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Back to top