Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Department of Journalism and Strategic Media About B.A. Program M.A. Program People Syllabi Student Resources News Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact B.A. Program Advertising Broadcast Journalism Creative Mass Media Journalism Public Relations Sports Media Strategic Social Media JRSM Undergraduate Handbook Transfer students How to apply Take Action Apply to our Undergraduate Program Apply to our Master's Program Contact Us Follow Us Online FacebooktwitterYoutubeLinkedIn Home JRSM Undergraduate Program How to Apply for a B.A. How To Apply STEP 1: LET'S GET STARTED If you are an incoming freshman or a transfer student, this website will have everything you need to get started on the admissions process. We even have a Tiger Tracks Check List to ensure you know what you need as you go through the process. Finally, always remember you can find more information at the Office of Admissions website. STEP 2: APPLY FOR ADMISSION After you have reviewed the admission requirements and residency information, you can apply here. STEP 3: WHAT TO EXPECT You will receive a notification ( by email or letter ) that your application has been received. You may be required to provide other documents to the Office of Admissions before a decision can be made regarding your application. Once a decision has been made, you will receive an admission decision letter. STEP 4: EARLY CREDIT AND PLACEMENT You may need to provide all necessary paperwork to the Office of Admissions regarding all dual enrollment, advanced placement, and international baccalaureate courses that you may have taken while in high school. STEP 5: AFTER ACCEPTANCE Now, you should plan on attending our New Student Orientation along with activating your U of M account to prepare you for the upcoming Fall semester. Welcome to the University of Memphis! IMPORTANT CONTACT INFORMATION Office of Admissions Wilder Tower, Room 101 901.678.2111 Scholarships Wilder Tower, Room 201 901.678.3213 Financial Aid Wilder Tower, Room 103 901.678.4825 SmartAdBlock blocked it. Not a popup? Click here to follow this link. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 3/29/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.