Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index Office of Communications & Marketing Menu Search TTU Office of Communications & Marketing Emergency Communications Center Coronavirus Information Coronavirus Update: March 06, 2020 Texas Tech University Community, The world health community continues to monitor closely the emergence of the SARS-CoV-2 virus and the disease it causes, named "coronavirus disease 2019" (COVID-19). At this time, no one knows how severe this outbreak will be. Given this uncertainty, and the fact that the seasonal influenza (flu) virus is also widespread, we are taking proactive steps to address a number of business concerns. First and foremost, we want to maintain a safe workplace by encouraging practices to protect the health of faculty, staff, students, campus visitors, and others. We ask all employees to help the Texas Tech University community stay well by taking the following steps to reduce the transmission of communicable diseases in the workplace. Stay home when you are sick. Wash your hands frequently with warm, soapy water for at least 20 seconds. If soap and water are not available, use an alcohol-based sanitizer. Avoid touching your eyes, nose, and mouth with unwashed hands. Cover your mouth with tissues whenever you sneeze, and discard used tissues in the trash. If a tissue is not available, sneeze or cough into your elbow or upper sleeve, not into your hand. Avoid close contact with people who are sick with respiratory symptoms. Clean and disinfect frequently touched objects and surfaces. Consider using telephone and video conferencing instead of face-to-face meetings, if available, during this outbreak. If face-to-face meetings are unavoidable, meet in a large room to avoid close contact. Refrain from shaking hands. The Texas Tech University's custodial teams use Oxivir 1 and an EMist system in areas with high traffic to disinfect surfaces and workspaces that traditional cleaning methods may miss. Additionally, hand sanitizer dispensers have been placed in the Student Union, Residence Halls, Dining Halls and Library. It is critical that employees do not report to work while they are experiencing respiratory symptoms such as fever, cough, shortness of breath, sore throat, runny or stuffy nose, body aches, headache, chills or fatigue. Currently, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recommends that employees remain at home until at least 24 hours after they are free of fever (100 degrees F or 37.8 degrees C) or signs of a fever without the use of fever-reducing medications. Many times, with the best of intentions, employees report to work even though they feel ill. Employees who report to work ill will be sent home in accordance with these health guidelines. We encourage you to visit the TTU Coronavirus website for updated information. Please contact the Office of Human Resources with any employee-related questions or concerns by emailing hr.talent.management@ttu.edu or by calling 806-742-3650. For questions regarding Oxivir 1 or EMist, please contact Aaron Smith, Managing Director of Services by emailing aaron.smith@ttu.edu or by calling 806-834-1121. Available Resources TTU Coronavirus website http://www.depts.ttu.edu/communications/emergency/coronavirus/ Centers for Disease Control and Prevention https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/index.html TTU OP 70.24 Communicable and Transmittable Disease Control in the Employee Workforce http://www.depts.ttu.edu/opmanual/OP70.24.php TTU OP 70.44: Sick Leave and Sick Leave Pool http://www.depts.ttu.edu/opmanual/OP70.44.php TTU OP 32.11: Faculty Sick Leave http://www.depts.ttu.edu/opmanual/OP32.11.php TTU OP 70.32: Family and Medical Leave Act (FMLA) and Parental Leave http://www.depts.ttu.edu/opmanual/OP70.32.php TTU OP 70.45: Vacation Leave http://www.depts.ttu.edu/opmanual/OP70.45.php TTU OP 70.43: Leave Without Pay http://www.depts.ttu.edu/opmanual/OP70.43.php TTU OP 40.04: Access for Individuals with Disabilities http://www.depts.ttu.edu/opmanual/OP40.04.php TTU Office of Human Resources http://www.depts.ttu.edu/hr/ TTU Operations Division http://www.depts.ttu.edu/operations/ Office of Communications & Marketing Address 2625 Memorial Circle, Administration 212, Lubbock, TX 79409 Phone 806.742.2136 Email webmaster@ttu.edu Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock, Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversityMar 10, 2020 10:48 AM Office of Communications & Marketing Marketing Office of Communications & Marketing Marketing Back Identity Guidelines Official Logos Communications Office of Communications & Marketing Communications Back News Office of Communications & Marketing Communications Back Texas Tech Today Monthly e-Newsletter Event Announcements A List Emergency Office of Communications & Marketing Communications Back Emergency Communications Center General Emergency Procedures Social Media Office of Communications & Marketing Communications Back YouTube Facebook Twitter Foursquare Flickr LinkedIn Wikipedia Experts Guide Office of Communications & Marketing Communications Experts Guide Back Experts Guide About Office of Communications & Marketing Back Staff Work With Us Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index