Skip to content CUIMC Home Columbia University Departments Giving Maps People Registration and Student Financial Services About Us Registrar Services Student Financial Services Faculty & Administrative Resources Student Resources Academic Calendars Registration and Student Financial Services STUDENT FINANCIAL SERVICES' RESPONSE TO COVID-19 Learn about the measures that Columbia University Student Financial Services is taking to address student and family needs in response to COVID-19. Read the Response to COVID-19 Welcome Registration and Student Financial Services is a central resource office for our health professional schools at the medical center campus. We are a satellite operation of the University’s Central Administration. The office supports the health sciences campus community by providing guidance on academic policies and procedures that govern program and tuition billing assessments, and curriculum redesign. We serve as the primary point of contact for student academic records, enrollment, and student financial related transactions. From registration to graduation, we strive to provide a high level of customer service. Our combined streamlined services contribute to the success of our students. The medical center campus includes four professional schools—the College of Physicians and Surgeons, the School of Nursing, the College of Dental Medicine, and the Mailman School of Public Health—as well as the biomedical sciences programs of the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences. In addition, the College of Physicians and Surgeons includes three integral programs - Physical Therapy, Occupational Therapy, and the Institute of Human Nutrition. Financial Planning Options Letter Key resources to help you and your family plan your budget. News Forms for Students Read More News Ask Us Find answers or email a question! SSOL Student Services Online Contact Registrar and Student Account Services: 212.342.4790 Quicklinks Payment Methods Student Account Refunds Tuition Exemption Graduation and Diplomas Student Forms Office of the University Registrar (link is external) Office of Student Financial Services (link is external) © 2020 Columbia University | Privacy Policy | Terms and Conditions | HIPAA | General Information: 212-305-2862