Skip to main content Information for... Students Faculty & Staff Parents Alumni Give Map Directory bConnected News Toggle navigation Map Directory bConnected News About From a group of academic pioneers in 1868 to the Free Speech Movement in 1964, Berkeley is a place where the brightest minds from across the globe come together to explore, ask questions and improve the world. Overview By the numbers History & discoveries Traditions Experience Berkeley Visit Leadership Admissions Want to change the world? At Berkeley we’re doing just that. When you join the Golden Bear community, you’re part of an institution that shifts the global conversation every single day. Overview Undergraduate Graduate Financial aid Tuition UC Berkeley Extension Summer sessions Study abroad Academics Berkeley is home to some of the world's greatest minds leading more than 130 academic departments and 80 interdisciplinary research units and addressing the world’s most pertinent challenges. Overview Schools & colleges Departments & programs Class schedule & courses Advising & tutoring Faculty profiles Academic calendar Research From expeditions to Egypt in the late 1800s to stem cell research and artificial intelligence today, Berkeley has been at the forefront of research throughout its history. Here students can work side-by-side with Nobel Laureates, Fields medal winners, Fulbright Scholars and MacArthur fellows. Overview Research programs Libraries Publications Museums & collections Undergraduate research Campus Life Life at Berkeley blends research and reflection, the scientific with the artistic, and the scholarly with the athletic. Our students come from different places and backgrounds, but together they create a diverse and kinetic community that seeks to create a better world. Overview Events & attractions Recreational Sports Cal Athletics Housing & dining Student organizations Health & safety Information for... Students Faculty & Staff Parents Alumni Give Leadership Chancellor Carol Christ heads the UC Berkeley campus. She oversees seven divisions, each of which is led by a vice chancellor. Chancellor and Executive Vice Chancellor and Provost Chancellor: Carol Christ Executive Vice Chancellor and Provost: Catherine Koshland (interim) Vice Chancellors Administration: Vice Chancellor Marc Fisher Equity & Inclusion: Vice Chancellor Dania Matos Finance: Vice Chancellor Rosemarie Rae Research: Vice Chancellor Kathy Yelick Student Affairs: Vice Chancellor Stephen Sutton University Development and Alumni Relations: Vice Chancellor Julie Hooper Associate Chancellors Office of the Chancellor: Khira Griscavage Vice Provosts Academic Planning: Vice Provost Lisa Alvarez-Cohen Faculty: Vice Provost Benjamin Hermalin Graduate Studies and Dean of Graduate Division: Vice Provost and Dean Lisa García Bedolla Undergraduate Education: Vice Provost Oliver O’Reilly (interim) Deans and University Librarian Business, Walter A. Haas School of: Ann Harrison Chemistry, College of: Douglas Clark Division of Computing, Data, Science, and Society: Jennifer Tour Chayes, Associate Provost and Dean of the School of Information Education, Graduate School of: Christopher Edley, Jr., (interim) Engineering, College of: Tsu-Jae King Liu Environmental Design, College of: Renee Chow Graduate Division: Lisa García Bedolla Journalism, Graduate School of: Geeta Anand Law, School of: Erwin Chemerinsky Letters and Science, College of: Jennifer Johnson-Hanks Division of Arts & Humanities: Sara Guyer Division of Biological Sciences: Michael R. Botchan Division of Mathematical & Physical Sciences: Richard Allen (interim) Division of Social Sciences: Raka Ray Natural Resources, Rausser College of: David Ackerly Optometry, School of: John Flanagan Public Health, School of: Michael Lu Public Policy, Richard & Rhoda Goldman School of: David C. Wilson Social Welfare, School of: Linda Burton Extended Education: Richard Russo University Librarian: Jeffrey MacKie-Mason Associate Vice Chancellors Communications and Public Affairs: Diana Harvey Enrollment Management: Olufemi Ogundele Special Advisers Special Faculty Advisor to the Chancellor on Campus Welfare: Sharon Inkelas Special Faculty Advisor to the Chancellor: Sam Davis Special Faculty Advisor to the Chancellor: Sabrina C. Agarwal Organizational charts Chancellor Executive Vice Chancellor & Provost (PDF) Administration Finance Equity & Inclusion (PDF) Research Student Affairs Undergraduate Education University Development and Alumni Relations Berkeley is part of the University of California system (PDF) See also Academic Senate Chancellor’s advisory groups Administrative committees Principles of community Sustainability & Energy University of California Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Medium Visit Jobs News Blog Events Libraries Cal Athletics Equity, Inclusion & Diversity Accreditation Light the Way HEERF Report Nondiscrimination Websites A-Z Directory Map Contact us Privacy Accessibility Copyright © 2022 UC Regents; all rights reserved