Skip to Main Content For Prospective Students For Current Students For Faculty For Alumni Directories Academic Calendar TUPortal Apply Make a Gift Beasley School of Law Menu About Dean’s Welcome Mission & History Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion Areas of Study Commitment to Service Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Graduate Employment Outcomes Tuition & Cost Life in Philadelphia Advocacy Is… Student Spotlight Faculty Spotlight Alumni Spotlight Admissions J.D. Admissions LL.M. and Graduate Program Admissions Academics Degrees and Programs Areas of Study J.D. Curriculum Experiential Learning The Law & Public Policy Program Study Abroad Graduate Tax Program Visiting Research Scholar Program Intellectual Life Course Selection Exams Student Learning Outcomes and Performance Criteria Academic Policies Academic Calendar Faculty Full Time & Visiting Faculty Adjunct Faculty Scholarship & Publications Areas of Expertise Faculty Research & Teaching Areas More Resources Prospective Student Resources Current Student Resources Faculty Resources Alumni Resources Financial Aid Career Services Student Services Technology Services Law Library Media and Communications Plan an Event Directions & Parking Temple Law School Faculty & Staff Directory Policies & Procedures More Library Calendar News Degrees and Programs J.D. / M.B.A. Academics Degrees and Programs Dual Degree Programs J.D. / M.B.A. Academics Degrees and Programs Juris Doctor (J.D.) J.D. Curriculum Full-Time Day Division Evening & Part-Time Day Division Graduation Requirements J.D. Certificate Programs Certificate in Trial Advocacy and Litigation Public Health Law Certificate Program Certificate in Business Law Admissions LL.M. for Foreign-Trained Lawyers Curriculum Graduation Requirements Tuition and Expenses Taking the Bar Exam Alumni Application Procedure Frequently Asked Questions LL.M. in Trial Advocacy Curriculum Why an LL.M. The Temple Experience Distance Learning Faculty Testimonials Application Procedure LL.M. in Taxation Curriculum Faculty Apply LL.M. and J.D./LL.M. in Transnational Law Program Requirements Application Procedure LL.M. in Beijing, China Curriculum Graduation Requirements Application Procedure Tuition & Cost Academic Calendar LL.M. in Asian Law Program Requirements Application Procedure S.J.D. Program Application Procedure Master of Science in Taxation Curriculum Faculty Applying for Admission to the MST Program Employee Benefits Certificate Apply Certificate in International Business and Compliance Estate Planning Certificate Apply Dual Degree Programs J.D. / M.P.H. J.D. / M.B.A. J.D. / MSW J.D. / LL.M. in Transnational Law J.D. / LL.M. in Taxation Temple University Beasley School of Law and the Fox School of Business and Management cooperatively offer 3-year and 4-year dual degree programs leading to the conferral of both the Juris Doctor (J.D.) and the Master of Business Administration (M.B.A.) degrees upon graduation. The 3-year and 4-year J.D./M.B.A. programs both offer an opportunity to earn a J.D. and an M.B.A. with fewer hours of course work than would be required if the two degrees were earned separately. Candidates receive two separate degrees upon graduation: a J.D. from the Temple Law School and an M.B.A. from the Fox School of Business and Management. The graduation requirements from each school must be met separately. A J.D./M.B.A. student must complete all requirements for both degrees before either degree can be awarded. 3-Year J.D./M.B.A. Who May Be Interested Students who have an undergraduate degree in business or economics or who have at least 2 years of business experience. Students interested in this option should contact the Student Services Office, Barrack Hall, Suite 103 (lawstudent@temple.edu), either when applying to the Law School or during the Fall of their first year of Law studies. Program Overview Students receive a J.D. degree and an M.B.A. degree in three years. 4-Year J.D./M.B.A. Who May Be Interested Students who do not have an undergraduate degree in business or economics or any business experience. Program Overview Students receive a J.D. degree and an M.B.A. degree in 4 years. At least 10 business related law courses plus business writing 13.5 credits transfer from J.D. to M.B.A. 12 credits transfer from M.B.A. to J.D. How to Apply Apply to the Law School full-time J.D. program Begin your first year in the J.D. program During the Fall semester of your first year in law school, attend the presentation on the J.D./M.B.A. program and meet with the Law School Assistant Dean for Students After meeting with the Law School Assistant Dean for Students, apply to the Business School Global M.B.A. program Tuition and Financial Aid Day and evening J.D. students who pay a flat tuition rate and are enrolled in the J.D./M.B.A. program will pay the prevailing law school tuition rates and fees throughout the program except during periods when enrolled at only the business school. When enrolled in only business school courses, students will pay tuition at the M.B.A. tuition rate on a per credit basis. Part-time day and evening J.D. students who pay their law school tuition on a per credit basis will pay per credit for both J.D. and M.B.A. courses, regardless of the semester. All J.D./M.B.A. students are responsible for any late registration, late payment, installment fees and matriculation fees associated with both the Law School and Business School. The Law School Financial Aid Office processes all requests for assistance for students enrolled in the J.D./M.B.A. programs. Certificate in Business Law Students who want to develop their knowledge of business while pursuing a law degree, but are not considering a J.D./M.B.A., may be interested in the Law School’s Certificate in Business Law program. The Certificate in Business Law is designed for students who do not have an undergraduate degree in business or an extensive background in business. Learn More About the Certificate In Business Law Request More Information For more information about this program, please contact the Office of Academic Affairs (lawstudent@temple.edu). Back to Dual Degree Programs Work Temple University Beasley School of Law 1719 North Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 (215) 204-7861 Accessibility Privacy Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Temple University Media Inquiries Contact Us © 2022 Temple University Beasley School of Law.