COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Real Estate, Undergraduate Emphasis Undergraduate EmphasisReal Estate All Programs W. Frank Barton School of Business Finance, Real Estate and Decision Sciences Wichita State’s AACSB-accredited Barton School of Business offers a real estate emphasis for business students majoring in economics, entrepreneurship, finance or marketing. This is the only real estate degree program offered at a Kansas Regents’ university. The emphasis, combined with your chosen business major, will equip you with specialized knowledge you can apply in a wide range of careers in the public and private sectors. Learn how real estate is the right fit for you. Request Info Start Your Application Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the program To be admitted to the Barton School of Business, you must first be admitted to Wichita State. For WSU's admission requirements, and to apply, click the link below. Admission requirements Inside the Program Internship opens student's eyes to career possibilities Riley Webb, a sophomore majoring in entrepreneurship and marketing, recently worked at real estate auction firm McCurdy Auction as an apprentice. While enhancing his passion for marketing, Webb received experience in photography, design, public relations and copywriting. Webb attributes this experience to opening his eyes to a possible future in a career he wouldn’t have otherwise considered. “This apprenticeship has made me take real estate into higher consideration for a future choice,” he said. “I would not have gained the experience of learning about real estate auctions anywhere else in Wichita.” Curriculum The real emphasis curriculum explores the broader conceptual and policy issues associated with real estate and land use—from property management and real estate law to investment analysis, finance and appraisal. View the curriculum Careers A business degree from WSU's Barton School of Business open doors to high-paying, high-demand careers with local, national and international firms. Learn more about careers in this field Similar Programs Economics Entrepreneurship Finance Marketing 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©