Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Accessibility Network Accessibility Network right arrow down arrow Getting Started right arrow down arrow About us Accessibility Commitment and Policy EIT Accessibility Plan FAQ's Accessibility 101 right arrow down arrow Accessibility Definitions Documents right arrow down arrow Microsoft Excel Accessibility right arrow down arrow Guides Checklist Tutorials Microsoft PowerPoint right arrow down arrow Checklist Tutorials Microsoft Word right arrow down arrow Guides Checklist Tutorials PDF Documents right arrow down arrow Guides Checklist Tutorials Websites right arrow down arrow Headers Links Alt Text Color and Contrast Tables Forms Checklists Video & Media right arrow down arrow Ordering & Editing Auto Captions Ordering Professional Captions YouTube Studio Captioning Checklist Purchasing right arrow down arrow Procurement Policy Accessibility Review VPAT Software and Applications Checklist Canvas right arrow down arrow Ally for Canvas Course Syllabus Create an Accessible Canvas Course Checklist Training right arrow down arrow Digital Inclusion Day right arrow down arrow Call for Proposals Schedule of Events Registration Accessibility Compliance Training right arrow down arrow Request Enrollment - Accessibility Compliance Training Home » About UC » Electronic Accessibility » Video & Media » Ordering Professional Captions Set Navigation title in component Ordering & Editing Auto Captions Ordering Professional Captions YouTube Studio Captioning Checklist Ordering Professional Captions for Accommodations This guide describes how to order professional captions for active accommodation requests through Accessibility Resources’ Kaltura MediaSpace (KMS) site. Due to the cost of this service, captions are ordered and processed in a moderated fashion. Only requests associated with an active accommodation request are approved. Access your video through Accessibility Resources KMS Go to Accessibility Resources Kaltura MediaSpace site. Log in with your UC credentials and choose My Media from the options dropdown menu. Click on the thumbnail or the title of the video for which you want to request professional captions to open it in playback view. Update the name of your video In playback view, scroll down to the Actions dropdown menu and choose Edit. Here you will see an edit field for the name of the video. Add your course information to the video name. For example, COMM 2010. This helps to speed up the approval process. Click on the Save button at the bottom, and then click on the Go To Media button to return to playback view. Note: If you prefer not to edit the title of your video, then it is important for you to email the Accessible Media Specialist about your order. Order captions In playback view, click on the Actions dropdown menu, and select Order Captions. In the Instructions and Notes area, text entered is seen by captioning transcribers and should include clarifying information for content that could easily be misspelled, such as proper names, course specific terms, acronyms, and abbreviations. Standard options for professional captions are: Source Media Language: English Fidelity: Professional (99%+) Turnaround Time (TAT): 48 hours If expedited 24-hour TAT is required, contact the Accessible Media Specialist Click on the Order Captions button. Captions are ordered. Notify the Accessible Media Specialist of your order Note: This step is required only if you did not update the name of your video! Send an email to the Accessible Media Specialist. Include the title of the video for which you ordered captions, so that your request can be approved. Check your video for closed captions after 48 hours In playback view, select the CC icon on the player to turn on captions. If there is no CC icon available on the player, captions are not yet ready for the video. If this is beyond the 48-hour period, please contact your technical support person or the Accessible Media Specialist. University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-0000 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-0000 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top