Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Counseling Center Menu COVID-19 About Us Confidentiality Contact Us Feedback BUCC Mission Statement Diversity Vision Statement Diversity Meet the Staff Notice of Non-Discrimination Our Interns and Graduate Trainees Records Request Where are we located? POTH Policy Counseling Services Response to Serving Students During the Pandemic Services Baylor Telehealth by Academic Live Care Get Started Here Clinical Services Addictive Behavior Services Are you in crisis? Care Management Services Groups LOTUS Medical Nutrition Services Additional Information about Regina Mastin Office Hours Program of Care Scope of Service Initial Assessments Outreach Around the Table Active Minds at Baylor Outreach Request Form APA Accredited Doctoral Internship Program Letter from the Training Director Adaptation and Flexibility in the APA Internship Program related to COVID-19 APA Accreditation Overview of the APA-Accredited Internship RCT Framework for Training and Supervision Trauma Recovery Supervision Group (TRSG) Diversity Outreach Partnership (DOP) Our Commitment to Diversity Working at a Faith-Based Christian University Application Information & Selection Process Baylor University Our Counseling Center Stipend, Benefits, and Other Resources Internship Admissions, Support, and Initial Placement Data Current and Past Interns Waco & The Heart of Texas Contact Us Maintaining Mental Health Baylor>Counseling Center>Outreach The Outreach Program The goal of the Department of Counseling Services Outreach Program is to provide mental health-related programming focused on the developmental and educational needs of students. The Outreach Program serves the campus community by providing educational programming on mental health issues for the purpose of prevention and stigma reduction. Outreach encompasses the ways in which the counseling center is involved in the campus as a whole, outside the confines of the clinical setting. Outreach plays an increasingly important function for the Department of Counseling Services, as the number of students utilizing clinical services in the counseling center has steadily increased over the last 5 years. This is reflective of a national trend in which counseling centers are not able to serve all students who would benefit from counseling through direct clinical service. It is essential to provide relevant and effective mental health education and prevention through counseling center outreach to the campus community. Outreach helps facilitate referral to clinical services for those who need treatment, and empowers students to live lives conducive to mental health and wellness. To request a Counseling Center speaker at your campus event, please fill out the Outreach Request Form and email the form to the Counseling Center. Please submit your request 2 weeks in advance of the event. While every effort will be made to fulfill outreach requests, The Baylor Counseling Center cannot ensure that every request can be accommodated. Outreach request form Follow Baylor Counseling Center on: Facebook Instagram For more information about The Outreach Program contact the Counseling Center 254-710-2467. Outreach Around the Table Active Minds at Baylor Outreach Request Form Visit Us McLane Student Life Center, 2nd Floor 209 Speight Ave Waco, TX 76706 Contact Us 254.710.2467 Counseling_Center@baylor.edu Show More General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Counseling Center Facebook Pinterest Twitter Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 COVID-19 About Us Confidentiality Contact Us Feedback BUCC Mission Statement Diversity Vision Statement Diversity Meet the Staff Notice of Non-Discrimination Our Interns and Graduate Trainees Records Request Where are we located? POTH Policy Counseling Services Response to Serving Students During the Pandemic Services Baylor Telehealth by Academic Live Care Get Started Here Clinical Services Addictive Behavior Services Are you in crisis? Care Management Services Groups LOTUS Medical Nutrition Services Additional Information about Regina Mastin Office Hours Program of Care Scope of Service Initial Assessments Outreach Around the Table Active Minds at Baylor Outreach Request Form APA Accredited Doctoral Internship Program Letter from the Training Director Adaptation and Flexibility in the APA Internship Program related to COVID-19 APA Accreditation Overview of the APA-Accredited Internship RCT Framework for Training and Supervision Trauma Recovery Supervision Group (TRSG) Diversity Outreach Partnership (DOP) Our Commitment to Diversity Working at a Faith-Based Christian University Application Information & Selection Process Baylor University Our Counseling Center Stipend, Benefits, and Other Resources Internship Admissions, Support, and Initial Placement Data Current and Past Interns Waco & The Heart of Texas Contact Us Maintaining Mental Health