Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Crews School of Accountancy Welcome Programs Faculty Research Admissions & Current Students FCBE Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Programs Programs Offered Bachelor of Business Administration Master of Science in Accounting PhD in Accounting Graduate Certificate in Taxation Take Action Networking & Career Development Financial Assistance Contact Us Return to FCBE Follow Us Online Facebooktwitter Home Crews School of Accountancy Programs Graduate Certificate in Taxation Graduate Certificate in Taxation The Certificate in Taxation is composed of four 3-credit courses (12 credits): ACCT 7510, ACCT 7511, ACCT 7521, and one elective course. The focus of the certificate is to provide students with both a practical and theoretical foundation and applied hands-on skills. The certificate is dedicated exclusively to the study of taxation. Admission to the Certificate in Taxation program requires a baccalaureate degree from an accredited college or university and completion of ACCT 3510 Tax 1 or its equivalent. Completion of an admission test is not required. This certificate is designed for students who are interested in studying taxation for their own professional practice, for a family business, or as a career-builder by developing tax skills and broad business thinking while working for small or large corporations. The program is suitable for practicing accountants, attorneys, financial planners, and others who do not primarily practice in the field of taxation but who wish to obtain a refresher or new background in that field of practice and knowledge. The certificate program provides students with an overview of different areas of taxation and provides them with the skills and knowledge they need to identify and resolve many tax issues. The curriculum provides an exposure to the basic areas of taxation including individuals, partnerships, and corporations. Coursework in the certificate program is geared to professionals employed on a full-time basis. Classes meet one or two evenings per week or are offered in an online/hybrid format. A student who wishes to earn the certificate should consult with the coordinator of the M.S. Accounting Program to ensure that the courses are in line with his or her academic/career objectives. Admission Requirements Same as college and university requirements. The Certificate in Taxation program may be pursued concurrently with other programs at the University of Memphis. To be approved for the program, students must complete an application form and submit it and a current graduate transcript to the School of Accountancy for review. Non-degree seeking graduate students may also pursue this certificate program of study. To be approved for the program, these students must submit evidence of this non-degree-seeking graduate student status, along with the completed application form, to the School of Accountancy for review. Admission to this certificate program is not an implied acceptance into any other program in the Fogelman College of Business and Economics. Program Requirements The certificate program requires completion of 12 semester credit hours, as follows: Required courses ACCT 7510 Tax Research and Theory ACCT 7511 Taxation of Partnerships ACCT 7521 Taxation of Business Entities Electives (choose one) MIS 7605 Business Database Systems MIS 7700 Fundamentals of Data Analysis LAW Course 385 U.S. Taxation of International Income LAW Course 370 Non-Profit Organizations Graduation Requirements To obtain the certificate, a student must complete all four of the required courses with an average grade of 3.0 (B) or higher, for a total of 12 credits. In the semester of completion, the student must submit an Intent to Graduate Form to the Graduate School and a Graduate Certificate Candidacy form to the College Director of Graduate Studies by the deadline specified by the Graduate School. Course Descriptions Please see the University of Memphis catalog. Contact Us To apply or request more information, please contact: Dr. Jim Lukawitz 901.678.3030 | Email * Means that a class can be substituted out to replace that class, if given permission. ** Means the course can be offered online some semesters. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 2/23/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.