The University of Utah Campus Map × Directions Covid Test Sites Transportation UTA Bus Stop Bike Parking Secure Bike Parking Repair Station Bike Routes Parking Visitor Faculty/Staff Student Housing Electric Vehicle Motorcycle Accessible Eat & Drink Coffee Food Shuttles All Active Shuttles Active Shuttle Routes Blue Detour On Demand Wasatch Express Orange Special Event ADA Circulator Route HCI-Institute U Football Guardsman Direct Shoreline-U Hospital BSB-U Hospital Accessibility & Safety Wireless Access Points Emergency Assembly Emergency Phones Powered Standard All Gender Restrooms Lactation Rooms Construction Tours Campus Tour 1.2 miles (30min) The University of Utah is nestled in the foothills of the Wasatch Mountain Range, and is just up the street from Salt Lake City's burgeoning downtown scene. Campus itself covers more than 1,500 acres and is home to 17 colleges, a medical complex and a research park. We invite you to take a closer look at the U with this tour. GET DIRECTIONS Historical Building Tour 2.5 miles (1hr) Founded in 1850, the University of Utah has undergone numerous changes and developments over time; however, many of the original buildings and features of this flagship institution of higher learning can still be found today. This interactive map allows viewers to examine some of the historic campus photographs found at the J. Willard Marriott Library while comparing them side-by-side to present-day images of each location. As an added feature, an interactive "looking glass" allows viewers to visualized changes to the campus layout over a 60-year period. GET DIRECTIONS Tree Tour 3.0 miles (1.5 hrs) This tour has been designed to highlight many of the species and varieties o f trees that can be found on the University of Utah campus. These trees have been selected because of their popularity with the local community or because they have unique properties. Scroll through to view all of the trees, or click on the icons on the map. Follow the included links to discover more information about that tree. GET DIRECTIONS Printable Maps Feedback API Version 3.0.4