Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Counseling, Educational Psychology & Research Counseling Counseling Psychology Educational Psychology & Research Faculty and Staff Research Clinical Services Grants & Contracts Alumni & Friends Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Counseling Faculty and Research Degree Programs Clinical Mental Health (Post-Master's Certificate) College and Career Counseling (Post-Baccalaureate Certificate) Disability Studies (Post-Baccalaureate Certificate) Disability Support Services (Post-Baccalaureate Certificate) School Counseling (Post-Master's Certificate) Addiction Counseling (MS) Clinical Mental Health Counseling (MS) Clinical Rehabilitation Counseling (MS) Marriage, Couple, and Family Counseling (MS) School Counseling (MS) Vocational Rehabilitation Counseling (MS) Counselor Education and Supervision (PhD) Mission Statement Current Students Practicum & InternshipLinks to Counseling ResourcesGeneral Campus ContactsStudent Wellbeing and Evaluation Take Action Apply Now! Student Organizations in CEPR Department News Contact Us Home Counseling, Educational Psychology & Research Counseling School Counseling School Counseling Concentration Coordinator Michelle Brasfield, Ed.D. Ball Hall 105d Memphis, TN, 38152 (901) 677-8618 (cell) rmwelch@memphis.edu Important Links School Counseling Program of Study Graduate Student Handbook Practicum and Internship Manual School Counseling Portfolio Rubric Mission Statement The mission of the school counseling master's degree program at The University of Memphis is to prepare professional school counselors to implement developmentally informed, data driven, ASCA National Model ® school counseling programs to support the growth of their student clientele across academic, career, and personal-social life domains. Program Overview We are a comprehensive school counseling program that leads to licensure by the Tennessee State Department of Education as a School Counselor. Most schools require that counselors they hire be licensed or certified as school counselors by the state in which they are employed. Our academic program meets or exceeds the academic requirements for school counseling for all state departments of education and the United States Overseas Dependents Educational program. Within the program students learn counseling skills and develop competency to implement developmentally driven, evidence supported, school counseling programs aligned to The American School Counselor Association's National Model ®. Graduates of our program have the course work and skills to immediately operate effectively at any grade level they are assigned. Students Without Teaching Experience Students who have not had one year of teaching experience in a K-12 setting are required by the Tennessee Department of Education to participate in a preliminary school induction experience. To meet this requirement, students will complete 25 hours of school observation and write a reflection paper. Students will also need to complete a background check (https://www.memphis.edu/tep/clinical/background-checks.php) prior to the school observation. Additionally, students are required to complete a special education course (SPED 7000), unless they have completed a comparable course at the undergraduate or graduate level. Application Deadlines Fall Semester Application: March 1 Spring Semester Application: October 1 Application Procedures Applicants must apply through the university's online system here. All applicants must submit: Official transcripts of all colleges attended at both the undergraduate and graduate (if applicable) levels GRE scores (Verbal, Quantitative, Analytical Writing) Three letters of reference. These letters must be specifically written for current application into the School Counseling program, signed by the reference, and printed on his/her official letterhead. Academic references are strongly desired (at least one is required), and should be in an appropriate position to make academic recommendations (e.g., current or former advisor or professor). Professionally applicable sources will be accepted; personal references will not be accepted. A personal statement (1-3 pages) that must include applicant's goals and rationale for applying to the School Counseling concentration. In this statement, applicants may include a brief description of career experiences (teaching or research in the area, working with PK-12 populations, etc.), and explain how these experiences are linked to their educational aspirations. All personal statements should be well-articulated and demonstrate professional writing quality (formal; accurate grammar and spellings). A professional resume that delineates previous work, educational experiences, membership and involvement in professional organizations, and scholarly activities. The resume should support the potential for strong performance in the program. MS Program Information 48-52 hour CACREP approved degree program 750 hours of field experiences at the elementary, middle, and high school levels Options for public, private, and charter school field experiences Full & part time program enrollment plans 2 or 3-year program completion options College and career counseling specialty Certification for out-of-state school counselors Program outcomes We are committed to ensuring our students receive the highest quality professional induction experience to prepare them to successfully adjust to dynamic school environments. Our graduates consistently score in the top 1/3 of students on the School Counseling Praxis Exam. Our students are frequently commended by our partners in the schools for their high degree of knowledge, skills, and adaptability. In terms of employment outlook, the profession of school counselors is projected to grow 12 percent from 2012 to 2022. Our graduates successfully find employment across the country and locally they can be found across, public, private and charter school settings. Our annual CACREP report can be accessed here. Professional Organizations: American School Counselor Association (ASCA) American Counseling Association (ACA) Council for Accreditation of Counseling and Related Educational Programs (CACREP) National Board for Certified Counselors (NBCC) Chi Sigma Iota International Honor Society for students, professional counselors and counselor educators. West Tennessee Counselors Association Advisory Board Each concentration has an advisory board comprised of faculty, students, alumni, and community partners who meet annually. The advisory boards are tasked with reviewing data from formative and summative sources, curricula audits, and providing program recommendations. Feedback from advisory committee is used to inform curricula modifications, and changes to program policies and protocols. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 3/3/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.