Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu Division of Student Affairs Housing and Residential Engagement Main Navigation About Us Show Extended Mission Meet Our Staff Contact Us Student Employment and Leadership Opportunities Parking Information Student Housing Policies Current Residents Show Extended Payment Information Resident Mailing Addresses Wi-Fi for Entertainment Devices Lockouts Dining Services FAQ's Submit a Maintenance Request The Gastronome Community Market Future Residents Show Extended Housing Information Housing Communities Student Housing Suites How to Apply for Housing Payment Information Theme Communities What to Bring on Move-in Day International Students International Programs & Global Engagement On-Campus Housing for International Students Housing Tours Tour Information Campus Tours Residential Engagement Show Extended Residential Engagement Faculty in Residence Theme Communities Housing Policies Of The Month Awards Housing Student Organizations About RSA About NRHH Resources Show Extended SwakU Gifts and Care Packages MicroFridge® with Safe Plug® GradGuard Renters insurance Spectrum Fire Safety Report Off-campus Housing Events and Conference Services Show Extended Meeting Room Reservation Request Form Summer Conferences Dining and Catering Tabling Request Form Marketing Requests Contact our Events and Conferences Team Take a Housing Tour Submit a Maintenance Request Contact Us Housing Portal Marketing Cal State Fullerton Housing and Residential Engagement provides student organizations, campus departments, and vendors opportunities to provide information about programs, products, or services to nearly 2,000 on-campus residents. Tabling Tabling is providing information about programs, products, or services at a table. Tabling allows your organization to reach the on-campus student population for information dissemination. Selling any product or service is prohibited. To request permission to table in Housing, please complete the Tabling Request Form . Gastronome Digital Marketing Requests Cal State Fullerton departments and student organizations are able to digitally advertise on the digital displays in our Dining Hall, the Gastronome. The digital displays in the Gastronome are currently offline for repair and replacement until further notice. Check back on this page for updates! Brand and identity Assets Any group or individual interested in using assets of our Brand and Identity system, including the department logo, should contact Luke Higgott, Technology and Communications Coordinator, for assistance. Unauthorized use of the department logo or other University assets is strictly prohibited. Visit brand.fullerton.edu for more information about university branding. Posting Guidelines Please review the Posting Guidelines below for the Student Housing community for all student organizations, on campus departments, current residents and off-campus vendors. No individual may enter the halls to conduct their own posting. Individuals found in unapproved locations will be considered as trespassers and subject to University Sanctions. Student Organizations Currently recognized on-campus student organizations seeking approval to post flyers and posters within the Student Housing community must follow the steps below: Original flyer/poster must be approved on behalf of the Student Life & Leadership Office, located in TSU-234. Art can also be approved through TitanLink . Approved materials will be designated by a prominent "Post Til" stamp. Flyers smaller than 8.5" x 11" do not require a "Post Til" stamp. Deliver the approved materials to the Housing Office, Attn: Tracy Shadowens. Please be sure to note any special instructions. Organizations are responsible for providing the number of copies needed for posting: One per floor per building, plus four common area postings: 48 copies. One per resident mailbox: 720 copies. For special requests regarding your posting, contact Hollie Allbaugh, Senior Coordinator for Administration and Conference Services, at hallbaugh@fullerton.edu. Housing and Residential Engagement Staff will post your materials in the Student Housing community as time and space permits. On Campus Departments On-Campus departments may submit materials by following the steps below: Approval on behalf of the Student Life & Leadership Office is encouraged, but not required. Student Life & Leadership is located in TSU-234. Deliver the materials to the Housing Office, Attn: Hollie Allbaugh. Please be sure to note any special instructions. Departments are responsible for pvoiding the number of copies needed for posting: One per floor per building, plus four common area postings: 48 copies. One per resident mailbox: 720 copies. Housing and Residential Engagement Staff will post your materials in the Student Housing community as time and space permits. Campus Departments collaborating with members of the Housing and Residential Engagement team on programs or events are required to comply with our brand and identity standards and include our department logo on advertisements. For more information, contact Luke Higgott, Branding and Communications Assistant. Off-Campus Vendors Vendors interested in sponsoring on-campus events for Student Housing residents should contact Hollie Allbaugh, Coordinator for Administration and Conference Services, at hallbaugh@fullerton.edu to make arrangements. For information about using our department's brand and identity assets in external advertising, including our logo, please contact Luke Higgott, Technology and Communications Coordinator. This site is maintained by Housing and Residential Engagement. Last Published 4/13/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact housing@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.10 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript. This page uses accordion styles which rely on javascript. You do not have javascript enabled, some functions will be disabled.