Skip to main content Navigation Academics Admissions Research Locations Student Life Alumni & Giving Athletics Apply Now Bachelor of Science in Criminal Justice, BS Make Positive Change and Lasting Impact Through the Criminal Justice System Program at a Glance Program Bachelor College(s) College of Community Innovation and Education Department(s) Criminal Justice 4 Years In State Tuition Out of State Tuition $212.28 per credit hour $748.89 per credit hour Learn more about program tuition and fees. Explore Hands-On Solutions That Help Address Your Community’s Needs The BS in Criminal Justice program at UCF is uniquely designed to provide you with a broad understanding of crime and society’s control mechanisms, as well as to prepare you for a professional career in criminal justice and related professions. You’ll learn how to take a broad yet specialized degree and apply it to the operations of criminal justice professions, such as law enforcement, courts, corrections, advocacy (domestic violence, human trafficking, elderly abuse), juvenile justice and cybersecurity. Along the way, mix your academic experience with practical application through internships, study abroad and experiential learning. Earn your criminal justice degree fully online or on campus. This provides you with the convenience and flexibility to learn when, where and how you want. Upon graduation, criminal justice majors can find employment as police, correctional or probation officers, justice system administrators, crime analysts, private security administrators, superintendents, county sheriffs/deputies, program directors or elected officials. You can also go on to graduate school and get involved with academic criminal justice; or professional school, like law school, and take positions in the legal aspects of the justice system as prosecutors or defense attorneys. With experience and additional education, you have additional opportunities in supervisory, administrative, or counseling positions. Scholar’s Track The Scholar’s Track is for students who maintain a GPA of 3.2 or better and have met the entrance requirement of having achieved a grade of B or better in both ENC1101 and ENC1102. This track introduces exceptional students to specialized topics and provides the opportunity for select students to work closely with criminal justice professors who will mentor them in nine hours of small, seminar-style classes. Undergraduate Certificates Crime Mapping and Analysis Criminal Profiling Criminal Justice Management and Leadership Crime Scene Investigation Security Management Victim Advocacy Highlights We’re ranked No. 12 in Best Online Graduate Criminal Justice Programs by U.S. News & World Report. Criminal justice graduates are in high-demand in many sectors, including local, county, state or federal justice agencies, private organizations and more. There are currently more than 6,000 people working as detectives and criminal investigators throughout Florida. The average salary for detectives and criminal investigators in Florida is $74,000. Undergraduate Application Deadlines Freshmen Transfers International Fall May 1 Spring November 1 Summer March 1 Fall July 1 Spring November 1 Summer March 1 Fall March 1 Spring September 1 Summer January 1 Ready to get started? Apply Today Start Your Application Today Ready to get started? Take the next step to save your spot at UCF. 1 Check out your application requirements. See what freshmen and transfer students need to apply. 2 Short on time? You can start your application today and come back later to finish. Apply Today Course Overview Criminal Profiling in Criminal Justice Examine criminal profiling undertaken by law enforcement and prosecution authorities which consists of gathering, reviewing and analyzing evidence pertaining to violent crimes. Serial Murder Learn the extent, types and explanations of serial murder, and responses of the general public, law enforcement and prosecution. Sex Offenders and the Criminal Justice System Gain a better understanding of how the criminal justice system deals with sex offenders and their offenses. Human Trafficking in the Criminal Justice System Explore human trafficking from the global, national and local criminal justice perspectives. Domestic Violence in the Criminal Justice System Discover the nature and causes of forms of domestic violence, pertaining to laws, prevention strategies and justice system response. View All Criminal Justice Courses You'll Take Criminal Justice Skills You'll Learn Gain a fuller understanding of the connection between theoretical foundations and practical application of criminal justice concepts. Acquire hands-on skills, insight, and a richer understanding of the operations in a criminal justice agency through the completion of an internship experience. Develop a deep appreciation for the importance of data and information to drive criminal justice policies and programs (intelligence-led and data-driven initiatives), such as identification of crime, prevention of crime, reduction of crime, and identification of criminal justice personnel (selection, training and promotion). Career Opportunities Federal Bureau of Investigation Special Agent U.S. Office of Probation Crime/Intelligence Analyst Private and Corporate Security Domestic Violence Advocate Local and State Law Enforcement Criminal Justice News Check out more stories Health & Medicine Survivor Link National Training Program Launches at UCF The program will support nine social work students, developing their ability to respond to domestic violence. Community UCF Professor’s Research Helps Inform Policy, Laws Surrounding Intimate Partner Cyber Abuse Erica Fissel, assistant professor in the Department of Criminal Justice, shares her passion for helping women affected by cyber abuse in honor of Women’s History… Research UCF Study Will Look at COVID-19 Effects on Services that Help Prevent Reoffending Probation and parole agencies have had to adapt to help some 6 million Americans stay on the right track and not reoffend. Community UCF Student Reflects on Pulse Shooting 4 Years Later Graduate criminal justice student Zoe Williamson was visiting from England and on a police ride-along when she stepped up to assist first-responders and victims at… Degree Search College of Community Innovation and Education programs Bachelors Criminal Justice (BS) University of Central Florida Colleges Burnett Honors Arts and Humanities Business Engineering and Computer Science Graduate Studies Health Professions and Sciences Medicine Nursing Optics and Photonics Sciences Undergraduate Studies Hospitality Management × Criminal Justice (B.A. or B.S.) may be completed fully online, although not all elective options or program prerequisites may be offered online. Newly admitted students choosing to complete this program exclusively via UCF online classes may enroll with a reduction in campus-based fees. Admission Requirements None Degree Requirements Students who change degree programs and select this major must adopt the most current catalog. Students should complete the General Education Program before transferring within the Florida College System or State University system. The courses designated in the General Education Program (GEP) section below may be taken at a Florida College System institution, and should usually be completed in the first 60 hours. Students must earn a grade of "C" (2.0) or better in each core course. Students must earn a minimum 2.0 overall GPA in courses used towards the restricted electives. Online Criminal Justice, BA/BS Degree Requirements 33 Total Credits Core Requirements: Advanced Level Complete all of the following See "Common Prerequisites" in the Transfer and Transitions Services section for more information. Prerequisite for CCJ 4746 is CCJ 4701 Complete the following: CJE3001 - Careers in Criminal Justice (4) CCJ3024 - Criminal Justice System (3) CCJ3014 - Crime in America (3) CCJ4678 - Race, Ethnicity, Equity, and (In)justice (3) CCJ4701 - Research Methods in Criminal Justice (4) CCJ4746 - Data Analysis for Criminal Justice (4) CJE4014 - Police and Society (3) CJL3510 - Prosecution and Adjudication (3) CJC3010 - Corrections and Penology (3) CCJ4054 - Capstone: Criminal Justice Ethics (3) Restricted Electives 27 Total Credits Complete all of the following Criminal Justice Upper Level Electives Earn at least 18 credits from the following types of courses: 18 hours of upper division criminal justice course work. Seniors can satisfy up to six hours of this requirement with internship and up to six hours with directed independent study; however, the combination of these non-class options shall not exceed nine hours. Program standards must be met to be eligible for either internship or independent study credit. Supporting Electives Earn at least 9 credits from the following types of courses: 9 additional semester hours of supporting courses to be selected from an approved list provided by the department. These courses may vary from student to student depending upon individual needs or objectives, but include selected courses from public administration, legal studies, sociology, statistics, and psychology. The supporting course requirements may also be met by using a portion of the completed hours from a minor in another program approved by the department. Grand Total Credits: 60 University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida