Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Geospatial Data Science PSM You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Geospatial Data Science PSM Apply Request More Info Geospatial Data Science PSM Admissions Careers & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Professional Science Master’s in Geospatial Data Science Expand your expertise in geospatial analysis with the Professional Science Master’s (PSM) in Geospatial Data Science in Temple University’s College of Liberal Arts. One of the first of its kind in the U.S., this 30-credit master’s program is specifically designed to train data scientists and geographic information systems (GIS) professionals with geospatial analysis, programming and advanced analytical skills. Data science is a growing field with roots in computer science, mathematics and statistics. It can be applied across disciplines and industries for which spatially referenced data informs prediction and decision-making, including climate adaptation, urban and environmental planning, retail and business location, and spatial epidemiology. This degree emphasizes advanced statistics and computer programming to meet the increasing demand for professionals with expertise in these areas. Geography and Urban Studies Department faculty have extensive experience in cartography, GIS, machine learning, remote sensing, spatial analysis, spatial data science, spatial statistics and urban analytics. Students learn the fundamentals of geospatial data science as well as the latest trends in the field. The program’s faculty imparts an in-depth understanding of ethics, preparing students to put them into practice in their careers. Coursework addresses the geospatial aspects of core data science competencies in big data analytics, machine learning and simulation. You’ll use industry-standard tools such as SQL, R, Python and other emerging technologies, with an emphasis on open source tools, social coding and reproducible research. Many of the program’s courses focus on programming and include peer review, code walkthroughs and live demonstrations of coding projects. You’ll learn to write documentation and leverage social coding platforms such as GitHub to share and publicize your work. Choosing the Geospatial Data Science Professional Science Master’s The Geospatial Data Science PSM distinguishes itself from the Geographic Information Systems PSM through a specific emphasis on big data handling, data mining, geospatial analytics, machine learning and geosimulation. Compared to the Geographic Information Systems program, the Geospatial Data Science program focuses on advanced statistical knowledge and computer programming. Graduates are trained to work outside the realm of traditional GIS jobs, including in corporate environments. The Geospatial Data Science PSM program also produces different outcomes from the College of Science and Technology’s Computational Data Science MS and the Fox School of Business’s Statistics and Data Science MS by providing a distinctive focus on geospatial data and spatial analytics and through its curriculum designed for current professionals. Our Community The College of Liberal Arts at Temple comprises many disciplines and research areas. Now more than ever, an interdisciplinary liberal arts education is invaluable for your future pursuits. It offers the opportunity to further push your drive to create real change in the world, here at Temple and beyond. In this graduate program, you’ll work closely with diverse faculty members who are highly esteemed in their field and with a curious, passionate community of peers. Program Format & Curriculum All classes for the Geospatial Data Science PSM program are held after 4:30 p.m. on Temple’s Main Campus. The curriculum is designed so that full-time students can complete the program in one academic year and quickly reenter the workforce. Working professionals may complete the degree program on a part-time basis over two to three academic years. Advanced training in the sciences, as well as courses in policy and business, are incorporated into the core data science and spatial analysis coursework. Program evaluation is based on students producing working applications and/or reproducible analysis pipelines, and explaining their work to a variety of audiences. Assessment includes demonstration of technical competency, professional writing and presentation of results. Program culmination includes a student capstone project. Elective courses allow students to specialize based on their personal and professional interests. Required courses for the Geospatial Data Science PSM include the following. Advanced Statistics for Urban Applications Application Development for GIS Big Geospatial Data GIS Capstone GIS Ethics and Professional Practice Geovisualization Learn more about the courses for the Professional Science Masters in Geospatial Data Science. Related Graduate Degrees Geographic Information Systems PSM Statistics and Data Science MS* Computational Data Science MS** *Fox School of Business **College of Science and Technology Related Graduate Certificates Geographic Information Systems Geospatial Data Science Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Professional Science Masters offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $966.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,329.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Program Contact For questions regarding the Professional Science Master’s in Geospatial Data Science, contact the following staff member. Hamil Pearsall is the graduate chair of the Department of Geography and Urban Studies. Phone: 215-204-3074 Email: hamil.pearsall@temple.edu Student Clubs & Organizations Supplement your Geospatial Data Science PSM coursework and enhance your graduate education experience through student clubs and organizations. You’ll meet and network with other students, become involved with the community, and build invaluable skills to help you realize your personal and professional goals. Learn more about Temple’s student clubs and organizations. Study Away Temple’s study away programs offer you the opportunity to spend an academic year, semester or summer abroad. Complete graduate coursework, participate in internships or collaborate in research while immersing yourself in the culture, history and people of your host city. Learn more about your options for studying away. Accreditation Temple University’s departments and programs are accredited by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education. LA-GSDS-PSM Additional Program Information Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Geospatial Data Science PSM Admissions Careers & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info