Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Apply Visit Give Information For Current Students Faculty Search BC.edu Links Menu Main Nav Back Back Close About Overview Dean's Message Why the Morrissey College? Contact Open Positions Visit Us Related Links Boston College Mission Office for Institutional Diversity Core Curriculum Majors and Minors BC Veterans Undergraduate Overview The Liberal Arts Advantage Core Curriculum Core Requirements & Courses Jesuit Philosophy The History of Core Renewal Renewed Core Course Goals Complex Problems & Enduring Questions Reflection Sessions CP&EQ Call for Proposals Founding Documents Assessment and Governance Faculty Resources Contacts Core Fellows Majors Minors Cornerstone Seminar Programs The Academic Advising Center Degree Requirements The Advising Process Major & Minor Requirements Pre-Health Program Academic Preparation Exploring Health Professions Preparing for Health Professions Graduate School Undergraduate Fellows Academic Policies Contact Related Links Find Your Program Campus Life Research Opportunities Undergraduate Admission Internship Approval Graduate Overview Admission Financial Support Admitted Students Academic Programs Current Graduate Students New Hire Information Registration & Forms Conference Reimbursement Policies and Procedures Research Funding Thesis Checklist Dissertation Guidelines and Checklist Commencement The Versatile Ph.D. Emergency Fund Application Contact Giving Related Links Graduate Student Life Policies & Procedures Graduate Student Association Graduate Student Emergency Relief Fund Faculty & Research Departments Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Morrissey College Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Current Students Faculty BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Home Undergraduate The Academic Advising Center The Advising Process The Academic Advising Center Degree Requirements The Advising Process Major & Minor Requirements Pre-Health Program Undergraduate Fellows Academic Policies Contact The Advising Process Boston College academic advisors are committed to helping you identify your interests, choose a major, and fulfill the requirements for graduation. Here’s an overview of how the advising process works in the Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences. Summer Orientation The advising process at BC begins before you enter the University. At Summer Orientation you’ll meet with an assigned faculty advisor from the Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences to discuss your academic interests, degree requirements, and how to register for classes. In addition, staff members in the Academic Advising Center are available for consultation and advisement throughout the summer. In most cases, your Summer Orientation Advisor will not continue to advise you in the fall. Pre-Major Advisor All first-year students are assigned a pre-major advisor at the beginning of Fall Semester regardless of major declaration. You will meet your advisor during Welcome Week during an advising session hosted by the Academic Advising Center, and you will remain with that advisor throughout your freshman year. You should plan to meet in-person with your advisor at least twice each semester. Your advisor will help you to think strategically about your long-range academic plans, encouraging you to keep your options open so that you’ll be able to take advantage of opportunities like study-abroad programs, research grants, or internships. As much as possible, students are matched with an advisor on the basis of shared intellectual and personal interests. Your pre-major advisor might be your instructor in a Cornerstone Seminar, a Courage to Know course, an advising section of Perspectives, or an advising section of the First-Year Writing Seminar. If you are not enrolled in one of these advising sections, your pre-major advisor will be a faculty member or administrator who works under the aegis of the Academic Advising Center. Major Advisor In your sophomore year, after you have declared a major, your major department will assign a faculty member to be your major advisor. Major advisors are the best source of information about your major, so get to know your advisor and be in touch when you have questions or concerns. If you do not know who your major advisor is, check the "Academic Advisor" link on your Agora Portal or ask a departmental administrator. Advising In Second Majors or Minors Even if you have a second major or a minor, you will only have an assigned advisor for your first major. Some departments have designated faculty who advise second majors or minors; all departments have a director of undergraduate studies who can also serve in this role. If you have an interdisciplinary minor, you should consult with the Director of the Interdisciplinary Program for advising. If You Can’t Get in Touch with Your Advisor Academic Advising Center staff members are not substitutes for your individual advisor, who knows you, your academic record, and your hopes and plans. But if you can’t reach your own advisor and need a quick answer to “how do I . . .” or “who can help me with . . ,” feel free to contact the Advising Center. Making the Most of Advising Touch base with your advisor frequently, especially early in the fall semester as you explore your interests and see how your fall courses are going. The more your advisor knows about your interests and concerns, the more he or she can support you. Early planning can open opportunities, identify issues early, and solve problems. So take advantage of your advisor’s knowledge and interest! The Degree Audit In the middle of every semester, your advisor will review your Degree Audit with you and discuss your course registration plans for the upcoming fall or spring semester. You must schedule a meeting with your advisor during the advising and registration period to discuss your course registration plans. It’s your responsibility to arrange a registration advising meeting with your assigned advisor, so be sure to do so! Back To Top Back To Top Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences Gasson Hall 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 About Undergraduate Graduate Faculty & Research Departments Contact Departments Art, Art History, and Film Biology Chemistry Classical Studies Communication Computer Science Earth and Environmental Sciences Economics Engineering English German Studies History Mathematics Music Philosophy Physics Political Science Psychology Romance Languages and Literatures Slavic & Eastern Languages and Literatures Sociology Theatre Theology Apply Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College