Skip to main content Skip to main content Degree Programs Perkins Chapel Bridwell Library Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Contact Us Contact Us Follow Us Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Twitter Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Perkins School of Theology About About Mission Perkins United Methodist Seminaries Accreditation Statement of Educational Effectiveness Executive Board History Administration and Staff Habito Labyrinth Directions Campus Map Faculty & Academics Faculty & Academics Academic Services Bridwell Library Degree Programs Faculty by Teaching Area Faculty Listing A-Z Faculty Publications Perkins Video Library Global Theological Education Home Hybrid Houston-Galveston Extension Program Degree Interest Areas Perkins Intern Program Other Academic Programs Spiritual Formation Program Emeritus Faculty Open Faculty Positions Admission Admission Connect Visit Campus Apply Affording Seminary Admit Portal Student Life Student Life Academic Services Student Engagement Student Resources Alumni/ae & Friends Alumni/ae & Friends Update Your Records How to Get Involved Publications and News Events | Calendar Perkins Scholarship Luncheon Faith and Business Luncheon Series Distinguished Alumnus/a Award Seals Laity Award Make a Gift to Perkins News News News Archives Perkins Perspective Events Calendar External Programs and Centers External Programs and Centers Perkins Summit for Faith & Learning Certificate in Practical Ministry Certificate in Spiritual Direction Perkins Fall Convocation | November 15 - 16, 2021 Webinars & Hybrid Events Perkins School of Youth Ministry Course of Study | Curso de Estudio Center for Methodist Studies Center for Preaching Excellence Center for Religious Leadership Center for the Study of Latino/a Christianity and Religions El Programa de Ministerios Hispan@/Latin@ The Hispanic/Latino/a Ministries Program Video Library Contact Office of External Programs ☰ Perkins School of Theology Faculty & Academics Other Academic Programs Other Academic Programs In addition to its degree programs, Perkins offers various other programs of study, formal and informal. Some of these (for example, the Hispanic Studies Program) may be pursued in conjunction with a degree program, while others are independent. Some (for example, in music and Christian education) lead to certification of some kind, while others are simply opportunities for continuing education. All are described in the Special Programs and Services in Continuing Education and “Special Programs for Academic Credit” sections of the Perkins School of Theology catalog. Audit Programs Those desiring to audit a course must secure permission from the registrar and the course instructor. The audit fee must be paid before completing registration. Basic Graduate Theological Studies (BGTS) The basic graduate theological studies required for those seeking ordination as deacons in the United Methodist Church include courses in the areas of Old Testament, New Testament, church history, theology, mission, worship, evangelism and United Methodist history, doctrine and polity. These courses are offered regularly on the Dallas campus and in the Houston/Galveston Program. The following courses satisfy these requirements: OT 6301, 6302 Interpretation of the Old Testament I and II NT 6301, 6302 New Testament HX 6305, 6306 Church History ST 6301 Theology WO 6313 Worship XS 6310, XS 8350 Mission EV 7307 Evangelism HX 7565 United Methodist History CA 7013 United Methodist Polity ST 7034 United Methodist Doctrine Non-Degree Programs Those who have a B.A. or equivalent degree and who wish to take courses for credit but who do not wish to enter a degree program may seek admission to Perkins as non-degree student. The student must submit a completed application form (available from the Office of Admissions and Financial Aid) along with official transcripts of all undergraduate and graduate academic work, two letters of reference and an explanation of the proposed plan of study indicating the courses desired. Admission as a non-degree student is for one year (two terms) only. A student desiring to continue beyond the one-year limit must formally ask the Associate Dean for Academic Affairs for permission to continue beyond the two terms. Admission as a non-degree student does not guarantee, nor does it preclude, later admission to any degree program offered by Perkins. Non-degree students are not eligible for any form of financial assistance from the school. Students duly enrolled in other degree programs in Southern Methodist University may be permitted to register for Perkins courses upon the approval of their respective deans. They must have at least junior class status and a B average. That student should contact the registrar for specific information about the process. Faculty & Academics Academic Services Bridwell Library Degree Programs Faculty by Teaching Area Faculty Listing A-Z 2021-2022 Faculty Publications Perkins Video Library Global Theological Education Immersions Hybrid Houston-Galveston Extension Program Degree Interest Areas Perkins Intern Program Other Academic Programs Spiritual Formation Program Emeritus Faculty Open Faculty Positions An Academy for the Whole Church in the Whole World Prepare to Serve Our groundbreaking Intern Program allows students to transform classroom knowledge into actual practical experience before graduation. Diverse Community We believe cross-cultural immersion experiences best teach students to build intercultural relationships, resolve cultural conflicts and guide intercultural ventures. Academic Excellence The combination of courses taught by renowned scholars with a diverse list of degree programs best prepares students for a wide variety of roles in ministry. Connect Visit Apply Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © SMU Perkins School of Theology, PO Box 750133, Dallas, TX 75275-0133 214-768-8436 or 1-888-843-6564 twitter facebook youtube share