Skip to main content Skip to site menu Skip to Brown menu Skip to site search Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Enter search keyword About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS) Welcome & Information Our Staff Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS) Our Staff We are a diverse group from a range of disciplines that have expertise in college student mental health. We are all committed to creating a safe and welcoming space within CAPS and broadly at Brown. Additionally, CAPS staff is multilingual, and we can provide treatment in English, Spanish, Arabic, French, Thai, and Portuguese. This bio page is under development. If you have questions about any of our providers, please contact us at [email protected] for assistance. ------ Clinical Providers Jamila AllouaneJamila Allouane, LICSW Licensed Independent Clinical Social Worker Jamila is passionate about assisting those struggling with issues related to: identity development, Muslim identity, marginalization, acculturation, and medical conditions. Her expertise includes evidence-based interventions for anxiety, mood, and trauma-related disorders. Fluent in Arabic and French, Jamila has lived in her homeland Algeria, native France, and adoptive United States. Richard BoothRichard Booth, PhD Licensed Mental Health Counselor Dr. Booth’s practice incorporates integrative and evidenced based approaches, examining clients through an ecological perspective. Dr. Booth is dedicated to improving mental health services by increasing representation of marginalized and diverse groups, noting the interplay between person (inner and outer), environments, power structures, societal norms, expectations, and barriers. Context matters. Dawn BrowneDawn Browne, LICSW Psychotherapist Dawn is committed to helping people develop strength, courage, understanding of themselves and realizing their full potential. Dawn uses evidenced based practices with a style that is strength based, collaborative, honest, creative and solution focused. Her clinical interests include mood disorders, anxiety, trauma, loss and stress management. Dawn has extensive experience working with underserved populations and marginalized groups. Originally from Montreal Canada, Dawn is a first generation of Caribbean descent, cognizant of intersectionality and practices with a respectful, culturally affirming stance. Dawn is bilingual and can provide treatment in French. Hercilia Corona, PhD Assistant Director Originally from Mexico City, Dr. Corona is a Bilingual (Spanish), Cis-gender female who identifies as a first-generation college student. Her clinical approach is best described as integrative, authentic, strengths focused, collaborative, and rooted in socio-ecosystemic frameworks. She has an expertise and special interest in working with immigrants, first generation college students, students of color and non-traditional students. Diane FarberDiane Farber, PsyD Psychologist Born in the Philippines and having emigrated to the U.S. as a child, Dr. Farber is interested in how environment can influence personal growth. She integrates various approaches in therapy including interpersonal process, psychodynamic and behavioral approaches, and mindfulness. Corey Martin FitzgeraldCorey Martin Fitzgerald, M.Ed. Outreach Coordinator, Psychotherapist Originally from Shreveport, Louisiana, Corey is a Black, gay, cis-gendered, Christian, male whose clinical approach aligns with an integration of Cognitive Behavioral Therapy, Acceptance Commitment Therapy, and Interpersonal Therapy. Corey’s specific interests are anxiety management, identity development, spirituality, working with students of color, and members of the LGBTQ+ community. Corey is passionate about diversity, social justice, and creating a space where students feel empowered. Bryant FordBryant Ford, Ph.D. Director of Psychological Services Bryant is a generalist though he gravitates toward interpersonal and behavioral forms of psychotherapy. Having worked in college health for over two decades, he has experience working with a variety of clinical presentations. In addition to clinical work, he enjoys mental health consultation with faculty and administrators and conducting psychoeducational workshops for students. He is a graduate of the Counseling Psychology program at the University of Wisconsin-Madison. Lisa FrappierLisa Frappier, DO Psychiatrist Originally from RI, Dr Frappier graduated from Brown, concentrating in Psychology and Semiotics. She completed medical school at University of New England College of Osteopathic Medicine and then residency at UMDNJ-Robert Wood Johnson Medical School. Prior to CAPS, she worked in community mental health at The Providence Center. Laurice Girouard, LICSW Licensed Independent Clinical Social Worker, Medical School Laurice provides comprehensive counseling services for Alpert Medical School students. Her therapeutic style synthesizes various treatment models including resiliency, relational, cognitive behavioral, internal family systems, and mindfulness approaches. A graduate of Smith College School for Social Work, she is fluent in French, Spanish, and Portuguese. Chonlada JarukitisakulChonlada Jarukitisakul, PhD Psychologist Dr.Jarukitisakul is passionate about promoting self-understanding and self-acceptance. Specific focuses include anxiety, trauma, eating concerns, relationships, family issues, and identity development. Her practice incorporates strength- and evidence-based interventions (CBT, DBT, ACT, mindfulness) within the multicultural, relational, and social justice framework. She is originally from Thailand. Wilthonie Johnson-Goncalves, LICSW Licensed Independent Clinical Social Worker, Grad Students Focus Wilthonie was born in Liberia, and has worked with Brown graduate students since 2016. She strives to provide a safe and comfortable environment where students can address their concerns, while establishing goals to foster personal growth. Wilthonie uses evidence-based interventions as a major part of her counseling approach. Erin Lane-AaronianErin Lane-Aaronian, PsyD Assistant Director for CAPS, Psychologist Erin is a psychologist who believes in the power of mental health treatment to help students meet their goals and build the lives they want to live. She loves meeting individually with students, and building opportunities for students to feel supported as part of the Brown community. Jamall Pollock, LICSW Licensed Independent Clinical Social Worker, Grad Student Focus Jamall is an interpersonally oriented social worker and believes that the therapeutic process can inspire individuals to healthfully navigate social environments. Originally from Brooklyn, NY, Jamall is a 1st generation Caribbean American whose clinical interests include anxiety management skills, relationship issues, identity formation, and helping people to cultivate joy. Ancha SantanaAncha Santana, MA Licensed Mental Health Counselor, Urgent Care Clinician Ancha specializes in crisis stabilization and urgent needs. She has extensive experience as an emergency services clinician in local emergency departments, and was was also a prevention counselor in urban public high schools. Ancha was born in Cape Verde, and is fluent in English, Portuguese, Spanish and Capeverdean Crioulo. Jayden ThaiJayden Thai, PhD Psychologist As a queer, trans man of color from the South, the importance of intersectional socio-political-cultural understanding, resiliency factors, empowerment, and authenticity on mental health crucially informs Dr. Thai’s clinical work. Dr. Thai utilizes integrated approaches of Acceptance Commitment Therapy and Interpersonal Therapy, centered in a social justice framework. Kerri Varela, LICSW Licensed Independent Clinical Social Worker Kerri approaches counseling by focusing on creating a safe environment for clients to be their authentic self. Originally from RI and a first generation CapeVerdean-American, she draws from a variety of therapeutic modalities depending on students' needs and preferences. While she works effectively with a broad range of student concerns, her specific interests include depression, anxiety, stress management, interpersonal dynamics and multicultural concerns. Michael WolfeMichael Wolfe, MD Psychiatrist Dr. Wolfe obtained his B.S. from Centre College and medical degree from West Virginia University. He completed residency and fellowship (child and adolescent) at Brown. He has experience with inpatient, community mental health, international work, and partial hospital programs. He is a Clinical Assistant Professor of Psychiatry and Human Behavior. Heather Wong BaileyHeather Wong-Bailey, PsyD Psychologist Dr. Wong-Bailey is from California and was a first generation college student. Previous college counseling center experience includes UMass Amherst and Harvard University. She is passionate about diversity and inclusion, helping students find their voice, focusing on strengths and resilience, and identity development within the context of a sociocultural framework. ------ Administrative Staff Colleen GosettiColleen Gosetti Administrative Assistant Colleen Gosetti joined the CAPS team in 2016 as an Administrative Assistant. She is a team-player with many years of administrative experience. Colleen graduated from Johnson & Wales University. A lifetime Rhode Islander who enjoys spending time with her sons, going camping/beach and loves animals. Peter MelloPeter Mello Admin & Financial Sevices Coordinator/DCC Tammy ScanlonTammy G Scanlon Administrative Medical Assistant Born and raised in Rhode Island, graduate of The Sawyer School for their Medical Assistant program and an Associate Degree from CCRI. She comes to CAPS from Health Services with over 8 years of experience working with Brown students. Tammy is an outgoing, dedicated, and open-minded team player that adjusts to changes with ease. She believes that self care, mindfulness and learning new things is important for each of us as a whole. When not working, she enjoys being outdoors gardening, bird watching, sports, spending time with her grand-daughters and going to music festivals of any genre. Welcome & Information Our Services Our Staff Labs Groups About Us FAQ Immediate and After Hours Care Psychiatry Outreach & Community Building Training Program Finding Care Off Campus Additional Resources Print this Page Share this Page Counseling & Psych Services Brown University Box 1960 450 Brook St Providence, RI 02906 Phone 401-863-3476 Fax 401-863-3657 Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory What's New? Current Groups Help a Distressed Student Self-Help Library