Schedule an Advising Appointment Email About us Academic advising at the UW Working with us Our people Springboard Contact us COVID-19 Update Degree overview Your UW degree General education Overview Requirements by college and school Majors List of Undergraduate Majors Majors by Topic Majors and Careers Double degree and double major Departmental & Major Advising Offices Satisfactory Progress Policy and Pre-major Extension Minors Academic planning Plan your degree For new students For prospective transfer students Transfer Newsletter Pre-health/pre-law Choosing your major/courses Registration restrictions Cross-campus registration Placement testing Chemistry, math, & physics Academic terms and policies Co-curricular engagement Academic support Getting started Finding help Dropping classes Satisfactory progress policy and pre-major extension Academic warning/probation Reinstatement for College of Arts & Sciences Frequently asked questions Student guides Overview First-year Second-year Transfer First-generation International student guide Faculty & Staff Home > Home > Degree overview > Majors > Majors and Careers Majors and Careers Your education at the University will prepare you for the complexities of the world of work and you will learn to develop strategic approaches to pursuing whatever career opportunities you choose. That said, It is important to keep in mind that choosing a major and preparing for a career are not always the same process. It's true that a college education will help prepare you for the job market. That said, most majors do not lead directly to particular jobs. Instead, most majors can prepare you for numerous job possibilities. During your time at UW it is also important to explore career options and prepare for work after school. How to investigate possible careers To find a satisfying career, you must make a good match between your interests and the demands of a job, and between your personality and a work environment. Most students find choosing a career much harder than choosing a major. You probably haven't been exposed to very many fields before coming to college, and you'll need to do some research. It is very important that you make career investigation one of your goals while you attend the UW. Students who prepare ahead may find more satisfying jobs after graduation. Career investigation is a process; there are no quick answers, and it takes some time. Fortunately, the UW has many resources to help you. Make use of the UW Career & Internship Center The UW Career & Internship Center offers counseling and workshops for students at every stage of career exploration. You can research job fields, learn to write a resume targeted at your intended field, and practice interviewing, and much more. It also hosts many career fairs throughout the year. Find out what employers are looking for by meeting them in an informal setting. Pursue career counseling Though not scientific the Myers-Briggs Type Indicator (MBTI) and Strong Interest Inventory (SII) are widely used career assessment tools, and you can take both of these at the UW Counseling Center. The results of the MBTI can supply another way of thinking about your choice of academic major, career direction, and foster understanding and appreciation of individual differences in interpersonal relationships. The SII identifies interests and compares this information to the likes and dislikes of individuals in over 100 occupations. Where there is similarity in interest, there is likely to be job satisfaction. Results from the SII include a list of careers that may be of interest, as well as general “themes” to consider when choosing an academic major and/or career direction. Participate in experiential learning At any stage of your thinking about careers, you should start looking into getting some related experience. In particular, you should consider participating in one or more internships. As a student intern, you can gain valuable work experience at any of a large number of businesses, government offices, and non-profit agencies. The Center for Experiential Learning and Diversity houses the Undergraduate Research Program, Office of Merit Scholarships, Fellowships and Awards, and the Community Engagement and Leadership Education Center. These campus offices can help you connect to research, scholarship, internships and service opportunities that will get you out into the real world. If you think you might be interested in international trade, you can actually work at the Port of Seattle. If you think you might want to be a lawyer, you can volunteer at the Public Defender's Office. If teaching or research looks interesting, you can tutor at a local school or work with UW faculty on a research team. During any one of these activities, you will learn about further career resources and get some ideas about what to do next. If you will take these practical steps, you can enjoy any major you like at UW and be confident that you can make your way in the workplace. Peruse the Occupational Outlook Handbook The Occupational Outlook Handbook is published annually by the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics. It has a listing for every career you can imagine, and each listing covers things like the training and education needed, earnings, expected job prospects, what workers do on the job, and working conditions. Talk with a departmental adviser Department advisers are a wonderful resource for helping you explore the question of "What do I do after I graduate?" Browse "What have these majors done after college...?" websites The UW Career & Internship Center has a section on their site dedicated to exploring careers, and if you search the web you'll find lots of similar resources, as well as websites about career investigation and planning. Degree overview Your UW degree General education Overview Requirements by college and school Majors List of Undergraduate Majors Majors by Topic Majors and Careers Double degree and double major Departmental & Major Advising Offices Satisfactory Progress Policy and Pre-major Extension Minors Alumni Spotlight Jack Beam 2017, Business (Concentration in Supply Chain Management) When you don't get into the classes that you would like to be in, use those times as opportunities to take other classes that interest you or may not align with your intended major at all. Remember as you go, that your major doesn't equal your career. I majored in business and then hopped into a corporate job out of college. I found that I didn't like the corporate world, and then by a random assortment of experiences and jobs I had (Orientation leader etc.), I decided to make a switch toward pursuing a career in counseling. More University of Washington Be boundless UAA Advising catalyzes the broad learning of UW Undergraduates. As educators, we guide and support students in exploring, questioning, and navigating the events and significance of their undergraduate education. As a team of experienced practitioners and engaged scholars we serve the UW and the greater higher education community. Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA