Skip to content Search Site: Powered by Search Campus: Powered by Search Campus University of Utah COVID-19 Updates The University of Utah Main Title Sub Title Admissions Office of Admissions Apply Prospective Students Request information Campus Tours Events Undergraduate Graduate International Students Asia Campus New Students Freshman Confirm/Deposit Financial Aid & Scholarships New Student Orientation Registrar Housing Academic Calendar Student Life Student Affairs Housing The MUSS The Union Student Life Center Student Leadership & Involvement SafeU Academics Academic Resources Catalogs, Schedules & Calendar Colleges & Departments Majors Graduate School Student Success Libraries Global U Research Arts The Arts on Campus Upcoming Events Academic Programs Professional Arts Youth Arts U of U Health Education Research Patient Care Athletics Utah Athletics Buy Tickets Schedule Crimson Club Shop Utah Gear Donate SearchReveal Menu Reveal Menu Main Navigation Main Menu Home Admissions Office of Admissions Apply Prospective Students Request information Campus Tours Events Undergraduate Graduate International Students Asia Campus New Students Freshman Confirm/Deposit Financial Aid & Scholarships New Student Orientation Registrar Housing Academic Calendar Student Life Student Affairs Housing The MUSS The Union Student Life Center Student Leadership & Involvement SafeU Academics Academic Resources Catalogs, Schedules & Calendar Colleges & Departments Majors Graduate School Student Success Libraries Global U Research Arts The Arts on Campus Upcoming Events Academic Programs Professional Arts Youth Arts U of U Health Education Research Patient Care Athletics Utah Athletics Buy Tickets Schedule Crimson Club Shop Utah Gear Donate U of U Health Education Research Patient Care U Quick Links A-Z Index Campus Directory Campus Map Shuttle Tracker CIS UMail @ The U Apply Visit Give Home Current Page: Future Students Future Students Wondering if the U is the right choice for you? Aside from offered programs and reputation, one of the best ways to evaluate a university is to look at what current and former students are doing. Check out the amazing things happening at the University of Utah. About the U The University of Utah ranks among the top 100 universities in the world. Find out more about what makes us great. Learn More About the U Academics From music to medicine, math to modern dance, metallurgical engineering to Middle East studies -- you can find it at the U! Look here for academic programs, colleges, and departments. Learn More About Academics Admissions Find what you need to know to take you through the Admissions process and apply online! Learn More About Admissions Cost A college education costs money. And we want to help. Find info on tuition, financial aid, and scholarships to help with your financial planning. Learn More About Cost Student Life Where will you live, learn, and play? Here's the scoop on Utah athletics, recreation, and getting involved. Learn More About Student Life Student Success Why the U? Read more about the successes of current and former students, and learn about the services designed to help you excel. Learn More About Student Success Visit Campus The best way to get a feel for college life is to check out campus. Schedule your visit today! Learn More About Visiting Campus Undergraduate Admissions Request Information Apply for Admission Track Your Application International Applicants Veterans/Returning Military Graduate Admissions International Graduate Admissions Academic Graduate Programs Information for Academic Departments Campus Links Schedule a Visit Login to My U Page My U Signature ExperienceLearn More About My U Signature Experience The University of Utah 201 Presidents Circle Salt Lake City, UT 84112 801.581.7200 Resources Future Students Students Parents & Families Faculty Staff Visitors Alumni Initiatives Research Equity, Diversity & Inclusion Sustainability Employment U Leadership University Safety About the U Information Office of the President Give to the U Media Contacts Ute Proud Campus Events Community Contact - Feedback Quick Links A-Z Index Campus Directory Campus Map Shuttle Tracker CIS UMail @ The U © 2022 The University of Utah Nondiscrimination & Accessibility Disclaimer Privacy Credits & Attributions Media Contacts Twitter Facebook Instagram Youtube Last Updated: 6/9/21