Menu Close Menu Skip to content Information For: Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Friends & Supporters A to Z index Search for: Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health Email People Departments Calendar Careers my.harvard Giving About Faculty & Research Admissions & Aid Academics Executive/Continuing Ed News News > News News Menu Search for: News Home Press Releases 2020 Releases 2019 Releases 2018 Releases 2017 Releases 2016 Releases 2015 Releases 2014 Releases 2013 Releases 2012 Releases 2011 Releases Search the press releases archive Features In the News Multimedia 2021 Multimedia 2020 Multimedia 2019 Multimedia 2018 Multimedia 2017 Multimedia 2016 Multimedia 2015 Multimedia 2014 Multimedia 2013 Multimedia 2012 Multimedia HPH Magazine Faculty Stories Faculty News, Notes, and Accolades Student Stories Student News, Notes, and Accolades Alumni Stories Explore Research by Topic Office of Communications Make a Gift All articles related to "alumni stories": Shamard Charles gets the word out The physician and health journalist on the power of telling stories in the classroom, online, and in his podcast "Heart over Hype." Alumni News Career updates from past classes, starting with a note from the class of 1990. 2021 Harvard Chan School Alumni Award winners The recipients of this year’s Awards of Merit, Leadership Award, Innovator Award, and Emerging Professional Award. Virtual Alumni Week 2021 explores public health through the life course Alumni from around the world came together for Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health’s virtual Alumni Week. Alumna Marcella Alsan awarded MacArthur ‘genius grant’ Marcella Alsan, MPH ’05, PHD ’12, won a prestigious MacArthur Fellowship—known as a “genius grant”—for her work examining health inequities and solutions for reducing them. Alumni News Alumni News from Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health. From the archives: A September 11 loss Paul Ambrose, MPH '00, was a passenger on American Airlines Flight 77 from Washington, DC to Los Angeles that crashed into the Pentagon on September 11. 2021 Alumni Awards announced The Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health Alumni Association recently announced the recipients of the 2021 Alumni Awards. Podcast interviews highlight public health threats of racism, dietary colonialism Alumnus Reginald Tucker-Seeley and PhD candidate Abrania Morrero appeared on recent episodes of Environmental Health News’ podcast to talk about their work. Alumni News Alumni News from Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health. Pagination navigation 1 2 3 … 14 15 16 Author add969 Posted on August 26, 2016 May 29, 2019 Categories Uncategorized Related Articles microbiome Off the Cuff: Curtis Huttenhower Renewal of NIEHS grant paves way for new research on how complex environmental exposures affect health New findings from Human Microbiome Project reveal how microbiome is disrupted during inflammatory bowel disease More on this topic Explore HSPH research by topic Harvard Chan School News on Twitter In the wake of a May 24 mass shooting at a Uvalde, Texas, elementary school that left 19 students and two teachers… https://t.co/x8GHo0fMZS RT @dengdiit: This week,I had the honor and responsibility of receiving a master’s degree in public health with concentration in health pol… RT @Harvard: “Don’t let your generation be defined by the pandemic. Let it be defined by public service,” said Attorney General Merrick Gar… RT @HarvardCCHANGE: Looking for ways to take action on #climate? The Climate Health Organizing Fellowship trains health professionals to u… RT @HarvardCCHANGE: Creativity is turning coal mines, landfills, and toxic waters into opportunities for #CleanEnergy. Your lights yearn to… RT @HarvardCenterHH: What is the relationship between #technology and #happiness? This @Forbes article offers potential considerations, wit… Information For: Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Friends & Supporters About Key Facts Renaming the School Office of the Dean Location and Facilities Administrative Offices Contact Us Faculty and Research Faculty and Researcher Directory Academic Departments, Divisions and Centers International Research Postdoctoral Research Fellows Office of Faculty Affairs Faculty Searches Office of Diversity and Inclusion Admissions & Aid Why Harvard Chan Degree Programs Non-Degree Programs Financial Aid Student Experience Career Advancement Apply Academics Academic Departments Divisions Research Centers Flagship Initiatives International Research Research Administration and Support Degree Programs Fellowships and Residencies Summer Programs Continuing Professional Education Interdisciplinary Concentrations Academic Calendar Harvard Chan Viewbook Executive/Continuing Ed Program Offerings Custom Programs Request Information News and Resources About ECPE Contact News Featured News Press Releases Student Stories In the News Newsletters HPH Magazine Why Public Health? Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health 677 Huntington Avenue Boston, MA 02115 +1 (617) 495‑1000 Twitter Facebook YouTube LinkedIn Instagram iTunes Harvard Chan Home Contact Us Harvard University Home Make a Gift Privacy Policy Report Copyright Violation Accessibility Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College