Skip to Navigation Skip to Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links For information about COVID-19 policies and restrictions on campus, please visit the UCLA COVID-19 resources website. Events Newsroom Magazine Alumni Arts Give About About About Overview General Info Facts & Figures Rankings Leadership History Mission & Values Mission & Values Strategic Plan Equity, Diversity and Inclusion Impact Contributions & Discoveries Global Engagement Recognition Awards & Honors Athletic Championships & Medals Notable Alumni UCLA Ranked No. 1 Public University UCLA tops all public universities in the 2021 U.S. News & World Report rankings. Admission Admission Admission Overview Undergraduate Undergraduate Admission Undergraduate Tuition & Fees Undergraduate Financial Aid Undergraduate Tours Graduate Graduate Admission Graduate Tuition & Fees Graduate Funding Graduate Tours Additional Information International Applicants Extension Program Summer Sessions Academics Academics Academics Overview Explore Degree Programs & Majors College & Professional Schools Education Undergraduate Education Graduate & Professional Education Extension Courses & Certificates Summer Sessions Study Abroad Continuing Education Support Career Preparation Academic Advising First Generation New Student Programs Honors & Advanced Study Resources Libraries Academic Calendar Course Schedule Course Catalogue Research Research Research Campus Resources Research Across Campus Technology & Innovation Investments & Partnerships Libraries Student Research Graduate Research Undergraduate Research Campus Life Campus Life Campus Life Overview Campus Housing Residential Life Dining Health & Wellness Sustainability Student Life Clubs & Organizations Sports & Recreation Arts & Performance Volunteering & Service Directory Academic Calendar Maps & Directions Parking Campus Shuttles Public Transit Newsroom Magazine Alumni Arts Give Open Search Academics What course will your future take? UCLA is a world-class research university nestled into a training ground for your talents: the global city of Los Angeles. Here, your effort will amount to more than just a fulfilling career, because everything we do, we do to better the community. Whether you want to change a life, a generation or the whole world, it all starts with the courses you take at UCLA. Choose Your Life’s Adventure Over 125 majors are just the beginning of the beginning It’s not just the quantity or quality of programs that makes a UCLA education stand apart; it’s how they all come together to help you discover your future. You will be encouraged to explore outside of the typical educational track, guided by faculty and in partnership with students who share your dreams. Explore Programs & Majors The University for the Future 100 years young and equipped for the problems of today We’re established, but we’re not the establishment. We take pride in our history of Nobel Prize winners, MacArthur Fellows and a Fields Medal recipient, but what matters most is how you use this stage to create a better future. Whether you’re enrolling as an undergraduate or graduate student, a culture of progressive, people-first problem solvers awaits. Undergraduate Education Graduate Education Welcome to L.A. It’s no wonder that people from all over the world move to Los Angeles and never leave. As a thriving and global city, there is an abundance of industry and culture to explore. UCLA will become your gateway through internships, research, fellowships, jobs and more. Find a new scene or one that feels like home while you create a professional niche and network for your career. Collaboration Is Our Game Overhear conversations on campus and you will feel the fingerprints of interdisciplinary collaboration, but no two instances will sound or feel the same. Because when you witness curious students and award-winning faculty blur the lines between art, science, business, law, math and many others, you witness pure creation with a purpose. Sign up for news, stories, and events from UCLA Strategic Communications Email First Name Last Name Zip Code Your email was submitted. Please check your inbox to complete your registration. You may unsubscribe at any time. Zip code is used to improve the content we share. Refer to our Terms of Use for more information on how we store and protect your data. Los Angeles 90095(310) 825-4321 Contact Directory Academic Calendar Careers Contact Us Media & Journalists Campus Campus Map Parking Campus Shuttles Public Transit Community Alumni Parents & Families Faculty Staff Emeriti & Retirees Venue & Events Conference Center & Hotel Film Production Event Planning Related Sites Athletics Extension Health Store Giving Centennial The Arts Arts Gateway Hammer Museum Fowler Museum Center for the Art of Performance Facebook Instagram Linked Twitter Youtube TikTok Snapchat © 2022 Regents of the University of California Emergency Accessibility Report Misconduct Privacy & Terms of Use Cookie Policy We use cookies to understand how you use our site and to improve your experience, including personalizing content and to store your content preferences. If you would prefer, you may set your browser to refuse cookies or alert you when cookies are being sent; however, it is possible that some parts of our sites will not function properly if you do so. By continuing to use our sites, you accept our use of cookies and revised Privacy Policy. I Accept