Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site COE Home Main College College News Biomedical Engineering Chemical, Environmental and Materials Engineering Civil and Architectural Engineering Electrical and Computing Engineering Industrial Engineering Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering About Mission & Vision Leadership Fast Facts Strategic Initiatives Publications Calendar Directory Academics Programs Undergraduate Programs Master's Programs PhD Programs More Programs Admissions Departments Biomedical Engineering Chemical, Environmental and Materials Engineering Civil and Architectural Engineering Electrical and Computer Engineering Industrial and Systems Engineering Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering Apply Research Strategic Thrusts Shared Facilities Centers and Institutes CoE Laboratories Highlights Administrative Give Info for... Alumni Faculty and Staff Current Students Industry and Outreach More Resources About Academics Apply Research Give Info for... Search About Mission & Vision Leadership Fast Facts Strategic Initiatives Publications Calendar Directory Academics Programs Undergraduate Programs Master's Programs PhD Programs More Programs Admissions Departments Biomedical Engineering Chemical, Environmental and Materials Engineering Civil and Architectural Engineering Electrical and Computer Engineering Industrial and Systems Engineering Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering Apply Research Strategic Thrusts Shared Facilities Centers and Institutes CoE Laboratories Highlights Administrative Give Info for... Alumni Faculty and Staff Current Students Industry and Outreach More Resources COE Home Main College College News Biomedical Engineering Chemical, Environmental and Materials Engineering Civil and Architectural Engineering Electrical and Computing Engineering Industrial Engineering Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering Accelerated Courses $sLabel Home Accelerated Courses in Software Engineering AAA Accelerated Courses in Software Engineering GET STARTED 1 Request Info 2 Visit 3 Apply GET STARTED 1 Request Info 2 Visit 3 Apply Software engineering constantly evolves, impacting our day-to-day lives. Nowadays, we are able to carry the latest technological trends in the palm of our hands. In addition, software engineering gives us the tools to build, design, develop, maintain, and retire software. As a result, we impact our world, making it more effective and safe. This micro-credential course on the essentials of software engineering will explain how applications work, interact, and provide value to individuals and organizations. It explores different software development techniques, cloud-based applications, and mobile and device software applications. Go at Your Own Pace, With Three Modules to Choose From This course is built with three modules to choose from. You can take all 3 modules or choose the one that fits your needs. Program Information Format: In person (on-site) - lectures, notes, discussion, and industry resources. Location: McArthur Engineering Building, Room 202, Memorial Dr, Coral Gables, FL 33146 Level: Basic/Intermediate Certificate Bundle: $4,999 Individual Module: $1,999 Participants completing the training will receive a University of Miami Engineering certificate of completion. Those who take all 3 short courses will be awarded a Certificate in Software Engineering. Open All Tabs Module 1: Computing and Digital Innovations This module is focused on the basics of software development techniques such as agile and waterfall models and various system architectures. Understand the essentials of computing and the role computing plays in solving problems of the universe and beyond. Learn some of the latest topics in current and emerging technologies that influence our daily lives. Date (time) Wednesday, June 15, and Thursday, June 16 (9 a.m.-5 p.m.) Topics Foundations of computer science Elements of Computing: Hardware, software, storage, and networks Concepts like abstraction, algorithms, data structures, encapsulation, resource management, security Software engineering techniques, and web development Current Trends in Computing – Blockchain and Cryptocurrencies, NFTs, Metaverse, Cybersecurity, Artificial Intelligence, Human Computer Interaction Module 2: Trends in Cloud Computing This module focuses on cloud computing and the scalability of software applications on cloud platforms. The goal of this course is to develop an understanding of the evolution of cloud computing, basics of cloud architectures, cloud software development, and configuration. Date (time) Friday, June 17, and Saturday, June 18 (9 a.m.-5 p.m.) Topics What is cloud computing? - cloud service, delivery, and deployment models. Cloud terminologies – virtualization, hypervisor, containerization, cloud software architectures, and essential design patterns. Cloud providers, services, and scalability of applications on cloud Module 3: Develop Your Mobile App This module provides an introduction to mobile computing - designing mobile applications. The goal of this course is to develop an understanding of concepts, frameworks, and technologies in mobile applications software engineering. Date (time) Thursday, June 23, and Friday, June 24 (9 a.m.-5 p.m.) Topics Components of mobile device and applications. Frameworks and technologies used to develop mobile applications. Developing software in constrained resource settings. User centric experience design and design thinking for mobile software applications. Advancements of no-code and low-code mobile designing frameworks. APPLY TODAY! Limited spots available Enroll Here For more information contact: Ailen Parera-Ruggiero apruggiero@miami.edu | 305-284-2408 All transactions are final. No refunds are permitted. Click here for our Privacy Statement University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 College of Engineering 1251 Memorial Drive, McArthur Engineering Building Coral Gables, FL 33146 (305) 284-2404 (305) 284-2404 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Support COE Give to COE Ways to Give Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices