Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index Office of Research Services Menu Search TTU Research Home Office of Research Services Proposal Checklist Use this checklist to work with your designated proposal analyst to facilitate planning, coordination, assembling, and successful submission of proposals for sponsored projects. Download a copy to save your progress through the list. General Considerations Have the PI and other investigators read and understood the guidelines of the program being applied to, including required deadline for proposal submission? Are the PI and other investigators eligible to apply to the funding program? Does the format of the proposal (page, font, order of proposal sections, etc.) conform to program guidelines? Are all necessary attachments included (e.g., biographical sketches, certification and assurances to be completed by ORS, etc.)? Is the PI familiar with the proposal submission method (sponsor electronic submission system, mailing considerations, etc.)? Budget For federal, state, or non-profit sponsors, is the F&A rate mandated by the guidelines being used? For for-profit sponsors, is the University using the full, negotiated F&A rate? If No, an F&A waiver form must be completed. Are sponsor budget mandates followed (e.g., salary caps, prohibitions on purchase of equipment, total request, etc.)? Is Cost Share required? Is any Voluntary Cost Share included? If yes to any of the previous two questions, has the cost share been reviewed and approved by University Officials? If there are any subcontracts, do their budgets conform with the primary sponsor limitations and requirements? Does the budget add up and match the budget justification? External Collaborators Have all required proposal documents been provided by the external collaborator (e.g., budget, budget justification, biosketches, facilities, other mandatory documents)? Have appropriate administrative approvals been obtained from external collaborators (e.g., subcontracts, third parties, etc.)? Is the role of each institution clearly stated in the proposal? Has a statement of work been provided from each institution? Cost Sharing Cost Sharing commitments must be documented and tracked via Cayuse SP, email, letters, additional documentation, and/or FOP numbers. Have cost sharing commitments been endorsed by the appropriate TTU official? Have third party commitment letters been obtained, if applicable? Space and Additional Funding Considerations Have requirements for space or specialized facilities (e.g., secure facilities) been approved by the Department Chair, Dean, or Director to accommodate the proposed project? Other than for cost sharing, have requirements for internal commitment of funds been cleared with the Department Chair, Dean or Director? Research Compliance Considerations If the project involves the use of human or animal subjects, has the Human Research Protection Program or the Animal Care and Use Committee been contacted? If the sponsor follows PHS/FCOI regulations, has the required Financial Conflict of Interest training and disclosure been completed by all key personnel? If the proposed project involves radioactive isotopes, recombinant DNA, or other hazardous material, has the Environmental Health & Safety Office been consulted? If the project involves the use of export-controlled technology, have provisions been made to secure the necessary licenses? If the project involves classified or security sensitive research, has the TTU Facility Security Officer been consulted? If not, please email william.wells@ttu.edu. If the project involves proprietary research, has the TTU Office of Research Commercialization been contacted? Office of Research Services Like Office of Research Services on FacebookLike Office of Research Services on Facebook Address Texas Tech University, 2625 Memorial Circle, Lubbock, TX 79409 Phone 806.742.3884 Email ors@ttu.edu Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock, Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversityApr 5, 2022 2:46 PM Office of Research Services About Office of Research Services About Back Office Office of Research Services About Office Back Office Functions Roles & Responsibilities Staff Directory Organizational Chart Advocacy Strategic Plan Policies & Procedures Office of Research Services About Policies & Procedures Back ORS TTU Federal Federal Demonstration Partnership (FDP) Sponsored Project Lifecycle Office of Research Services Sponsored Project Lifecycle Back Finding Funding Office of Research Services Sponsored Project Lifecycle Finding Funding Back Funding Opportunities Research Development Team Limited Submissions Proposal Development Office of Research Services Sponsored Project Lifecycle Proposal Development Back Preliminary Proposals/White Papers Proposal Checklist Proposal Format Data Management Plans Budget Development Frequently Required Proposal Data Disclosure of Foreign Research Support and Collaborations Roles & Responsibilities Proposal Review & Submission Office of Research Services Sponsored Project Lifecycle Proposal Review & Submission Back Proposal Submissions & Deadlines Routing Proposals Internal Review & Approvals Signing Authority Roles & Responsibilities Award Process Office of Research Services Sponsored Project Lifecycle Award Process Back Award Definitions Award Negotiation & Acceptance Establishing an Institutional Budget Award File Maintenance Sub-recipient Agreements No-cost Extensions Federal Demonstration Partnership Roles & Responsibilities Award Management & Closeout Office of Research Services Sponsored Project Lifecycle Award Management & Closeout Back Regulatory Guidance Accounting Setup & Budget Modifications Allowable Expenses & Types of Costs Cost Transfers Service Centers Cost Sharing Effort Reporting Billing, Reporting & Accounts Receivable Project Closeout & Record Retention Audits & Institutional Reports Institutional Resources & Training Raider Research University Roles & Responsibilities Tools & Resources Office of Research Services Tools & Resources Back Cayuse Pre-Award/Post-Award Contacts by College Forms & Boilerplates Funding Institutional Research-Related Contacts OMB Uniform Guidance Learning Opportunities Reports Contact Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index