Skip navigation Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Brown Grad School About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Graduate School Financing & Support Ph.D. Funding Five-Year Guarantee Graduate School Skip to Navigation Five-Year Guarantee The Graduate School offers incoming doctoral students five years of guaranteed financial support, including a stipend, tuition remission, a health-services fee, and health- and dental-insurance subsidies. This financial support applies to both domestic and foreign students admitted to our doctoral programs (funding for transfer students may vary). Doctoral students in the Humanities and Social Sciences are guaranteed six years of support. This support can come from a variety of Brown University resources--including Graduate School funds, departmental funds, and faculty research funds--and/or external funds, as applicable. We believe that our longer commitment, combined with the continual increase in our base stipend (nearly 50% since 2001), allows students the time and energy they need to apply to their research and scholarship. As always, any guarantee of support is conditional upon students maintaining satisfactory academic progress in their programs. The Graduate School allots each doctoral program a pre-set number of support units that are assigned to continuing students as teaching assistantships, proctorships, and, in consultation with the dean, dissertation fellowships. These allotments are tied to a wide complex of needs within these units, including undergraduate enrollments and the professional development of graduate students as future faculty (in the case of teaching assistantships), technical and programmatic support (proctorships), and graduate students' research and scholarship (research assistantships and fellowships). Upon recommendations from academic programs and other units at Brown, student appointments are then processed by the Graduate School according to the original allotments and to these criteria, among others. Doctoral students with an interest in support issues should send comments or questions to [email protected]. Home About the Graduate School Healthy Brown FAQs for Graduate Students Academics & Research Living & Resources Financing & Support Tuition & Fees Health and Dental Insurance Financial Considerations Master's Funding Ph.D. Funding Initiatives in Doctoral Education and Student Support Internal Funding & Appointments Student Loans Student Employment Student Payroll Procedures Admitted Students & Orientation Application Information For Graduate Students For Faculty and Staff Related Items Teaching Assistants Research Assistants Proctorships Brown University Brown University Graduate School Box 1867 Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-2600 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Resources Graduate School Handbook Academic Code CareerLAB Brown University Writing Center Sarah Doyle Center for Women and Gender Sheridan Center for Teaching & Learning Top Destinations Admission Inquiry Form Commencement Five-Year Ph.D. Support Open Graduate Education External Funding Application Process International Applicants