Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Law Current Students Baylor Law Menu Baylor Law About News Mission Statement and Core Values Baylor Law Learning Outcomes Practice Ready Law Professors, Life Coaches The Quarter System Quick Facts Public Service Legal Clinics Special Events Notice of Non-Discrimination Building Hours Contact Us History 100 Years of Practice Court Baylor Law Virtual Tours Academics Academic Calendar Academic Services Advocacy Transactional Degree Programs Executive LL.M. in Litigation Management Baylor Law Learning Outcomes Experiential Learning Legal Writing Study Abroad at St Andrews Baylor Law Review Admissions Explore Apply Finance Visit Admitted Students Quick Facts Executive LL.M. in Litigation Management Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Alumni & Giving Alumni Resources Get Involved Give Back Baylor Law School Alumni Information Update Submit Alumni Note Career Development Employers Current Students Employment Statistics Contact the CDO Baylor Law School Current Students Academic Services Calendars Health & Wellness Policies and Feedback Professional Development Leadership Development Student Life Equity, Civil Rights and Title IX ABA Required Disclosures Law School Home Events Event Calendars Emergency and Closure Information Faculty & Staff Faculty and Staff Directory Faculty Scholarship Faculty and Staff News Faculty and Staff Resources Law School Home Library Library Collection Electronic Resources Library Services Policies and Information Library Online Catalog Technology Law School Baylor>Law School>Baylor Law Current Students>Health & Wellness Health & Wellness Dispelling the Myth When completing the application for admission to the bar, you do not need to report any counseling other than those listed below. As part of the general application for admission to the Bar of Texas, you will be asked to disclose certain mental health information. Specifically, you will be asked to disclose if you were “diagnosed with bi-polar disorder, schizophrenia, paranoia, or any other psychotic disorder.” Even if you have received one of these diagnoses, it “does not necessarily mean that you will be found to lack the fitness required for admission to the Bar.” What it does mean is that you must disclose the “date(s) of diagnosis and treatment, a description of your course of treatment and a description of your present condition. . . . You may also include information as to why, in your opinion or that of your health care provider, your illness or disorder will not affect your ability to practice law in a competent and professional manner.” If you have any questions about this process, please contact Stephen Rispoli or Jim Marsh. Baylor Telehealth by Academic Live Care Baylor Telehealth by Academic Live Care Any Student, Anywhere, Anytime In addition to the robust medical and counseling services offered through the Baylor Health Center and Counseling Center on Baylor’s main campus, the University has partnered with Academic Live Care to expand the medical and counseling services available to students. All Baylor students now have access to the following FREE services: 24/7/365 Unlimited In-the-Moment Mental Health Clinical Support Line Also available to students who are abroad Unlimited Telehealth Visits Virtual Urgent Care (Physical Health) Psychiatry Nutritional Counseling Women’s Specialized Care and Wellbeing Mental Health Counseling Telehealth Visits are available evenings, weekends, and when the University is closed Unlimited Face-to Face Visits for Mental Health Counseling through referral to local providers who are within Academic Live Care network. Academic Live Care offers flexibility in appointment times as well as access to providers based on preferences such as gender, cultural and ethnic background, language spoken, and specialties. How to Access Baylor Telehealth by Academic Live Care: For immediate mental health support and or to schedule a counseling appointment, call 833-969-3998. To access the Academic Live Care website: CLICK HERE ALC Telehealth User Guide For medical services including virtual urgent care or to make a psychiatry or nutritional services appointment, go to baylor.academiclivecare.com and select the desired service. Baylor Counseling Center As a Baylor student, you have access to the Counseling Center's services. The Counseling Services strives to facilitate the educational experience and total development of students by enhancing mental health and well-being. The Counseling Center provides: • Individual, couples, and group counseling • Crisis intervention for students experiencing a psychological crisis or emergency • Psychiatric services are available through the Baylor Health Center, although a fee may be involved. • Medical nutrition therapy by a licensed and registered dietitian • Outreach and prevention programs for students • Consultation services for faculty, staff, families, and friends of students. In addition to individual counseling, the Center offers many online resources. Please click here for a more detailed summary of services. Baylor Health Center As a Baylor student, you have access to the Baylor Health Center on the main campus in the Student Life Center. General Medical Care: Students have access to the Health Center for diagnosis and treatment of illnesses and injuries. You can expect the same type of care that you would receive from your family doctor. Psychiatry Services: Students have access to a Psychiatrist and a Psychiatric Nurse Practitioner for diagnosis and treatment of mental health illnesses. (Please note we do not provide counseling services within the Health Center. For the Counseling Center call 254-710-2467 or click here) Support/Comfort Animals: The only animals allowed in the Health Center are service animals that are required because of a medical disability. Comfort animals are not included and will not be allowed in patient treatment areas. Letters for support/comfort animals are not available through the Health Center. Lab Services: The Health Center uses Clinical Pathology Lab (CPL) for laboratory services. Please ensure that they are in network with your insurance. CPL bills insurance and patients directly. Appointments: You may make an appointment Monday thru Friday from 8 AM - 5 PM by calling 710-1010 or by logging onto the Health Portal after 5 PM for urgent care web appointments for the next day. Summer hours are modified, so call to confirm availability. You must present an ID Card at check in. Transportation: Students must acquire their own transportation to the medical clinic by personal vehicle. Students requiring ambulance service to a local hospital are responsible for the expense. The Health Center staff can arrange for this service. Health Center physicians do not make house calls. Referrals: Students are referred to community professionals or facilities for services unavailable at the Health Center. Students are responsible for any charges incurred. Such referrals would include, but are not limited to: Specialist consultation Tests X-ray Some Laboratory Emergency/acute patient care Dental care For more information, click here. Baylor Care Team Services When a student exhibits behaviors of concern and could potentially be a risk to self and others, the Case Manager for Student Life and others on the Baylor Care Team coordinates a proactive effort to prevent and/or manage the situation. Click here to submit a report to the Baylor Care Team. Baylor FitWell Fitness and Nutrition within the Wellness Department is dedicated to providing programs and services in support of physically healthy lifestyles through group exercise classes, personal training, nutritional consults and services, and special events. For more information, click here. Student Health and Wellness Student Health and Wellness is comprised of five departments: Campus Recreation, Care Team Services, Counseling Services, Health Services, and Wellness. Student Health and Wellness provides a continuum of programs and services designed to meet the physical and emotional wellness needs of both undergraduate and graduate students by focusing on the following areas: Health Education Outreach & Prevention Health Enhancing Activities/Self-Care Building Community and Student Support Direct Healthcare Services Healthcare Crisis Management Student Health and Wellness offers several programs for Baylor Law students. Click here for more information. ABA Resources Mental Health Initiative 2017 Well-Being Tool Kit for the Legal Profession 2020 Substance Use and Mental Health Toolkit for Law School Students and Those Who Care About Them Legal Professionals Program at Hazelden The Legal Professionals Program at Hazelden is one of the world's largest and most respected private-not-for-profit alcohol and drug addition treatment centers. Their specialized program is now two years old and has already provided treatment to more than 200 legal professionals. For more information visit www.hazelden.org/legalprofessionals Mental Health Screening www.mentalhealthscreening.org Physical Health It is important for you to take care of your health while in law school. Learning how to maintain a healthy lifestyle while a student will be key for managing stress now and in the future. Please click here for a list of local gym options. Private Counseling Services Some private counselors familiar with the unique pressures of law school are available here. Please contact Professor Teague or Stephen Rispoli for additional information. TLAP Support for Law Students The workload of law school can cause a great amount of stress for students. Are you, or do you know of a friend or associate who may be suffering from depression? The Texas Lawyers Assistance Program (TLAP) offers services to help you during this challenging time. To learn more about TLAP, click here for a short video. Click here to enlarge video Baylor Law Current Students Academic Services Bar Exam & MPRE Bar Review Resources Bearweb Catalog Class Rank Course & Exam Schedules Course Listings, Books & Materials Curriculum & Advisement Advisement Documents Course Descriptions Degree Audit Degree Programs Dual Degree Programs Elective Prerequisites for Juris Doctor Field Placement Program Juris Doctor Degree Requirements Professional Tracks & Special Distinctions for J.D. Students Schedule Planner for J.D. Students Exams FERPA Grade Deadlines Graduation Office of Access and Learning Accommodation(OALA) Official Transcript Professional Development Program Professional Development Videos Registration Add/Drop Course & Final Exam Schedules Student Financial Services Tuition & Fees Law Financial Aid Counseling University Financial Aid Office Parking & Transportation Pay Your Bill Scholarship Criteria Study Abroad Transfer Credit Calendars Health & Wellness Policies and Feedback ABA Required Disclosures FERPA Policies Honor Code Notice of Non-Discrimination Student Conduct Policy Comments and Concerns Submit Your Comments & Concerns Practice Court Online Attendance Request Form Professional Development Leadership Development Student Life Announcements John William & Florence Dean Minton Student Awards Ceremony and Lecture Series 2022 | Student Awards Ceremony Donors & Recipients of the 2022 Student Awards 2021 | Student Awards Ceremony Donors & Recipients of the 2021 Student Awards 2020 | Student Awards Ceremony Donors & Recipients of the 2020 Student Awards Student Opportunities Competitions Internal Competitions External Competitions Competition Results Policies and Forms The Faegre Drinker Spring Moot Court Competition Courtcall Law School Award The Ultimate Writer Competition Student Organizations Event and Speaker Approval Form Study Abroad Equity, Civil Rights and Title IX ABA Required Disclosures Law School Home About Academics Admissions Alumni & Giving Career Development Current Students Faculty & Staff Library Events Event Calendars Emergency and Closure Information Show More General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Sheila & Walter Umphrey Law Center 1114 South University Parks Drive One Bear Place #97288 Waco, Texas 76798 tel (254) 710-1911 fax (254) 710-2316 Building Hours Monday - Friday 8:00am - 5:00pm Saturday - Sunday Closed Holidays Closed Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 Academic Services Bar Exam & MPRE Bar Review Resources Bearweb Catalog Class Rank Course & Exam Schedules Course Listings, Books & Materials Curriculum & Advisement Advisement Documents Course Descriptions Degree Audit Degree Programs Dual Degree Programs Elective Prerequisites for Juris Doctor Field Placement Program Juris Doctor Degree Requirements Professional Tracks & Special Distinctions for J.D. Students Schedule Planner for J.D. Students Exams FERPA Grade Deadlines Graduation Office of Access and Learning Accommodation(OALA) Official Transcript Professional Development Program Professional Development Videos Registration Add/Drop Course & Final Exam Schedules Student Financial Services Tuition & Fees Law Financial Aid Counseling University Financial Aid Office Parking & Transportation Pay Your Bill Scholarship Criteria Study Abroad Transfer Credit Calendars Health & Wellness Policies and Feedback ABA Required Disclosures FERPA Policies Honor Code Notice of Non-Discrimination Student Conduct Policy Comments and Concerns Submit Your Comments & Concerns Practice Court Online Attendance Request Form Professional Development Leadership Development Student Life Announcements John William & Florence Dean Minton Student Awards Ceremony and Lecture Series 2022 | Student Awards Ceremony Donors & Recipients of the 2022 Student Awards 2021 | Student Awards Ceremony Donors & Recipients of the 2021 Student Awards 2020 | Student Awards Ceremony Donors & Recipients of the 2020 Student Awards Student Opportunities Competitions Internal Competitions External Competitions Competition Results Policies and Forms The Faegre Drinker Spring Moot Court Competition Courtcall Law School Award The Ultimate Writer Competition Student Organizations Event and Speaker Approval Form Study Abroad Equity, Civil Rights and Title IX ABA Required Disclosures Law School Home About Academics Admissions Alumni & Giving Career Development Current Students Faculty & Staff Library Events Event Calendars Emergency and Closure Information