Skip to Main Content Brown University News from Brown Site Navigation Featured Events For Journalists Search Menu Topics Student Life Date August 20, 2020 2020-08-20 Media Contact Jessica Tabak [email protected] 401-863-1632 All News Share Facebook Twitter Linkedin Email Summer Experience Stories Every May, Brown students leave their coursework behind to pursue a wealth of transformative summer opportunities — a tradition that has continued remotely during the current COVID-19 moment. Summer Experiences BrownConnect Summer Institute: Adapting a beloved novel into a Broadway play As part of the BrownConnect Summer Institute, Brown students and recent graduates considered the creative and practical challenges of transforming the bestselling novel “Wonder” into a Broadway musical. This summer, Brown students and recent alumni participated new play development workshops led by Brown alumna and Broadway producer Jill Furman. (Not all pictured.) PROVIDENCE, R.I. [Brown University] — This spring, Elana Confino-Pinzon began her last semester at Brown with theater on the brain. A political science concentrator aspiring to become an entertainment lawyer, Confino-Pinzon had planned to engage in as many performing arts courses and productions as possible in the months leading up to graduation. But theater was among the many industries shuttered as COVID-19 swept the East Coast, leaving Confino-Pinzon without the performing arts experiences she had hoped to have before leaving for law school this fall. “I was supposed to go see a show with my playwriting class that never happened, and then there were all of the on-campus productions this spring that would have happened and everything that goes along with that,” she said. “We missed so much.” But a singular experience arose this summer for Brown students and recent graduates who, like Confino-Pinzon, sought to gain performing arts experience in a newly-remote world. This July, Confino-Pinzon was one of 10 Brown students and new graduates who participated in a series of new play development workshops led by Jill Furman, a Brown alumna and one of the Broadway producers behind the international sensation “Hamilton.” Sponsored by the BrownConnect Summer Institute, these workshops focused on Furman’s newest project — a Broadway musical adaptation of “Wonder,” the bestselling R. J. Palacio novel about Auggie Pullman, a fifth-grade boy whose physical anomalies inform his experience of the world. So much thought and intention goes into every single decision. It made me appreciate just how much goes into making the media I enjoy. Will Zhou BrownConnect Summer Institute Participant, Class of 2020 Graduate Tweet this quote Over the course of three weeks, Furman invited student participants to provide input on three questions that will shape her decisions as she continues to develop the play: How can we adapt this story to the stage? How should we produce it? And how should we promote it? “I said to them, ‘There are no right answers,’” she said. “I’m very much a best-idea-in-the room producer.” As the students began engaging with Furman’s questions, they quickly learned that practical considerations often shape creative decisions in the performing arts. For example, in the group’s discussion about stage adaptation, Auggie’s dog — a constant presence in the novel, and a catalyst for Auggie’s personal growth — presented unexpected challenges. “It's really hard to have a dog onstage — logistically, financially, all of those things — and so all of a sudden your storytelling decisions have to take account of those practical parameters,” said Francesca Sabel, a rising senior studying English and history. Faced with these material challenges, the group arrived at a broader creative question: What other ways could they show Auggie’s growth that might better translate to the stage? Contributing to these discussions gave Sabel a new perspective on what it means to create for the stage. “In a college theater class, you're thinking in terms of ideals, which is great, but I think it's also important to consider the material challenges of staging something,” she said. “Necessity is the mother of invention, so it can spark new ideas when you think, ‘OK, this isn't going to work the way it’s written, so let's make it work some other way.’” Bashar Zaidat, Class of 2021 Working on the “Wonder” project also revealed the key role that business sense plays when bringing a show to life, said Bashar Zaidat, a rising senior. “I had always thought that you have an idea, you write a script, you get some actors and it just sort of manifests,” he said. “I didn’t think about the business side — pitching the idea to different theaters, raising start-up costs and planning advertising. I learned a lot about the longitudinal path this process often takes.” William Zhou, a Class of 2020 graduate, added: “So much thought and intention goes into every single decision. It made me appreciate just how much goes into making the media I enjoy.” A lasting impact Participating in the workshops also provided students with insights that they will take into their respective careers — both in the theater world and beyond. For Confino-Pinzon, seeing the diverse skill set that theater producers draw upon piqued her interest in one day becoming one. “Usually in theater we see that people are in two different camps — either you're on the creative side or you're making sure the show runs,” she said. “This experience really opened my eyes to how the role of producer blurs the line between what is creative and what is production. The fact that they’re involved in a little bit of both made me excited to step into that role one day.” As an independent concentrator who is studying computational neuroscience, Zaidat said the insights he has gained into a producer’s role offer valuable lessons for any career. “I think a lot of the same skills and lessons I've learned through this experience — like recognizing both the small details and the need to sometimes step back and see the big picture — will serve me well no matter what path I go down,” he said. This experience really opened my eyes to how the role of producer blurs the line between what is creative and what is production. The fact that they’re involved in a little bit of both made me excited to step into that role one day. Elana Confino-Pinzon BrownConnect Summer Institute Participant, Class of 2020 Graduate For Sabel, who hopes to direct new plays after graduation, the experience has offered a look at the types of challenges and opportunities that arise when developing new plays for the world’s biggest stages. “This has been such a cool peek into a very large-scale, real-world version of our theater experiences at Brown,” she said. Francesca Sabel, Class of 2021 It also complemented the emphasis on innovative, collaborative problem-solving that Sabel says has characterized her learning experiences at Brown. “In high school, you very much need to have the right, smartest and fastest answer,” she said. “Something like this project totally disproves that method of thinking. Nobody's first comment is going to be the best comment because actually it takes five people asking, 'What if?' and 'Oh! What about these things?' to get to some interesting compromise.” For Zhou — who will soon begin work at Bain and Company, a Boston-based consulting firm — the project’s lessons about innovative collaboration transcend the stage. “This experience reminded me to always remain creative — even in a more traditional line of work, to not restrict yourself and to bring together different ideas,” he said. “When we were all brainstorming [with Jill], some of the suggestions people shared were amazing, and the way we were feeding off each other’s energy — I felt like, if we were to continue doing this, we'd be able to come up with a really incredible show. I want to continue harnessing that energy in my work.” The workshop series on “Wonder” was one of roughly 100 projects run by Brown alumni and parents this year through the BrownConnect Summer Institute. Organized by the Center for Careers and Life after Brown (CareerLAB) and the President’s Advisory Council on Internships, this free virtual institute provided professional insights and experiences in a wide range of fields to more than 1,100 students and new graduates — many whose original research, internships and professional plans were derailed by pandemic-related closings. Participants had the opportunity to sign up for an array of projects — from drafting a social justice reform memo for a judge, to proposing a business venture to the CEO of a start-up, to writing a medical case report for a patient with COVID-19. For Furman, choosing to invite students into the process of developing a new Broadway musical has been a boon as she makes early decisions about her production of “Wonder.” “The students are so creative and so curious,” she said. “It has been both helpful and fun for me to hear their reactions and ideas.” Besides, she added, “When I was in college, I would have loved this.” Related News: Summer Experiences Health and Medicine Parisa Afsharian: Translating research into actionable health advice August 18, 2021 As a Hassenfeld Summer Scholar, Afsharian is researching the connection between language and health outcomes – and using her multilingualism to improve the health of families. Read Article Open details for Parisa Afsharian: Translating research into actionable health advice Social Sciences Josh Bricker: Investigating whether low public defender spending explains high incarceration rates August 12, 2021 As a summer research assistant, the rising senior is analyzing decades of data to investigate whether increasing spending on state public defender programs could lower America’s uniquely high incarceration rate. Read Article Open details for Josh Bricker: Investigating whether low public defender spending explains high incarceration rates Student Life Sarah Zylberfuden: Making connections in canine cognition July 28, 2021 With dogs important contributors in everything from rescue operations to assisting people with disabilities, the rising senior is spending her summer in a Brown laboratory researching the reasoning abilities of man’s best friend. Read Article Open details for Sarah Zylberfuden: Making connections in canine cognition Student Life Whitney Terrill: Aligning personal insurance with collective good July 21, 2021 As a member of B-Lab — the Nelson Center for Entrepreneurship’s summer startup accelerator — Terrill is developing the Reem Company, an insurance carrier that benefits the greater good, as outlined by her Islamic faith. Read Article Open details for Whitney Terrill: Aligning personal insurance with collective good Arts and Humanities Halle Bryant: Indexing Rhode Island’s Indigenous history July 14, 2021 The Class of 2021 graduate is working with Rhode Island’s Tomaquag Museum to index 1930s issues of a Native American magazine that sheds light on the lives of Indigenous people in New England and beyond. Read Article Open details for Halle Bryant: Indexing Rhode Island’s Indigenous history Student Life Pre-college programs at Brown offer high school students the chance to learn on campus or online July 8, 2021 The first in-person [email protected] sessions since COVID-19’s arrival are welcoming nearly 800 high school students to campus this summer, while many others participate virtually from across the globe. Read Article Open details for Pre-college programs at Brown offer high school students the chance to learn on campus or online Arts and Humanities Jeremy Chan: Gamifying the scramble for Africa July 7, 2021 As a teaching assistant in the history course African Experiences of Empire, Chan is designing board games that deepen students’ knowledge of everyday life in sub-Saharan Africa as European powers were seizing control. Read Article Open details for Jeremy Chan: Gamifying the scramble for Africa Student Life Justin Li: Keeping Pride alive in Providence during a challenging year June 30, 2021 Brown-RISD dual degree student Justin Li led efforts to revive Pride Month activities in Rhode Island this year after challenges related to COVID-19 threatened to cancel the longstanding tradition. Read Article Open details for Justin Li: Keeping Pride alive in Providence during a challenging year Student Life BrownConnect Summer Institute: Adapting a beloved novel into a Broadway play August 20, 2020 As part of the BrownConnect Summer Institute, Brown students and recent graduates considered the creative and practical challenges of transforming the bestselling novel “Wonder” into a Broadway musical. Read Article Open details for BrownConnect Summer Institute: Adapting a beloved novel into a Broadway play Health and Medicine Cesar Orduña: Delivering free virus tests to Rhode Island’s underserved August 12, 2020 Since May, a Brown senior and other students have played an instrumental role in providing COVID-19 tests to low-income, uninsured Rhode Island residents, many of whom are working on the front lines amid a global pandemic. Read Article Open details for Cesar Orduña: Delivering free virus tests to Rhode Island’s underserved Student Life Emily Ma and Liyuan Ao: Helping rural teens find their voices August 7, 2020 With support from a Royce fellowship, two undergraduate students are teaching middle-schoolers in rural China how to express themselves and transform their communities through photography. Read Article Open details for Emily Ma and Liyuan Ao: Helping rural teens find their voices Arts and Humanities Ali Dipp: Building a platform for ‘borderlanders’ in the Southwest August 6, 2020 Through digital marketplaces, murals and storytelling, the Brown-RISD dual degree student and El Paso, Texas, native seeks to celebrate the unique character of the Southwest. Read Article Open details for Ali Dipp: Building a platform for ‘borderlanders’ in the Southwest Tags Summer Experiences The College Summer Experience Stories Every May, Brown students leave their coursework behind to pursue a wealth of transformative summer opportunities — a tradition that has continued remotely during the current COVID-19 moment. Summer Experiences Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Snapchat Twitter YouTube Social Media Directory © Brown University Brown University For You Current Students Faculty Staff Parents & Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Featured Events For Journalists Topics Arts and Humanities Environment Health and Medicine News and Events Science and Technology Social Sciences Student Life University Initiatives Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events For You Give to Brown All of Brown.edu People News Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search BrownConnect Summer Institute: Adapting a beloved novel into a Broadway play Open details for BrownConnect Summer Institute: Adapting a beloved novel into a Broadway play Bookmark this Page