Skip navigation Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Brown Grad School About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Graduate School Academics & Research Distinctive Opportunities Interdisciplinary Opportunities in the Humanities and Social Sciences Graduate School Skip to Navigation Interdisciplinary Opportunities in the Humanities and Social Sciences Hear about participants' experiences.Brown offers interdisciplinary opportunities to support advanced graduate students in the humanities and social sciences. These opportunities provide an enhanced context for advanced doctoral students, allowing them to engage in the activities of interdisciplinary Centers and Institutes at Brown. They are designed to embed students in a community of scholars, with professional development and research opportunities, in order to support students as they complete their degrees and launch their careers. The Graduate School anticipates supporting approximately 16 fellows through this initiative each year, with most Centers and Institutes hosting one fellow. Only students in the humanities and social sciences who will be entering their 5th or 6th year of doctoral study in 2022-2023 are eligible. Interested students should submit the Interdisciplinary Opportunity Application to the Graduate School by February 7, 2022 through UFunds under “Graduate School Humanities and Social Sciences Advanced Student Funding.” Please review the descriptions for each opportunity below as some programs may require additional application materials. Application Components: For students submitting applications to two centers, two applications are required. Student Application in UFUNDS includes: - Dissertation Project Description - Dissertation Completion Plan - CV Recommender form in UFUNDS includes (applicant enters the appropriate email addresses; recommenders will receive an email with the form): - Faculty Advisor: Letter of Support - DGS: Brief Message of Support and Confirmation of Good Standing Application 2022-2023 Opportunities Center for Latin American and Caribbean Studies (CLACS) Center for the Study of Race and Ethnicity in America (CSREA) Center for the Study of Slavery and Justice (CSSJ) Institute at Brown for Environment and Society (IBES) John Carter Brown Library (JCB) John Nicholas Brown Center for Public Humanities Joukowsky Institute for Archeology and the Ancient World Pembroke Center Population Studies and Training Center (PSTC) Sheridan Center for Teaching and Learning University Library Watson Institute for International and Public Affairs The Center for Latin American and Caribbean Studies (CLACS) invites applications for up to two one-year Interdisciplinary Opportunity fellowships as part of its Mellon Sawyer Seminar Rethinking the Dynamic Interplay of Migration, Race, and Ethnicity in the Caribbean and Latin America. The funding for the seminar was originally awarded for events to be held over the course of the 2021-2022 academic year, but the Center has extended its duration due to the impacts of COVID-19. The Seminar, which will include periodic workshops, performances, exhibits, and other events, explores the dynamic interplay of migration, race, and ethnicity in the region. Fellows will contribute to the Seminar by collaborating with the Center’s Director and staff to coordinate workshops and other related events; design and plan graduate and undergraduate student involvement in the Seminar, as well as community outreach; conduct research related to Seminar activities; and write up summaries of the events. The fellows will meet regularly with the Center Director, staff, and steering committee members. The Interdisciplinary Opportunity positions aim to build communication, creative problem-solving, analytical, research, and management skills. Fellows will be appointed to a Proctorship for Fall and Spring, with a half-time service appointment over the two semesters. Office space at the Center may be available. Back to top. The Center for the Study of Race and Ethnicity in America (CSREA) is able to host up to two fellows. The contact person for this program is the director, Tricia Rose. This fellowship is for 5th or 6th year graduate students in any humanities or social science department or program whose dissertation is focused on questions related to issues of race, ethnicity or indigeneity in the United States or in a transnational/comparative framework that includes the U.S. This fellowship is designed for students who believe that they could benefit from an interdisciplinary environment where their research is supported and who wish to support the research associated with CSREA. All fellows at CSREA will be expected to share their research and consistently attend the CSREA Fellows Seminar, which meets approximately five times a semester and includes faculty fellows and postdoctoral fellows. In addition, we expect our graduate fellows to spend regular time at CSREA, to be active and regular participants in seminars, workshops and lectures organized by CSREA. Back to top. The Center for the Study of Slavery and Justice (CSSJ) is able to host up to two fellows. The contact person for this program is the director, Anthony Bogues. The CSSJ is a center which examines the historical forms of slavery, the ways that these forms have shaped the modern world and how questions of freedom and justice have been generated by this historical condition. The CSSJ also focuses on contemporary forms of human bondage. It has a public humanities program which consists of exhibition and series of public lectures. The CSSJ research program circles around the following research clusters: forms of contemporary human bondage; scholarship on the historic forms of slavery; the relationship between slavery, colonialism and democracy; the relationship between race, slavery and capitalism; and curating an international exhibition on slavery and colonialism with international partners. The center hosts a vibrant interdisciplinary research cluster on race, slavery and medical knowledges. The CSSJ seeks 5th or 6th year graduate students whose research areas falls broadly within any of these clusters. Graduate students who are focusing on questions of historical injustice and racial slavery in any part of the contemporary world are also encouraged to apply. Responsibilities of the fellowship will include coordination and participation in the on-going seminar series of the center and present their research at the center during the fellowship period. The primary focus of the fellow should be to complete his or her dissertation, present it to the Center, and collaborate with the center faculty and staff in developing and participating in programming. Back to top. Institute at Brown for Environment and Society is able to host up to three fellows. The contact person for this program is Jeanne Loewenstein. IBES offers fellowships for 5th or 6th year graduate students in the humanities and humanistic social sciences who have an interest in the intersections between their research and environmental scholarship. Successful applicants will be hosted in the Building for Environmental Research and Teaching and expected to occupy their office on a regular basis. They should plan to attend as many IBES sponsored seminars as possible. As a group, the successful applicants will be asked to develop and deliver a short writing workshop open to IBES graduate and undergraduate students. They may also be asked to provide guest classes in ENVS courses from time to time. Applicants must be in good standing and address in their application the ways in which their dissertation connects with environmental, natural and social science research. They must also supply a transcript and arrange to have a short letter or email from their dissertation advisor supporting the application sent to Jeanne Loewenstein by the application date of Jan 30. Back to top. John Carter Brown Library is able to host one fellow. The contact person for this program is Pedro Germano Leal, Assistant Director for Digital Initiatives. The John Carter Brown (JCB) Library fellow should have a dissertation topic that relates to the early history and culture of the Americas and whose research and writing would benefit from privileged and sustained access to the resources of the John Carter Brown Library, one of the world’s most renowned collections of early Americana. While primarily engaged in dissertation research, fellows are expected to collaborate closely with leading curatorial experts on a Library project and be active and engaged members of the international community of scholars in residence at the Library. Fellows are appointed to a half-time proctorship both semesters. Applicants may be invited for an interview. Back to top. John Nicholas Brown Center for Public Humanities and Cultural Heritage is able to host up to two fellows. The contact person for this program is the Director, Dietrich Neumann. The John Nicholas Brown Center for Public Humanities proposes to host up to two advanced graduate students as Graduate Fellows. Selected students will be active participants in the intellectual life of the Center and invited to join and share their scholarship at Fellows’ meetings and in a lunch talk. Students will be primarily engaged in dissertation research and writing, with mentoring available from the Center’s post-doctoral fellows, assistant directors, faculty and community fellows, and director. In addition, the student will join one or more on-going projects at the Center. Students might help plan a conference, collaborate on exhibits, performances, or other public programs; assist with a digital public humanities project; engage with the community partnership program; or collaborate with the director on national and international projects. These opportunities will help students showcase their experience for academic or non-academic job searches. The Graduate Fellows will not take full responsibility for any project but will, in consultation with the Center director, use about 10% of their time to gain important skills in Public Humanities. The Center seeks students with experience in Public Humanities, with an MA or Graduate Certificate in Public Humanities, but would accept a student who could present equivalent experience while a student or prior to graduate school. Fellows will be offered shared space at the Center. These opportunities are designed to give PhD students in-depth knowledge and experience in the field of Public Humanities, a field that often calls for digital skills, expertise in interacting with communities, project management, and the conception and execution of public projects. Back to top. Joukowsky Institute for Archeology and the Ancient World is able to host up to two fellows. The contact person for this program is Sarah Sharpe. The Joukowsky Institute for Archaeology and the Ancient World welcomes students from a wide range of fields to join in and extend our interdisciplinary conversations and scholarship. Any student who sees a compelling connection between his or her research interests and a relevant aspect of material culture studies is encouraged to apply. They are looking for applicants who make a persuasive case for how their disciplinary perspectives and skill sets would mesh with, diversify, and enhance Institute events, exhibit space, and/or teaching. While some familiarity with either material culture or the Mediterranean, whether in the distant or recent past, is encouraged as a shared basis for interdisciplinary dialogues, they welcome and indeed look for other disciplinary backgrounds in, for instance, visual arts, anthropology, public humanities, environmental studies, theater, materials engineering, and many others. Students are invited to propose, and then to realize—ideally in collaboration with members of the Institute—a course, exhibition, public research project or publication, seminar series, or combination of these, that would make a distinctive contribution to the wide-ranging curriculum and dynamic intellectual and social life of the Joukowsky Institute. Students will be appointed to a TAship or project-based proctorship in one term and a fellowship in the alternate term. Active participation in Institute events and activities is expected. Fellows will be offered shared space, and the opportunity for discussion about and feedback on their own scholarship. Back to top. Pembroke Center for Teaching and Research on Women is able to host up to three fellows. The contact for this program is the Director of the Gender and Sexuality Studies Graduate Certificate Program, Denise Davis. The Pembroke Center is a feminist research center devoted to critical scholarship on the struggles faced by people across national and transnational contexts whose gender identity or sexual orientation make them targets of epistemological, medical, economic, ontological, and other social violence. Since its founding in 1981, the Pembroke Center has sought to confront societal challenges across borders by interrogating the foundations of categories used to differentiate and hierarchize individuals and groups—including gender, sexuality, race, ethnicity, religion, nationality, citizenship, and class—and how those categories intersect and mutually produce each other. The Pembroke Center invites applications from 5th- or 6th-year graduate students. This fellowship is designed for students who would benefit from interdisciplinary teaching experience or from experience working at an interdisciplinary academic journal. Up to two will serve as teaching assistants for the Introduction to Gender and Sexuality Studies class in spring 2023 (20 hours per week), with the fall 2022 semester being a research fellowship. Candidates familiar with critical methods and foundational questions in GNSS preferred. One fellow will serve as an editorial assistant for differences; this will be a half-time position (10 hours a week) for two semesters. The journal proctor will work closely with the editors on submissions as well as assist with editorial tasks and researching special issue ideas. Candidates should be versed in critical or cultural theory and interested in current trends and debates in the humanities. Excellent writing skills in English are essential. Applicants’ preferences, where indicated, will be taken into consideration. Proctors will be encouraged but not required to participate in Pembroke Center programming, including the Pembroke Research Seminar, which will be led in 2022–23 by Professor Aliyyah Abdur-Rahman and titled “In the Afterlives and Aftermaths of Ruin.” Back to top Population Studies and Training Center (PTSC) is able to host up to three fellows. The contact person for this program is the Training Program Director, Zhenchao Qian. The PSTC welcomes applications from 5th or 6th year students in the social sciences. Applicants will be selected based on the quality of their research and its contribution to population studies. Priority will be given to students who have shown interest in and commitment to population studies through prior participation in the PSTC training program and population-related coursework. Fellows will be expected to be in residence in Providence, and to regularly work in the PSTC. They will be provided desk space with a computer and computing support. They will be expected to participate in the intellectual life of the Center through attending the weekly seminar series and participating in workshops and relevant working groups. In addition, they will contribute no more than eight hours a week over the course of the academic year to support PSTC research, teaching, and training activities. The nature of the activities will be individually negotiated in order to appropriately contribute to the professional development of the student. These activities could include research or teaching support, coordinating workshops or working groups, assisting with preparation of IRB applications in the student's general research area, working with the Center Director or Associate Director to prepare data for center grant applications, or assisting faculty with organizing a conference in the student's general research area. Back to top. The Sheridan Center for Teaching and Learning, which includes the Writing Center and English Language Support program, is able to support up to two fellows with interest in the Writing Center and/or English Language Support. Fellows should specify on their application what specific position(s) within the Sheridan Center for which they would like to be considered. Writing Center. The fellow will be interested in pedagogies of teaching writing one-to-one, teaching writing across the curriculum, program administration, and/or program assessment. The contact people for this program are the Assistant Directors of the Writing Center Charles Carroll and Jessica Tabak -- applicants are welcome to reach out with any questions before the application deadline. Applicants will be selected based on their experience working with writers at the college level and their demonstrated commitment to pedagogies of access and inclusion. Priority will be given to those who have experience with Sheridan programs (such as completion of Certificate I, work as a Writing Associate, Teaching Consultant, or other Sheridan experience) and/or previous experience working at another institution's writing center or peer writing tutors program. Applicants without experience working in a writing center should be able to demonstrate a basic knowledge of the work and mission of writing centers. With the Interdisciplinary Opportunities application, applicants should also submit a teaching philosophy statement. Though the particulars of this opportunity will be negotiated with the successful candidate in order to best pair with their professional development goals and objectives, possible responsibilities may include: developing open-access resource materials for teaching writing across the curriculum, collaborating on professional development and DEI initiatives for Writing Center Associates and Writing Fellows, providing direct mentorship to undergraduate writing tutors, developing and implementing writing workshops and retreats for undergraduate and/or graduate students, or participating in programming for the Writing Center and Writing Fellows Program. The successful fellow will be appointed to a full-year, half-time proctorship (10 hours per week). Active participation in the Writing Center’s Leadership Committee, monthly professional development meetings, and various outreach activities will be expected. English Language Support (ELS). The fellow will be interested in working with Brown’s international and multilingual communities on all aspects of English language acquisition and usage, including written and oral communication, and cultural considerations. The contact person for this position is Anne Kerkian, Senior Associate Director for Writing and English Language Support -- applicants are welcome to reach out with any questions before the application deadline. In addition to the other requisite materials, applicants should submit a statement of teaching philosophy. The fellow will be appointed to a full-year 10 hour per week proctorship. Students in any humanities or social sciences discipline and of all language backgrounds are welcome to apply. Priority will be given to those who have experience with Sheridan programs (such as completion of Certificate I, work as a Writing Associate, or other experience) and/or previous experience working with students or diverse populations. Under the mentorship of the ELS team, the Fellow will engage with best practices in teaching English to speakers of other languages (TESOL) and cross-cultural communication while being given creative freedom to design and deliver support for Brown’s multilingual population. Though the particulars of this opportunity will be negotiated with the successful candidate in order to best pair with their professional development goals and objectives, possible responsibilities may include: one-on-one work with students to provide individualized support, program development and assessment, or collaboration with other campus supports. In addition to enhancing English language and inclusivity initiatives on campus, the Fellow will gain valuable professional experience that is broadly applicable on increasingly global campuses. Back to top. University Library is able to host a fellow in the Center for Digital Scholarship The Center for Digital Scholarship (CDS) is able to host one fellow. The contact person for this program is Deputy University Librarian Nora Dimmock. The Center for Digital Scholarship (CDS) invites applications from students whose dissertation research and scholarly interests involve the use of digital tools and methods. The fellow will receive training and assistance from CDS’s staff experts in digital scholarly methods and practices germane to their dissertation work (e.g., text mining, data visualization, data analysis, scientific data management, geospatial information, scholarly communications, web design, and digital publishing). Enhanced knowledge of and experience with digital scholarship methods and tools will provide the fellow with valuable skills for future research and teaching positions as well as other kinds of specialist academic employment opportunities. The fellow will be part of the CDS community and contribute to the Library’s dynamic environment for digital scholarship in a number of ways. They will be expected to be active and regular participants in CDS meetings and activities, help coordinate the Center’s workshop series and make a presentation on their own scholarly work, and participate as part of the CDS team in developing a faculty digital project. The anticipated time commitment is ten hours per week, and the fellow will be provided with office space within the Library. At the conclusion of the fellowship, the fellow will submit an evaluation of their experience, reflecting on substantive issues, needs and capabilities that might be appropriate for the Library’s future work with other graduate students and faculty in their research endeavors. Back to top. Watson Institute for International and Public Affairs is able to host up to five fellows. The contact people for this program are the Watson Institute Director Edward Steinfeld and Undergraduate Concentrations Manager Anita Nester. The Watson Institute welcomes students from a range of social-science fields to join in the interdisciplinary teaching and research of the institute. Watson looks for applicants who make a compelling case for how their disciplinary perspectives, research projects and teaching experience will contribute to and enhance the work of the institution, especially within its three research programs: development, governance and security. Selected students will have primary teaching responsibilities or serve as teaching assistants for courses in the International and Public Affairs (IAPA) concentration. Students will be on fellowship in the alternate term. Interested students should indicate their preference and qualifications for these appointments. Active participation in the events and activities of the Watson Institute will be expected. Back to top. Home About the Graduate School Healthy Brown FAQs for Graduate Students Academics & Research Ph.D. Requirements Master's Requirements Fields of Study Post-Baccalaureate Research Education Program (PREP) Fifth-Year Master's Degree Concurrent Bachelor's/Master's Degrees Distinctive Opportunities Open Graduate Education Travel Research Funding Deans’ Faculty Fellows Program Interdisciplinary Opportunities Teaching Fellowships for Advanced Students Brown Executive Scholars Training Program Effective Performance Workshops Doctoral Certificates Graduate Advising and Mentoring Rules & Regulations Course Registration Research Professional Development Training Opportunities, Events & Tools Partnerships & Exchanges Living & Resources Financing & Support Admitted Students & Orientation Application Information For Graduate Students For Faculty and Staff Related Items Dissertation Completion Proposal Interdisciplinary Opportunities: 2015-2016 Students Interdisciplinary Opportunities: 2016-2017 Students Interdisciplinary Opportunities: 2017-2018 Students Brown University Brown University Graduate School Box 1867 Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-2600 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Resources Graduate School Handbook Academic Code CareerLAB Brown University Writing Center Sarah Doyle Center for Women and Gender Sheridan Center for Teaching & Learning Top Destinations Admission Inquiry Form Commencement Five-Year Ph.D. Support Open Graduate Education External Funding Application Process International Applicants