COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Alert File your 2022-2023 FAFSA now! The Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) allows you to apply for the full range of possible financial aid programs, including work-study, grants, and loans. Learn more! Financial Aid FAQs: COVID-19 Section Menu Home About Us Consumer Information Cost of Attendance Financial Aid Forms Financial Aid Policies International Students Scholarships Types of Aid Financial Aid FAQs Related to COVID-19 NOTE: This is a complex, challenging, and fluid situation which continues to evolve rapidly. All information is subject to change as deemed necessary by University leadership in accordance with guidance and recommendations issued by federal, state, and local public health and government officials. CARES/CRRSAA/ARP Act Emergency Relief Funding FAQs CARES/CRRSAA/ARP Act Reporting - HEERF How do I contact financial aid? To contact our financial aid staff 24/7/365, call us at (316) 978-3430 or chat with us at wichita.edu/OneStop. To meet with our financial aid staff, schedule a phone, Zoom, or Teams appointment at wichita.edu/finaidappt. To send documents to our office electronically, use the online Dropbox, accessible from your myWSU student portal. To mail documents to our office, send to: Office of Financial Aid 1845 Fairmount Street Wichita, KS 67260-0024 Financial difficulties/changes due to COVID-19 Because of the COVID-19 Pandemic, families may be experiencing a reduction of income or job loss. Changes in finances may greatly impact a family’s ability to pay for college. The Department of Education allows financial aid administrators to use Professional Judgment to re-evaluate financial aid eligibility when the family income changes. We may be able to use Professional Judgment on a case-by-case basis to make adjustments to the data used in calculating the estimated family contribution (EFC) to reflect these special circumstances. If your family is experiencing financial issues (such as the loss of a job, reduction of income, or other extenuating circumstance), related specifically to the impact of the pandemic or otherwise, and would like to discuss emergency financial aid options and/or information about the process of a Professional Judgment for the 2021–2022 academic year, schedule an appointment to meet with a financial aid advisor at wichita.edu/finaidappt. How does completely withdrawing from classes impact my financial aid? If you are considering dropping any or all of your classes and received financial aid, please contact one of our financial aid advisors, and we can advise you specifically for how your aid may be impacted. Due to the fact that federal financial aid is awarded based on your expected enrollment and anticipated costs for the full semester, if you do not complete the semester, the Office of Financial Aid is required to recalculate your financial aid eligibility based on your last date of attendance. If WSU is required to return more money than is available through any tuition refund, you will be billed and a hold will be placed on your account, which will prevent you from registering, obtaining copies of academic transcripts, or receiving your diploma. Additionally, withdrawing from classes may affect your future financial aid eligibility through the Satisfactory Academic Progress (SAP) policy. If you fall below SAP requirements, you will be placed on financial aid suspension and will have to file an appeal to be considered for future financial aid. For additional information regarding this policy visit here. We monitor SAP based on three measurements: Pace rate: Complete at least 67% of all attempted credit hours. Cumulative GPA: 2.00 required for undergraduate and 3.00 for graduate. Maximum time frame: Complete your course of study within 150% of the credit hours needed for your educational program. Furthermore, if you drop below half-time enrollment, Wichita State must report your change in enrollment to the National Student Clearinghouse. This could activate your 6-month grace period for federal student loan repayment. After 6 months of non-enrollment or under-enrollment has passed, arrangements for repayment must be made. How does dropping some (but not all) classes impact my financial aid? If you are considering dropping any or all of your classes and received financial aid, please contact one of our financial aid advisors, and we can advise you specifically for how your aid may be impacted. As mentioned above, withdrawing from classes may affect your future financial aid eligibility through the Satisfactory Academic Progress (SAP) policy. If you fall below SAP requirements, you will be placed on financial aid suspension and will have to file an appeal to be considered for future financial aid. For additional information regarding this policy visit here. We monitor SAP based on three measurements: Pace rate: Complete at least 67% of all attempted credit hours. Cumulative GPA: 2.00 required for undergraduate and 3.00 for graduate. Maximum time frame: Complete your course of study within 150% of the credit hours needed for your educational program. A partial withdrawal from classes could also result in the required return of some of your federal aid, depending on the types of aid you have received. Please contact our office directly to determine how your specific student account will be impacted. Is the Satisfactory Academic Progress for financial aid impacted by COVID-19? Satisfactory Academic Progress (SAP) is a federally regulated policy in which the Office of Financial Aid is required to monitor the academic progress of all students receiving federal financial aid. We monitor SAP each semester based on the following three measurements. COVID-19 may impact your SAP in the instance you no longer meet one of the following criteria: Pace rate: Complete at least 67% of all attempted credit hours. Cumulative GPA: 2.00 required for undergraduate and 3.00 for graduate. Maximum time frame: Complete your course of study within 150% of the credit hours needed for your educational program. If your failure to meet SAP after a specific term can be directly attributed to the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, please schedule an appointment to discuss your circumstances witha financial aid Satisfactory Academic Progress specialist at wichita.edu/finaidappt. 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©