Skip to main content University of Nevada, Las Vegas Students Faculty/Staff Alumni Donors Community Audiences Students Faculty/Staff Alumni Donors Community Topics About Academics Admissions Athletics Diversity Research Menu U-N-L-V Marketing & Branding Division of Integrated Marketing & Branding About Academics Admissions Athletics Diversity Research Find close Marketing & Branding menu Marketing & Branding Integrated Marketing & Branding Home About Our Work Our Brand What We Do Resources and Guides Contact close find region Find Search A-Z Index Directories Quick Links Bookstore Bookstore Calendar Calendar Campus Maps Campus Maps Degrees Degrees Libraries Libraries MyUNLV MyUNLV News Center News Center RebelCard RebelCard Rebelmail Rebelmail Social Media Social Media UNLV Mail UNLV Mail WebCampus WebCampus Loading Directories Home A-Z Index Colleges, Schools, and Departments Administrative Units Research Centers and Institutes Resources and Services Employee Directory Contact UNLV Social Media Directory UNLV Mobile Apps Breadcrumb UNLV Home Integrated Marketing & Branding Home What We Do Web & Digital Strategy Web & Digital Strategy We strive to build a world-class website to support our world-class university. Web Development We provide website development and maintenance for academic and administrative units at UNLV that effectively communicate and strategically align with the university’s pages. Submit a Work Request Build a New Website Review Our Process Web Strategy The Web & Digital Strategy unit delivers a world-class, user-centered web presence that supports UNLV's mission and strategic goals. We will ensure that UNLV’s diverse audiences are able to access the information they seek easily and equally. Embracing flexibility, new ideas and emerging technologies will allow the university to effectively showcase its people and quality work. Web Consultation Our team provides a variety of consulting services in areas such as digital marketing, content strategy, web analytics, web accessibility and user experience. Goals of Service Delivery Provide high-quality core services to the university community in a sustainable way. Incentivize campus units to work within the Web & Digital Strategy framework and not seek outside assistance that may damage the UNLV brand and result in poor web user experience. Services Provided Web and Digital Strategy’s core responsibility is to design, build and maintain the official UNLV website, including those of official academic and administrative units. In addition, our team provides a variety of consulting services in areas such as enterprise applications, digital marketing, content strategy, web analytics, web accessibility, and user experience. Excludes: Committees Centers Institutes Conferences Research projects Individual faculty and staff websites Student organizations Professional organizations UNLV Website Audiences Averaging 2.5 million pageviews per month, UNLV’s website is the University’s largest communication vehicle and oftentimes the primary source of information for both our internal and external audiences. We constantly try to improve our understanding of our audiences in order to better deliver the relevant, complete, and accurate information they seek in an easy-to-find manner. Primary Audiences Prospective students 85% of colleges and universities say that student recruitment is the key organizational goal for their website1 Secondary Audiences Current students Parents and family Faculty and staff Prospective employees Alumni Donors Community members Influencers (Opinion leaders and decision makers) Tertiary Audiences External researchers Peer institutions Partner organizations 1 TERMINALFOUR. 2018 Higher Education Digital Marketing & Web Survey. 2018. Resources Migration 2021 Web Writing Guidelines Qualtrics Survey Tool Accessibility Tips Policies and Standards Web Accessibility Web & Digital Strategy Policies & Procedures Advertising and Sponsorship Domain Name Requests Link Requests Web & Digital Strategy Strategic Plan Contact Deana Waddell Interim Senior Director of Web & Digital Strategy Phone: 702-895-5497 Email: deana.waddell@unlv.edu Provide Website Feedback Wellness Coronavirus Information Safety and Emergency University Statements and Compliance Web Accessibility Top Tier 2.0 Employment Visit Our Campus Campus Maps Parking Information News Center Contact UNLV University of Nevada, Las Vegas 4505 S. Maryland Pkwy. Las Vegas, NV 89154 Phone: 702-895-3011 Campus Notifications © 2022 UNLV Produced by UNLV Web & Digital Strategy UNLV.edu Privacy Statement Website Feedback Social Media at UNLV