Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site OVPRS Websites Research and Scholarship Home Research Development and Evaluation Research Capacity and Operations Research Administration Regulatory Affairs and Assessment Research Navigator Research Lifecycle 1. Get Started 2. Identify Funding Opportunities 3. Write Proposal 4. Submit Proposal 5. Conduct Research 6. Commercialize Work Learners Key Partners About Vice Provost for Research and Scholarship Leadership Administrative Areas Centers and Institutes Core Facilities and Shared Resources Sign up for a Listserv Events Calendar Contact Us Research Lifecycle Learners Key Partners About Site Feedback Search Patient Atlas REDCap Research Reporting System (RRS) StafaCT URIDE Velos eResearch Research Lifecycle 1. Get Started 2. Identify Funding Opportunities 3. Write Proposal 4. Submit Proposal 5. Conduct Research 6. Commercialize Work Learners Key Partners About Vice Provost for Research and Scholarship Leadership Administrative Areas Centers and Institutes Core Facilities and Shared Resources Sign up for a Listserv Events Calendar Contact Us Site Feedback OVPRS Websites Research and Scholarship Home Research Development and Evaluation Research Capacity and Operations Research Administration Regulatory Affairs and Assessment Research Navigator Patient Atlas REDCap Research Reporting System (RRS) StafaCT URIDE Velos eResearch $sLabel Home About Research and Scholarship Administrative Areas RCO Research Information Technology StafaCT AAA StafaCT Patient Atlas REDCap Research Reporting System (RRS) StafaCT URIDE Velos eResearch Overview System is used to manage the processing and storage of blood, cellular therapy , tissue and organ products and is governed by the International Society of Blood Transfusion (ISTB) and follows the ISBT 128 Standard. The objective of the ISBT 128 Standard is to provide: Unique global identification of blood, cellular therapy, tissue and organ products An internation reference table for product descriptions Label designs that are consistent worldwide Improvement in the quality, safety and traceability of the blood, cellular therapy, tissue, and organ products. Access to StafaCT & Training Please note that you must complete a StafaCT Access Request Form to log into this application. Hyperlink to form (need link to insert here). Training requirements can be found at http://uresearch.miami.edu/orim/. StafaCT Login For more information on the StafaCT system please contact: The Research Intelligence & Data Infrastructure support line 305-243-2314 or email resinfo@med.miami.edu. University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 305-284-2211 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices