Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content News Contact Us Experts Latest News Latest News 2021 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 Broadcast Studio Research ☰ SMU SMU News Featured News Featured News Education policy and law scholar Jason Nance named new dean of SMU Dedman School of Law May 27, 2022 Jason P. Nance, an education policy and law scholar who studies inequalities in public education, has been named the Judge James Noel Dean at SMU’s Dedman School of Law. Academic Leader Robin Poston to Join SMU as Dean of Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies May 26, 2022 Robin Suzanne Poston, vice provost and dean of the Graduate School at the University of Memphis, has been named dean of SMU’s Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies and associate provost for graduate education. She will assume her position at SMU on Monday, Aug. 15. On the second anniversary of the death of George Floyd May 25, 2022 Maria Dixon Hall, Chief Diversity Officer and Special Advisor to the President for Campus Cultural Intelligence Initiatives, looks at changes, challenges and new sorrows two years after the death of George Floyd rocked our country. SMU Student Senate to Fund Scholarships for West Dallas STEM School Attendees, Rotunda Scholars Austin Hickle, student body president, leaves ‘legacy of opportunity’ May 24, 2022 The 2021-2022 Student Senate has created two need-based scholarships –one to help students from the SMU-supported Dallas ISD West Dallas STEM school, who will begin applying to college in four years, and one to help students in SMU’s Rotunda Scholars Program. As president of the SMU student body, Austin Hickle was determined to inspire other student leaders to leave a legacy of opportunity for future SMU students faced with economic challenges. Professor, World-Renowned Singer Barbara Hill Moore Receives SMU Faculty Career Achievement Award May 23, 2022 With an SMU career spanning nearly five decades in the Meadows School of the Arts, Barbara Hill Moore has been named the recipient of the 2022 Faculty Career Achievement Award for her contributions to the teaching, scholarship, and service missions of the University. SMU Presents Honorary Degree to Pioneering Dallas Civic and Arts Leader Anita N. Martinez May 19, 2022 SMU presented the honorary Doctor of Humane Letters degree to longtime Dallas leader Anita N. Martinez at SMU’s May 14 commencement ceremonies, honoring her dedication to enriching the civic and cultural life of the city. Longtime Music Educator Charles Aguillon Appointed Director of Mustang Band and Spirit Squads May 19, 2022 SMU welcomes a new director of the Mustang Band with the selection of Charles Aguillon. Currently the director of Fine Arts and Academic Enrichment for the Lake Travis Independent School District in Austin, Aguillon will on July 1 take the helm of SMU’s band while also overseeing the cheer and pom teams, SMU’s live mascot, Peruna, and the Peruna Handlers. SMU remembers renowned SMU alumnus Chester John “Don” Donnally, Jr. ’67, ’68 May 19, 2022 SMU mourns the loss of Chester John “Don” Donnally, Jr. ’67, ’68, who passed away at his home on May 15, 2022. Donnally is remembered as a longtime supporter of SMU, a leader in the financial services industry for more than four decades and a nationally recognized member of the Sigma Alpha Epsilon (SAE) fraternity, which he served through active fundraising and mentorship efforts for over 50 years. His contributions and dedication to SAE led to the construction and ongoing success of the SAE House on SMU’s campus. A message from Dr. Turner and Dr. Dixon Hall regarding the recent racial violence in East Buffalo and North Dallas May 16, 2022 SMU Breaks Ground on Extensive Expansion And Renovation of Cox School of Business SMU is celebrating the future of the Cox School of Business and its role as a driver of Dallas innovation, breaking ground today on a $140 million renovation and expansion project designed to train students for a collaborative and technologically integrated world. May 06, 2022 The two-year project will expand the school’s footprint by more than 30 percent, with the construction of four new buildings connecting the existing facilities into cohesive space that supports collaboration within the Cox School and across the campus, as well as with the Dallas business community. AT AGE 85, THIS 2022 SMU GRADUATE IS READY TO AIM HER DIPLOMA AT A NEW CAREER AS A SCREENWRITER Marillyn Seeberger shattered glass ceilings in the Dallas advertising industry – but never received a degree until now May 05, 2022 Sixty-eight years later, she is fulfilling her dream to go to college, earning a B.A. in film and media arts from SMU with plans to write screenplays. Longtime Faculty Member Paul Krueger to Serve as Interim Dean of SMU's Lyle School of Engineering The search for the permanent Lyle School of Engineering Dean will begin in fall 2022 and Krueger will serve until a new permanent dean is appointed. May 03, 2022 Paul Krueger, department chair and professor of mechanical engineering, has been named interim dean of SMU’s Lyle School of Engineering. He begins his duties June 1 following the departure of current Dean Marc P. Christensen, who is leaving SMU to become the 17th president of Clarkson University in Potsdam, New York. Thomas Mayo to Serve as Interim Dean of SMU Dedman School of Law Thomas Mayo, a nationally recognized authority on medical ethics, award-winning law professor, and community servant, has been named interim dean of SMU’s Dedman School of Law April 28, 2022 Thomas Mayo will serve in that capacity while a University committee conducts a national search to replace current Dean Jennifer Collins, who is leaving SMU to become president of Rhodes College in Memphis on July 1. Driving innovation William S. Spears is strengthening entrepreneurial leadership through new Cox School institute April 28, 2022 Celebrated energy expert and philanthropist William S. Spears has made the largest gift by a non-alumnus in the history of SMU, a commitment that will establish the William S. Spears Institute for Entrepreneurial Leadership in the SMU Cox School of Business. ‘Access SMU’ Scholarships to Cover the Cost of College for Texas’ Highest Performing Students From Families With Limited Incomes SMU Program to close financial gaps for academically gifted Pell Grant recipients April 19, 2022 Access SMU will break financial barriers to college entry and graduation – first for academically talented Texas students, with the goal to later expand the investment in more students who need help paying for college. New Program at SMU Assists Military Service Members and Veterans with Transition to the Classroom, Workforce Eight-week program launching in April offers SMU graduate, certificate courses April 11, 2022 Making new strides with Washburne Soccer and Track Stadium April 08, 2022 Ushering in an exciting new addition to the Hilltop and Mustang Athletics, SMU celebrated the dedication of the new Washburne Soccer and Track Stadium on April 8, 2022. Led by a principal gift from Ray W. Washburne ’84 and Heather H. Washburne, the stadium was made possible by the University’s Mustang fans, generous donors and spirited alumni. Dallas Morning News Publisher Grant Moise to Deliver SMU's Commencement Address The outdoor ceremony, scheduled for 9 a.m. at Gerald J. Ford Stadium, will be streamed live. April 08, 2022 Grant Moise, publisher and president of the Dallas Morning News, will be the featured speaker at SMU’s May Commencement Convocation on Saturday, May 14. Ten Dallas County Students Awarded Full-Tuition Scholarships to SMU “These scholarships can be life-changing for the recipients, and bring such amazing students to our campus.” March 31, 2022 SMU Lyle School of Engineering Dean Marc P. Christensen named President of Clarkson University March 24, 2022 Marc P. Christensen, dean of SMU’s Lyle School of Engineering and Bobby B. Lyle Professor of Engineering Innovation, has been named the 17th president of Clarkson University, a private research institution with more than 4,600 students based in Potsdam, New York. SMU to remain test-optional for fall ’23 and spring ’24 SMU will remain test-optional for first-year undergraduate applicants seeking admission and scholarships for both fall 2023 and spring 2024. March 18, 2022 SMU Cox School of Business Dean Matthew Myers Reappointed to Five-Year Term Announcement Matthew Myers has been reappointed to serve five additional years in his position as dean of the Edwin L. Cox School of Business at SMU. March 08, 2022 Myers joined SMU as dean in August 2017. He also holds the Tolleson Chair of Business Leadership and is the David B. Miller Endowed Professor in Business. Leading the future of SMU data science March 03, 2022 A $2 million gift from the O’Donnell Foundation will name and endow the Peter O’Donnell, Jr. Director of the Data Science Institute at SMU. The gift will support the University's strategic vision to expand research in this rapidly growing discipline by building on previous SMU investments in data science. Advancing Baptist ministry training at SMU The Baugh Foundation grants $2.7 million to Perkins Baptist House of Studies March 03, 2022 The Eula Mae and John Baugh Foundation awarded a $2.7 million, three-year grant to the Baptist House of Studies at the SMU Perkins School of Theology. The contribution will support approximately 10 full-time Baugh Scholars enrolled in Perkins master’s, Doctor of Ministry and Doctor of Pastoral Music degree programs. SMU Dallas literary festival brings compelling authors to city Free festival features Nikole Hannah-Jones and other authors on theme of ‘resilience’ March 02, 2022 SMU President R. Gerald Turner honored by Spain for promotion of country's arts and culture Decoration granted by King Felipe VI March 01, 2022 SMU President R. Gerald Turner received the Encomienda de la Orden de Isabel la Católica, a decoration granted by King Felipe VI of Spain, at a February 18 ceremony at SMU’s Meadows Museum. The decoration recognized Turner for his extraordinary civil character and accomplishments that have benefited Spain. Black History Month February 03, 2022 This February, let us remember, celebrate and make forever visible the contributions of all Black Americans. Diving into a new era of champions February 03, 2022 The addition of the Holt Hickman Outdoor Pool supports the SMU Ignited campaign goal of enhancing campus infrastructure and strengthening the North Texas community through competitive athletics and diverse programming and encouraging civic pride. Expanding SMU’s Gerald J. Ford Stadium The Garry Weber Foundation gives $50 million – the largest gift in the history of SMU Athletics – to create the Garry Weber End Zone Complex. January 21, 2022 The foundation established by former Mustang football letterman Garry A. Weber ’58 made the commitment in support of a $100 million drive for a new 192,500-square-foot complex at Gerald J. Ford Stadium, part of the $1.5 billion campaign, SMU Ignited: Boldly Shaping Tomorrow. Honoring Dr. King January 14, 2022 Let us all commit on this MLK Day to serve one another with acts of service that build our community not just for a single day, but for all the days to come. SMU senior awarded prestigious Marshall scholarship Isabelle Galko’s environmental activism sparked study of policy change December 17, 2021 SMU senior environmental science major Isabelle Galko is one of just 41 American university students named a Marshall Scholar for 2022, a prestigious opportunity to pursue graduate studies in the UK for distinguished young Americans with leadership potential. Which personality traits can be improved without personal motivation? Research says 'it depends' December 07, 2021 Could a company train an employee to become more conscientious, even if the worker isn’t invested in improving that trait? A new study suggests yes. But improving someone’s emotional stability without that person’s commitment is not likely to happen, says SMU psychology professor Nathan Hudson. SMU Law Dean named President of Rhodes College December 06, 2021 Jennifer Collins, Judge James Noel Dean and professor in SMU’s Dedman School of Law, has been named the new president of Rhodes College, a four-year private institution in Memphis with approximately 2,000 students. New high-resolution camera records holograms of hidden objects SMU and Northwestern collaborate on technology with defense, hazard identification and medical applications December 02, 2021 Researchers at SMU (Southern Methodist University) and Northwestern University are using new technology that enables cameras to record high-resolution images and holograms of objects that are hidden around corners, obscured from view and/or beyond the line of sight. Apply Visit School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share