Skip to main content Menu Resources Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply or Give Apply Now Make a Gift Summer Reading Common Reading Program This I Believe co-edited by Jay Allison and Dan Gediman has been selected for the Clemson Common Reading Program! An inspiring collection of the personal philosophies of a group of remarkable men and women Based on the National Public Radio series of the same name, This I Believe features eighty essayists—from the famous to the unknown—completing the thought that begins the book's title. Each piece compels readers to rethink not only how they have arrived at their own personal beliefs but also the extent to which they share them with others. Featuring a well-known list of contributors—including Isabel Allende, Colin Powell, Gloria Steinem, William F. Buckley Jr., Penn Jillette, Bill Gates, and John Updike—the collection also contains essays by a Brooklyn lawyer; a part-time hospital clerk from Rehoboth, Massachusetts; a woman who sells Yellow Pages advertising in Fort Worth, Texas; and a man who serves on the state of Rhode Island's parole board. The result is a stirring and provocative trip inside the minds and hearts of a diverse group of people whose beliefs—and the incredibly varied ways in which they choose to express them—reveal the American spirit at its best. *Copies of the book will be given to all new freshman and new transfer students! Convocation (August 21, 2017) In connection to the Common Reading Program, this year’s Convocation speaker will be Jay Allison! Jay Allison is an independent journalist and leader in public broadcasting. He produces The Moth Radio Hour and has created dozens of documentary programs and series. Over the past 35 years, he has been a frequent contributor to NPR news programs and This American Life, and is a six-time Peabody Award winner. He hosted and produced This I Believe on NPR and co-edited the bestselling companion books. He is founder of the public media websites, Transom.org and the Public Radio Exchange, and of WCAI, the public radio station on Cape Cod where Allison lives with his family. Schedule for Convocation 2017 *There will no longer be common reading facilitation sessions following Convocation Home Contact Us Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram