Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Explore Brown University Search Global Navigation Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering The Harriet W. Sheridan Center for Teaching and Learning Home About Programs & Services Teaching & Learning Resources Learning Collaborative News & Events Upcoming Events Past Events Newsletter Site Navigation Home About Staff Proctors and Head Teaching Consultants Teaching Consultants Sheridan Center Advisory Groups Departmental Liaisons Visit Staff Jobs at the Center Student Jobs at the Center Programs & Services Assessment Departmental Assessment Plans Campus Assessment Projects Assessing and Researching your Teaching Certificates Sheridan Teaching Seminar Course Design Seminar Teaching Consultant Program Head Teaching Consultants Invited Speaker Program Consultations Course Consultations Grant Consultations Teaching Observations Goals and Contexts Early Student Feedback Departmental Support Departmental Assessment Plans Learning Outcomes and Mapping English Language Support English Language Workshops Individual Support Conversation Partners Program English Language Program Fellowships & Awards Provost’s Faculty Teaching Fellows Graduate Student Proctorship in Academic Administration Graduate and Postdoc Teaching Fellows Junior Faculty Teaching Fellows University Awards Grant Support Institutes & Retreats Launch Anchor Problem Solving Course Design Institute Data Science Course Design Institute Seminar for Transformation Around Anti-Racist Teaching Orientations Tutoring Tutoring Supported Courses Summer 2022 Language Courses Apply to be a Tutor People Workshops & Roundtables Teaching Essentials for Graduate TAs Teaching Statements & Portfolios Sheridan-RISD Museum Collaborative Workshop Series Writing [email protected] Past [email protected] Programming Writing Center People Consultations FAQ Opportunities Writing Fellows People Courses English 1190M Outreach Apply Teaching & Learning Resources Teaching Resources Teaching in Times of Disruption Course Design Creating a Syllabus Resources for New Instructors Interpreting Your Course Feedback Evidence-based Practices Establishing Learning Goals Classroom Assessment Entrance and Exit Tickets Sample Exit Tickets Mid-Semester Feedback Guidelines for Assessing Student Learning Grading Criteria & Rubrics Creating Grading Criteria Designing Grading Rubrics Rubrics Criteria Rubrics Scales Enhancing Student Learning with Technology Promoting Study Skills Classroom Practices Learning Contexts First Day(s) of Class Lectures & Large Classes Discussions & Seminars Labs Active Learning Critical Reading Contemplative Pedagogy Promoting Metacognition Teaching with Podcasts Classroom Communication Tips Effective Multimedia Lecture Slides Teaching Problem Solving Writing to Learn Digital Teaching & Learning Working with TAs Teaching Writing Writing Fellows Courses Teaching a WRIT Course A Guide to the Writing Support (WSUP) Flag for Faculty Teaching Statements & Portfolios Mentoring Resources Effective Mentoring Practices Inclusive Teaching Anti-Racist Teaching Definitions Diversity & Inclusion Inclusive Mentoring Learning Collaborative Problem Solving Problem Solving Course Design Institute Problem Solving Fellows Research Writing Writing Across the Curriculum Seminar WAC Participants Writing Fellows People Courses English 1190M Apply Data Science Data Science Course Design Institute Data Science Fellows News & Events Upcoming Events Past Events Newsletter Past Events University Teaching Award Ceremony Monday, May 2, 2022 5:00 pm Pembroke Hall , 305 Please join us to celebrate the accomplishments of faculty and graduate students as instructors and mentors Science Fridays Friday, April 29, 2022 12:00 pm Are you interested in discussing ways to improve STEM education at Brown? Science Friday is a vibrant learning community, where STEM instructors and staff members share ideas, experiences, and challenges related to STEM education. In our first meeting for the semester, we will set community agreements and brainstorm topics for the semester. Please register. Spring Faculty Writing Group Friday, April 29, 2022 10:00 am The Sheridan Center invites faculty of any rank (including staff with faculty appointments) to participate in a Faculty Writing Group. Writing groups can be an invaluable source of motivation and accountability, and the Faculty Writing Group is a “guilt-free” group that prioritizes spending time in community and goal-setting together. Each group meeting begins with a brief goal-setting exercise and concludes with a short reflective conversation. Please register to receive the Zoom link for the session. Spring Faculty Writing Group Friday, April 22, 2022 10:00 am The Sheridan Center invites faculty of any rank (including staff with faculty appointments) to participate in a Faculty Writing Group. Writing groups can be an invaluable source of motivation and accountability, and the Faculty Writing Group is a “guilt-free” group that prioritizes spending time in community and goal-setting together. Each group meeting begins with a brief goal-setting exercise and concludes with a short reflective conversation. Please register to receive the Zoom link for the session. How I Support Internationally-Identifying Students Wednesday, April 20, 2022 12:00 pm Spring Faculty Writing Group Friday, April 15, 2022 10:00 am The Sheridan Center invites faculty of any rank (including staff with faculty appointments) to participate in a Faculty Writing Group. Writing groups can be an invaluable source of motivation and accountability, and the Faculty Writing Group is a “guilt-free” group that prioritizes spending time in community and goal-setting together. Each group meeting begins with a brief goal-setting exercise and concludes with a short reflective conversation. Please register to receive the Zoom link for the session. Science Fridays Friday, April 8, 2022 12:00 pm Are you interested in discussing ways to improve STEM education at Brown? Science Friday is a vibrant learning community, where STEM instructors and staff members share ideas, experiences, and challenges related to STEM education. This week, Dr. Jordan Kostiuk will facilitate a discussion on team-based inquiry learning and share ideas on implementing this strategy in MATH0520. Please register. Spring Faculty Writing Group Friday, April 8, 2022 10:00 am The Sheridan Center invites faculty of any rank (including staff with faculty appointments) to participate in a Faculty Writing Group. Writing groups can be an invaluable source of motivation and accountability, and the Faculty Writing Group is a “guilt-free” group that prioritizes spending time in community and goal-setting together. Each group meeting begins with a brief goal-setting exercise and concludes with a short reflective conversation. Please register to receive the Zoom link for the session. Spring Faculty Writing Group Friday, April 1, 2022 10:00 am The Sheridan Center invites faculty of any rank (including staff with faculty appointments) to participate in a Faculty Writing Group. Writing groups can be an invaluable source of motivation and accountability, and the Faculty Writing Group is a “guilt-free” group that prioritizes spending time in community and goal-setting together. Each group meeting begins with a brief goal-setting exercise and concludes with a short reflective conversation. Please register to receive the Zoom link for the session. Spring Faculty Writing Group Friday, March 25, 2022 10:00 am The Sheridan Center invites faculty of any rank (including staff with faculty appointments) to participate in a Faculty Writing Group. Writing groups can be an invaluable source of motivation and accountability, and the Faculty Writing Group is a “guilt-free” group that prioritizes spending time in community and goal-setting together. Each group meeting begins with a brief goal-setting exercise and concludes with a short reflective conversation. Please register to receive the Zoom link for the session. Science Fridays Friday, March 18, 2022 12:00 pm Spring Faculty Writing Group Friday, March 18, 2022 10:00 am The Sheridan Center invites faculty of any rank (including staff with faculty appointments) to participate in a Faculty Writing Group. Writing groups can be an invaluable source of motivation and accountability, and the Faculty Writing Group is a “guilt-free” group that prioritizes spending time in community and goal-setting together. Each group meeting begins with a brief goal-setting exercise and concludes with a short reflective conversation. Please register to receive the Zoom link for the session. Spring Faculty Writing Group Friday, March 11, 2022 10:00 am The Sheridan Center invites faculty of any rank (including staff with faculty appointments) to participate in a Faculty Writing Group. Writing groups can be an invaluable source of motivation and accountability, and the Faculty Writing Group is a “guilt-free” group that prioritizes spending time in community and goal-setting together. Each group meeting begins with a brief goal-setting exercise and concludes with a short reflective conversation. Please register to receive the Zoom link for the session. Liberate your Syllabus: A Hands On Workshop on How to Create an Anti-Racist Intersectional Classroom Environment Tuesday, March 8, 2022 12:00 pm In this workshop, Dr. Stephanie Jones will cover syllabi (re)construction which includes discussions and takeaways on: building classroom community, increasing classroom participation, holding tough conversations, calling out anti-black and ableist policies, and centering culturally relevant text selection. Please register for this event. Science Fridays Friday, March 4, 2022 12:00 pm Are you interested in discussing ways to improve STEM education at Brown? Science Friday is a vibrant learning community, where STEM instructors and staff members share ideas, experiences, and challenges related to STEM education. In our first meeting for the semester, we will set community agreements and brainstorm topics for the semester. Please register. Teaching and Learning from Teaching to Transgress Friday, March 4, 2022 12:00 pm This roundtable honors the author-activist bell hooks, who passed away in late 2021, with a focus on her book, Teaching to Transgress (originally published in 1994). Jessica Metzer, Senior Associate Director at the Sheridan Center, will open the roundtable with a discussion of Chapter 3 (“Embracing Change”). Next, three Brown faculty will showcase how they teach Teaching to Transgress in their undergraduate and graduate courses: jesús hernández (American Studies and Swearer Center), Ravit Reichman (English), and Jonathan Readey (Nonfiction Writing Program, English & Provost’s Faculty Teaching Fellow, Sheridan Center). Extensive Q&A and sharing of other teaching ideas will follow these brief presentations. Attendees are encouraged to pre-read Chapter 3 of Teaching to Transgress, which is available online to Brown community members. Please register. Spring Faculty Writing Group Friday, March 4, 2022 10:00 am The Sheridan Center invites faculty of any rank (including staff with faculty appointments) to participate in a Faculty Writing Group. Writing groups can be an invaluable source of motivation and accountability, and the Faculty Writing Group is a “guilt-free” group that prioritizes spending time in community and goal-setting together. Each group meeting begins with a brief goal-setting exercise and concludes with a short reflective conversation. Please register to receive the Zoom link for the session. Provost’s Teaching Innovation Series: The Call to Innovation: Hope, Joy, and Risk Thursday, March 3, 2022 12:00 pm Inaugural Provost’s Teaching Innovation Interactive Presentation Introductory Remarks by Provost Richard M. Locke Featuring Dr. Randall Bass, Ph.D. ’91, M.A. ’87 Curriculum Violence, Anti-Blackness, and Academic Rigor in the College Classroom Tuesday, March 1, 2022 12:00 pm In this presentation, Dr. Jones will expound upon the origins of curriculum violence in classrooms and its antiblackness roots–perspectives that are typically overlooked in professional development for faculty. We will consider these pressing questions together: How can the study of racialized trauma help fuel collective understandings of how curriculum violence is embedded in classrooms and often mistaken for academic rigor? What does it look like for educators and academics to engage in a process of reflecting upon their own pedagogical stances for the goal of racial justice and liberation? Please register for this event. Spring Faculty Writing Group Friday, February 25, 2022 10:00 am The Sheridan Center invites faculty of any rank (including staff with faculty appointments) to participate in a Faculty Writing Group. Writing groups can be an invaluable source of motivation and accountability, and the Faculty Writing Group is a “guilt-free” group that prioritizes spending time in community and goal-setting together. Each group meeting begins with a brief goal-setting exercise and concludes with a short reflective conversation. Please register to receive the Zoom link for the session. Pages 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 … next › last » News & Events Upcoming Events Past Events Newsletter The Sheridan Center The Sheridan Center Brown University Box 1912 Sciences Library 201 Thayer Street, 7th Floor Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-1219 Fax: 401-863-6976 Email [email protected] Facebook Facebook Brown University Giving to Brown Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA 401-863-1000 Contact Us Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility All Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top