Skip to content Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Search Faculty & Staff Apply Visit Request Info Academics Undergraduate Study Graduate Study Certificates of Advanced Study Maxwell-in-Washington Non-Degree Programs and Short-Format Courses Workplace Training Departments Admission & Financial Aid Undergraduate Admission & Financial Aid Graduate Admission & Financial Aid Non-Degree Program Admission Research Centers & Institutes Faculty Books Research News Research Support Services News Events Calendar About School Leadership Partnerships Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Search Faculty & Staff Apply Visit Request Info Search What Makes Maxwell Different? Maxwell is where diverse and collaborative problem solvers develop innovative solutions to move people, policies and communities forward. Why We're Different Step into the Maxwell Community The best way to get to know Maxwell is to visit. Can’t make it to campus? Take a virtual tour, attend an event online, or engage with an Alumni Ambassador. Visit Us How Will You Change the World? No matter where you are in your academic journey, there’s a Maxwell program designed to help you develop knowledge, skills and contacts to improve your community. Explore Programs 13 research centers generating policy-relevant insight into pressing issues #1 ranked for public affairs (U.S. News & World Report) 11 departments teaching excellence in social science and public/international affairs Influence with Integrity It’s not just an education. It’s a mindset. Maxwell students celebrate diverse people and ideas. They value informed and ethical leadership. They are engaged—and engaging—citizens primed to shape the future. Our acclaimed education programs combine the study of human society and relationships with opportunities to address relevant social challenges. Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Non-Degree Programs/Executive Training Apply now to a professional graduate program and start in 2022 Request Info Visit Campus Explore Graduate Admission Maxwell School Ranks #1 for Public Affairs The 2023 U.S. News and World Report Best Public Affairs Schools rankings have been released. In addition to #1 overall, Maxwell received high marks across a wide range of subspecialties within public affairs. Healing the House Divided: A Conversation with Congressman John Katko Four-term elected U.S. Representative John Katko (R-NY) joined Syracuse University's Vice Chancellor, Provost, Chief Academic Officer and political science scholar Gretchen Ritter for a discussion reflecting on his legislative record, the polarized political climate and his experience during his eight years in Congress. Explore Maxwell’s Washington, D.C., headquarters at CSIS Maxwell’s D.C.-based facilities at the Center for Security and International Studies are a perfect launching point for networked, effective leaders prepared with the knowledge, skills and connections to get things done. Read how Maxwell research is impacting policy in “Tracking COVID's Toll” Pandemic research by Maxwell faculty and students is shaping policy and perception on everything from aging to opioid addiction. Read our coverage from the winter issue of Maxwell Perspective. Gift endows professorship to inspire generations of engaged citizens Inspired by her own experiences with “the best professors,” alumna Merle Goldberg Fabian ’59 donated $3 million to fund a professorship that champions responsible citizenship and educates students on the importance of critical thinking in service of democratic values. Maxwell in Action See All News Our faculty and students are making breakthroughs, connecting with communities and engaging with with the most pressing issues of today. Keep up with everything going on at Maxwell. EXPLORE BY: News Type: Commentary School News Research Trending Topic: Environment Ukraine COVID-19 State and Local Commentary May 26, 2022 Barkun Quoted in Christian Science Monitor Article on Replacement Theory U.S. Government , Immigration , Politics Commentary May 24, 2022 Lasch-Quinn Cited in CNN Piece on Social Emotional Learning in Schools Education , Racial Inequality , History Commentary May 23, 2022 Lovely Comments on the Baby Formula Shortage in NPR Article Supply Chains , U.S. Government Commentary May 23, 2022 Kutcher Discusses His Research on Eunuchs on BBC’s The Forum Podcast History More Than Halfway There! With incredible support, our start is strong. But to meet our campaign goals, we will need to raise the remaining $45 million to support Campaign Priorities from the School’s long-range strategic plan. Give to the Forever Orange Campaign $125,000,000campaign goal 2013the year the campaign started 68% Funded 2024the year the campaign will end Upcoming Events We continue to follow the advice of local public health officials in regards to in-person events. Please check Syracuse University’s Stay Safe website for the latest safety protocols before coming to campus or other in-person venues. See All Events September 29, 2022 Herbert Lourie Memorial Lecture on Health Policy Eggers Hall, 220 4:00PM-5:30PM I am Maxwell. The executive master’s in public administration at Maxwell has supported my professional and personal growth in the public sector. On top of growing and expanding my professional network, I have been promoted at my job, offered a seat on a nonprofit board, and accepted into three prestigious professional development opportunities.” Jonathan Leon ’19 E.M.P.A. ONLINE Senior Director, Georgia Regional Impact, Leadership for Educational Equity Read more about Jonathan’s experience Request Info Visit Maxwell Apply Now Maxwell Quick Links: Answers Undergraduate Advising Graduate Career Advising Support Maxwell Alumni Relations Maxwell Computing Support Maxwell School of Citizenship and Public Affairs 200 Eggers Hall Syracuse, NY 13244-1020 315.443.2252 Academic Calendar Accessibility Emergencies Maps & Directions MySlice Privacy Syracuse U © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her.