Skip to main content Operating Status Face coverings are optional in offices, conference rooms, research labs, housing, and public spaces in buildings. Face coverings are still required in all teaching spaces, teaching labs, computer labs, buses, libraries, clinical facilities, and student-staff and student-faculty meetings spaces. More COVID-19 information Close Search Enter a Search Term Search Rutgers Search Search this site Search all Rutgers Search People Rutgers Logo New Brunswick Newark Camden RBHS/Health Info For: Prospective Students and Parents Current Students Faculty and Staff Alumni and Donors Partners Job Seekers News Rutgers Today Rutgers Magazine Events Giving Gcse block (invisible) Open Search Rutgers Logo About Rutgers About the University President Jonathan Holloway Serving New Jersey and the World An Economic Engine A Partner in Research and Innovation United Against COVID-19 Rutgers Excellence Rutgers, By the Numbers Rutgers Rankings Budget Facts Our Structure Governance and Leadership Office of the President Administrative Council Our Revolutionary Roots Rutgers Traditional Songs The Rutgers Experience Discover Rutgers Rutgers–New Brunswick Rutgers–Newark Rutgers–Camden Rutgers Biomedical and Health Sciences (RBHS) Show Your Rutgers Pride Rutgers Athletics Uniquely New Jersey Academics Academics Overview Undergraduate Academics Explore Undergraduate Programs Graduate and Professional Studies Explore Graduate & Professional Programs Top Graduate Programs Schools and Colleges Continuing Education Online Degree Programs Catalogs Libraries Faculty Excellence Global Learning Rutgers at Your Community College Student Support Research Research at Rutgers A Partner in Research and Innovation Health & Patient Care Advancing Treatment and Wellness Admissions & Tuition About Applying Path to Rutgers Tuition and Financial Aid Visits and Tours Getting Here Open Search Open Search Open Menu Close About Rutgers About the University President Jonathan Holloway Serving New Jersey and the World An Economic Engine A Partner in Research and Innovation United Against COVID-19 Rutgers Excellence Rutgers, By the Numbers Rutgers Rankings Budget Facts Our Structure Governance and Leadership Office of the President Administrative Council Our Revolutionary Roots Rutgers Traditional Songs The Rutgers Experience Discover Rutgers Rutgers–New Brunswick Rutgers–Newark Rutgers–Camden Rutgers Biomedical and Health Sciences (RBHS) Show Your Rutgers Pride Rutgers Athletics Uniquely New Jersey Academics Academics Overview Undergraduate Academics Explore Undergraduate Programs Graduate and Professional Studies Explore Graduate & Professional Programs Top Graduate Programs Schools and Colleges Continuing Education Online Degree Programs Catalogs Libraries Faculty Excellence Global Learning Rutgers at Your Community College Student Support Research Research at Rutgers A Partner in Research and Innovation Health & Patient Care Admissions & Tuition About Applying Path to Rutgers Tuition and Financial Aid Visits and Tours Getting Here Utility Mobile Info For: Prospective Students and Parents Current Students Faculty and Staff Alumni and Donors Partners Job Seekers News Rutgers Today Rutgers Magazine Events Giving New Brunswick Newark Camden RBHS/Health Rutgers Today Logo Explore Topics All News Achievements Administration Alumni Athletics Campus Life Commencement Community COVID-19 Faculty Excellence Governance Health Care In Memoriam Research & Innovation Student Success Class of 2022 Douglass Senior Spurred to Activism to Promote Diversity, Equity and Inclusion at Rutgers Dominique Hazel-Criss will receive an undergraduate degree in political science and journalism with a minor in philosophy from Rutgers-New Brunswick and begin law school at Temple University in the fall. Marques Ruiz By Evie Duvert Date May 9, 2022 Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Reddit Whatsapp Email Print Dominique Hazel-Criss never considered herself an activist, though she always knew she wanted to make a change in the world. Then came the deaths of George Floyd, Breonna Taylor and Ahmaud Arbery. That’s when Hazel-Criss, who will receive an undergraduate degree in political science and journalism with a minor in philosophy from Rutgers-New Brunswick and begin law school at Temple University in the fall, decided that her future career needed to deal with social justice and civil rights. “Issues of diversity, equity and inclusion are present everywhere in our lives and if we do not acknowledge them, we continue to support and enable a system meant to oppress,” she said. Born in Essex County, Hazel-Criss moved to Somerset when she was 10 and always considered Rutgers an obvious college choice. She did not anticipate the journey Rutgers would take her through, from joining the Douglass Residential College community as a Diversity, Equity and Inclusion (DEI) ambassador to shaping her future goal to become a civil rights attorney. “When I first came to Rutgers, I thought I was going to be a journalist. So, I started my first year taking mainly journalism classes, but once I started to branch out into subject areas that were interesting to me, I found a whole new love for political science and the social justice initiative,” said Hazel-Criss. Hazel-Criss became a DEI ambassador her junior year, when Black Lives Matter and the racial reckoning led millions of people throughout the world into the streets to protest. That summer was also the first time Hazel-Criss spoke at a rally on racial injustice in New Jersey. In her work as a student ambassador, Hazel-Criss's goal was to build a more informed student community as well as helping to improve the student experience at the university by advocating for more diverse faculty, more diverse areas of study and promoting events and organizations on campus doing the work to make a space for everyone on campus. Throughout the spring, Rutgers Today will be highlighting the accomplishments of the Class of 2022 and sharing stories of the difference our graduates are making at the university and beyond. “Part of the job is making sure students are doing their due diligence in keeping up with the prominent issues happening on campus but also making sure students have an active voice in decisions that ultimately affect them and the learning environment they are in. It may not always be the most glamorous job, but it is still an important one. We must keep pushing the goal line further,” she said. Hazel-Criss is also the event coordinator of Rutgers University Black Law Student Association and has been involved in several organizations focused on social justice and equity. Through the BOLD Center, Hazel-Criss found a Douglass alumna who is a practicing attorney to mentor her as she starts her journey in the legal field. She credits hearing a speech by activist Rosa Clemente during a conference through the Diversity, Equity,and Inclusion Committee at Douglass as the inspiration that led her to making civil rights work part of a future career. “Rosa Clemente has been an activist for so long and she's done so many impactful things. Her discussion about being an activist first was the key point that set off a Eureka moment for me,” said Hazel-Criss. “She helped me refocus and make it truly clear what my angle was: social justice. That moment changed everything for me.” While she intends to practice law, Hazel-Criss also wants to impact social justice in other ways. Utilizing the journalism portion of her education, Hazel-Criss also plans to contribute written pieces and other forms of media to inform the social justice movement and help push forward initiatives that can create a huge public impact. “Practicing law can be impactful, but the best way to get a message across is to deliver it in diverse ways. Contributing to documentaries or to written discourse may reach someone who may not have heard that message otherwise. You have to learn before you teach, so it is important to engage with all to create a positive change. Not everyone needs a lawyer for everything. Sometimes you just need to hear an unfamiliar perspective,” said Hazel-Criss. Reflecting on her Rutgers journey, Hazel-Criss credits the many diverse experiences during her time on campus to building the woman she is now. “I have learned so much from my fellow ambassadors. It is our diverse backgrounds, life experiences, interests and hardships that make us unique individuals with so much knowledge to provide to the community,” she said. “As we are learning to be better educators, we are also learning how to better advocate for ourselves. I look back on that with a sense of pride. To be able to give the voiceless a voice fills me with immense joy.” You May Also Like Class of 2022 David Remnick to Rutgers Graduates: “You All Have a Stake in the Future of Freedom” Class of 2022 30th Annual Rites of Passage Ceremony Honors Black and Latinx Graduates Class of 2022 Grad Student Leaves Civil Unrest at Home to Study Nutrition at Rutgers Site Footer Rutgers University New Brunswick Newark Camden RBHS/Health Connect Campus Safety Contact Us Continuing Education Giving to Rutgers Graduate Admissions Undergraduate Admissions University Maps Universitywide Offices Work at Rutgers Find a Health Care Provider Rutgers Magazine University Events Academic Academic Calendars Course Catalogs University Libraries myRutgers Portal Notices April 27, 2022: Open Hearing on the University’s Tuition, Fees, and Housing and Dining Charges for 2022–2023 Commencement Information University Operating Status Accessibility Resources Budget Facts Consumer Information Disclosures Follow Us Subscribe to Rutgers News Rutgers is an equal access/equal opportunity institution. Individuals with disabilities are encouraged to direct suggestions, comments, or complaints concerning any accessibility issues with Rutgers websites to accessibility@rutgers.edu or complete the Report Accessibility Barrier / Provide Feedback form. Copyright ©2022, Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey. All rights reserved. Contact webmaster