Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Skip to primary site search Google Tag Manager Research at Brown Show/Hide Home Conducting Research at Brown Centers, Institutes and Libraries Undergraduate Research Assistance How Do I...? Data Use Agreements (DUA) DATA USE AGREEMENTS (DUA) Initiating RAC Review | Documents Required for RAC Review | Amendments to Existing Data Use Agreements | No RAC Review Needed Data Use Agreements RAC centrally manages Data Use Agreements that involve research data. From start to finish, RAC will coordinate all behind-the-scenes required reviews (e.g., with CIS, OGC, etc.) and work expeditiously to bring draft agreements to execution on behalf of the investigator. RAC requires completion of the Data Use Agreement (“DUA”) Request form for all proposed incoming and outgoing DUAs to ensure that appropriate terms & conditions are negotiated. Please email any questions about the request or this form to [email protected] Please review RAC’s comprehensive Data Use Agreement Guidance for Researchers for answers to all of your DUA-related questions. This guidance document covers: 1. Roles and Responsibilities 2. Procedures for when Brown is the Data Provider and when Brown is the Data Requestor 3. DUA Procedures for Special Categories of Data 4. Commonly Used DUA Terms 5. University Partners & Helpful Contacts 6. Links to Related Resources To initiate RAC review: 1. PI completes DUA Request Form 2. Upon electronic receipt of a new request, the RAC will begin initial submission review and will contact the PI and the administrative contact listed in the submission if any of the required documentation is missing or incomplete. 3. Once the terms have been finalized, the agreement will be circulated for signature. 4. Once the agreement has been fully executed (signed by all parties), a PDF copy will be provided to the Brown research team. Documents required for submission: 1. Completed DUA Request Form 2. Proposed DUA (as an editable Word document) or request to use Brown DUA template (if Brown is receiving data from another entity) 3. IRB approval letter (for human subject research data) Amendments to Existing Data Use Agreements For incoming data, a DUA amendment may be required by the data provider for changes to the existing agreement. Amendments may be necessary for: · changes in custodian/contact information · adding data files · requesting an extension · adding a collaborator Please submit the proposed amendment and original agreement to [email protected] for review and once the amendment terms have been finalized, the agreement will be circulated for signature by RAC. For outgoing data, RAC will draft an amendment to an existing agreement upon request. Please begin by submitting the request to [email protected] for review. No RAC Review Needed: Brown Data Shared Externally · If Brown data being shared externally to Brown has been de-identified, Brown does not require a data use agreement or RAC review. Non-Brown Data Being Shared with Brown · The School of Public Health’s (SPH) leadership has authorization to review and sign data use agreements for Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services data when those data are being used for a SPH research project. · Externally hosted third party data accessed electronically by Brown researchers through acceptance of an electronic agreement (a “click through” agreement) does not require RAC review or signature. These agreements frequently appear as terms and conditions displayed on a computer screen for the researcher to click an “I accept” button or the equivalent. Researchers should read, save, and share these agreements with the entire research team. · If external parties sharing their data with Brown do not require a data use agreement, Brown will not require a data use agreement or RAC review. Questions For any questions concerning when a data use agreement or RAC review is required, please contact [email protected]. Conducting Research at Brown Finding Funding Research Strategy and Development (ORSD) Preparing and Submitting a Proposal Managing an Award Sponsored Projects (OSP) Research Compliance (IRB, IACUC, COI, Export Control, Research Data Management and Data Use Agreements) Brown Technology Innovations Research Administration Information Systems (RAIS) Research Management Support (RMS) Research Agreements and Contracting Material Transfer Agreements (MTA) Data Use Agreements (DUA) Other Agreements for the Support of Research Meet the Team International Research & Activities Responsible Conduct of Research (RCR) How Do I...? 2022 Research Achievement Award Winners About the Office Newsletter Forms and Policies Training and Outreach Graduate Student Resources Explore Brown University Search Brown Show/Hide Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Office of the Vice President for Research 350 Eddy Street | Brown University | Box 1937 | Providence, RI 02912 Vice President for Research 401-863-7408 [email protected] Research Strategy and Development 401-863-7999 [email protected] Brown Technology Innovations 401-863-7499 [email protected] Office of Sponsored Projects 401-863-2777 [email protected] Research Administration and Information Systems 401-863-2777 [email protected] Office of Research Integrity 401-863-3050 [email protected] @brownuresearch Giving to Brown Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U Google+ LinkedIn SnapChat