Follow Us – Scroll to top Skip to content SCSU Online Blackboard SCSU Apps Housing App Contact Final Exam Schedule New Student Account Lookup About SC State Admissions Academics Library Financial Aid Athletics About SC State Admissions Academics Library Financial Aid Athletics © 2022 | South Carolina State University. Privacy Policy | WWW Disclaimer Follow Us – Give to SC State Apply Now Search for Admissions Apply to Become a Student Learn More Advancement Make a Gift to SC State University Donate Today About SC State COVID-19 Updates Stay Informed Announcements & Top Stories Trustees’ Presidential Search Committee recommends Conyers as SC State’s next president The South Carolina State University Board of Trustees’ Ad-Hoc Presidential Search Committee on Thursday unanimously voted to recommend Interim President Alexander Conyers as the university’s next president. Read the Article View the Live Streaming for Retool Your School winners View Live Stream Join the SC State Parents and Family Association The newly established Parents and Family Association aims to build a bridge between the students’ families and the University. Engaging parents ensure student success by opening the lines of communications between the institution and homelife and involves parents in campus life. The association is the conduit through which parents support their student's educational endeavors and contribute to the building of a holistic and productive university experience. Register Online SC State wins 2021 Celebration Bowl Discover More SC State University Academics As South Carolina’s only public, historically black college and university (HBCU),there are several programs unique to SCSU. We are among the national leaders in producing African-American graduates. Explore Programs Campus Life SC State University campuses include State of the art and historic facilities integrated by amazing passionate Staff that help create a center of excellence that transforms lives and inspire greatness. Explore Campus Athletics The SC State Bulldog Athletic program offers six men’s sports and six women’s sports as a member of the Division I Mid-Eastern Athletic Conference (MEAC). The Bulldog football team has won five MEAC titles. Read More Upcoming Events View Academic Calendars Recent News View all Articles Posted by Gregory Deas April 22, 2022 Campus News Important Announcement 2 min read Trustees’ Presidential Search Committee recommends Conyers as SC State’s next president The South Carolina State University Board of Trustees’ Ad-Hoc Presidential Search Committee on Thursday unanimously voted to recommend Interim President Alexander Conyers as the university’s next president. Posted by Sam Watson April 5, 2022 Campus News 2 min read Severe weather threat prompts SC State campus to close at 2 p.m. today ORANGEBURG, S.C. – South Carolina State University will cancel classes and dismiss nonessential employees today (Tuesday, April 5, 2022) at 2 p.m. in light of approaching severe weather. The National... Posted by Sam Watson February 2, 2022 Campus News Important Announcement 3 min read Search for SC State University’s 13th president to begin The South Carolina State University Board of Trustees has announced the establishment of a Presidential Selection Committee. Posted by Sam Watson February 2, 2022 Campus News 2 min read Agenda for Feb. 3 SC State Board of Trustees meeting The South Carolina State University Board of Trustees will meet Thursday, Feb. 3, 2022, via Zoom beginning at 9 a.m. SC State University Quick Facts and Statistics Discover More SC State University, an 1890 land grant, senior comprehensive institution of approximately 2,900 students, is committed to providing affordable and accessible quality baccalaureate, master’s educational specialist and doctoral degree programs. SC State, through instruction, research, technology and service, contributes to economic development, enhances the quality of life of citizens, and prepares highly skilled, competent and socially aware graduates (30,000) to meet life’s challenges and demands and enables them to work and live productively in a dynamic, global society. Become a Bulldog Ready to Apply? Enrollment Services We are loyal sons and daughters, Proud to own the name we bear. For the truth that thou has taught us, Ready all to do and dare. 300 College Street NE Orangeburg, SC 29117 Main: (800) 260-5956 Follow Us - Contact Admissions: (803) 536-7186 Housing: (803) 533-3675 Campus Police: (803) 536-7188 Faculty Staff Directory Search the Directory Directory Download Resources SCSU Apps Blackboard Learn New Student Account Lookup Undergrad Catalog Net Price Calculator Student Handbook Student Code of Conduct Title IX Policy COVID-19 Dashboard HBCU Affordable Learning Jobs @ SCSU Quick Menu About SC State Admissions Academics Campus Life Transcript Request Residence Life Library Financial Aid Athletics Give to SC State © 2022 | South Carolina State University. Privacy Policy | WWW Disclaimer What You Need To Know About the South Carolina Income Tax Credit for Tuition. Learn More