Skip to main content Toggle navigation Explore Visit Apply Finance Enroll Search YouTube Facebook Twitter Instagram Home Explore Special Experiences Special Experiences There is more to University of Maryland than what you learn in the classroom. Whatever experience you are looking for to round out your education, we are here to help. Living-Learning Programs Nothing connects students more than our highly regarded living-learning programs, where students with a common interest share residence halls, classrooms, faculty and friendships to dig deep into contemporary topics and get unique research experiences. Half of all first-year students find their niche in one of these programs. To be considered for a living-learning program, you must apply for freshman admission by the November 1 early action deadline. Education Abroad A Maryland education extends beyond the classroom, and it goes beyond borders. Our Education Abroad office facilitates international experiences for more than 1,800 undergraduates each year. You can study abroad for a year, semester, summer or winter and globalize your network, earn credit towards your degree and gain skills critical to your professional success. Admitted freshmen can even study abroad before arriving on campus through Freshman Abroad: Terrapin Take-Off short-term programs or Destination Abroad semester programs in Rome or Sydney. Research As soon as they step foot on campus, Terps can begin building new knowledge and gaining a deeper understanding of their academic field through opportunities provided by the First-Year Innovation and Research Experience and the Maryland Center for Undergraduate Research. These faculty-mentored experiences give UMD students authentic research skills to help advance their careers. Internships Earning an internship is a great way to get real-world experience and jumpstart your career. With plenty of internship opportunities on campus and across the region, academic advisors and internship coordinators can help you get hands-on professional experience in a supervised environment. International Services While our students hail from over 150 countries, they quickly come to call Maryland home. The International Student & Scholar Services office assists international students with the process of applying to Maryland, advises on immigration requirements and provides resources to assist with transitioning to campus. Veterans Services The University of Maryland recognizes the extraordinary contributions of members of our armed services, and we understand the unique challenges of transitioning into a university environment. With a community of students, staff, faculty, and alumni who have served in the US military, Veteran Student Life supports a seamless transition from military life to civilian college life and provides support for continued growth in mind, body and spirit. ROTC As a land-grant university, Maryland has a long history of providing military training for its students. The university currently offers Reserve Officers’ Training Corps programs for the United States Air Force, Army and Navy, each of which works to train and commission the finest officer candidates in the nation. Career Center Whether you’re looking to gain experience through an internship, fine tune your resume, practice your interviewing skills or evaluate a job offer, the Career Center has you covered. You’ll receive support at every stage of your career development and will be prepared to pursue a meaningful career path through high-quality services, resources and instruction. Diversity and Inclusion The University of Maryland is committed to “inclusive excellence”—the notion that in order to educate our students with excellence, in order to foster outstanding research and scholarship, and in order to be national and global leaders, we must be diverse and inclusive. Through programs and resources, the Office of Diversity and Inclusion supports equity and diversity initiatives on campus and beyond. Multi-Ethnic Student Education The Office of Multi-Ethnic Student Education works to serve the more than 10,000 undergraduate multi-ethnic students. By serving these students in all academic, personal and programmatic endeavors, Maryland strives to increase rates of matriculation, retention, graduation and overall GPA. First Year Book Program Each year through the First Year Book Program, the University of Maryland selects a book that will provide a shared intellectual experience for all first-year students, faculty and staff. The First Year Book signals to incoming students the importance we place on intellectual engagement across the curriculum. It creates an opportunity for all of us to look at a topic, issue or experience from different perspectives. Undergraduate Catalog The Undergraduate Catalog provides information pertaining to undergraduate academic programs, including course descriptions and program requirements and sets forth the university’s academic, registration and graduation policies and regulations. Program requirements contained in the Undergraduate Catalog supersede any information which may be contained in any bulletin of any school or department. Welcome About UMD Colleges & Schools Majors Limited Enrollment Programs Campus Life College Park & D.C. Admission Representatives Resources and Support Join Mailing List Welcome About UMD Colleges and Schools Majors Limited Enrollment Programs Admission Representatives Join the Mailing List Special Experiences Campus Life College Park and D.C. Resources and Support Explore Terps love a challenge. A problem that needs a solution. A barrier that needs breaking down. You are smart, scrappy and determined. You value diversity, innovation, entrepreneurship and imagination. Ready to start your fearless journey? Be A Terp Calendar Daily Visits Signature Programs Off-Campus Programs Getting to Campus Virtual Visit Campus Map Visit You can only learn so much about a school from a brochure. Even if we tell you how beautiful our campus is, or how fantastic our students and faculty are, you will not know for yourself until you experience it for yourself! Come try on our campus for size! Stop by one of our top-notch athletic facilities. Have a scoop of homemade ice cream at the Dairy. Rub the nose of one of our beloved Testudo statues for good luck. Get all your questions answered. It won't be hard to picture yourself at home here for the next four years. Please visit our updates page for information regarding visit opportunity changes due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Virtual Visit Unable to make it to campus? Explore our beautiful campus from anywhere in the world! Virtual Tour Admission Requirements Admission Review Factors and Process Application Deadlines Application Checklists Application FAQs Submitting Documents Limited Enrollment Programs Apply You have done your research and explored your options, and you know that UMD is the perfect place for you. Now it is time to apply. COMMON APP >> MYCOALITION >> Freshman students applying to UMD can do so using either the Common App or the MyCoalition platform. At this time, transfer students can only apply using the MyCoalition platform. Please visit our updates page for information regarding changes to our application requirements due to the COVID-19 pandemic. State of Maryland Residents Non-Maryland Residents Freshman Merit Scholarships Transfer Merit Scholarships Next Steps Finance Consistently ranked as one of the best values in public higher education, you can rest assured that you will receive an affordable world-class education. College is a major investment for you and your family. The university is here to help. We offer an array of financial aid programs—including scholarships, grants, loans and student employment—as part of our commitment to making an excellent education affordable. ESTIMATED COST OF ATTENDANCE: State of Maryland Residents Non-Maryland Residents Admitted Students Admission Decision FAQs Enrolled Students Housing and Dining Orientation Enroll Congratulations on your admission to the University of Maryland! We are excited to welcome you into our world of fearless ideas. You’ve received your admission letter, checked out your major and started celebrating with family and friends. To make enrollment official, check out information for newly admitted students to get everything you need to start your academic career at UMD. ENROLL (Freshman) ENROLL (Transfer) Search Search keyword or phrase Campus Resources Accessibility Campus Calendar Campus Map Directories Policies and Procedures Student Resources Academic Calendar Registrar Testudo (Student Portal) Technical Support Change Password Division of IT Get IT Support University of Maryland on YouTube University of Maryland on Facebook University of Maryland on Twitter University of Maryland on Instagram University of Maryland on Vimeo Office of Undergraduate Admissions Mitchell Building · 7999 Regents Dr. · College Park, MD 20742 USA Privacy Notice Site Map Terp Resources Web Accessibility ×