Skip to main content Skip to site menu Skip to Brown menu Skip to site search Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Enter search keyword About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Undergraduate Research The Excellence in Research Mentoring Award Undergraduate Research The Excellence in Research Mentoring Award The Excellence in Research Mentoring Award The Excellence in Research Mentoring (ERM) Award recognizes faculty members for their excellence in mentoring undergraduate researchers, as well as for their promotion, encouragement and training of diverse students in undergraduate research. The award will be given annually during the Summer Research Symposium and the winner will receive a $2,000 prize. Nomination Process Nomination letter should provide evidence of the nominee’s accomplishment in, and ongoing support for, excellence in mentoring undergraduate researchers. Nomination can be submitted by students, alumni and faculty (self-nomination will be accepted). Ideally the nomination letter should include: Summary of nominee’s record regarding the mentoring of undergraduate research activities, as well as the scope, longevity and impact of their efforts on the educational experience of undergraduates; A list of mentees’ (e.g. undergraduate students supported through UTRAs and other external funding such as NSF, NIH, HHMI, NASA etc.) and scholarly contributions (e.g. accepted abstracts, conference presentations, published manuscript and project titles) in the last 3-5 years; any other leadership activities promoting undergraduate research A request for nominations will go out to faculty and students every March, and winners will be selected by a committee of students, faculty and administrators. The prizes will be awarded during the Summer Research Symposium. Nomination should be forwarded to [email protected]. Home South Asia Fellowship Library Research Award Mellon Mays Fellowship Research at Brown Grant Royce Fellowship Summer Research Early Identification Program Undergraduate Teaching and Research Award Venture Launch Fund Edward Guiliano '72 Fellowship Hay Library Undergraduate Fellowship Program Presidential Scholars Program The Excellence in Research Mentoring (ERM) Award Excellence in Research Mentoring Award Winners The Global Undergraduate Awards (UA) Print this Page Share this Page Calendar There are no upcoming events. Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory