Skip to Content Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Indiana University Bloomington Indiana University Bloomington IU Bloomington Menu About History Rankings & Campus Statistics Mission & Strategic Planning Leadership & Administration Safety & Emergency Information Visit Campus Transportation & Parking A-Z List Jobs at IU How to Hire IU Students Admissions How to Apply Cost & Finances Visit IU & Bloomington Academics The Academic Experience Degrees & Majors Business Health & Wellness Science, Engineering & Technology Public Service Arts & Culture Schools Academic Opportunities Study Abroad Online Classes & Programs Schedule of Classes & Academic Calendar Academic Advising & Support Libraries Research Hoosier Life Traditions & Spirit Student Organizations Recreational Sports Athletics Health, Wellness & Safety Housing & Dining Visiting Bloomington Attractions & Things to Do Diversity on Campus Career Prep Find Your Passion Get Experience Develop Your Career Use Your Network Alumni & Giving News & Events Indiana University Bloomington Home About Admissions Academics Research Hoosier Life Career Prep Alumni & Giving News & Events Home Alumni & Giving Alumni & Giving Join a worldwide network of 725,000+ Indiana University graduates IU alumni are impressive for many reasons: their sheer numbers, how you can run into them practically anywhere, their incredible success. The most remarkable thing about IU grads? The way they support IU, students, and each other throughout their lives. Help IU students in crisis As the worst public health crisis of this generation, the COVID-19 pandemic is forcing many of our students to face unforeseen hardships—from food and housing instability to unexpected medical bills. For those who are able to help, please consider giving to support students in urgent need.Support the IU family Stay involved and support IU Give now Get involved with the IU Foundation Join the IU Alumni Association Sage Steele displayed her IU spirit during her 2015 Commencement speech. Your IU network includes . . . Sage Steele, ESPN anchor Bob Chapek, CEO of The Walt Disney Company Will Shortz, New York Times crossword editor Deepender Singh Hooda, a member of India’s parliament Joshua Bell, virtuoso violinist Jill Bolte Taylor, neuroanatomist and author of the bestseller My Stroke of Insight Jimmy Wales, co-founder of Wikipedia Michael Uslan, executive producer of the Batman films and a faculty member in The Media School Enhance your career through the IU Alumni Association Whatever stage you’re at in your professional life, the IU Alumni Association (IUAA) will help you manage your career. Network with IU alumni and tap into their career wisdom. Seek advice from career coaches. Attend professional development events, in person or online. And that’s just the start of how the IUAA helps students and alumni.Learn about the IU Alumni Association Indiana University Bloomington social media channels Twitter Facebook Instagram YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn Contact, Address and Additional Links Services Canvas One.IU AskIU Find Directory A-Z List Courses Campus Map Required Disclosures Library IU Bloomington Libraries IUCAT OneSearch@IU Resources Knowledge Base IT Services Faculty & Staff Resources Diversity Non-Discrimination Notice Protect IU Email About Email at IU Outlook Web Access INDIANA UNIVERSITY BLOOMINGTON 107 S. Indiana Avenue Bloomington, IN 47405-7000 Phone: 812-855-4848 Accessibility | Privacy Notice | Copyright © 2022 The Trustees of Indiana University