Skip to main content Restrict my search to Police Department Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search University of Houston Police Department About UHPD General Information History of UHPD UHPD Strategic Vision Become a Police Officer Clery Campus Security Authority Am I a CSA? My Responsibility Get More Info Make a Report FAQs APPLY ONLINE Records & Reports Report a Crime Daily Crime Log Annual Security and Fire Safety Report File a Complaint Give a Compliment Hazard Report Safety & Security Staying Safe Crime Prevention Crime Prevention Services How You Can Prevent Crime Crime Prevention Tips Operation ID Vehicle Accidents Duty to Give Info and Render Aid Crash Involving Damage to a Vehicle Striking an Unattended Vehicle Striking a Fixture or Landscaping Immediate Reporting Police Investigation Resources Sensitive Crimes Violent Incidents Sexual Assault Sex Offender Registry Domestic Violence Hate Crimes Harassment Identity Theft Active Shooter Active Shooter Defined Avoid Lockdown & Deny Alert & Notify Defend & Counter Police Intervention Resources Bomb Threats Explosions Shelter In Place Office Security Community Services Security Escort Blue Light Emergency Phones Camera Network Lost and Found Bike Registration Special Events Money Transfers Policies & Training Campus Carry Policy FAQs Secure Storage Process Senate Bill 4 Racial Profiling Police In-Service Training Civil Protests Contact UHPD UH Home Police Department Safety & Security Crime Prevention How You Can Prevent Crime Police Department About UHPD Records and Reports Safety & Security Security Alerts Staying Safe Crime Prevention How You Can Prevent Crime Crime Prevention Tips Operation ID Vehicle Accidents Sensitive Crimes Active Shooter Bomb Threats Explosions Shelter in Place Office Security Community Services Policies & Training Contact UHPD Contact UHPD 4051 Wheeler Ave. Houston, TX 77204-6191 (713) 743-3333 or 911 from a campus phone non-emergency email police@uh.edu Your Role in Preventing Crime To achieve a true partnership in the prevention of crime, UHPD asks that community members actively assist us in maintaining a safe and secure campus for all students, faculty, and staff. To do this we suggest the following: Voice concerns about crime and disorder problems. Don’t wait until crimes occur or problems get out of control. Raise your concerns with the officers you encounter around campus, or contact UHPD directly. Report crimes and suspicious activities. We need you to serve as our eyes and ears. You are in a better position to identify behavior and activities that are out of the ordinary in your residence or workplace. A quick and effective response by UHPD officers is greatly enhanced by accurate and timely reports of emergency or suspicious incidents. Crime prevention includes calling UHPD when you observe suspicious activity, calling if you are the victim of or become aware of a criminal incident, and informing the Department of potential public safety issues. If we are not made aware of an incident we cannot provide assistance to those in need or work to prevent it from occurring again. Report other problems and incidents. While UHPD is not responsible for dealing with all problems brought to its attention, we do make every effort to address the problem with the appropriate University department or government agency. Get help with personal problems. If you have a personal problem or are aware of someone with a personal problem that you cannot handle by yourself, you should seek help before the problem gets out of hand and causes further difficulties. The University has excellent resources for persons in crisis. You can learn more by visiting the Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS) website. Take control of personal and property safety. It is important for students, faculty, staff, and visitors to remember that we are located in an urban setting. While we enjoy a lower crime rate that the surrounding areas, we share many of the crime and safety issues that exist in any city. You should take precautions to protect your property by never leaving it unattended in public and by locking your room or office when you leave it even for a moment. While traveling throughout campus, you should be aware of your surroundings, walk with others on well-lit streets, and use the shuttle bus, or security escort program. Know about crime and disorder on and near campus. A first step in addressing and solving crime and disorder problems is to become informed about the kind, frequencies, and locations of such incidents. On campus, violent crimes do occur, but they are relatively rare. Most of our thefts are of unattended property or from unlocked rooms or offices. More information can be obtained thought the Annual Crime Report and the Daily Crime Bulletins. Work with UHPD to address and solve problems. We are only as effective as the relationships and partnerships we form with the community. When we work together with the community we are in a better position to develop long-term solutions to problems by addressing the root causes of a problem rather than just responding to it as an isolated incident. Comment on UHPD personnel performance. You can provide a useful service by providing comments, favorable as well as unfavorable, on the performance of UHPD personnel. Our relationship with the community is vital to achieve our mission. All community members should expect to be treated in a courteous and professional manner by members of the Department. Occasionally questions arise regarding professional conduct. UHPD does not tolerate employees who act unprofessionally or rudely, or who do not seek to provide an appropriate level of service. The quality of our service is enhanced by feedback from the community, and the Department has an extensive process in place to respond to citizen complaints. We also wish to recognize instances where our employees have been especially helpful or have exceeded your expectations in the service that they have provided. 4051 Wheeler Ave. Houston, TX 77204-6191 UH Emergency Information Call UHPD: 713-743-3333 Campus Map For Emergencies Dial 911 from a campus phone Non-Emergency email: police@uh.edu Security Escorts Lost and Found Bicycle Registration ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies