Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Finance Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Finance Topics Systems Training Forms & Documents Policies About Buying and Paying Travel and Expense Accounting Operations Payroll Tax and Unclaimed Property Banking and Cash Management Audit and Risk Management Budgets Sponsored Projects: Post-Award Financial Administration International Operations Investments Advisory Committee on Socially Responsible Investing Log Into ARC Log Into Concur About This Site Finance Announcements Finance Departments Careers with Columbia Finance EVP of Finance and Information Technology Financial Reports Organizational Charts Service Center Columbia Finance You are here: Home About About the Executive Vice President for Finance and Information Technology About the Executive Vice President for Finance and Information Technology Anne Sullivan is Columbia University's Executive Vice President for Finance and Information Technology. In this role she leads a team of 700 across Treasury, Controller (including Student Financial Services), Registrar, Procurement, the Investment Management Company, University Budget and Financial Planning, Internal Audit, Finance Service Management, and Information Technology. Ms. Sullivan joined Columbia in 2007 from the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania, where she served as Senior Associate Dean for Finance and Administration. In that capacity, she oversaw Wharton’s operating and capital budget, human resources, computing, and facilities. Before joining the administration at Wharton, Ms. Sullivan served Columbia as Assistant Vice President for Administrative Planning and Financial Management, and in this capacity led a number of initiatives to improve financial reporting and controls for the University. Prior to her first appointment at Columbia, Ms. Sullivan was Vice President for Strategic Development for Fathom Knowledge Network and was formerly a consultant in the financial services and health care practice unit of Booz Allen Hamilton, and a financial analyst in the investment banking division of Kidder, Peabody & Co. She has a bachelor’s degree from the University of Virginia, a master’s degree in public policy from the John F. Kennedy School of Government, and an M.B.A. from Harvard Business School. More about Columbia Finance Get help from our Service Center. View our Organizational Charts. Learn more about our Finance Departments. Columbia Finance615 West 131st Street, Studebaker Building · New York, NY 10027 Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close