Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu Engineering & Computer Science Main Navigation Departments Centers Current Students Future Students Services & Resources Employment News & Events Giving Contact Us ECS COMMENCEMENT 2022 Graduates, this is a time to be proud of all of your accomplishments! We know it has been a long road and want you to know we are proud of you! Take a moment and read special messages from our dean, associate dean, department chairs and program coordinators. Congratulations to the ECS Class of 2022! Commencement Ceremony information: College of Engineering and Computer Science 2022 Commencement Ceremony Date: Monday, May 23 Time: 5 p.m. Location: Intramural Field *Please verify this event information has not changed at the links below. Commencement Ceremony Speakers: Thank you to everyone who the time and energy to apply to become the 2022 ECS Commencement Student Speaker. We appreciate you! Student Speaker: Aaron Mendis, Electrical Engineering (Undergraduate) Student Speaker: Dimitra Doiphode, Computer Science (Undergraduate) Student Speaker: Sean Phayakapong, Environmental Engineering (Graduate) Commencement Ceremony Faculty Acknowledgement: Distinguished Faculty Marshal: Dr. Doina Bein Ph.D., Associate Professor, Department of Computer Science Commencement Ceremony Musician: Bag Piper: Larry Grossman For years, Larry Grossman has volunteered to play the bagpipes at our annual Commencement Ceremony. This year, he graciously continues this tradition. Please visit the CSUF Commencement hub for university-wide messages and information. Information Regarding The College of Engineering and Computer Science commencement ceremony. Social Media We would love to see your photos! Connect with ECS on Instagram, Facebook or Twitter! #ECSgrad #ECSgrad2022 This site is maintained by Engineering & Computer Science. Last Published 5/19/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact ecswebmaster@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.10 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.