Global Resource Systems Calendar News Peace Corps Prep View our Facebook View our Instagram The Major Choose Your Adventure Courses Current Students Curriculum Peace Corps Prep Senior Projects Global Experience Internships Iowa State University – Uganda Program Study Abroad Global Service Learning Travel Careers Alumni at Work Career Options Career Services Globe Community Clubs Establish & Grow Learning Communities Happy Birthday, Globe! About Us Staff The Major Choose Your Adventure Courses Current Students Curriculum Peace Corps Prep Senior Projects Global Experience Internships Iowa State University – Uganda Program Study Abroad Global Service Learning Travel Careers Alumni at Work Career Options Career Services Globe Community Clubs Establish & Grow Learning Communities Happy Birthday, Globe! About Us Staff Calendar News Peace Corps Prep View our Facebook View our Instagram Some take courses. Others chart them. 1 2 3 4 In our major, “tough course” takes on a whole new meaning. Some study elements. Others brave them. 1 2 3 4 Study the environment in a completely different environment. Some are tailgaters. Others are trailblazers. 1 2 3 4 The best way to make a difference in the world is to explore it. Some learn history. Others make it. 1 2 3 4 The education is out of this world. The experience is out of this country. What is Global Resource Systems? Global Resource Systems studies the way the world uses its limited resources to create sustainable systems. And for our undergrads, the most valuable education takes place outside of the classroom. By integrating social, natural, and economic sciences, GRS majors learn how to efficiently impact public health, food and agriculture, and environmental systems on an international level. International internships directly expose students to their area of expertise to understand how fields interact on a global scale. With GRS you can take courses that change the course of world issues. Senior Vice President, Cargill Todd Hall “At Cargill, we are extremely excited about Iowa State’s GRS program. The quality of students the major attracts, the global experiences the students get and the leadership opportunities afforded them has prepared them to make a huge difference for employers and in the world. The opportunity for Cargill to become a founding partner, helping Iowa State establish this World Class program, is a great fit with our noble purpose to be The Global Leader in Nourishing People.” Executive Director at Self-Help International Nora Tobin “Solving the world’s greatest challenges is going to require a new generation of problem solvers who have both the passion to take action, and the technical skills and cultural competence to address those challenges in a sustainable manner. At Self-Help International, we recruit from the GRS program at Iowa State because it prepares students with both the hard and soft skills necessary to contribute meaningfully in the international development sector.” News Events GRS Celebrates Women in Agriculture Day, March 24, 2022 March 25 March 24, 2022, was designated as “National Women in Agriculture Day.” In celebration of the designated day, Globe students helped welcome Dr. Hale Tufan, a research… Dr. Emily Zimmerman receives the Early Achievement in Teaching Award March 10 Dr. Emily Zimmerman received the Early Achievement in Teaching Award from Iowa State University, College of Agriculture and Life Sciences, at the College’s award ceremony held… Unfortunately, no events matching your search were found Iowa State University 105 Horticulture Hall Ames, Iowa 50011 E. globe@iastate.edu P. 515-294-0037 Copyright © 1995-2022 Iowa State University of Science and Technology. All rights reserved. Non-discrimination Policy. Clear This Video Overlay Close This Video