Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Explore Brown University Search Global Navigation Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering The Harriet W. Sheridan Center for Teaching and Learning Home About Programs & Services Teaching & Learning Resources Learning Collaborative Problem Solving Research Writing Data Science News & Events Site Navigation Home About Staff Proctors and Head Teaching Consultants Teaching Consultants Sheridan Center Advisory Groups Departmental Liaisons Visit Staff Jobs at the Center Student Jobs at the Center Programs & Services Assessment Departmental Assessment Plans Campus Assessment Projects Assessing and Researching your Teaching Certificates Sheridan Teaching Seminar Course Design Seminar Teaching Consultant Program Head Teaching Consultants Invited Speaker Program Consultations Course Consultations Grant Consultations Teaching Observations Goals and Contexts Early Student Feedback Departmental Support Departmental Assessment Plans Learning Outcomes and Mapping English Language Support English Language Workshops Individual Support Conversation Partners Program English Language Program Fellowships & Awards Provost’s Faculty Teaching Fellows Graduate Student Proctorship in Academic Administration Graduate and Postdoc Teaching Fellows Junior Faculty Teaching Fellows University Awards Grant Support Institutes & Retreats Launch Anchor Problem Solving Course Design Institute Data Science Course Design Institute Seminar for Transformation Around Anti-Racist Teaching Orientations Tutoring Tutoring Supported Courses Summer 2022 Language Courses Apply to be a Tutor People Workshops & Roundtables Teaching Essentials for Graduate TAs Teaching Statements & Portfolios Sheridan-RISD Museum Collaborative Workshop Series Writing [email protected] Past [email protected] Programming Writing Center People Consultations FAQ Opportunities Writing Fellows People Courses English 1190M Outreach Apply Teaching & Learning Resources Teaching Resources Teaching in Times of Disruption Course Design Creating a Syllabus Resources for New Instructors Interpreting Your Course Feedback Evidence-based Practices Establishing Learning Goals Classroom Assessment Entrance and Exit Tickets Sample Exit Tickets Mid-Semester Feedback Guidelines for Assessing Student Learning Grading Criteria & Rubrics Creating Grading Criteria Designing Grading Rubrics Rubrics Criteria Rubrics Scales Enhancing Student Learning with Technology Promoting Study Skills Classroom Practices Learning Contexts First Day(s) of Class Lectures & Large Classes Discussions & Seminars Labs Active Learning Critical Reading Contemplative Pedagogy Promoting Metacognition Teaching with Podcasts Classroom Communication Tips Effective Multimedia Lecture Slides Teaching Problem Solving Writing to Learn Digital Teaching & Learning Working with TAs Teaching Writing Writing Fellows Courses Teaching a WRIT Course A Guide to the Writing Support (WSUP) Flag for Faculty Teaching Statements & Portfolios Mentoring Resources Effective Mentoring Practices Inclusive Teaching Anti-Racist Teaching Definitions Diversity & Inclusion Inclusive Mentoring Learning Collaborative Problem Solving Problem Solving Course Design Institute Problem Solving Fellows Research Writing Writing Across the Curriculum Seminar WAC Participants Writing Fellows People Courses English 1190M Apply Data Science Data Science Course Design Institute Data Science Fellows News & Events Upcoming Events Past Events Newsletter Brown Learning Collaborative The Learning Collaborative builds upon and strengthens the faculty-student partnership that is central to the Open Curriculum and undergraduate education at Brown. Through their active participation in teaching and curricular development, student Fellows simultaneously enrich their peers' learning and deepen their own understanding of the subject matter at hand. Dean Rashid Zia Brown University has long held a reputation for innovative undergraduate education. Its Open Curriculum emphasizes critical thinking, intellectual curiosity, and engagement with the world through a mixture of rigorous academic study and community service. We believe that in today’s global marketplace, the firm grounding in the liberal arts and sciences that Brown provides is the ideal foundation for long-term success. The Brown Learning Collaborative, housed in the Sheridan Center for Teaching and Learning, is a cornerstone of these efforts. The idea draws upon research that suggests that peer-to-peer instruction dramatically improves student performance and retention. It also draws upon the Office of the Dean of the College's emphasis on providing curriculum-based educational support programs that help students achieve new levels of excellence in six key skills traditionally honed in a liberal arts education – critical reading, writing, research, data analysis, problem solving, and oral communication. The Structure of the Learning Collaborative The Brown Learning Collaborative will scale up peer-to-peer teaching and learning, building on the success of Brown’s renowned Writing Fellows Program. Students who apply to be Fellows take a course, developed by the Sheridan Center, in which they will learn the theory and practice of teaching and learning in one or more of the six core skills. Fellows then partner with faculty to provide personalized assistance and feedback to enrolled students, and they will receive ongoing professional development from Sheridan. The Fellows will work in a range of courses across the curriculum, from the life and physical sciences to the humanities and social sciences. The Collaborative also hosts a complementary initiative, bringing together faculty and graduate students to reflect on their own teaching. These initiatives focus on evidence-based course re-design around the same core skills, and also address how best to leverage the participation of the peer educators in their own courses. Periodically, the communities of faculty, TAs, and undergraduates come together to work in course-planning teams. This creates a model of intergenerational teaching teams, where knowledge and ideas flow back and forth among faculty and students. Currently, the University is engaged in three Learning Collaborative initiatives: (1) Writing Since 1982, Brown has been a national model for its Writing Fellows program. In May 2017, Sheridan began a parallel program for faculty and graduate TAs. The Writing Across the Curriculum Seminar provides support for instructors to (re)design, develop, and teach a course that supports writing in their discipline. The program combines a Sheridan seminar on writing pedagogy and course design with a supportive peer community, individual consultation and feedback, and an opportunity to share course and student successes. Seminar size is limited to allow for hands-on opportunities, individual support, and the development of a teaching and learning community. Participants may choose to co-design a course with a graduate or undergraduate student, or an undergraduate writing fellow. More information on the Seminar can be found here. (2) Problem-Solving Since Spring 2018, Sheridan has offered a course on the “Theory and Practice of Problem Solving,” to support undergraduate Problem-Solving Fellows. This pilot builds on the promising work of two large STEM grants at Brown, funded by the Association of American Universities (AAU) and Howard Hughes Medical Institute (HHMI), to develop problem-solving sections facilitated by undergraduates. Results from the AAU project demonstrated that participation in these sections increased the students' course achievement in applied mathematics, chemistry, engineering, and physics, while findings from the HHMI project demonstrated gains in course content knowledge and self-assessment of learning in chemistry and genetics. A Brown Daily Herald article about this course can be found here. For faculty and Graduate TAs, Sheridan also offers a series of Problem-Solving Course Design workshops and institutes. Participants learn evidence-based practices in designing problems that promote student learning. The program begins with two lunchtime workshops on metacognition, how to embed problems in your course, and considerations for course designs that leverage problem solving as a core pedagogical tool. Participants may then apply to a one-day institute and receive a $2,000 stipend to implement their ideas during the coming academic year. (3) Research In 2018-19, Sheridan, in collaboration with the HHMI Grant, "Innovation in Gateway STEM Courses," will offer a new area of the Learning Collaborative, focused on Research. In Fall 2018, a series of workshops and institutes for faculty and Graduate TAs will be offered on how to develop course-based undergraduate research experiences to foster discovery and scientific thinking. In Spring 2019, undergraduates will have the opportunity to take a course on the theory of practice of research, to co-teach in these new classes and bring to their own investigations. (4) Data Science Beginning Spring 2020, the Sheridan Center for Teaching and Learning is launching a new initiative supporting the interdisciplinary practice of data science. The Data Science Fellows initiative prepares students to serve as consultants to faculty wishing to add more elements of data science to their undergraduate course. Students learn a core set of data science practices, active learning pedagogies, and collaborative communication skills. Students enrolled in the Data Science Fellows course (DATA 1150) collaborate with a participating faculty member to infuse data science tools and practice in existing undergraduate courses. Students interested in registering for DATA 1150 are required to complete the application form or contact Linda Clark at [email protected] by November 6th, 2019, to be considered for the course. Faculty interested in adapting or modifying data science curricula are offered two options. First, the Sheridan Center will offer a data science course design institute focusing on expanding knowledge of data science education strategies, integrating data science into existing course learning outcomes, and planning course-based data science activities. Faculty meet with a Sheridan representative to brainstorm initial curricular change ideas, participate in a one-day workshop, implement the course design strategies, then meet again to share their experiences with other workshop participants. Upon successful completion of the institute, faculty participants receive a $750.00 grant to use for course development. Second, faculty can request a data science fellow to collaborate with them during the Spring 2020 semester. Priority for fellows will be given to those faculty attending the data science course design institute. The Sheridan Center will reimburse departments for the data science fellow UTA salary, up to 10 hours per week at the departmental rate. Impact of the Learning Collaborative The Brown Learning Collaborative expands upon Brown’s deeply held commitment to a student-directed liberal arts education and defines for students and parents the tangible benefits of such an education. Both Teaching Fellows and the students with whom they work will come to see skill development as a continuum and be better able to delineate how proficiency in each area will help them become flexible, agile learners with skills to succeed professionally. Further, in enhancing professional development for faculty and graduate students, the Learning Collaborative will build stronger bridges between undergraduates and those from whom they learn. It will also allow Brown to leverage all tiers of expertise in future curricular planning, ensuring that each course is successful in giving undergraduates the knowledge and training they need to pursue their professional goals. Learning Collaborative Problem Solving Research Writing Data Science Support the Brown Learning Collaborative Donate The Sheridan Center The Sheridan Center Brown University Box 1912 Sciences Library 201 Thayer Street, 7th Floor Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-1219 Fax: 401-863-6976 Email [email protected] Facebook Facebook Brown University Giving to Brown Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA 401-863-1000 Contact Us Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility All Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top