Skip to main content Visit Harvard.edu Media Relations Explore More News Resources for Media Photographing and Filming on Harvard Property Multimedia Content Use Policies Harvard Gazette Ordering University Photos Press Releases Popular Topics Student Exchange and Visitor Program (SEVP) Lawsuit Harvard and COVID-19 Contact Admissions Lawsuit Popular Topics This list provides background information and helpful links to topics of current and continuing interest to journalists and the University community. Student Exchange and Visitor Program (SEVP) Lawsuit International students enrich the learning environment at Harvard and countless other institutions across the United States. The recent steps announced by U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) regarding students under the SEVP to not allow international students to stay in the country if the programs they are enrolled in are holding courses entirely online, Harvard believes, is bad policy and illegal. On July 8, 2020, Harvard filed for a temporary restraining order prohibiting enforcement of the ICE order. Learn more Harvard and COVID-19 Harvard University is closely monitoring the ongoing Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic. Our top priority remains the health, safety, and well-being of our community, on and off campus. We are planning for several reopening stages to limit the spread of COVID-19 while ensuring the continuity of our teaching and research mission. Visit the coronavirus page Admissions Lawsuit Harvard College is committed to expanding opportunity, to excellence, and to creating the diverse community essential to fulfilling its mission of educating engaged citizens and leaders. Harvard’s admissions policies do not discriminate against any applicant from any group. We will continue to vigorously defend the right of Harvard College, and every other college and university in the nation, to seek the educational benefits that come from bringing together a diverse group of students. Learn more Tackling Climate Change At Harvard, we are acting on climate change through research that occurs across disciplines and throughout the world; through teaching and learning, by providing our students with the tools to confront this issue for generations to come; and on our campus, by modeling an institutional pathway to a healthier, more sustainable community. See our climate change page The Harvard Endowment Harvard’s endowment, the University’s largest financial asset, is a perpetual source of support for the University and its mission of teaching and research. The endowment is made up of more than 14,000 funds; the two largest categories of funds support faculty and students, including professorships and financial aid for undergraduates, graduate fellowships, and student life and activities. Visit our endowment page Federally Funded Research As one of America’s leading research institutions, Harvard University actively partners with the federal government and other research universities to strive for academic excellence, to conduct cutting-edge research and to further innovation. See all of our research Harvard in the Community From Cambridge, to Allston-Brighton, to Longwood and beyond, Harvard is proud to be part of this region, and to contribute in ways that make the communities we call home more vibrant as a result of the work we do together. See what we’re up to in the community Office of the President Learn more about Lawrence S. Bacow, the 29th President of Harvard University. Visit the president’s page Patent Enforcement The creation and dissemination of new ideas for the public’s benefit is integral to a research university’s academic mission. Learn more Student Unionization The University is committed to protecting the integrity of its teaching mission, the academic freedom that supports its research mission, and serving all of its students, in every School and academic program. Learn about student unionization Security & Brand Report Copyright Infringement Report Security Issue Trademark Notice Website Accessibility Digital Accessibility Privacy Statement Get In Touch Contact Harvard Maps & Directions Jobs © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube