Skip to main content FSU >> FSU LIBRARIES Top Right Search Box Search Our Website... * OneSearch | My Account Florida State University Libraries Search & Find Advanced Search Find a Database Journal Search Special Collections Search DigiNole Search Services & Research All Services Subject Librarians Distance Learning Digital Research & Scholarship Special Collections & Archives Government Information About the Libraries Libraries Overview Member Libraries Departments Accessibility @ FSU Libraries Diversity & Inclusion Giving to the Libraries Facts & Figures Strategic Plan Advancement Board Materials & Borrowing Borrowing Materials Library Express Delivery Interlibrary Loan Materials Purchase Request Help & Support Get Help Library Hours Maps & Directions Visitor Information COVID Guidelines Home >> Catalog and Discovery Upgrades Introducing our next-generation catalog and discovery interface, OneSearch. This upgraded OneSearch system optimizes your ability to find and request items. It also provides a robust new search experience, allowing you to search across our collections and many databases from a single interface. This upgrade is part of a long-term statewide project and touches almost all aspects of our library operations. Since academic libraries across Florida are using these new tools, we are able to streamline UBorrow and other statewide programs. We look forward to developing innovative and useful services to meet the needs of the FSU community both now and in the future. Learn more about our OneSearch discovery tool with our video tutorials. Here is what you need to know: 1. UBorrow, ILL, and Library Express Delivery Service are also available to connect you to the materials you need. Library Express Delivery Service (LEDS) delivers library materials for current FSU faculty members, graduate students, and staff with registered departmental office pickup and drop off locations. Deliveries are made during regular business hours, Monday - Friday and most available items are delivered to department offices within 48 hours. Scanned articles and book chapters are delivered by FSU email. UBorrow allows you to request materials directly from participating libraries within Florida’s state university and college systems. This unmediated borrowing service increases your access to the collections of the other universities and colleges in Florida and delivers more quickly than standard Interlibrary Loan. Interlibrary Loan (ILL) is a library-to-library service that allows FSU patrons to borrow materials owned by other libraries. The FSU library acts as an intermediary with other libraries, working to identify potential lenders of the item and arranging for its use by the requesting patron. Visit Borrowing Materials for guidance on how to request materials, as well as our borrowing terms and policies. 2. Some links to library materials have changed. Links to old current catalog and OneSearch system are no longer accurate. Check the links that you and your students use to access library materials. Consider links in Canvas, on your syllabi, in your CV, or in the citation managers that you use when conducting literature reviews. Links containing “fsu.catalog.fcla.edu”, “site=eds-live”, or "site=pfi-live" need to be updated with a new OneSearch link. Resources hosted on any platform other than EBSCO can be updated now to the vendor specific permalink. Links that go directly to databases (JSTOR, Web of Science, etc.) and links that contain “DOI” followed by a long number will not be affected. 3. Explore our new and improved OneSearch interface! Our subject librarians and implementation leaders Lindsey Wharton, Mason Hall, and Valerie Boulos are available to assist you and answer questions about this transition. About The Florida State University Libraries The mission of the University Libraries is to support and enhance the learning, teaching, research, and service activities of the Florida State University... READ MORE > Library Hours Maps and Directions Our Libraries Staff Directory Subject Librarians All Forms Library News Library Departments Library Events Library Services Employment Visiting the Libraries Giving to the Libraries Policies About the Libraries FAQ Government Information Staff Intranet Content Editor Login Internal Knowledge Base © Florida State University Libraries 116 Honors Way Tallahassee, FL 32306 Website Suggestions Privacy Principles Copyright Policy Contact Us (850) 644-2706 Search Articles, Books and More... * Connect with us!