Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Human Resources Retirement Retirement Medicare Social Security Working at SMU Working at SMU Staff Careers Faculty Careers Temporary Jobs Student Jobs Internal Applicant Get Involved Living In Dallas Benefits & Wellness Benefits & Wellness Health and Other Benefits Wellness Information Learning & Development Learning & Development Total Orientation Process for New Employees On-Demand Learning Professional Development Manager Development Workshops Manager Orientation Enrollment Instructions Cancel Enrollment or Switch Sessions Customized Learning Experiences Consultation FAQ for the LawRoom Training Tutorials Workshop Facilitators HR Training Room Linked-In Learning Courses Manager Lunch and Learn Series SMU Program for the Protection of Minors Continuing Education Credits/Units - Proof of Attendance Reference Library Training Summary Resources Resources New Employee Resources Faculty Resources Staff Resources Work-Life Resources Manager Resources Retiree Resources Safety at SMU SMU's Mission and Code of Ethics Forms Forms All HR Forms & Resources Benefits Compensation General HR Forms Exiting SMU Performance Review Employee Recognition Talent Acquisition and Management ☰ Human Resources Human Resources Learning & Development SMU Program for the Protection of Minors SMU Program for the Protection of Minors Overview SMU Program Coordinators and Camp Operators Non-SMU Camp Operators SMU welcomes many students, employees, and visitors to campus every day and seeks to maintain an inviting, safe, and secure environment for those on campus or engaged in SMU-sponsored activities. In 2012, Texas passed legislation that requires employees of campus programs for minors attend a training and examination program that addresses the warning signs of sexual abuse and child molestation. Our goal at SMU is to exceed state standards by requiring every administrator, faculty/staff member and student worker complete the Program for the Protection of Minors training course within 90 days of being employed and to refresh on the content every two years. Reassignment is automatically made on the two year anniversary of the first date of assignment. Training Requirements SMU Training SMU has partnered with Everfi, a Texas-approved training provider, to host this training. The training is titled "Youth Protection". To help enhance application and data security, effective October 14, 2019, Duo Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA) will be required to access this service. Assignment for the training tutorial will be made automatically on the night the employee's employment information becomes active in my.SMU. The employee will receive an email, sent by Everfi on behalf of SMU, announcing the training is available along with information on how to access the training. The training will take approximately 45 minutes to complete. Refresh assignments will be made on 2 year anniversaries of the first date of assignment. For reporting purposes on the State Reporting Form, the course completion information for the training program should be identified as Everfi with a program code of CPM18-0132. Students and Non-SMU Employees Students who are asked to complete the training for coursework or internships may contact the Department of Human Resources to request the training assignment or they may use any state approved vendor to complete the training. Once training is completed, students may log back in to the Foundry system to view/print their training completion certificate. Enter smu.edu/foundry into a browser window. Non-SMU employees who will host or work at programs hosted in SMU facilities may take advantage of SMU's site license with DCAC to complete the training. These requests should be forwarded to the SMU Office of Risk Management at riskmanagement@smu.edu. Training will be assigned and an announcement email will be sent to the email address provided by the trainee. Please work with your SMU Program Coordinator to manage this process. To print a copy of training completion at any time: SMU employees may log back into Everfi once training is completed to print a completion certificate. Enter smu.edu/foundry in a browser window and click on SMU signin to enter your SSO credentials. non-SMU employees may access their training certificate by logging back in to the DCAC training site to view/print their completion certificate. Questions regarding this should be sent to DevelopU@smu.edu. Kelly Services Temporary Employees Temporary employees hired via Kelly Services should contact their Kelly Services representatives regarding training assignments. FAQ for Everfi, SMU's training vendor Program Coordinators and Camp Operators (SMU Employees) The SMU Office of Risk Management hosts information sessions on SMU practices and procedures for SMU employees designated as Camp Operators and/or Program Coordinators. This in-person session offers instruction on who needs to be informed (in addition to those required by state law), compliance practices for Camp Operators, and records management procedures. Camp Operators who are also SMU employees should complete the State required form and send it to the Texas Department of State Health Services (see link under Quick Links). They should provide a copy of the completed/submitted form to their SMU Program Coordinator before the start of camp. The SMU Coordinator should retain a copy of the form in their departmental files and provide a copy to Risk Management at riskmanagement@smu.edu. Resources SMU Resources SMU Policy 7.26 Duty to Report SMU Office of Legal Affairs Briefing: Duty to Report Suspected Child Abuse Training Program for SMU Employees Proof of Completion: Generate my.SMU Training Summary Training Program for Student Workers: Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ) State of Texas Resources Senate Bill 1414 Texas State Family Code Texas Approved Training Vendor List Department of State Health Services Campus Program for Minors Training Completion Reporting Form Other SMU Resources for a Safe and Secure Campus Harassment and Discrimination training tutorial Preventing Workplace Violence Annual Security Reports - The Clery Act Office of Institutional Access and Equity Office of Risk Management SMU Police Department Camp Operators (Non-SMU Employees) Camp Operators are responsible for ensuring that their employees have completed the state-required training before the start of the camp and for submitting the state required form to the Texas Department of State Health Services (see link under Quick Links). They should provide a copy of the completed/submitted Department of State Health Services Campus Program for the Protection of Minors form to the SMU Program Coordinator before the start of the camp. The SMU Program Coordinator should retain a copy of the form in their departmental files as well as provide a copy to Risk Management at riskmanagement@smu.edu. Resources State of Texas Resources Senate Bill 1414 Texas State Family Code Texas Approved Training Vendor List Department of State Health Services Campus Program for Minors Training Completion Reporting Form Questions? Contact one of the following: For compliance requirements and training for program coordinators and/or camp operators, contact the Office of Risk Management. RiskManagement@smu.edu 214-768-2486 For training programs for SMU employees and non-SMU employees, as well as completion results, contact Human Resources DevelopU@smu.edu Apply Visit Schools Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share