Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Neuromotor Science MS You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Neuromotor Science MS Apply Request More Info Neuromotor Science MS Accreditation Admissions Departmental Research Required Courses Scholarships & Financial Aid Master of Science in Neuromotor Science The Master of Science in Neuromotor Science at Temple’s College of Public Health examines the neural and sensorimotor factors of human movement: how humans learn, perceive and control movement. This interdisciplinary master’s program advances understanding of neuromotor control and biomechanics of human posture and movement, in individuals across the lifespan and the spectrum of health and disability. Students in the program begin with a series of core courses that examine the foundations of neuromotor science, including neural factors, mechanics and models, and cognition and learning. You will learn to assess neuromotor function and its impact on health, functioning and disability. Electives in a range of disciplines allow you to tailor your coursework with the guidance of faculty members and the program director. Graduates of the program are prepared to develop interventions to improve human movement, particularly posture and locomotor control and function across the lifespan. They are able to pursue careers as researchers and educators at universities and research institutions, healthcare systems and in industries related to human health and movement, such as medical technology. Graduates also continue their studies in the PhD program. What sets apart our Neuromotor Science MS program? A unique curriculum: Temple’s Neuromotor Science MS program is unlike any other in the country. It combines the studies of neurophysiology, cognition and learning and biomechanics of the sensorimotor system and examines the impact of health conditions, disease and disability on human movement. Interdisciplinary training: Students study with faculty in a wide range of disciplines, including engineering, kinesiology, neuroscience and physical therapy. This gives them a comprehensive understanding of both neuromotor processes and the technology needed to study them. Renowned faculty: Students collaborate with nationally recognized faculty in the Neuromotor Science Research Consortium, a state-of-the-art research facility with a network of labs that involve expertise across fields and disciplines. Program Format Full-time study is encouraged but not required. Students can complete the degree in two years by studying full time, or complete it in three to four years by studying part time. Courses are held on-site at Temple’s Main Campus. See a full list of program courses. Our Advisors The College of Public Health offers personalized advising services to students in each department. Master’s students can seek program and academic support from their faculty advisor and from the program director. W. Geoffrey Wright Graduate Program Director Phone: 215-204-9008 Email: wrightw@temple.edu Related Graduate Degrees Neuromotor Science PhD Kinesiology MS Kinesiology PhD Doctor of Physical Therapy (DPT) Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Master of Science offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $1,020.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,398.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. HP-NMS-MS Additional Program Information Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Neuromotor Science MS Accreditation Admissions Departmental Research Required Courses Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info