Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Office of Information Technology oit.gatech.edu Main navigation Home Services Services Based on Role Students Faculty Research Computing Staff IT Endpoint Computing IT Business Management Printing and Copying Services About About From The Desk of The CIO The OIT Leadership Organization Chart Job Opportunities Project Management Office Strategy Strategy Overview Amplify Impact Champion Innovation Expand Access Lead by Example FY22 Strategy Timeline High-Level Timeline FY22 - Yearlong FY22 - First Half FY22 - Second Half Strategic Planning Process Policies OneIT IT Communications IT Communications News Accessibility Secondary Navigation Contact Us Open Search Search Search Home The "Tech" at Georgia Tech The Office of Information Technology provides core IT services ranging from classroom and desktop support, wired and wireless Internet, research cyber infrastructure, and critical student services for registration, collaboration, and digital learning. Learn More Services View services and resources based on your role at Georgia Tech. More Info Strategy We are building a five-year strategy to support Institute mission. Learn more about this process. More Info Security Georgia Tech Cyber Security manages the security posture and information security compliance for institutional activities. More Info Need Tech Support? Whether by phone, help request, or walk-up assistance by appointment, the OIT Service Desk is ready to help with all of your IT support needs. Call Us 404-385-5555 View More Options OIT Intranet Internal news, events, updates for OIT employees. Enter Site ITAC Intranet Internal news and updates for the IT community. Enter Site Check IT Service Status Think a service may be down? View our Status Page for updates on the health of IT services. View Service Status News Disaster Recovery Exercise Scheduled June 10-12 Georgia Tech’s Office of Information Technology will perform a data center failure simulation on the weekend of June 10 as part of its disaster recovery and preparedness plan. -- MORE -- Biannual Cybersecurity Training Launches Monday, May 16 Georgia Tech will launch its biannual Cybersecurity Awareness Training for all employees on Monday, May 16. -- MORE -- BlueJeans to Sunset at Georgia Tech May 30 [UPDATE - Sunset Date Extended to June 14] Georgia Tech will sunset the BlueJeans videoconferencing solution on June 14. -- MORE -- Cyber Threats Amid Russia-Ukraine War As the conflict between Russia and Ukraine continues to mount, information security experts across the United States explore ways to circumvent potential cyber-attacks to critical information systems and infrastructure. -- MORE -- more Events OIT Office Hours June 1, 2022 - 10am Online via Microsoft Teams -- DETAILS -- Disaster Recovery Exercise Scheduled June 10-12; Service Interruptions Expected Over the Weekend June 10, 2022 - 6pm Atlanta, GA -- DETAILS -- more Accessibility Information Download Microsoft Products > Download Adobe Reader > Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Campus Map General Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN