Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Performance DMA You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Performance DMA Apply Request More Info Performance DMA Admissions Careers & Opportunities Curriculum Ensembles & Performance Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Doctor of Musical Arts in Performance Become an accomplished professional musician and prepare to teach advanced performing arts with a Doctor of Musical Arts (DMA) in Performance in Temple’s Boyer College of Music and Dance. Master your instrument of choice and develop sophisticated music interpretation skills. Performance DMA graduates become educators in higher education and performers in professional music ensembles throughout the world, and they teach in private studios. The Performance DMA program focuses on 17 instrumental and vocal concentrations. You'll hone your musicianship skills through ensemble opportunities, recitals and rigorous performance training. The curriculum also focuses on a thorough understanding of music analysis, history and theory. Students take private lessons with the Instrumental Studies Department’s exceptional, highly specialized faculty and guest instructors for invaluable real-world experience. Boyer’s faculty members have performed with The Chamber Music Orchestra of Philadelphia, the Delaware Symphony Orchestra, the Philadelphia Orchestra, The Opera Company of Philadelphia and the Pennsylvania Ballet, among others. As part of Temple’s interdisciplinary Center for the Performing and Cinematic Arts, students in the Performance DMA program can grow their musicianship through access to Temple’s state-of-the-art facilities, including ensemble rehearsal spaces, practice rooms and a recording studio. Explore Boyer Faculty Faculty Discover music faculty in the Boyer College of Music and Dance. Explore Boyer Faculty Faculty Classes & Curriculum The required credit hours for the Performance DMA degree are between 54 and 55 credits, depending on which concentration you choose. The culminating event for most concentrations is a final recital and monograph, a written thesis on a focused area of study. Students have seven years to earn the degree. Your curriculum will depend on your concentration, although many concentrations require courses such as Doctoral Chamber Music, Final Recital and Performance with Orchestra. Learn more about the curriculum for each Performance DMA concentration. Related Graduate Degrees Music MA Music MS Music PhD Music Composition MM Music History MM Music Education MM Music Education PhD Opera MM Performance MM Related Graduate Certificates Professional Studies Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Doctor of Musical Arts offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $1,095.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,458.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Additional information Our Advisors Faculty advisors will help you to shape your coursework and research activities to align with your goals and academic interests. Charles Abramovic is the faculty coordinator for the Performance DMA degree program. Phone: 215-204-7388 Email: charles.abramovic@temple.edu Paul Rardin is the chair of Vocal Arts. Phone: 215-204-4742 Email: rardin@temple.edu<mailto:rardin@temple.edu Terell Stafford is the chair of Instrumental Studies and director of Jazz Studies. Phone: 215-204-8036 Email: terell.stafford@temple.edu Program Contact Charles Abramovic, faculty coordinator, is the program contact for the Performance DMA. Phone: 215-204-7388 Email: charles.abramovic@temple.edu Student Clubs & Organizations Participating in student groups provides peer support and future professional contacts. There are more than 200 student organizations at Temple University. American Choral Directors Association provides students opportunities to experience choral conducting through guest lectures and rehearsal practice, and offers opportunities to earn practical experience through various regional and state conferences. OWLchestra Community Orchestra is a community string orchestra composed of students and community members who want to play music together in a low-stress environment. Temple University Percussion Club holds educational clinics, events and weekly meetings guided by percussion faculty members and professional percussionists, covering an array of drum-related topics such as percussion gear and marching percussion. Learn more about clubs and organizations. Accreditation The Boyer College of Music and Dance is accredited by the American Music Therapy Association, National Association of Schools of Music, National Association of Schools of Dance and Pennsylvania Department of Education. Concentrations You can focus on Performance or you can take one of the following concentrations. Bassoon Develop the highest and most sophisticated expression of musical interpretation through bassoon performance, under the guidance of a highly specialized faculty. View Concentration Details Cello Develop the highest and most sophisticated expression of musical interpretation through cello performance, under the guidance of a highly specialized faculty. View Concentration Details Clarinet Develop the highest and most sophisticated expression of musical interpretation through clarinet performance, under the guidance of a highly specialized faculty. View Concentration Details Double Bass Develop the highest and most sophisticated expression of musical interpretation through double bass performance, under the guidance of a highly specialized faculty. View Concentration Details Flute Develop the highest and most sophisticated expression of musical interpretation through flute performance, under the guidance of a highly specialized faculty. View Concentration Details French Horn Develop the highest and most sophisticated expression of musical interpretation through French horn performance, under the guidance of a highly specialized faculty. View Concentration Details Harp Develop the highest and most sophisticated expression of musical interpretation through harp performance, under the guidance of a highly specialized faculty. View Concentration Details Historical Keyboard Grow and develop the highest and most sophisticated expression of musical interpretation through performance. Students are expected to achieve the most advanced level of professional experience, knowledge and training in the performance of solo and ensemble music on historical keyboard instruments. View Concentration Details Oboe Develop the highest and most sophisticated expression of musical interpretation through oboe performance, under the guidance of a highly specialized faculty. View Concentration Details Percussion Develop the highest and most sophisticated expression of musical interpretation through percussion performance, under the guidance of a highly specialized faculty. View Concentration Details Piano Grow and develop the highest and most sophisticated expression of musical interpretation through piano performance under the guidance of faculty. View Concentration Details Trombone Grow and develop the highest and most sophisticated expression of musical interpretation through trombone performance under the guidance of faculty. View Concentration Details Trumpet Grow and develop the highest and most sophisticated expression of musical interpretation through trumpet performance under the guidance of faculty. View Concentration Details Tuba Grow and develop the highest and most sophisticated expression of musical interpretation through tuba performance under the guidance of faculty. View Concentration Details Viola Grow and develop the highest and most sophisticated expression of musical interpretation through viola performance under the guidance of faculty. View Concentration Details Violin Grow and develop the highest and most sophisticated expression of musical interpretation through violin performance under the guidance of faculty. View Concentration Details Voice Grow and develop the highest and most sophisticated expression of musical interpretation through voice performance under the guidance of faculty. View Concentration Details BC-PERF-DMA Additional Program Information School/College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Performance DMA Admissions Careers & Opportunities Curriculum Ensembles & Performance Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info