Skip to main content The University of Texas at Austin Menu Header Helpful Links Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Families & Visitors Search Search Maps Directory UT Direct Give Apply Search Search About Academics Academic Experience Areas of Study Extended Campus Cockrell School of Engineering College of Education College of Fine Arts College of Liberal Arts College of Natural Sciences College of Pharmacy Dell Medical School Graduate School Jackson School of Geosciences LBJ School of Public Affairs McCombs School of Business Moody College of Communication School of Architecture School of Information School of Law School of Nursing Steve Hicks School of Social Work School of Undergraduate Studies Admissions & Aid Be a Longhorn What Starts Here Changes the World. It's more than a motto. It’s what we prove each and every day, as Texas and its Exes advance discovery and innovation on a global stage. Join us. Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions School of Law Admissions Dell Medical School Admissions Tuition & Costs Financial Aid Campus Visits Campus & Community Explore Your Passions Thousands of events, from concerts and film screenings to readings and lectures. More than 1,100 student organizations. Incredible facilities and special attractions. And it's all set in the heart of one of the world's greatest cities. Welcome home. Arts & Culture Campus Destinations Entrepreneurship & Innovation Health & Wellness Housing & Dining Life in Austin Report Misconduct Safety & Security Student Involvement Longhorn Resources Research Change the World Longhorns are passionate about making the world a better place, united by the belief that creating and sharing knowledge can save lives and transform society. Come explore our vast research enterprise — or better yet, create, innovate and discover with us. Overview Student Research Units & Centers Off-Campus Research Sites Libraries Experts Guide Athletics News Home Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Oct. 19, 2021 A More Diverse and Welcoming Campus During the summer of 2020, President Hartzell announced steps to promote diversity and equity and to recruit, attract, retain and support more Black students, faculty and staff on campus. These actions will include expanding programs that provide opportunities for future Black leaders, changing the names of campus buildings, and establishing historical context about the university’s history. Track our progress toward more diversity The University of Texas at Austin is one of the most diverse campuses in the nation. With nearly 52,000 students from all 50 states and 123 countries, we take seriously our motto: What Starts Here Changes the World. We boast 18 colleges and schools with over 300 degree programs, representing a diversity of thought and scholarship that is staggering. 2020 Seal of Excelencia for Commitment to Latino Student Success 7-time Higher Education Excellence in Diversity Award #5 on the College Choice List for 50 Best Disability Friendly Colleges #1 for Student Veterans in Texas (USN&WR) University Diversity and Inclusion Action Plan In 2017, The University of Texas at Austin adopted the University Diversity and Inclusion Action Plan (UDIAP) to track our ongoing work to improve diversity, inclusion and equity within the campus community. The UDIAP standing committee reviews and updates the plan biannually to ensure we are actively engaged in diversity work in real and tangible ways. The plan is a reflection upon how we can provide the best education possible for students from all backgrounds, especially those that have been historically marginalized. View Action Plan A Message from President Jay Hartzell “UT can be a world-class university only if we embrace the ideas and perspectives of a truly diverse set of talented people — of every background, race and life experience. That is how we can solve the hardest problems facing Texas, our country and the world. It is also how we can best enable our students to learn, develop and lead while they are on our campus, in their careers and throughout their lives. But it goes even deeper than that. Our university has made great strides in its commitment to diversity and inclusion in recent years, but we have much more progress to make. Our goal is to create an environment on the Forty Acres where all community members — students, faculty and staff — are empowered to be true to themselves, to participate fully in our vibrant university and to thrive as individuals. We won’t rest until we reach that goal.” — Jay Hartzell, President The Division of Diversity and Community Engagement DDCE is a national model for integrating diversity and community engagement into the core mission of a university. The division focuses on four core pillars: campus culture, community engagement, education pipeline and research. Learn more about the Division of Diversity and Community Engagement Stories from Across Campus UT for Me – Powered by Dell Scholars Celebrates First Graduate UT Startup Hopes to Remove Language Barriers Keiko Torii Receives Asahi Prize More Diversity News Educating About Gender and Sexuality Supporting a Culturally Diverse Campus Serving Students with Disabilities Uniting and Empowering Latinx Students Connecting Students Around the World Gender and Sexuality Center The mission of the Gender and Sexuality Center (GSC) is to provide opportunities for all members of the UT community to explore, organize and promote learning around issues of gender and sexuality. The center also facilitates a greater responsiveness to the needs of women and the LGBTQIA+ communities through education, outreach and advocacy. Learn more about the Gender and Sexuality Center Multicultural Engagement Center The Multicultural Engagement Center (MEC) is a student resource office that supports a culturally diverse campus and helps cultivate a positive campus climate. Learn more about the Multicultural Engagement Center Services for Students with Disabilities SSD ensures students with disabilities have equal access to their academic experiences at UT by determining eligibility and approving reasonable accommodations. SSD also engages in outreach across campus in order to create a more inclusive, accessible and welcoming environment for people with disabilities. Learn more about Services for Students with Disabilities Latinx Community Affairs Latinx Community Affairs (LCA) serves to unite and empower Latinx students and student organizations at UT through communication, leadership, social action and education for the advancement of the Latinx community. LCA works to strengthen Latinx student organizations on campus and to promote understanding of Latinx culture and history and how it is linked to current social issues. Learn more about Latinx Community Affairs Texas Global Texas Global advances UT’s academic mission by leading, supporting and coordinating the university’s international engagement efforts, fostering strategic partnerships on campus and abroad, welcoming a cadre of impressive international students and scholars to campus, and creating opportunities for students and faculty to engage with peers and institutions around the world. Learn more about Texas Global Educating About Gender and Sexuality Gender and Sexuality Center The mission of the Gender and Sexuality Center (GSC) is to provide opportunities for all members of the UT community to explore, organize and promote learning around issues of gender and sexuality. The center also facilitates a greater responsiveness to the needs of women and the LGBTQIA+ communities through education, outreach and advocacy. Learn more about the Gender and Sexuality Center Supporting a Culturally Diverse Campus Multicultural Engagement Center The Multicultural Engagement Center (MEC) is a student resource office that supports a culturally diverse campus and helps cultivate a positive campus climate. Learn more about the Multicultural Engagement Center Serving Students with Disabilities Services for Students with Disabilities SSD ensures students with disabilities have equal access to their academic experiences at UT by determining eligibility and approving reasonable accommodations. SSD also engages in outreach across campus in order to create a more inclusive, accessible and welcoming environment for people with disabilities. Learn more about Services for Students with Disabilities Uniting and Empowering Latinx Students Latinx Community Affairs Latinx Community Affairs (LCA) serves to unite and empower Latinx students and student organizations at UT through communication, leadership, social action and education for the advancement of the Latinx community. LCA works to strengthen Latinx student organizations on campus and to promote understanding of Latinx culture and history and how it is linked to current social issues. Learn more about Latinx Community Affairs Connecting Students Around the World Texas Global Texas Global advances UT’s academic mission by leading, supporting and coordinating the university’s international engagement efforts, fostering strategic partnerships on campus and abroad, welcoming a cadre of impressive international students and scholars to campus, and creating opportunities for students and faculty to engage with peers and institutions around the world. Learn more about Texas Global UT Student Body Diversity A diverse student body is critical to the learning experience. We continue to recruit and retain the best and brightest students who aspire to change the world. Updated 2/2/2022 All Students by Race/Ethnicity All Students by Race/Ethnicity American Indian or Alaskan Native 0.1% Asian 20.6% Black 5.2% Hispanic 24.2% International 9.1% Multiracial (excl. Black or Hispanic) 2.7% Native Hawaiian or other Pacific Islander 0.1% Unknown or Blank 1.3% White 36.7% *Black includes both “Black or African American Alone” and “Black or African American Multiracial (excluding Hispanic)”. *Students are classified as “International” if they are not U.S. citizens or U.S. permanent residents. All Students by Gender All Students by Gender Men 44.7% Women 55.3% *Athough UT currently collects gender binary data, we support all students and provide resources for our LGBTQIA+ identifying students. 22.9% First generation undergraduate students 9.1% International students 0.08% Veterans Learn more about UT’s Student Demographics Students From All Over the World Students from 123 countries and all 50 states attend UT. Recruiting students from all over the world is essential to our success as a learning community. Residency of Students Texas 80.4% International 9.1% Out-of-State 10.5% Learn more about UT’s Student Enrollment There is Something Here for Everyone UT has nearly 1000 organizations that support various cultures, religions and interests — encouraging students to explore and build community. Explore Student Organizations Diverse Faculty The University of Texas at Austin is dedicated to attracting highly qualified faculty with a wide range of backgrounds and ideas. Updated 9/29/2020 Faculty Diversity Faculty Diversity Faculty Diversity Full Professor Associate Professor Assistant Professor Non-tenure track American Indian or Alaskan Native 0.4% 0.0% 0.0% 0.1% Asian 10.5% 11.2% 12.2% 8.1% Black or African American 3.6% 6.0% 5.3% 3.3% Hispanic/Latinx 5.9% 8.3% 10.4% 9.9% International 1.3% 2.9% 18.1% 3.8% Native Hawaiian or other Pacific Islander only 0.0% 0.0% 0.3% 0.0% Two or more (excluding Hispanic) 0.8% 1.7% 1.2% 1.8% Unknown or Blank 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.7% White 77.6% 69.8% 52.5% 72.3% All Faculty by Gender All Faculty by Gender Men 56.5% Women 43.5% 35.6% Tenured or tenure track women 51.5% Non-tenure track women Learn more about UT’s Faculty Demographics Staff Diversity The University of Texas at Austin is dedicated to attracting highly qualified staff with a wide range of backgrounds and ideas. Updated 2/4/2022 Staff Diversity Staff Diversity American Indian or Alaskan Native 0.23% Asian 7.88% Black or African American 6.77% Hispanic/Latinx 23.10% Native Hawaiian or other Pacific Islander only 0.08% Two or more (excluding Hispanic) 2.01% Unknown or Blank 0.19% White 59.75% All Staff by Gender All Staff by Gender Men 45.56% Women 54.29% Unknown 0.15% Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Offices Across Campus Division of Diversity and Community Engagement Office of the Executive Vice President and Provost Cockrell School of Engineering Diversity College of Education Diversity College of Fine Arts Diversity College of Liberal Arts Diversity College of Natural Sciences Diversity College of Pharmacy Diversity Dell Medical School Diversity Graduate School Diversity Jackson School of Geosciences LBJ School of Public Affairs Diversity McCombs School of Business Diversity Moody College of Communication Diversity School of Architecture School of Information School of Law School of Nursing Steve Hicks School of Social Work School of Undergraduate Studies Diversity at the Center of Advanced Computing Diversity at Counseling and Mental Health Center Texas Athletics Diversity and Inclusion Committee UT's Timeline of Integration Connect with UT Austin Subscribe to our newsletter Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn YouTube Starts With You Footer Helpful Links Access Course Syllabi and Instructor CVs Campus Carry Contact Counseling and Mental Health Diversity and Inclusion Action Plan Diversity, Equity, and Disability Resources ♿ Emergency Information Fraud, Waste, or Abuse Hazing Prevention and Response HEERF/CARES Act Compliance Jobs Online Institutional Resumes Public Forum On Campus Site Policies State of Texas Statewide Search Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Title IX Reporting (Sexual Misconduct) UT System Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy © The University of Texas at Austin 2022