Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Senior Administration About Baylor Menu Campus The Vibrant Baylor Campus Then & Now Traditions School Song Fight Song Baylor Bucket List The Immortal Message The McLane Carillon Virtual Tour Campus Map Directions to Baylor Connect Social Media Baylor Magazine Baylor Proud Baylor Alumni Connect Wear the Gear Facts & Figures Overview Awards & Rankings Ask Baylor Financial Highlights Heritage History Baylor Presidents Founders & Founders Day The Naming of Baylor Baylor Campus: Then & Now Historical Timeline List of Timeline Events Prominent Bears Commission on Historic Campus Representations Leadership Office of the President Senior Administration Administrative Departments Values & Vision Give Light Core Convictions Mission Top-Tier Academics Research Apply Christian Commitment Celebrating Advent Caring Community Athletic Excellence Strategic Plan Join Us Apply Now Work Here Make a Gift Visit Baylor Our Stories Baylor>About Baylor>Senior Administration>President's Council>David P. Rosselli David P. Rosselli Vice President for Advancement David P. Rosselli Vice President for Advancement Mr. David Rosselli joined Baylor as vice president for university development in November 2015. In 2017, he became vice president for university advancement, overseeing university development and alumni engagement. He previously served as senior executive director of institutional advancement at the University of Southern California, where he managed the development operations and staff for the advancement office in San Francisco. Prior to his time at USC, Mr. Rosselli served as assistant dean for institutional advancement at the Arthur A. Dugoni School of Dentistry at the University of the Pacific, where he was responsible for all areas of campaign development and fundraising for the school’s $150-million relocation to downtown San Francisco. Before that, he spent six years as associate athletic director at the University of California, Berkeley, overseeing a $500-million athletics campaign that included a $350-million stadium renovation. Prior to his work at Cal, he spent more than six years as the director of development for the schools of business and engineering at University of the Pacific. Mr. Rosselli is a former television and radio broadcaster, including stints as an analyst for the Golden State Warriors and the San Francisco Giants along with University of California football and basketball, play by play for Pacific football and basketball, and television play by play on Comcast Sports at Fresno State. In 2018, Mr. Rosselli called Baylor Bears men’s basketball on the radio during games when John Morris moved over for television assignment. Mr. Rosselli is a graduate of the University of the Pacific, having earned a bachelor’s degree in broadcast journalism and a master’s degree in educational psychology. He and his wife, Christine, are honored to be a part of the Baylor family. More Information University Advancement Baylor Alumni Giving to Baylor Give Light: The Campaign for Baylor Senior Administration Office of the President University Council Administrative Departments Organizational Chart About Baylor Show More General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 Office of the President University Council Administrative Departments Organizational Chart About Baylor