Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index School of Theatre and Dance Menu Search TTU Theatre & Dance School of Theatre & Dance Programs School of Theatre & Dance Undergraduate Programs School of Theatre & Dance Bachelor of Arts DanceAudition Info B.A. in Dance The dance program at Texas Tech University provides its students with a rigorous yet accessible curriculum, opportunities for engagement with dance in a variety of contexts, and a supportive, student-centered learning environment. By integrating the practical and the theoretical, the program serves as a vital force in the cultural and intellectual life of our society. The program is accredited by the National Association of Schools of Dance (NASD). The B.A. in Dance prepares students for a wide range of career options post-graduation and includes opportunities for multiple areas of specialization. Course work is designed to help students become skillful, articulate, expressive movers; develop their own perspectives as creative artists; develop the ability to work effectively in a collaborative environment; and grow in their understanding of dance as an art form. The Bachelor of Arts degree in Dance requires 120 hours. What Sets Us Apart The B.A. in Dance degree provides students an opportunity to participate in an individualized yet comprehensive program through the choice of elective courses for a minor from outside the major area discipline, consistent with the university philosophy and policies for liberal arts degrees. ACCREDITATION Accredited by the National Association of Schools of Dance (NASD) Smaller Program Smaller program that provides student mentorship by dance faculty Performance Opportunity Performance opportunities every semester Integration Integration that include collaboration with students in theatre Double-Major Possibilities for a double-major in other departments Facilities & Technology Creative Movement Studio Creative Movement Studio Information Theatre & Dance Complex Part of Phase I renovation of the Charles E. Maedgen Jr. Theatre The CH Foundation/The Legacy of Christine DeVitt Black Box Theatre Black Box Theatre Information Admissions Apply Now Applying to the BA in Dance requires that you be admited to both Texas Tech and the Dance Program. This includes a required audition. Click Apply Now below or see our Auditions information below for more details. Apply Now Auditions We are offering opportunities for virtual audition submissions as well as an on-campus audition (Saturday, February 12, 2022) this academic year. Audition Information Online Learning While the majority of our Dance courses are offered in person, some Dance courses are offered online. Dance History Topics in Dance History Higher Program Offering Students pursuing the Bachelor of Arts degree in Dance could apply for our Master of Arts degree in Dance Studies here at Texas Tech University. This degree provides a compliment to the B.A. degree and there may be opportunities to complete the two degrees within 5-6 years. Master of Arts degree in Dance Studies Curriculum COURSES First Year Seminar Ballet Technique Contemporary Technique Jazz Technique Movement for the Performer Music for Dance Dance Production Activities I and II Improvisation Principles of Choreography I and II Dance History Topics in Dance History Dance Aesthetics Pedagogy Dance in the Community Capstone Concert ELECTIVES Tap Hip-Hop Musical Stage Dance World Dance Forms Special Topics in Dance Projects in Dance ONLINE CATALOG INFORMATION Online catalog information Alumni Success & Careers Past Graduate Accomplishments Former students have moved on to a variety of careers following graduation from our B.A. program: dance education in K-12 and postsecondary schools, private dance studio ownership, physical therapy, arts administration for performing arts organizations, performing and choreographing in a variety of styles and professional levels, and graduate studies in dance and other fields. Career Possibilities If you aspire to become a dance educator, studio owner, performer, choreographer, or dance-related medical or arts administration/marketing specialist, consider the B.A. degree to provide a comprehensive study of dance that deepens and enriches your overall academic experience. Questions? Contact your Advisor Abed Monawar Senior Academic Advisor abed.monawar@ttu.edu 806.834.8769 School of Theatre and Dance Like School of Theatre and Dance on FacebookLike School of Theatre and Dance on Facebook Follow School of Theatre and Dance on twitterFollow School of Theatre and Dance on twitter Subscribe to School of Theatre and Dance on YouTubeSubscribe to School of Theatre and Dance on YouTube Follow School of Theatre and Dance on InstagramFollow School of Theatre and Dance on Instagram Address Texas Tech University, School of Theatre and Dance, Box 42061, 2812 18th Street, Lubbock, TX 79409-2061 Phone 806.742.3601 Email theatre.dance@ttu.edu Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock, Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech University May 26, 2022 10:08 AM School of Theatre and Dance Programs School of Theatre and Dance Programs Back Undergraduate School of Theatre and Dance Programs Undergraduate Back Bachelor of Arts in Dance Bachelor of Arts in Theatre Arts Bachelor of Fine Arts in Dance Bachelor of Fine Arts in Theatre Arts Dance Minor Theatre Arts Minor Graduate School of Theatre and Dance Programs Graduate Back Master of Arts in Dance Studies Master of Arts in Theatre Arts Master of Fine Arts in Theatre Arts Ph.D. in Fine Arts (Theatre) Outreach & Engagement School of Theatre and Dance Programs Outreach & Engagement Back BurkTech Players Theatre & Dance in the Community Signature Experiences School of Theatre and Dance Programs Signature Experiences Back Marfa Intensives Prague Study Abroad Tennessee Williams Institute WildWind Performance Lab Admissions School of Theatre and Dance Back Apply Now School of Theatre and Dance Back Undergraduate Graduate New Undergraduate Students School of Theatre and Dance New Undergraduate Students Back Orientation Checklist Red Raider Orientation Academic Checklist Fine Arts Learning Community Audition/Portfolio School of Theatre and Dance Back BA/BFA Dance BFA Acting BFA Design BFA Musical Theatre MFA Design MFA Performance & Pedagogy Financial Aid School of Theatre and Dance Financial Aid Back Scholarships Graduate Assistantships About School of Theatre and Dance Back Leadership School of Theatre and Dance Leadership Back Meet the Director Meet the Associate Directors Faculty Directory Staff Directory Student Facilities School of Theatre and Dance Back Charles E. Maedgen, Jr. Theatre Creative Movement Studio (CMS 101) School Information School of Theatre and Dance Back Mission, Vision & Inclusion History Student Organizations Institutional Memberships & Affiliations Employment News/Events School of Theatre and Dance Back News Newsletters J.T. & Margaret Talkington College of Visual & Performing Arts Productions School of Theatre and Dance Back Buy Tickets School of Theatre and Dance Back Free TTU Student Tickets In-person Performances Virtual Current Season Past Productions School of Theatre and Dance Past Productions Back 2020-21 2019-20 Performance Spaces School of Theatre and Dance Back The CH Foundation The Legacy of Christine DeVitt Black Box Theatre Charles E. Maedgen, Jr. Theatre Creative Movement Studio (CMS 101) Studio Performance Lab (Studio 267) Alumni Resources School of Theatre and Dance Resources Back Faculty/Staff Current Students Contact Us Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index