Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Environmental Science Major You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Environmental Science Major Apply Visit Request More Info Environmental Science Major Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Bachelor of Science in Environmental Science Study the interactions between society and Earth with the interdisciplinary Bachelor of Science in Environmental Science in Temple’s College of Science and Technology. Students who earn the 123-credit-hour degree are prepared for further academic study at advanced levels or employment opportunities with government and public service, nonprofit, or private sector organizations with a focus on issues of environmental monitoring, land use change, natural resource conservation, water resources and water quality analysis. The Environmental Science BS is a four-year program in which you’ll acquire a well-rounded background in the sciences. Designed to build a broad view of environmental issues and factors, the curriculum incorporates biology, chemistry, economics, geography, geology and mathematics courses. In addition to the Environmental Science degree, students can earn the Environmental Professional Training Certificate by completing a 12-credit-hour program. The program combines biological, information and physical sciences to the study of the environment, and how environmental problems may be solved with these varied scientific disciplines. Environmental scientists use a combination of field and laboratory research to understand the biological, chemical and physical processes that underlie the interplay between society and the planet. To mirror the real-life practices of environmental scientists, you’ll research current environmental issues and their potential remedies for your senior capstone project. Classes & Curriculum In this undergraduate program, courses will include Hydrology, Introduction to Probability and Statistics for the Life Sciences, Physical Geology, and Principles of Ecology. Learn more about Environmental Science BS courses. Related Graduate Degrees Geology MS Geoscience PhD Scientific Writing PSM Related Graduate Certificates Scientific Writing Certificate Concentrations You can focus on Environmental Science or you can take one of the following concentrations. Applied Ecology Study the human impact on the natural environment and explore relationships between living things and their environment. Gain an understanding of specific environmental problems and field methods through interdisciplinary coursework in economics, geography, mathematics and the sciences. Climate Learn the essential attributes of infrastructure, resilient environments and sustainable resource management. Understand the science and gain the skills to assess our changing climate and opportunities to mitigate its impact on human societies and environmental systems. Environmental Geochemistry Develop an understanding of the fundamental principles that control the composition and reactions of water and materials in the environment. Learn and practice methods for collection and interpretation of geochemical datasets, and how to integrate such datasets into broader pictures of environmental change. Hydrology Explore coursework in biology, chemistry, geosciences and hydrology to develop the skills needed for environmental monitoring approaches to tackling environmental problems. Graduates are prepared for careers in environmental consulting, government agencies and water resources research. Environmental Science Major / Master of Education You can also earn an Environmental Science Major from the College of Science and Technology and a Middle Grades Education MEd from the College of Education and Human Development. Qualified students can earn a master’s degree in five years, instead of taking the usual six. Learn more about pursuing this accelerated degree. Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, the Bachelor of Science offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. Learn more about our tuition and fees. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $20,568.00 per year Out-of-state: $33,792.00 per year Our Advisors Center for Academic Advising and Professional Development The Center for Academic Advising and Professional Development in the College of Science and Technology helps you navigate New Student Orientation, advises on specific degree programs and courses, provides post-graduation guidance, and offers peer support. You can also be matched with a qualified student ambassador/ombudsperson who will further assist with degree and academic questions or concerns. Learn more about the Center for Academic Advising and Professional Development's academic advisors and student ambassadors/ombudspersons. Program Contact Contact the following faculty for more information about the Environmental Science BS. David Grandstaff is the undergraduate faculty advisor for the Environmental Science BS program. Phone: 215-204-8228 Email: david.grandstaff@temple.edu Sujith Ravi is the director of the Environmental Science BS program. Phone: 215-204-7122 Email: sravi@temple.edu Student Clubs & Organizations Student clubs and organizations in the College of Science and Technology provide opportunities to meet with peers, network with professionals or scientists in your field of study, and learn about internship opportunities. The College of Science and Technology offers 15 major clubs and 12 prehealth clubs for undergraduate students. Enhance your academic study and social life by participating in a club related to your major or interests. Students pursuing the Environmental Science Major may be interested in the following clubs and organizations. The Alliance for Minority Participation in STEM works to increase opportunities for students and help them complete their undergraduate and graduate degrees in STEM fields. The Geological Society of Temple University encourages students to explore geological and environmental topics through social experiences with peers. Leadership, Education and Development in Science empowers Philadelphia middle school students to take an interest in STEM through mentor-led science experiments. Explore the full list of College of Science and Technology student clubs and organizations. Study Away Opportunities Deepen your understanding of your math, natural science or computer science coursework by experiencing firsthand how such disciplines are studied overseas. Temple’s study abroad program offers College of Science and Technology students opportunities to spend a summer or semester studying in Germany, Italy, Japan and Spain. Learn more about your options for studying away. College of Science and Technology undergraduate students can also take part in international research. These opportunities include the following external scholarship programs. The Benjamin Gilman International Scholarship provides funding for underrepresented students to study in nontraditional destinations such as Australia and Eastern Europe. The Boren Scholarship Summer STEM Initiative offers undergraduate STEM majors opportunities to participate in a language-intensive program. The Indian Institute of Science Education and Research and Temple offer opportunities for students in biology, chemistry and physics programs to work in research groups in Pune, India, over the summer. The Siena Biomedical Research Program provides the opportunity for students to spend their summer working full time in a biotechnology and pathology lab based in Tuscany, Italy. The Sicily Applied Biotechnology Program allows students to learn the biological basis behind the technology used for art conservation and then apply that knowledge in the laboratory and in the field. Learn more about study abroad programs for College of Science and Technology students. Accreditation As a division within Temple University, the College of Science and Technology is accredited by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education. ST-ENVS-BS Additional Program Information Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Environmental Science Major Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Visit Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Visit Request More Info