Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Early Childhood Education Major You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Early Childhood Education Major Apply Visit Request More Info Early Childhood Education Major Admissions Information Careers & Opportunities Our Faculty Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Bachelor of Science in Education in Early Childhood Education Learn how to help children in pre-kindergarten through fourth grade develop the academic skills and habits that support a lifetime of learning. Earn the Bachelor of Science in Education in Early Childhood Education (PreK through grade 4) and become an elementary school teacher. Completing this degree program will equip you to address and prevent learning difficulties for children with special needs; assess student learning in a variety of ways; deliver effective literacy, mathematics, science and social studies instruction; learn best practices for both native and non-native English speakers; master curriculum design for all students; and understand child development in depth. You start fieldwork as early as your second year. Field experiences require you to observe effective, engaging classroom management firsthand. You will practice instructing individuals, small groups and the entire classroom. Learn more about fieldwork. Finish your program by completing a year-long student teaching experience under the guidance of a cooperating teacher and the supervision of Temple faculty. Concentrations You can focus on Early Childhood Education or you can opt for the following concentration. Special Education Earn dual certification in elementary education and special education (Pre-K through grade 8) by learning to use evidence-based practice to teach students with diverse abilities. Work directly with children before and during student teaching, and learn to create the best environments for different learning styles. View Concentration Details Teacher Certification This program prepares you to successfully complete state certification exams, allowing you to apply for a Pennsylvania Instructional I Teaching Certificate. Learn more about certification. Related Graduate Degrees Advocacy and Organizational Development MEd Educational Leadership and Policy MEd with a concentration in Urban Education Accomplished Teaching MSEd Special Education MEd Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages (TESOL) MSEd Related Certificates Autism Endorsement Graduate Certificate English as a Second Language Graduate Certificate Instructional Learning Technology Graduate Certificate Urban Education Graduate Certificate Review the full list of the College of Education and Human Development’s graduate degree and certificate programs. +1 Accelerated Degree Programs Temple also offers accelerated +1 Bachelor-Master programs. Qualifying students earn bachelor’s and master’s degrees in one five-year course of study instead of the usual six years. Explore the accelerated option specifically for Early Childhood Education majors, the Early Childhood Education (BSEd) and Special Education (MEd) accelerated program. Learn more about the College of Education and Human Development’s +1 accelerated degree programs. Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, the Bachelor of Science in Education offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. Learn more about our tuition and fees. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $16,488.00 per year Out-of-state: $29,712.00 per year Student Clubs & Organizations Participating in student groups provides peer support and future professional contacts. It also presents opportunities to give back to the community, either locally or globally. Explore the opportunities available through organizations such as Be The Change, an organization that provides education and healthcare services to communities in North Philadelphia and overseas; Black Diamonds Union, which works to celebrate and disseminate education about black culture at Temple University and in Philadelphia’s wider urban community; College of Education and Human Development Student Council, a group that provides students with leadership opportunities and a chance to effect change; Grandma’s Kids, a K through grade 5 afterschool program that focuses on homework, as well as academic, emotional and social support; Jumpstart, a national early education organization that trains students to work with preschool children in low-income neighborhoods; Kappa Delta Pi Honor Society, which promotes academic excellence and a network for those who are committed to teaching; The Petey Greene Program at Temple University, an organization that supports prisoner education by training volunteers to provide weekly tutoring sessions to inmates in four correctional facilities in Philadelphia; Temple University - Students Teaching Underrepresented Developing Youth (TU-STUDY), a group that assists children and adults in the greater Philadelphia area with advising, tutoring and other kinds of support in overcoming learning challenges; Temple Student Pennsylvania State Education Association, which increases esteem for educational professions among teacher candidates, constructively affects the process of teacher education and represents students regarding these issues; and Treehouse Books, a literacy center near Temple’s Main Campus where students can engage in literacy service work. Search for additional College of Education and Human Development and education-related student organizations. Program Contact Annemarie Hindman, associate professor of psychological studies in education, is the faculty program coordinator for the Early Childhood Elementary Education BSEd. Phone: 215-204-5589 Email: annemarie.hindman@temple.edu Our Academic Advisors Advisors will guide you in navigating the curriculum and selecting the appropriate coursework to achieve your academic and professional goals. College of Education and Human Development students are encouraged to see an academic advisor every semester. Study Away Opportunities Education majors gain experience teaching English overseas in Italy, Jamaica, Japan and other countries. Recent students have also gone to study in Chile, Ireland, Korea and Spain. Learn more about studying abroad, and explore a list of government-sponsored teaching abroad scholarships. Certification This program is approved as a teacher certification program by the Pennsylvania Department of Education. Questions For more information about this program, the College of Education and Human Development, how to apply for admission, and your application status, contact Enrollment Management. Enrollment Management Phone: 215-204-8011 Email: educate@temple.edu ED-ECED-BSED Additional Program Information Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Early Childhood Education Major Admissions Information Careers & Opportunities Our Faculty Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Visit Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Visit Request More Info