Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Residence Life & Student Housing (RLSH) About Apply for Housing Apply for Housing SMU Housing Portal Rate and Fees Living On Campus Living On Campus Residential Commons Upper-Division Housing Apartments Policies Get Involved Get Involved Dallas Community Departments Faculty Graduate Students Staff Undergraduate Students Make A Request ☰ Because Location Really is Everything. RLSH Living On Campus Apartments Apartments SMU manages a series of apartment properties in University Park, near campus, that are available for rent on a 12-month contract for currently enrolled upper-division (Juniors or higher) undergraduate and graduate students. SMU apartments provide students with affordable and convenient living close to campus. SMU-managed apartments Fourplex A intimate SMU apartment community adjacent to campus. Beneath large Oak trees, this 4-unit community features 1 bedroom apartments. Residents appreciate the close-proximity parking and community laundry room. Explore Hillcrest Manor This three-story retro SMU apartment community has 6 floor-plan varieties, including efficiency, 1- and 2-bedrooms. Residents enjoy being close the campus as well as local shopping and dining nearby in Snider Plaza. View Red Door This SMU 6-unit affordable apartment community, which has preserved its old-fashioned charm from the architectural elements and characteristic red exterior doors to each of the 1 bedroom apartments. Residents appreciate the benefit of off street parking and the handy community laundry room. Discover Hilltop Heights This SMU apartment community features 2 & 3 bedroom floor plans built in 2011 and has 3 stories with 20 units. Residents appreciate the in-unit washer/dryers, free garage parking, and balconies. Admire Not what you're looking for? Eligibility You are eligible to live with us if you are: Enrolled full or part-time as an SMU upper division (junior or higher) or graduate student. Please be aware that living in an SMU apartment does not satisfy SMU's residency requirement. Contract Terms All SMU apartments are year-long (12-month) contracts beginning June or July. Short-term contracts or subleasing are not permitted. Application Process If you are currently enrolled and you’d like to live with us: Please download and complete an SMU Apartment Application. Return your completed application via email to smuapts@smu.edu from your SMU email account. We'll be in touch. Applications are processed in the order they are received, based on unit availability at the time. Approved applicants will be sent a contract, and will have 7 days to execute the contract before the unit is offered to the next applicant. Megan Piotrowski (she/her/hers) Apartment Coordinator Megan Piotrowski is from Rogers, Arkansas, with a bachelor’s degree in English Education and a M.Ed. in Reading and ESL Education from Dallas Baptist University. She enjoys traveling, exploring new coffee shops & eateries in Dallas, photography, reading, and being outdoors. Megan's favorite aspect of working in Residence Life & Student Housing is assisting students in creating community where they live on campus and helping them with growing the skills necessary to be successful in their academic and personal journeys. Email Megan with any apartment questions. Not what you're looking for? Residential Commons SMU Service House Upper-Division Housing Apply Visit School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share