Skip to main content A-Z Directory UPENN HOME Contact Us Mailing List Signup Office of the provost Search CURF Center for Undergraduate Research & Fellowships Home For Faculty Research Fellowships Prizes University Scholars BFS CURF Events News About BFS How to Apply Faculty Resources Connect with BFS You are here Home Benjamin Franklin Scholars A vibrant community of students at Penn who share a passion for broad intellectual exploration Pursuit of Knowledge BFS offers small, challenging classes that reach out to non-specialists, facilitate close engagement with faculty, promote independent thinking, stimulate research, and encourage curiosity outside the box. A Sense of Community BFS fosters a community within one of the world's great universities through its distinctive curriculum, shared housing in Hill College House, and a bustling calendar of BFS events. BFS is an umbrella program covering scholars programs for students in all four undergraduate schools: the College of Arts & Sciences, the School of Engineering and Applied Sciences, the School of Nursing, and The Wharton School. Exploration BFS is a campus-wide program, building bridges among all four Undergraduate schools. We encourage exploration beyond the concentration, and even outside the home college. Special BFS programs bring in world-renowned speakers, and provide opportunities for international internships. Read more about the guiding principles of the Benjamin Franklin Scholars Program BFS Administrative Staff Academic Coordinator for Scholar Programs Christine Muller BFS News Five Penn Juniors named Goldwater Scholars Two Penn seniors named 2022 Marshall Scholars Penn junior Chinaza Ruth Okonkwo named a Beinecke Scholar BFS faculty member Dr. Jennifer Prah Ruger named Hastings Center Fellow BFS's Jake Robbins connects his interests through the startup Gatherly Meet Henry Hoffman, BFS Class of '20! BFS's Chloe Gong is a New York Times best-selling author Meet Jay Jadick, BFS Class of '14! Twenty-one BFS students present at CURF Fall Research Expo 2020 BFS sophomore Jacques Thompson explores ‘immoral humor’ through a historic lens as part of a funded summer research internship About BFS How to Apply Information for Students Information for Alumni Information for Faculty Contact BFS FAQ BFS Events Upcoming Events Jun 07 What does it mean to be an ethically responsible researcher? See more BFS events. Office of the Provost Center for Undergraduate Research and Fellowships CURF, University of Pennsylvania The ARCH, 3601 Locust Walk, Philadelphia, PA 19104-6224 Phone: 215-746-6488 Email: curf@upenn.edu A-Z Directory UPENN HOME Contact Us Mailing List Signup Office of the provost © 2022 The Trustees of the University of Pennsylvania Report Copyright Infringement Disclaimer Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Emergency Services