Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Division of Mission & Ministry Mission & Ministry Information For: Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links Campus Ministry Menu Main Nav Campus Ministry Racial Justice Back Back Close About Overview Meet the Staff Racial Justice Pastoral Counseling Axios Center Pregnancy Resources Together Graduate Programming Connections Religious Vocations Becoming a Jesuit Support Campus Ministry Alumni Resources Liturgy & Sacraments Overview Mass Schedule Liturgical and Music Ministries Sacraments University Chapels Rise and Reflect Related Links BC Jesuit, Catholic Maps Retreats Service Immersion Overview 4Boston 4Boston Community Partners Appa Arrupe International Immersion Global Public Health–Honduras Habitat for Humanity Ignatian Family Teach-In Faith Communities Overview Catholic Christian Life Community Gratia Plena Ignatian Society Knights of Columbus St. Thomas More Society Sons of St. Patrick Una Voce Multi-Faith Student Faith Groups Off-Campus Worship Multi-Faith Chapel Racial Justice Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Mission & Ministry Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Student Faith Groups Home Faith Communities Multi-Faith Student Faith Groups Boston College is home to more than 15 student groups celebrating a wide range of faith traditions. We welcome you to celebrate your own faith, as well as to learn more about cultures and backgrounds you may be unfamiliar with. Student Leaders: View resources and guidelines for Campus Ministry agency accounts, including information on bus rentals and expense reimbursement on the Mission and Ministry Service Center website. Student Faith Groups Antioch Boston College Antioch Boston College is the College Ministry sector of a local church called Antioch Community Church in Brighton, MA. We are a community that loves God, shares life, and proclaims the good news of Jesus. Although we are partnered with the church, our members are not limited to members of the church and our campus org is open to all students. All are welcome to attend our weekly Life Group meetings or our other events throughout the semester! Meetings Meetings are held weekly on Thursdays at 7:00 p.m. in the 2150 (Thomas More Apartments) first floor reflection room. Contact Natasha Barberio - President (fall) & Treasurer Ellie Roberts - Vice President More information Church Website Facebook Antioch Brighton Church Instagram Antioch College Instagram Register Asian Baptist Student Koinonia Asian Baptist Student Koinonia (ABSK) is a Christian fellowship at Boston College composed of students who seek to know and love Jesus Christ through a life shared with Him and each other. Through bible studies, fun fellowship and activities, lots of food, and real friendships, we learn more about God, one another, and ourselves. All are welcome to join us, whether you're looking for a spiritual home away from home or are wondering what this Christianity thing is all about. Despite our name, you don't have to be Asian or Baptist to join us. All you need is a curiosity about the bible and a desire to know God in a personal way. Drop in and come get to know us! Contact Sam Jang- President Sam Jang- Treasurer Meetings Every Friday at 7:30 p.m. during the fall semester, location TBD. More information Facebook Register Asian Christian Fellowship InterVarsity's Asian Christian Fellowship is a Christ centered community for all students to find God, purpose, and a place to serve. We welcome students of all faith and cultural backgrounds to join our community! Meetings Weekly Large Group: Friday 7 p.m. in Stokes S295 Email for information about small groups. Contact Anna Chen- Core Leader David Shen - Treasurer Nicole Huie - Core Leader Cindy Li - Core Leader Andrew Kim - Ministry Coordinator Rachel Liu - Ministry Coordinator Olivia Yang - Ministry Coordinator Register Athletes in Action We are a group of BC students with an aim to help sports-minded people think and live biblically at the intersection of sport and Christianity. Meetings Weekly co-ed life groups meet Mondays and Thursdays at 7:00 p.m. in first floor study rooms of Stayer Hall. Contact Bruce Smith- President Elijah Robinson- Vice President More information Athletes in Action website Register Baha'i Club Welcome to Baha'i Club! Our goal is to bring people together in a spirit of friendship and kindness, to promote independent and unprejudiced thinking, and to foster unity among all people We are a group that has the goal of bringing more unity on campus through conversations on any theme. This can range from the equality of men and women, the unity of all people, the destructive forces of society, the constructive forces of society etc.! We want to bring people together of any religious background or none at all to reflect on our society at large and our own BC society using religious and secular texts of your choosing to foster conversation about how to better promote unity. What Baha'is believe: We believe in the unity of all mankind, the equality of men and women, the truth of all world religions, the elimination of prejudices and racism, the harmony of science and religion and much more! Meetings TBD Contact Student Contact: TBD Advisor: Sanaz Mohseni More information Baha'is Faith website Register Black Christian Fellowship Black Christian Fellowship strives to serve the diverse student body of Boston College and its surrounding communities through following Christ's example. We aspire to cultivate our growth by fostering conversation, pray and fellowship. Our goal is to grow together in our relationship with, and love of, God. Meetings Weekly meetings are held on Wednesdays from 7:00 p.m. to 8 p.m. in the Carney Student Lounge. Minaldy Cadet Deborah Amponsah Donald Ravenell II (DJ) Chisom Amadi Rachel Vatelia More information Facebook Register BC Alive BC Alive, Boston College's chapter of InterVarsity Christian Fellowship, is an interdenominational, multi-ethnic, missional community, united under Jesus and called to share the joy of the Gospel by loving and serving the whole campus. Our regular programming includes weekly small group Bible studies, retreats, a Spring Break service trip, and Large Group Fellowship on Friday evenings. Meetings Large group meeting Fridays at 5 p.m., alternating between seminar discussions in the Multi-Faith Chapel (66 Commonwealth Avenue) and social events in location TBA. Contact Esther Povh Kayla Tenniel Wilson Michelle Zhou Shuai Jiang (Eddy) More information MyBC Facebook Register Buddhism Club The Boston College Buddhism Club provides an open and welcoming environment for all students and faculty who have an interest in Buddhist meditation practices and philosophy. Drawing from Tibetan, Zen, Chan, and other traditions, we host weekly meditation sessions that put the often-stressful college life in a broader perspective. Come by and see what we're about! People of all faiths (or no faith) are welcome. Meetings Mondays at 8 p.m. in the Multi-Faith Chapel (66 Commonwealth Avenue) Contact Emma Busenkell- President Avery Olsen- Co VP Kaelin Mealey- Co VP Nia Coufos- Treasurer Greg Kacergis- Secretary More information MyBC Facebook Register Chi Alpha Chi Alpha is a Christ-centered ministry on campus dedicated to pursuing real community, real devotion to God, and real responsibility in serving others. Our name comes from the Biblical phrase "Christ Ambassadors" (Christou Apostoloi in ancient Greek). We want to be a welcoming community for all students at BC, and we hope to meet you soon! Meetings We meet every Tuesday from 6:00-7:30pm at the Montserrat House (36 College Rd) for a home-cooked meal and discussion! Contact Madeleine Kennedy, President Sabeeh Hassany, Vice-President: Nick Huber, Affiliate Campus Minister: Website https://www.chialphabc.com/ Episcopal Community at Boston College ECBC, The Episcopal Community at Boston College, is an open and inclusive Christian student group that welcomes everyone to join us for weekly worship, community dinners, and other special events. In our time together, we share about our lives, support one another, talk about our faith and how we live out our faith in this complicated time, and worship (alternating between Communion, Evening Prayer, and Bible Study). We meet Sundays at 4:00 p.m. for weekly worship and community dinner at our partner parish, Church of the Redeemer (379 Hammond Street - a short walk up from McElroy) Throughout the year we host events with Redeemer for BC Students, Faculty and Staff and Redeemer parishioners, including a Welcome Back BBQ, Parents’ Weekend Brunch, and Mid-Winter Dinner. At the end of each semester we host daily Study Days at Redeemer with quiet, homey study spaces, lots of great snacks and treats, and homemade family style dinners each evening. To learn more, check out our website and our Instagram. For more information, or to be added to our weekly e-newsletter, email megan.holding@bc.edu All are welcome! Join us! Contact Anna Carpenter '21 - President Katarina Hone '22 - Treasurer Register Graduate Christian Fellowship Our vision is to be an organization of graduate students who follow Jesus Christ as Lord and Savior; growing in love for God, God's word, God's people of every ethnicity and culture, and God's purposes in the world through spiritual, intellectual, physcial and social pursuits. Hillel The Hillel of Boston College helps to serve the social, cultural and religious needs of Jewish students and to enrich campus culture for all. We welcome members of the Boston College community from all backgrounds to our events and our community. BC connects to the greater Boston Jewish communities as a part of Hillel Council of New England. Hillel Council brings together students from all over New England, with BC students participating in local, national, and international trips and conferences. Meetings Every Friday at 6 p.m. in the Gabelli 2nd Floor Lounge (we also have events for various Jewish holidays). Contact Brandon Kenney: President Alexis Rich: Vice President Michael Rasin: Treasurer Elizabeth Moukit: Secretary Harrison Pierson-Panes - Outreach Coordinator Samuel Peterson - Underclassmen Representative Jack Eagan - Underclassmen Representative Olivia Annes - Event Coordinator David Magazine Malamud - Campus Affiliate Minister More information MyBC Donate Online donation page (In the section that says, "I wish to make my gift to:" select "Other" and then type in "Hillel." Thank you!) Register Latter-Day Saint Student Association The purpose of this organization is to maintain an association that meets on a weekly basis to study and learn from the word of God found in the Bible, Book of Mormon, and words of modern-day apostles and prophets. LDSSA encourages and supports members of the LDSSA in achieving their academic goals and maintaining a balanced life while on campus. We encourage members of LDSSA to become an influence for good by participating in activities and service on campus and in the community. We provide students with meaningful service opportunities and social and religious activities that are consistent with the LDSSA standards. We promote traditional moral values. Membership LDSSA is open to all students at Boston College regardless of spiritual or religious background. Meetings We hold a weekly religion course on Tuesday from 5-6:30 p.m. in Gasson 302. Contact Alex Poulsen- Co-President Nicholas Stubblefield- Co-President More information Facebook Register Muslim Student Association The aim and purpose of the Muslim Student Association, MSA, is to serve the interest of Muslim students at Boston College. We promote friendly relations between Muslims and the greater Boston College community by providing lectures, holding retreats, and informational gatherings regarding Islam. Meetings We have weekly prayers every Friday at 1 p.m. in the Multi-Faith Chapel (66 Commonwealth Avenue) Contact Nora Akila '22- President Mohamadou Mbaye '22- Vice-President Navid Chowdhury '22- Senior Advisor Humza Rashid '22- Treasurer Mehdi Kayi '24- Spirituality and Service Coordinator Mishal Khan '24- Secretary Abdullah Sayed '24- Outreach Coordinator Hammad Hassan '24 - Event Coordinator Ismael Ben Fofana, PhD - Faculty Advisor More information MyBC Facebook Register Orthodox Christian Fellowship The Orthodox Christian Fellowship (OCF) group participates in discussions about faith, attends church on Sundays and participates in service projects on and off campus. We work together with a local Orthodox priest and seminarians. We also spend time together in fellowship such as having dinners and attending other Boston OCF events! To connect with the larger OCF community through national and regional events, visit www.ocf.net. If you would like to be active in OCF but you can't make the Thursday meetings, email us! We will keep you informed on lots of other events going on outside of our weekly meetings. Meetings Thursdays at 6 p.m. in the Multi-Faith Chapel (66 Commonwealth Avenue) Contact Zoe Pappas- President Register Quiet Waters Quiet Waters was founded in 2005 to reach out to the Korean international student population at Boston College. It continues today to provide weekly meetings with food, praise, meditation, community building, and prayer. Quiet Waters received its name from Psalm 23, and carries the vision to provide a true resting place under God. All are welcome! Meetings Every Thursday 7:30 in Gasson 204 Contact Wonhyung Chung - Co-President Heesu Yun - Co-President / Treasurer More information BC OrgSync Facebook Instagram Register SOON Movement SOON Movement, formery known as Korea Campus Crusade for Christ (KCCC), is an interdenominational ministry committed to spreading the Gospel of Jesus Christ. Our mission is to help fulfill the Great Commission in our generation (Matt. 28:18-20) by winning, building, and sending in the power of the Holy Spirit! We hope to build the body of Christ through prayer, evangelism, and discipleship. It is our desire that we would be used by God to help reach students and faculty of Boston College with the Gospel so that every person on campus will know someone who truly follows Jesus Christ. Weekly Meetings Large group: Monday 7:30 - 9:00 p.m. in Gasson 303 Small group: If you are interested in joining a small group, please message anyone in the contact info below. There are various ones that meet throughout the week. Morning Prayer: Tuesday & Wednesday 7:00 - 8:00 a.m. throughout the week in 247 CTRC (2nd floor of O'Neill Library) Contact Joon Park - President James Kim- Treasurer Steven Kim - Secretary Joanne Lee - Event Coordinator More information Facebook Register Back To Top Back To Top Campus Ministry McElroy 233 Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 617-552-3475 About Racial Justice Liturgy & Sacraments Service Immersion Retreats Faith Communities Support Campus Ministry Division of Mission & Ministry Mission and Ministry Campus Ministry Center for Ignatian Spirituality Center for Student Formation First Year Experience Intersections Montserrat Pastoral Support The Volunteer and Service Learning Center University of Mission and Ministry Service Center Connect Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College