Skip to main content School of Undergraduate Studies The University of Texas Eureka Menu Main navigation Faculty Interests Project Search Sign in Projects Search ongoing UT research projects Faculty Search the research interests of UT faculty What is Eureka? Eureka is a database supporting undergraduate participation in research and creative activity at The University of Texas at Austin. Students can find faculty members who regularly work on a given topic using the "Faculty" search, browse a listing of posted research assistantships with the "Projects" search, and create Eureka profiles to share details about their research interests with faculty and OUR advisors. Before reaching out to faculty, the Office of Undergraduate Research recommends attending an info session or advising for tips on contacting faculty members. Keep in mind that the Eureka project listing is not exhaustive. Even if you don't find a project on your topic of choice, you'll likely find faculty working on a similar topic using the "Faculty" search. Additional projects may be listed on UT Handshake. Students from all disciplines are encouraged to use Eureka to identify research interests and connect with faculty researchers. From nanotechnology to musical composition, child welfare to popular culture, UT Austin faculty members and students conduct innovative research every day. Eureka was originally created by Connexus: Connections in Undergraduate Studies, in collaboration with the College of Natural Sciences, the Cockrell School of Engineering, the College of Liberal Arts, the Office of the Vice President for Research, the Office of the Executive Vice President and Provost, and the Center for Teaching and Learning. Since 2006, Eureka has been part of the portfolio of the School of Undergraduate Studies, which sponsored a rewrite of the site in 2017. For more information about Eureka or becoming involved in research, please contact the Office of Undergraduate Research. I'M INTERESTED IN THIS PROJECT. WHAT SHOULD I DO NEXT? The Office of Undergraduate Research recommends that you attend an info session or advising before contacting faculty members or project contacts about research opportunities. We'll cover the steps to get involved, tips for contacting faculty, funding possibilities, and options for course credit. Once you have attended an Office of Undergraduate Research info session or spoken to an advisor, you can use the "Who to contact" details for this project to get in touch with the project leader and express your interest in getting involved. Have you tried contacting professors and need more help? Schedule an appointment for additional support. Eureka Main navigation Faculty Interests Project Search Sign in Please report broken links to uresearch@austin.utexas.edu. © 2022 Web Accessibility Web Privacy Policy