Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index Social Work Menu Search TTU Social Work Earn a Degree in Social Work For more information about BASW Program click here For more information about MSW Program click here What is Social Work? Social Work is a profession dedicated to partnering with people to create change. It is set apart from other human-related disciplines by its person-in-environment focus. That means that social workers have a dual orientation at all times - the individual and the environment. Social workers are educated in a body of specialized knowledge and skills, while being committed to a core set of values. While different individuals or organizations may express these a little differently, they all share the same basic principles. Here in the TTU Social Work Program, we adhere to the National Association of Social Workers (NASW) Code of Ethics. In that document, the organization identifies and defines six core values including service, social justice, dignity and worth of the person, importance of human relationships, integrity, and competence.Those core values ground our professional practice as social workers. The code then goes on to guide and regulate our practice. Professional social workers work in a great variety of different practice settings. Some of these include the broad areas of health, politics, policy, child welfare, school social work, mental health, aging, families, addictions, disabilities, corrections, administration, research, community organization and advocacy, homelessness, and many, many others. Social workers work for both public and private organizations. Jobs and Salaries Becoming a social worker does not require a vow of poverty! While most social workers choose the profession for its intrinsic rewards, financial benefits also exist. According the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS), the median wage for social workers in 2015 was $45,900, even higher in Texas. Further, the BLS reports that the profession is expected to continue to grow faster than the average rate for all occupations, largely in the areas of medical social work and mental health services. To learn more about the profession and different fields of practice, check out some of these different social work organizations. Social Workers Stand Up <!-- intentionally non-empty iframe; for xsl --> <!-- intentionally non-empty iframe; for xsl --> <!-- intentionally non-empty iframe; for xsl --> Are you a current student who needs help? Check out the Raider Relief resources. Contact TTU Contact Contact TTUContact Contact TTU News News for NewsNews for News Events EventsEvents Social Work Address Texas Tech University, Box 41012, Lubbock, TX 79409-1012 Phone 806.742.2400 Email sasw.socialwork@ttu.edu Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock, Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversityJan 28, 2022 4:53 PM Social Work Social Work Home About Us Social Work Back TTU Social Work Staff & Faculty Alumni Degree Programs Social Work Back BASW Program MSW Program Social Work MSW Program Back Child Welfare Training Program Field Education Handbooks and Forms Social Work Back BASW Program Social Work Back Student Handbook Field Placement Manual Field Placement Application PCS Application Instructions PCS Application Cover Sheet (Download) PCS Reference Request Letter MSW Program Social Work Back MSW Student Manual MSW Field Manual Library Research SASW Home Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index