Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Brown University A-Z Index People Directory Students Alumni Careers News Events Search Give Explore Brown University's School of Public Health Admissions Academics Research Faculty About Diversity Admissions Academics Research Faculty About Diversity A-Z Index People Directory Students Alumni Careers News Events Center for Alcohol and Addiction Studies Home About People Postdoctoral Training Didactics Diversity People Application Benefits/Stipend Research Find a Study News Site Navigation Home About Our History Our Mission People Core Faculty Affiliated Faculty Adjunct Faculty Research Staff Administrative Staff Postdoctoral Training Didactics Diversity People Core Faculty Trainers Affiliated Trainers Current Fellows Alumni - 2016 to present Alumni - 1989 - 2015 Application Benefits/Stipend Research Alcohol HIV/AIDS Prevention Health Disparities/Health Equity Marijuana & Other Drug Use Nicotine Find a Study Alcohol research studies HIV research studies Marijuana research studies Tobacco research studies Studies for adults Studies for teens News Benefits/Stipend Benefits Postdoctoral fellows are eligible to receive health benefits (individual plans only). Special arrangements with our insurance carriers to provide access to Blue Cross/Blue Shield (health) and Delta Dental (dental) plans. IRS regulations require that Brown’s contribution for health/dental premiums be considered taxable income to the fellow. Postdocs are not eligible for Social Security, Temporary Disability, or Worker’s Compensation The amount of Fellow stipends is decided by the awarding unit, NIH, and is based on graduate status of the Fellow. The stipend increases with the number of years of relevant post-doctoral experience at the time of the appointment. The annual stipend levels for all individuals receiving support through institutional or individual National Research Service Awards (NRSA) made under Section 487 of the Public Health Service Act are: 2022-23 Stipends Post-doctoral with 0 years experience $54,835 Post-doctoral with 1 year experience $55,227 Post-doctoral with 2 years experience $55,631 Post-doctoral with 3 years experience $57,846 Post-doctoral with 4 years experience $59,780 Post-doctoral with 5 years experience $61,996 Post-doctoral with 6 years experience $64,297 Post-doctoral with 7+ years experience $66,598 Taxability of Stipends Since the Income Tax Reform Bill of 1986, fellowship stipends are taxable. Income Supplements NIH stipulates that T-32 Fellows may not moonlight more than 10 hours per week. If Fellows choose to moonlight, it is only on the condition that these activities not interfere with the postdoctoral training experience. Most Fellows moonlight on a research project related to their area of research interest. CAAS faculty assist Fellows in arranging these experiences wherever possible. The Fellow must have a valid state license (for the state in which the activity occurs) and individual malpractice insurance in order to engage in any independent clinical service delivery. Some clinical activities might occur under the supervision of another licensed psychologist (e.g working as a psychometrist for a neuropsychologist in private practice). The Fellow must then document the credentials of the supervisor. Due to malpractice considerations, only the supervisor should sign the report. The Fellow should not sign the report. The CAAS established rate for moonlighting work is $38.00 per hour. In some cases, moonlighting is arranged outside of CAAS. In such cases, the recommended rate remains $38.00 per hour. A request for permission to moonlight, addressing the above conditions, must be presented in writing to the Training Director. Written permission from your mentor and the supervisor on the project must also be included. Clinical work of the Fellow under the supervision of a licensed psychologist pursued for the purpose of qualifying for state licensure may or may not be paid. Some Fellows may need to pay a psychologist for such supervision occurring outside of his/her regular responsibilities in the training program. Postdoctoral Training Didactics Diversity People Application Benefits/Stipend Center for Alcohol and Addiction Studies Center for Alcohol and Addiction Studies Brown University Box G-S121-5 121 South Main Street Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-6600 Fax: 401-863-6697 Email [email protected] Twitter Twitter Facebook Facebook Brown University Giving to Brown 121 South Main Street, Providence, Rhode Island 02903, USA 401-863-3375 Contact Us Newsletter Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility Brown Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top