Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content News Contact Us Experts Latest News Latest News 2021 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 Broadcast Studio Research ☰ Featured News SMU News Featured News SMU Cox School of Business Dean Matthew Myers Reappointed to Five-Year Term Announcement SMU Cox School of Business Dean Matthew Myers Reappointed to Five-Year Term Announcement Matthew Myers has been reappointed to serve five additional years in his position as dean of the Edwin L. Cox School of Business at SMU. March 08, 2022 DALLAS (SMU) – Matthew Myers has been reappointed to serve five additional years in his position as dean of the Edwin L. Cox School of Business at SMU. Myers joined SMU as dean in August 2017. He also holds the Tolleson Chair of Business Leadership and is the David B. Miller Endowed Professor in Business. Myers received his Ph.D. from Michigan State University, a Master of International Business Studies from the University of South Carolina, and a B.A. from the University of Louisville. Prior to his deanship at SMU Cox, Myers served as dean and Mitchell P. Rales Chair of Business Leadership at the Farmer School of Business, Miami University in Oxford, Ohio. SMU Cox celebrated 100 years of business education at SMU in 2020 and offers undergraduate and graduate degrees to around 2,500 students, with almost 40,000 global alumni. SMU Cox offers a full-range of business education programs including BBA, Full-Time MBA, Professional MBA (part-time), Executive MBA, Cox MBA Direct, Online MBA and Master of Science degree programs, as well as Executive Education. Consistently ranked among the world’s leading business schools, SMU Cox is accredited by AACSB. SMU News Broadcast Studio Contact Us SMU Research Blog Experts News Archives Featured News Research Apply Visit School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share