Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Army ROTC Army ROTC right arrow down arrow Cadets & Campus Life right arrow down arrow Scholarship Clubs Branches Cyber Leadership Development UC Army Nursing Summer Training Cadre Leadership right arrow down arrow PMS-LTC Black SMI - MSG Castillo APMS - MAJ Cary APMS - MAJ Aguirre MSI - SFC Schooff MSI - SFC Isbell Program Coordinator APMS - CPT Dalton APMS - CPT Bryan Alumni Home » Campus Life » Army ROTC Army ROTC To be a U.S. Army Soldier is to be a part of the strongest fighting force in the world. You’ll spend your days training, working and serving together to protect America’s freedoms. But you’ll also have time after work for family, friends and personal interests. From recruitment to retirement, the U.S. Army provides a unique and diverse lifestyle for Soldiers. Army ROTC produces 75% of all Army officers. Founded in 1916, ROTC has produced more than one-half million lieutenants for America's Army. It remains the broadest avenue for men and women seeking to serve as officers in the Army. The Army officer is a prestigious professional who serves as a leader in the most respected institution in America. Your soldier can enroll in Army ROTC as a college elective for up to two years with no obligation. ROTC gives you a wide range of experiences while you work toward a degree. You'll combine your time in the classroom with hands-on experience. If you choose not to make the Army your career, you will have acquired job skills that are sure to give you a definite advantage over your peers when the time comes to seek civilian employment. Whether you're planning a career in the Army or the corporate world, Army ROTC is a smart elective course to take. As part of Army ROTC, you'll be in the company of a diverse group of individuals with broad interests who excelled in their chosen areas of interest. They may have been presidents of their student governments, captains of their varsity sports teams, club presidents, or members of the National Honor Society. Their studies will include: Leadership Development, Military Skills, and Adventure Training. Army ROTC courses teach you how to succeed in a competitive world both in college and beyond. Learn More about Army ROTC Mission UC Army ROTC identifies, recruits, develops, and commissions leaders of character for tomorrow’s globally responsive, regionally engaged Army, Army Reserve, and Army National Guard; and provides support, motivation, and encouragement for local Junior ROTC programs as they develop the mentorship to future leaders. Contacts University of Cincinnati Army ROTC 513-556-3660 armyrotc@uc.edu Michael Prows Scholarship & Enrollment Officer 513-227-1462 michael.prows@uc.edu University of Cincinnati\n2600 Clifton Ave\nCincinnati OH 45221\n513-556-0000 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati\n2600 Clifton Ave\nCincinnati OH 45221\n513-556-0000 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top