Skip to Content Search Search Enter the terms you wish to search for. Close CU Boulder Today CU Boulder Today Menu Main menu Home News Headlines Campus Community Events & Exhibits Secondary Menu Find a Story Submit a Story For Media Mobile menu Home News Headlines Campus Community Events & Exhibits Find a Story Submit a Story For Media Home Top Stories BolderBoulder 10K tradition to return May 30 A signature event for the campus community and beyond that culminates at CU Boulder's Folsom Field, the BolderBoulder race will return this Memorial Day after a two-year absence. Register and plan to attend this fun event for all. Read more about BolderBoulder 10K tradition to return May 30 Buffs among first to volunteer as Peace Corps resumes global operations 7 CU Boulder startups awarded $1.75M in commercialization grants Can we avert the next mass shooting? Yes, and here’s how Toward more sustainable wine: Scientists can now track sulfur from grapes to streams News Headlines Genetic mutations can be benign or cancerous—new identification method could lead to better treatments Finding one cancer-driving mutation in a tumor is like finding a needle in a stack of needles, but the use of public DNA databases could lead to more targeted cancer treatments. CU computer scientist Ryan Layer shares on The Conversation. Read more Can we avert the next mass shooting? Yes, and here’s how CU Boulder researcher Beverly Kingston discusses the recent uptick in school shootings, perpetrator indicators and behaviors, what we can do to stop such violence in schools and public spaces, and more. Read more Protestants and the pill: How US Christians helped make birth control mainstream Conservative Christians have cheered restrictions on some birth control. But many decades ago, Christian leaders’ support helped contraceptives become acceptable in the first place. CU expert Samira Mehta shares on The Conversation. Read more More News Headlines Campus Community Buffs among first to volunteer as Peace Corps resumes global operations CU Boulder alumni Lisa and Peter Waugh are among the first Peace Corps volunteers to return to service overseas after COVID-19 restrictions were lifted. Read more 7 CU Boulder startups awarded $1.75M in commercialization grants A number of grants totaling $1.75 million were recently awarded to venture partners at CU Boulder startups by the Colorado Office of Economic Development and International Trade. Read more Free Fridays at The Rec starts June 3 All Buff OneCard holders can enjoy free entrance to the Rec Center, plus free skate rentals, fitness classes and bouldering, on Fridays this summer starting June 3. Read more More Campus Community Events & Exhibits BolderBoulder 10K tradition to return May 30 A signature event for the campus community and beyond that culminates at CU Boulder's Folsom Field, the BolderBoulder race will return this Memorial Day after a two-year absence. Register and plan to attend this fun event for all. Read more Learn to meditate with CU Boulder’s SKY Club June 11–13 This retreat is offered at 40 universities across the country, including Stanford, Arizona State, Ohio State and MIT. It is one of the coolest places to connect with yourself, make awesome friends, and have fun—open to all CU Boulder students, faculty and staff. Read more Join CU Night at the Rockies Aug. 12 Cheer on the Rockies as they take on the Arizona Diamondbacks. In addition to a seat at Coors Field, your ticket includes a collector’s T-shirt and a $2 donation to student scholarships. Before the game, join for a free pre-game reception at the alumni-owned Blake Street Tavern for appetizers, giveaways and more. Read more More Events & Exhibits News Headlines Arts & Humanities Business & Entrepreneurship Climate & Environment Education & Outreach Health & Society Law & Politics Science & Technology Space Campus Community Academics Administration Athletics Career Development Deadlines & Announcements Getting Involved Mind & Body Safety Events & Exhibits Arts & Culture Conferences Exhibits General Lectures & Presentations Performances & Concerts Sports & Recreation Workshops & Seminars Subscribe to CUBT Sign up for Alerts Administrative eMemos Buff Bulletin Board Events Calendar CU Boulder Today CU Boulder Today is created by Strategic Relations and Communications. Faculty-Staff Email Archive Student Email Archive Graduate Student Email Archive New Buffs Email Archive Senior Class Student Email Archive Community Email Archive COVID-19 Digest Archive University of Colorado Boulder © Regents of the University of Colorado Privacy • Legal & Trademarks • Campus Map Return to the top of the page