skip to main content University of Nevada, Reno Homepage Apply Visit News Give Search www.unr.edu Search www.unr.edu Search Search www.unr.edu Search www.unr.edu Quicklinks Expand or Collapse to view popular links for this site Alumni Faculty & Staff Parents Students Academic Calendar Campus Catalog Directory Email Access Library Maps MyNevada WebCampus Workday Zoom Login Menu Expand or Collapse to view links grouped by top level headings Quicklinks Alumni Faculty & Staff Parents Students Academic Calendar Campus Catalog Directory Email Access Library Maps MyNevada WebCampus Workday Zoom Login Majors Minors Master's degrees Doctoral degrees Online programs Certificates & licensures Apply Visit News Give Degrees and Programs Majors Minors Master's degrees Doctoral degrees Online programs Certificates & licensures Nevada Online Online programs at the University of Nevada, Reno What do you want to study? Quicklook filters Filter by degree level results display below Undergraduate programs Master's degrees Doctoral degrees Graduate certificates Accounting (M.Acc.) The accounting major provides students with the theories and procedures necessary to prepare them for the many facets of the accounting profession, such as public, industrial, managerial, tax and government accounting. Students gain the knowledge base and conceptual infrastructure needed to make valuable contributions as business professionals in a global economy. Online Master of Accountancy Close Addiction Treatment (Minor) The Center for the Application of Substance Abuse Technologies provides training, technical assistance, evaluation, research and other services to support addiction prevention, treatment and recovery. Students can pursue undergraduate certificates and minors, as well as an advanced graduate certificate in addiction treatment services. Minor in Addiction Treatment Services Close Business Administration (EMBA) Today's business leaders face increasingly complex responsibilities, demanding extensive knowledge of all functional areas of business. Maintaining and enhancing managerial and leadership capital is key to success. The objective of the business administration degrees are to prepare students for managerial and executive positions. Online Executive Master of Business Administration (EMBA) Close Business Analytics (M.S.) The online master of science in business analytics provides skills in data interpretation and analysis. Graduates will be able to combine an understanding of business needs with data analysis in order to develop smart business decisions supported by empirical evidence. Online Master of Science in Business Analytics Close Cybersecurity (M.S.) We offer cybersecurity education in an interdisciplinary environment that seeks to integrate technical expertise, business savvy and social context in developing holistic perspectives on cybersecurity challenges. Offered under the umbrella of the University's Cybersecurity Center, our cybersecurity degrees and programs equip graduates to provide industry-ready solutions to ever evolving cyber threats. Online Master's in Cybersecurity Close Endorsement to Teach Advanced Computer Science (partially online) The State of Nevada will soon require every high school to offer at least one year-long course in the field of computer science, leading to an increased need for educators that are qualified to teach computer science. Along with two programming courses, the State requires a computer science concepts course and a computer science methods course to obtain the Endorsement to Teach Advanced Computer Science. These online courses can be completed as part of the endorsement and/or as part of the Master of Secondary Education Program at the University of Nevada, Reno. Endorsement to Teach Advanced Computer Science Close Education: Equity & Diversity in Education (M.S.) The equity and diversity in education program allows educators and those in related fields to enhance knowledge, skills and dispositions to work more effectively with individuals from diverse backgrounds. Multiple dimensions of human diversity are addressed through in the program, with special attention to gender, race/ethnicity, national origin, language, social class and exceptionality. Master of Science in Equity & Diversity in Education Close Education: Reading Curriculum & Instruction (M.Ed.) Literacy is essential to learning, multidimensional in nature and influenced by linguistic, psychological and sociocultural factors. We prepare and support teachers and researchers to better understand pressing literacy issues and to meet the literacy needs of every student. Students develop advanced knowledge in teaching reading, writing, spelling and vocabulary development. Master of Education in Reading & Curriculum Instruction Close Education: Special Education (M.Ed.) Three specialties within the master's degree in special education can be completed online: behavior analytic interventions in special education; generalist specialty and the specialty in intellectual disability. Master of Special Education Close Justice Management (MJM) This a special degree program offering a broad selection of courses including foundation courses in justice theory and process, essentials of justice management and courses specific to areas of concentration such as juvenile justice management, adult justice management and executive court and agency administration. Master of Justice Management (MJM) Close Nursing (RN to BSN, MSN, DNP) Nurses provide a range of health care services in a variety of settings, such as public health agencies and hospitals and work as clinicians, researchers, and health care policy advocates. The Orvis School of Nursing is a top option for training tomorrow's nurse professionals. RN to BSN Master of Science in Nursing (MSN) Doctor of Nursing Practice (DNP) Close Nursing Advanced Graduate Certificates Advanced graduate certificates in nursing are for nurses who have completed a master's degree program or higher and want to earn an online certificate in a specialized area of practice. Adult gerontology acute care nurse practitioner advanced graduate certificate Clinical nurse leader advanced graduate certificate Family nurse practitioner advanced graduate certificate Nurse educator advanced graduate certificate Pediatric acute care nurse practitioner advanced graduate certificate Psychiatric-mental health nurse practitioner advanced graduate certificate Close Public Health (MPH) Public health is a dynamic profession covering a broad spectrum of services. This program prepares graduates for employment in nearly any area of the public health industry. The comprehensive curriculum includes public health policy, finance and budget, health informatics, epidemiology and biostatistics. Online Master of Public Health (MPH) Close Public Health Data Management and Analysis (Graduate Certificate) We’ve carefully designed this certificate to lay an interdisciplinary foundation for individuals crunching the numbers that drive critical health initiatives for at-risk populations. Your coursework will cover essential concepts in GIS and spatial analysis, biostatistics and epidemiological surveillance. As a result, you’ll emerge with the enhanced quantitative expertise required to collect, manage and evaluate a wide range of public health data. Online Public Health Certificates Close Public Health Management (Graduate Certificate) Public health practitioners are looking to skilled leaders to provide the organization, direction and oversight required to implement critical programs in their communities. Our certificate in Public Health Management can help you play an instrumental role in realizing the vision for a healthier society while preparing to move into higher levels of leadership. Online Public Health Certificates Close Public Health Program Development (Graduate Certificate) Through four multidisciplinary courses, you’ll explore issues in health equity, cultural competence, emergency preparedness, health administration and policymaking. Whether your goal is to pivot into a different area of your existing organization or advance in your current field, we can prepare you to make a widespread impact on at-risk populations and the public. Online Public Health Certificates Close Renewable Energy (Graduate Certificate) We offer two programs in renewable energy, open to students in all fields, that are designed to complement their chosen field of study by exposing them to crucial technical, economic and social issues relevant to renewable energy. These interdisciplinary programs help students apply knowledge gained in their majors to alternative and renewable energy. Graduate Certificate in Renewable Energy Close Social Work (MSW) Social work is a popular major among students who want to help others. Countless people today depend on aid and advice from social workers. The emotional rewards that come with helping clients can also be significant and keep social workers engaged in their field. We offer both undergraduate and graduate degree options, including a robust field experience training platform as well. Online Master of Social Work (MSW) Close Sports Management (Graduate Certificate) The Graduate Certificate in Sports Management in the College of Business is designed for early- and mid-career sports industry professionals to hone their skills while gaining in-depth knowledge about the business of sport from industry leaders and College of Business faculty. The program is offered online, and includes a one-credit, two-day seminar in Lake Tahoe. Executive Certificate in Sports Management Request more information about sports management program Close Follow the University University Twitter University Facebook University YouTube University Vimeo University Flickr University Instagram University LinkedIn University of Nevada, Reno 1664 N. Virginia Street, Reno, NV 89557 (775) 784-1110 Employment & Careers Non-Discrimination Statement Privacy Website Help Commitment to Diversity Commitment to Accessibility Contact the University Equal Opportunity and Title IX