Menu Close Menu Skip to content Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public HealthHarvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health main site homepage Quicklinks About the School Academics Admissions Research Faculty Student Life News Alumni Frontiers Make A Gift Search for: Search Harvard Education and Research Center Home About Us About the Center People Contact Us Programs ERC Academic Programs Recent Publication Highlights Funding Opportunities for Students Pilot Projects Seminars and Events Calendar ERC Seminars Series: Inclusion and Equity in Occupational Safety and Health EOME Executive and Continuing Professional Education Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health Education and Research Center Welcome to the ERC! Director: David C. Christiani, MD, MPH, MS Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health Environmental and Occupational Medicine and Epidemiology 665 Huntington Avenue Boston, Massachusetts 02115 Producing Results Environmental health, and specifically occupational health, have been major concerns at Harvard since 1913. The research record has a distinguished history and encompasses a number of outstanding personalities. Producing Change “Study Results have actually led to improvements in their work environment, and I’m proud of that.” -David Christiani, on his studies of cotton-textile workers in Shanghai, China. Producing Leaders The Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health ERC has played a prominent role in preparing leaders in the arena of occupational safety and health. Graduates are employed in industry, insurance, labor, government, unions, health care settings, consulting, research, and teaching. Photography provided by Earl Dotter – https://www.earldotter.com/ News and Announcements September 13, 2021 Four 2021-2022 Harvard Chan pilot projects funded July 23, 2021 To Your Health: Avoiding Heat Exhaustion, Stroke While Working At Sea July 20, 2021 Harvard Chan ERC Celebrates NIOSH’s 50th Anniversary July 20, 2021 How Protected Are Our Most Vulnerable Workers? Follow me on TwitterMy Tweets Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health 677 Huntington Avenue Boston, MA 02115 +1 (617) 495‑1000 Harvard Chan Home Contact Us Harvard University Home Make a Gift Privacy Policy Report Copyright Violation Accessibility Copyright © The President and Fellows of Harvard College