Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Prospective Newly Admitted Current Alumni Columbia University School of General Studies Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Admissions Educational Financing Academics Student Services About Undergraduate Admissions How to Apply Eligibility Application Deadlines and Decisions Information Sessions/Campus Visits Transfer Students Postbac Premed Admissions How to Apply Eligibility Application Deadlines and Decisions Information Sessions/Campus Visits Newly Admitted Students International Students Planning Day Placement Exams University-Wide Placement Exams U.S. Military Veterans International Dual Degree Programs Types of Financial Aid Institutional Scholarships Federal and State Grants Loans Private Scholarships and Grants Student Employment Financial Aid for Military Veterans Post-9/11 GI Bill® and the Yellow Ribbon Program Veterans Request for Certification Cost of Attendance Applying for Financial Aid Prospective Students Newly Admitted Students Current Students University Employees Postbac Premed Students Counseling Appointments Enrollment Update Form Student Account Refunds Undergraduate The Core Curriculum Degree Fulfillment Course Listings Majors and Concentrations Research Opportunities Study Abroad Academic Calendar Postbac Premed Program Curriculum & Courses Sample Schedule Course Listings Preparatory Coursework Previously Completed Coursework Glide Year Master’s Programs Academic Calendar Applying to Medical School General Admission Linkage Admission Linkage Specific Program Requirements Reapplicants Letters of Recommendation Academic Policies Registration Enrollment and Courseload Leaves and Withdrawals Academic Integrity and Standards Faculty of Arts and Sciences Undergraduate Announcements Postbac Premed Announcements Academic Advising Academic Resource Center Programs & Services Jumpstart Series Tutoring Peer Advising Campus Services Forms and Guides Graduation Health and Wellness Housing International Students Medical School Fair Planning Your Future Accelerated Master's Programs Fellowships and Research Premedical Clinical and Research Positions Student Life Leadership Development Multicultural & Social Justice Education Programs Student Organizations Upcoming Events Veterans Resources and Initiatives Leadership Mission History Statistics and Facts Notable Alumni University Policies Events Staff Directory Faculty News Press Coverage Media Inquiries School of General Studies You are here: Home News 2022 Grad Profile: Nic Rockwood Profile 2022 Grad Profile: Nic Rockwood April 27, 2022 Nic Rockwood Undergraduate Where are you from? Mount Dora, Florida Major: Computer Science Tell us about your path to GS! Before coming to Columbia, I attended William & Mary, where I majored in theater and English. After my sophomore year, I moved to New York City and founded a theater company while supporting myself as a bartender. Over the next 15 years, my company produced award-winning works at the New York Theater Festival, The Constellation Theatre Company (Washington D.C.), and The Tennessee Williams Festival (New Orleans). After struggling to figure out what was next, I decided to go back to school. When I initially enrolled at Columbia, my intention was to finish my theater degree and then get an MFA, but after taking a computer science course as part of the Core Curriculum, I decided to pivot and become a software engineer. What has been your proudest Columbia moment? After my first recruitment cycle, I received literally ZERO replies from over 50 applications. Instead of wondering if I'd just made the biggest mistake of my life, I decided to tap into the resources available to me as a GS student. I networked with other CS students and was directed to a student-led initiative that sets up mock interviews between current students and alumni. It was only through the support of my professors and peers that during my next recruitment cycle I found myself in the position of having to choose between three offers. It was a moment that made me feel immense pride in all that work I had put in, but it made me even prouder to be a part of a community like Columbia. Who are some people who have contributed the most to your Columbia experience? During my intro computer science course with Professor Paul Blaer, I would often go to his office hours to cry and complain about how I wasn't sure that I could actually make the transition from being a theater producer to a software engineer. It was only through his constant encouragement that I was able to see that my non-traditional, creative background provided me with a unique vantage point in the tech world and was actually an asset. Professor Blaer helped me realize that I belonged in that class and that I had something to offer beyond what I could see for myself at that point in time. What are your plans for after graduation? I am currently working as a software engineer at Goldman Sachs and will begin full-time after graduation! What advice would you give to a Columbia student starting their GS journey? Remember that "a life beyond your wildest dreams" doesn't necessarily mean the life that you've imagined for yourself. Columbia will provide opportunities for you that you never could have dreamed up on your own, so keep yourself open to the unknown. Sometimes you just have to jump and build your wings on the way down. Tags Student Profile Undergraduate News May 27, 2022 Join Us: Columbia Reunion Weekend in New York City May 26, 2022 Lewisohn Hall Summer Closure | Summer 2022 Temporary Relocation to Uris Hall May 26, 2022 Postbac Premed Program Institutional Scholarship Application May 24, 2022 GS Celebrates the Class of 2022 at Class Day Ceremony May 24, 2022 Academic Resource Center Summer Offerings Admissions Undergraduate Admissions Postbac Premed Admissions Newly Admitted Students U.S. Military Veterans International Dual Degree Programs Educational Financing Types of Financial Aid Financial Aid for Military Veterans Cost of Attendance Applying for Financial Aid Counseling Appointments Enrollment Update Form Student Account Refunds Academics Undergraduate Postbac Premed Program Applying to Medical School Academic Policies Faculty of Arts and Sciences Student Services Undergraduate Announcements Postbac Premed Announcements Academic Advising Academic Resource Center Campus Services Forms and Guides Graduation Health and Wellness Housing International Students Medical School Fair Planning Your Future Premedical Clinical and Research Positions Student Life Veterans Resources and Initiatives About Leadership Mission History Statistics and Facts Notable Alumni University Policies Events Staff Directory Faculty News Press Coverage Media Inquiries Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close