Skip to main content Search form Search Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers Search < Back to Columbia Public Health Menu Averting Maternal Death and Disability (AMDD) AMDD works with partners around the world to promote respectful, accountable and effective health systems. Twitter About People Partners Evolution Employment Action EmONC Referral Accountability Human Resources Implementation Science Respectful Care Urban Health Resources Toolkit Articles Issue Briefs News 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2010-12 Contact Mailing List Twitter Search You are here Home Averting Maternal Death and Disability (AMDD) Winter Storm Update/Impacts to Campus and Services Last Updated 12:50pm Fri May 6 See Coronavirus Updates for information on campus protocols. She's pregnant. Is she risking her life? If something goes wrong during pregnancy and childbirth, her health system must be there every step of the way. AMDD works to ensure that happens. Emergency Obstetric and Newborn Care About 15 percent of women develop complications during pregnancy or after giving birth. Implementation Science Understanding and addressing complexity in public health programs. Respectful Maternity Care AMDD documents disrespect and abuse and tackles it with evidence-based solutions. Toolkit AMDD works with national ministries of health and UN partners to carry out national Needs Assessments for emergency obstetric and newborn care (EmONC) News A summary of recent AMDD news. You can also follow us on Twitter. Contact Contact AMDD and learn where to find us. People Meet the Leadership, Technical and Administrative Staff at AMDD Close Sign up for the AMDD mailing list. Sign Up Now Columnbia Mailman Connect with Us Public Health Now News Events Publications Topics Student Voices Academics Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy & Procedures Office of Education Research Featured Research Global Health Centers Programs Grants & Awards Corporate Partnerships People Our Faculty Current Students Friends and Supporters Partners Alumni Become a Student Meet Our Faculty Life & Community Degree Finder How to Apply Career Services More Information Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health | 722 West 168th St. NY, NY 10032 Site Map Privacy Columbia University Irving Medical Center Copyright © Columbia University 2019 Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers