Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Give Light Menu Give Light About the Campaign Foundation of the Campaign National Campaign Steering Committee Campaign Timeline Campaign Events Nashville - April 28, 2022 Atlanta - February 3, 2022 Denver - October 22, 2021 Give Light Denver Video Tidwell Ribbon Cutting Medal of Honor Statue Installation Ceremony Mark & Paula Hurd Welcome Center Groundbreaking Video Mark & Paula Hurd Welcome Center Groundbreaking Southern California - October 26, 2019 Dallas - September 14, 2019 Dr. Annette von Jouanne Video New York City - May 23, 2019 Benjamin Goff Video Jeff Theiss Video Houston - May 4, 2019 Dr. Dwayne Simmons Video Dr. Ann Mirabito Video Washington, DC - February 2, 2019 Dr. Lorin Matthews Video Dr. Byron Johnson Video Campaign Priorities Endowed Funds Faculty Chairs and Professorships Endowed Scholarships Endowed Funds for Growth Priorities Endowment Impact Capital Projects Mark & Paula Hurd Welcome Center Paul and Alejandra Foster Pavilion Fudge Football Development Center President's Excellence Fund Support Baylor Students Today Why I Give: Donor Testimonials Initiatives Health Data Sciences Materials Science Human Flourishing, Leadership and Ethics Baylor in Latin America Academic Units Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work Engineering & Computer Science George W. Truett Theological Seminary Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Mayborn Museum Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Music University Libraries Foster Academic Challenge Hord Scholarship Challenge Trailblazer Scholars Program Contact Make a Gift News Illuminate Ways to Give National Campaign Steering Committee Baylor>Give Light>About the Campaign>National Campaign Steering Committee National Campaign Steering Committee Thank you, to our vital partners who have committed to represent Baylor and build support for the success of our campaign. Campaign Co-Chairs Pat and Bill Carlton Paul and Alejandra Foster Dan and Jenni Hord Mark* and Paula Hurd John and Nancy Jackson Mark and Jennifer McCollum National Campaign Steering Committee Jay and Jenny Allison Joel and Diane Allison John and Rachel Anderson Joe and Kelly Armes Delvin and Brenda Atchison Lori and Erich Baker Gary and Susan Baker Jay and Tara Battershell Steve and Alyce Beard Robert and Laura Beauchamp Brett and Chana Beene John and Nikki Bell Elizabeth Biedrzycki Marsha and Danny Bowlin Brad and Angela Bowman Tom and Cindy Brown John and Wendy Cadeddu Ken and Celia Carlile William Cassara Beth and Mitchell Casteel George and Martha Chandler Dan and Nancy Chapman Kevin and Kris Cherry Jerry and Mark Clements Robert and Lynda Copple David and Dinah Cummings Harold and Ann Cunningham Ben and Julie Davis Tom and Martha Day David and Susan Dial Jay and Dana Dickens Hunter and Michelle DiTallo Andrea and Douglas Dixon D. M. Edwards Jennifer and Hal Elrod Will and Carolyn Fair Malcolm and Desiree Foley Jon and Laura Foster Jeremy and Kristy Fudge Sarah and Brad Gahm Jimmy and Katie Garrison Shelley and Louie Giglio Cary and Amber Gray Giancarlo and Shirley Guerrero Jack and Shelley Harper Stephen and Kari Haywood Larry and Caroline Heard Carey and Stacie Hendrickson Milton and Debbie* Hixson David and Amy Hodge John and Ann Howard Trent and Julie Hughes David and Amy Hunt Ken and Shanna Jaeger Steven and Beth Jarvie Neal and Sheila Jeffrey Michael Johnson and Armine Shamiryan Mike and Pamela Jones Paco and Kay Jordan Harmon and Lea Kong David and Shirley Lake Phil and Adriane Lakin Jennifer and Ryan Lindsey Mark and Patty Lovvorn Roger and Julie Lowe Katie and Justin Luningham René and Sabrina Maciel Ryan and Jennifer Malone Mark and Debbie Mann Jill and Chris Manning Mike and Micki Maris Tom and Suzanne Martin Don and Faith Martin Kenneth and Stacy Mattson Michael and Cynthia McFarland Bill and Tanya Mearse Jim and Lisa Meyerhoff Bob and Suzy Mighell Melissa and David Mines Alicia and Lloyd Monroe Todd and Amy Patterson Brent and Carole Perry Aubin and Mark Petersen Meredith Pinson-Creasey and David Creasey Cassidy Parshall Larry and Mandy Powell Tom and Pat Powers Jeff and Cara Price Danny and Lenn Prince Randy and Myra Pullin John and Kelly Rainey Jeff and Cindy Reeter Todd and Anna Reppert Kevin and Leslie Rhea Bill and Mary Jo Robbins Clifton and Betsy Robinson Mark and Debra Rountree Debbie and Manny Ruiz Dusty and Dana Sanderson Randy and Stacy Sharp Bill and Tammy Simon Randy and Janna Slechta Carol and David Slover Kyle and Jamie Stallings Brad and Wendy Steele Kim and Kenny Stevens Phil Stewart Mike and Bunny Tibbals Kirk and Carol Townsend Jim and Julie Turner Randall Umstead Mark and Monica von Waaden Rick and Becky Welday Steve and Missy Wells Dennis and Cindy Wiles Gordon and Lori Wilkerson Don and Sue Wills Ron and Betty Wilson Jeff and Debbie Wooley Gaynor Yancey About the Campaign Foundation of the Campaign National Campaign Steering Committee Campaign Timeline Campaign Events Nashville - April 28, 2022 Atlanta - February 3, 2022 Photo Gallery Event Video Press Release Get Involved Denver - October 22, 2021 Give Light Denver Video Tidwell Ribbon Cutting Medal of Honor Statue Installation Ceremony Event Video Photo Gallery About our Honorees Press Release Mark & Paula Hurd Welcome Center Groundbreaking Video Mark & Paula Hurd Welcome Center Groundbreaking Southern California - October 26, 2019 Dallas - September 14, 2019 Dr. Annette von Jouanne Video New York City - May 23, 2019 Benjamin Goff Video Jeff Theiss Video Houston - May 4, 2019 Dr. Dwayne Simmons Video Dr. Ann Mirabito Video Washington, DC - February 2, 2019 Dr. Lorin Matthews Video Dr. Byron Johnson Video Each of us has been entrusted with a great light that can illuminate the path for future generations. When the Baylor Family gives financially to support University priorities, we give light to Baylor's bright future. Make a Gift Today Please select...Baylor Fund Make a Gift Contact Us (254) 710-2561GiveLight@baylor.edu General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 About the Campaign Foundation of the Campaign National Campaign Steering Committee Campaign Timeline Campaign Events Nashville - April 28, 2022 Atlanta - February 3, 2022 Denver - October 22, 2021 Give Light Denver Video Tidwell Ribbon Cutting Medal of Honor Statue Installation Ceremony Mark & Paula Hurd Welcome Center Groundbreaking Video Mark & Paula Hurd Welcome Center Groundbreaking Southern California - October 26, 2019 Dallas - September 14, 2019 Dr. Annette von Jouanne Video New York City - May 23, 2019 Benjamin Goff Video Jeff Theiss Video Houston - May 4, 2019 Dr. Dwayne Simmons Video Dr. Ann Mirabito Video Washington, DC - February 2, 2019 Dr. Lorin Matthews Video Dr. Byron Johnson Video Campaign Priorities Endowed Funds Faculty Chairs and Professorships Endowed Scholarships Endowed Funds for Growth Priorities Endowment Impact Capital Projects Mark & Paula Hurd Welcome Center Paul and Alejandra Foster Pavilion Fudge Football Development Center President's Excellence Fund Support Baylor Students Today Why I Give: Donor Testimonials Initiatives Health Data Sciences Materials Science Human Flourishing, Leadership and Ethics Baylor in Latin America Academic Units Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work Engineering & Computer Science George W. Truett Theological Seminary Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Mayborn Museum Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Music University Libraries Foster Academic Challenge Hord Scholarship Challenge Trailblazer Scholars Program Contact Make a Gift News Illuminate Ways to Give