Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Public Policy MPP You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Public Policy MPP Apply Request More Info Public Policy MPP Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Master of Public Policy Learn how to evaluate existing and proposed policies with the Master of Public Policy (MPP) in Temple University's College of Liberal Arts. Students gain an understanding of the political and institutional contexts in which policies are implemented at the federal, state and local levels. The MPP program combines real-world experience with rigorous academic research to help students learn practical skills and make vital contacts needed for successful careers in the public or nonprofit sectors. Learning takes place inside and outside the classroom through internships, guest speaker series and team projects with actual clients. The program’s dynamic faculty incorporate their professional expertise in the classroom. Many currently serve as budget and finance managers, consultants and policy analysts, leaders of nonprofit organizations, policymakers, and senior policy advisors. In addition to preparing graduates for roles in government agencies or in private nonprofit organizations, the MPP is also tailored for students who already hold public or private sector positions and are seeking supplemental training and credentials to develop their careers. Information Sessions Attend an upcoming information session and learn more about the Master of Public Policy program. Register Our Community The College of Liberal Arts at Temple comprises many disciplines and research areas. Now more than ever, an interdisciplinary liberal arts education is invaluable for your future pursuits. It offers the opportunity to further push your drive to create real change in the world, here at Temple and beyond. In this graduate program, you’ll work closely with diverse faculty members who are highly esteemed in their field and with a curious, passionate community of peers. Program Format & Curriculum Students have three years to satisfy their requirements for the Public Policy program, which can be completed on a full-time or part-time basis. All classes take place on Temple’s campus in Center City, Philadelphia after 5 p.m. The 36-credit curriculum comprises core courses, elective courses and an Internship in Public Policy course. Core courses include the following. Economic Decisions for Public Policy Policy Analysis Program Evaluation State and Local Budgeting Statistics for Public Policy Learn more about Public Policy program requirements. Related Graduate Degrees Master of Public Policy / Master of Public Health* (dual degree) *College of Public Health Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Master of Public Policy offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $966.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,329.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Our Advisors College of Liberal Arts academic advisors help you navigate your curriculum and potential career paths throughout your time at Temple. Samantha Apgar is the associate director of the Public Policy program. Phone: 215-204-7817 Email: mpp@temple.edu Program Contact With questions regarding the Public Policy, contact the following staff member. Samantha Apgar is the associate director of the Public Policy program. Phone: 215-204-7817 Email: mpp@temple.edu The following staff members lead the Public Policy Department. Gary Mucciaroni is the director of the Public Policy MPP program. Phone: 215-204-6105 Email: gary.mucciaroni@temple.edu Accreditation Temple University’s departments and programs are accredited by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education. LA-PPOL-MPP Additional Program Information Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Public Policy MPP Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info