Skip to main site navigation Skip to main content Open the search panel Open the main menu Search Go Close the search panel Information for… Incoming J.D. Current Students Faculty Staff Media Employers News Events Alumni Giving About Library Login Open the Search panel Admissions Admissions Why Columbia J.D. Admissions Graduate Admissions Academics Academics J.D. Program and Curriculum LL.M. Program and Curriculum Executive LL.M. Program and Curriculum J.S.D. Program and Curriculum Dual and Joint Degrees International Programs Public Interest and Public Service Experiential Learning Courses Registration Services Academic Calendar Executive Education Areas of Study Areas of Study Constitutional Law, Regulation, and Public Policy Corporate, Business, and Transactional Law Criminal Justice Data Analytics Environment and Energy Family, Gender, and Sexuality Intellectual Property and Technology International and Comparative Law Law of the Workplace Leadership Legal History Litigation and Dispute Resolution National Security and Privacy Social Justice and Human Rights Faculty & Scholarship Faculty & Scholarship Faculty Directory Research Centers and Programs Scholarship Archive Workshops, Lectures, and Colloquia Careers Careers Private Sector Careers Public Interest and Public Service Careers Academic Careers Judicial Clerkships Employment Statistics Employment Policies Community Life Community Life Visit Campus Dean’s Welcome Your Campus, Your City Student Life Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Strategic Initiatives Dean’s Welcome Community Life Dean’s Welcome Columbia Law School is a place of ideas, innovation, and impact. More in this Section Explore Dean’s Welcome: About the Dean Welcome to Columbia Law School! Our faculty are thought leaders who advance society’s understanding of the law and how it shapes policy. They are leading scholars and experienced practitioners who are deeply committed to excellence in the classroom. Our students come from diverse backgrounds and life experiences and immerse themselves in a strong and supportive community that challenges them to grow personally and intellectually. They are eager to engage, lead, and effect change. Gillian Lester, Dean and Lucy G. Moses Professor of Law Our curriculum provides a foundational grounding in the law—a hallmark of Columbia’s tradition of educating skilled and sought-after lawyers—while exposing students to practical training through our extensive experiential curriculum. Our home in New York City provides unparalleled access to career opportunities in the epicenter of the global economy and the legal profession. Our connection to Columbia—one of the world’s preeminent research universities—serves as an incubator for interdisciplinary study and innovation. Our alumni are leaders at the pinnacle of their fields who influence pivotal decisions each day. Graduates join a lifelong network that spans the globe and reaches across sectors and industries. Columbia-trained lawyers are prepared—starting on day one—to anticipate and confront the challenges of our time. Explore for yourself what makes Columbia Law such a unique and vibrant place. Gillian Lester Dean and Lucy G. Moses Professor of Law Office of the Dean The Office of the Dean oversees the academic and administrative operations of Columbia Law School, including intellectual life and curricular planning, faculty affairs and support, and internal and external communications. Related Links Meet our Senior Administrators Explore Life at the Law School Related Stories Read All Stories More in The Press Research and Scholarship News Workplace Law in the Age of Uber “Philosophical Foundations of Labour Law,” a new book co-edited by Dean Gillian Lester, examines how moral values can and should underlie labor law. Students News Highlights of Orientation 2019 News Alumni and Friends Meet Jerome L. Greene Foundation Challenge to Endow 50 New Scholarships News Petal Modeste Named Dean of Career Services Admissions Why Columbia Visit 435 West 116th Street New York, NY 10027 212-854-2640 Contact Us Social Media (Administrative Title) Twitter LinkedIn Facebook Instagram Admissions Academics Areas of Study Faculty & Scholarship Careers Community Life Information for… Incoming J.D. Current Students Faculty Staff Media Employers Login News Events Alumni Giving About Library Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Donate © Copyright 2022 The Trustees of Columbia University in the City of New York.