Skip to Main Content HBS Home About Academic Programs Alumni Faculty & Research Baker Library Giving Harvard Business Review Initiatives News Recruit Map / Directions Faculty & Research Faculty Research Featured Topics Academic Units …→ Harvard Business School→ Faculty & Research→ Faculty Faculty Positions Matthew Gregory Lilley Doctoral Student Doctoral Student Matthew Lilley is a PhD candidate at the Harvard Economics Department and Harvard Business School. His research interests are primarily in behavioral economics and political economy. Read more Matthew Lilley is a PhD candidate at the Harvard Economics Department and Harvard Business School. Prior to this, he received a B. Economics (Honours) from the University of Sydney in 2012. He worked in the Research Department at the Reserve Bank of Australia, and then as a research assistant for Economics faculty at the University of Sydney and University of New South Wales. His research focuses on behavioral economics and political economy, and other topics in empirical microeconomics. His recent research includes work on the role of peer effects on how US Supreme Court justices vote, and gender differences in blood donation. Less +1 →Send Email Contact Information Send Email Publications Working Papers Working Papers Lilley, Matthew, and Robert Slonim. "Gender Differences in Altruism: Responses to a Natural Disaster." IZA (Institute of Labor Economics) Discussion Paper Series, No. 9657, January 2016. View Details Lilley, Matthew, Richard Holden, and Michael Keane. "Peer Effects on the United States Supreme Court." Working Paper, February 2017. View Details All Publications Matthew Lilley is a PhD candidate at the Harvard Economics Department and Harvard Business School. Prior to this, he received a B. Economics (Honours) from the University of Sydney in 2012. He worked in the Research Department at the Reserve Bank of Australia, and then as a research assistant for Economics faculty at the University of Sydney and University of New South Wales. His research focuses on behavioral economics and political economy, and other topics in empirical microeconomics. His recent research includes work on the role of peer effects on how US Supreme Court justices vote, and gender differences in blood donation. Working Papers Lilley, Matthew, and Robert Slonim. "Gender Differences in Altruism: Responses to a Natural Disaster." IZA (Institute of Labor Economics) Discussion Paper Series, No. 9657, January 2016. View Details Lilley, Matthew, Richard Holden, and Michael Keane. "Peer Effects on the United States Supreme Court." Working Paper, February 2017. View Details Area of Study Negotiation, Organizations and Markets Area of Study Negotiation, Organizations and Markets ǁ Harvard Business School Soldiers Field Boston, MA 02163 →Map & Directions →More Contact Information Make a Gift Site Map Jobs Harvard University Trademarks Policies Digital Accessibility Copyright © President & Fellows of Harvard College