Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Fraternity and Sorority Life Interfraternity Council Interfraternity Council IFC Recruitment Multicultural Greek Council Multicultural Greek Council MGC Intake National Pan-Hellenic Council National Pan-Hellenic Council NPHC Intake Panhellenic Council Panhellenic Council Panhellenic Recruitment Parent and Families ☰ Student Affairs Fraternity and Sorority Life Interfraternity Council Interfraternity Council GET IN TOUCH: P: 214.768.4400 | E: ifc@smu.edu Mailing Address: SMU Interfraternity Council P.O. Box 750436 Dallas, TX 75275-0436 The Interfraternity Council, or IFC, is the governing body of nine fraternity chapters at SMU, many of which are affiliated with the North-American Interfraternity Conference (NIC). IFC is a student-run organization that exists: To promote the interests of the University, which include scholarship, leadership, and citizenship. To promote the interests and unity of the Greek organizations represented on campus. To promote the interests of college fraternities, in general, which includes the consideration that they are viable and valuable collegiate experiences. To facilitate communication and cooperation between member fraternities and the University administration and faculty. What makes IFC organization’s unique? IFC Fraternities are the oldest fraternal organizations in US history, with the earliest organizations forming in the early 1800s. IFC Recruitment Current IFC Chapters at SMU Upcoming IFC Events Apply Visit School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share