Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Registrar About Register Students Veterans Faculty & Staff Forms Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Register Quick Guide Errors/Problems Holds Permits Auditing Elite Student Audit Late Add/Late Registration Complete Self Service Guides Take Action View Calendars Order Transcripts View Notices Contact Us Home Registrar Register Late Add/Late Registration Late Add/Late Registration After web registration has closed, students may request to add or register by submitting a TigerHelp request. Instructor approval is required in order for the Registrar's Office to attempt registration. Process Students should complete the following. Request instructor approval. Include course information (CRN, course, section, etc.) in the email to the instructor. Note - for TN eCampus courses (sections that start with R) only: Contact Mary Ewart at mewart@memphis.edu, who will make the decision whether or not to approve. Submit the TigerHelp request. Login and select the Schedule Adjustment/Late Adds category. Complete the fields and attach instructor approval for each course. An email that a permit has been entered is not instructor approval. Request permit(s) if necessary. Students who need permit(s) will receive an email with information about requesting permits. The Registrar's Office cannot issue permits and cannot complete registration without necessary permits in place. Students will receive an email from the Registrar's Office when registration has been completed. Academic Standing and Late Registration All students who are on probation or suspension and have not registered for any classes by the last day of the first week of classes will have a registration hold placed on their student account. Students on probation or suspension should contact the CARES Office (cares-staff@memphis.edu) about second part of term class offerings to ensure student success. Late Registration Policy (per Undergraduate Academic Catalog) The University of Memphis allows late registration for a short period of time after the regular registration period has ended. The dates and deadlines vary by semester and can be determined by consulting the appropriate semester within the "Dates & Deadlines" calendar of the University’s academic calendar. This policy only applies to students whose academic status is Good Standing or Academic Warning. Students on Academic Probation, transferring on Probation, or returning from Academic Suspension, who are admitted to the University of Memphis but have not enrolled in classes, must be registered for classes prior to the first day of class. Research on the impact of registering late for classes has generally concluded that late registrants have higher course withdrawal rates, lower grade point averages, and lower retention rates. In an effort to retain students, improve academic success, and decrease the number of students placed on Academic Suspension, the University of Memphis recognizes that registering before classes begin is essential to promoting those goals. Please see Academic Regulations in the UG academic catalog. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 1/14/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.