Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu FCBE Assurance of Learning / Assessment BBA/BBA-ACCT MBA/IMBA/EMBA MS-ACCT MSBA MSIS MA-ECON PhD Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact BBA / BBA-ACCT BBA SummaryDegree OutcomesAssessment RubricResultsCommittee ReportsActions TakenArchives BBA-ACCT Summary Degree Outcomes Assessment Rubric Results Committee Reports Actions Taken Archives SACS Reporting SACS (BBA, BBA-ACCT) Take Action Assurance of Learning in the Fogelman College Methodology Timeline Archives/SACS Follow Us Online Home FCBE Assessment BBA Degrees BBA-ACCT Summary BBA in Accountancy Degree: Highlights & Summary Information The Fogelman College offers a Bachelors of Business Administration Degree with a Major in Accounting. The BBA in Accounting is a distinct degree within the Fogelman College and must be assessed independently within our overall AoL framework. Fogelman Accounting graduates have opportunities to achieve professional certifications including: Certified Public Accountant (CPA), Certified Management Accountant (CMA), Certified Internal Auditor (CIA), Certified Information Systems Auditor (CISA), Certified Fraud Examiner (CFE), Accredited Tax Advisor (ATA), or Certified Government Financial Manager (CGFM). All these designations require candidates to pass challenging exams, fulfill professional ethics requirements, and participate in continuing education programs every year. While the Learning Goals for the BBA in Accounting share a number of outcomes with our standard BBA degree, to ensure our graduates possess a mastery of the unique knowledge and skills to work in the accounting field, the following accounting-specific learning outcomes are included in the BBA in Accounting assurance-of-learning model: Graduates will demonstrate a satisfactory understanding of financial and managerial accounting concepts. Graduates will demonstrate a satisfactory understanding of systems and auditing concepts. Graduates will demonstrate a satisfactory understanding of U.S. tax laws and regulations related to financial reporting. 2016-17 Assessment & CTL Cycle The college conducted and completed a full assessment & CTL cycle for the BBA degree over an 16-month period beginning in Fall 2016 and ending in December of 2017. (The most-recent prior assessment of the BBA degree was completed in 2013.) Data was collected in the Fall of 2016 across all learning goals and related objectives. Efforts were employed to maximize the quantity and quality of the assessment data by sampling a broad cross-section of sections and faculty. Review/Download the Matrix of Courses Assessed in the BBA-ACCT CTL 2016-17 Cycle (PDF) The CTL committee convened in the Spring of 2018 and completed its analysis and submitted a full BBA-ACCT CTL Report in April 2018. Notes: The BBA in Accounting learning goals were updated in 2016-17 based on recommendations from the 2016 AACSB CIR onsite committee. The additional objectives were implemented and assessed in the Fall of 2017 and included in the most-current CTL analysis published in 2018. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/24/19 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.