Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links FACHEX Menu Main Nav FACHEX Back Back Close About Outgoing Students Incoming Students Coordinators FAQs Close Directory A to Z Listing Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close FACHEX is an acronym for Faculty and Staff Children Exchange. The program offers the potential for undergraduate tuition remission for children of current full-time faculty, administrators, and staff from participating Jesuit colleges and universities. Important Dates Date Incoming Students (Applying to Boston College Through FACHEX) Nov 1, 2021 Priority Scholarship Deadline for FACHEX Applicants to BC All students applying for FACHEX consideration at Boston College must have their admission application materials submitted by the 11/1 Priority Scholarship Deadline regardless of the admissions cycle they have chosen. That is, they may apply Early Decision I, Early Decision II, or Regular Decision so long as the 11/1 date is met. FACHEX applicants to BC must identify a parent as working at a participating Jesuit college or university on their Common Application. Dec 1, 2021 Deadline for FACHEX Applicants to be certified as FACHEX Eligible in the Tuition Exchange Database FACHEX applicants to BC are to be certified as FACHEX Eligible in the Tuition Exchange Database by 12/1. The parent working at a participating Jesuit college or university will work with their employer on the certification process. April 1, 2022 Students who applied for FACHEX at BC will be notified of their FACHEX status by April 1st. Date Outgoing Students For the purpose of Boston College FACHEX, Outgoing Students are the children of Boston College employees who are applying for the FACHEX benefit at a school other than Boston College. If a BC employee is interested in their child attending Boston College, that process is covered through the standard Tuition Remission process, not FACHEX. Dec 1, 2021 Deadline for FACHEX Applicants to be certified as FACHEX Eligible in the Tuition Exchange Database BC employees MUST complete the Certification Form and return it to the Boston College Benefits Office before this date. Questions? Our extensive FAQ section can answer all your questions. Boston College Office of Undergraduate Admission Back To Top Back To Top 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College