Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Skip to primary site search Google Tag Manager Facilities Management FACILITIES MANAGEMENT Show/Hide SERVICES Customer Service FM Partnership Program Operations and Maintenance Heating and Cooling Sold Service Estimates Divisions Planning, Design & Construction Sustainability Event and Conference Real Estate Custodial and Moves More... MAPS Campus Map AED Locations Accessibility Map Space Reports Building List Building Space Download Maps PROJECTS Capital Projects Current Active Projects List Brook Street Residence Halls Churchill House Renovation and Addition Greenhouse Gas Reduction & Decarbonization Project LGBTQ Identity Center Lincoln Field Building Renovation & Addition Lindemann Performing Arts Center Completed Marston Boathouse Renewal Phase 2 Wellness Center & Residence Hall Center for Lacrosse and Soccer GeoChem Infrastructure Renewal John D. Rockefeller, Jr. Library School of Professional Studies Sharpe House Relocation Division of Applied Mathematics Nelson Center for Entrepreneurship 164 Angell Street Renovation Pizzitola Sports Center Friedman Hall Building Renovation John Hay Library 85 Waterman Street Stephen Robert '62 Hall Andrews Commons South Street Landing Barus & Holley, Prince Lab Engineering Research Center Keeney Quad Miller, Metcalf, & Andrews Halls 315 Thayer Jonathan M. Nelson Fitness & Katherine Moran Coleman Aquatics Center Metcalf Research Building Warren Alpert Medical School Brown Stadium Turf Renovation Meehan Auditorium Team Experience Phase I Thermal Efficiency Project Perry & Marty Granoff Center for the Creative Arts Planning Resources Project Delivery Process Project Initiation Organization Delivery Category 1 Category 2 Category 3 Category 4 Turnover Project Management Tools Project Information Management System Benchmarking Dashboard Reporting Decision Matrix Risk Register Schedule Analysis Design Standards Webcams SUSTAINABILITY ABOUT FM Leadership Mission & Values Organizational Chart News Newsletter Announcements Hours of Operation Directions FM PORTAL Planon FM Reportal Other Apps Meridian BEE FM Web Reports Floor Plans Dorm Floor Plans Planon FM IT FM Maps Admin Maps URL Builder Active Building List Internal Memos Suggestion Box COVID-19 COVID FAQs COVID Cleaning FAQs Disinfectant Cleaner FAQs Portable Air Cleaner FAQs Toilet Seat Cover FAQs Touchless Campus FAQs FM Partnerships HVAC & Water Systems FAQs HVAC Building Narratives Building Ventilation Matrix Greenhouse Gas Reduction & Decarbonization Project In 2008, Brown pledged to reduce its greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from electricity production and campus fuel consumption by 42% below 2007 levels by 2020. With efficiency improvement to campus buildings, current emissions have dropped by 29.7% since 2007. With the renovation of the Central Heat Plant (CHP) and distribution loop through the Thermal Efficiency Project (TEP), approved and underway, Brown will reduce those emissions by an additional ~5,500 metric tons of carbon dioxide annually toward the goal of 42% reduction. The TEP also facilitates future decarbonization. Brown began an extensive effort in 2019 to stimulate the production of zero carbon electricity in an amount equal to the electricity the University consumes. Electricity production accounts for about half of the emissions associated with direct campus activities. In early 2019, Brown signed two Power Purchase Agreements, one solar and one wind. In the first, Brown will purchase the output from a 240- acre solar panel field that will be newly constructed on a retiring gravel pit in Rhode Island. This will produce electricity equal to roughly 70% of the amount of electricity Brown consumes. In the second agreement, Brown will invest in development of a wind farm in Texas, which will produce an amount equivalent to the rest of Brown’s electric consumption. In February 2019 President Paxson announced Brown’s new GHG reduction goals, reducing greenhouse gasses by 75% by 2025, and full net zero by 2040. The 2025 interim goal will be achieved primarily through renewable electricity Purchase Power Agreements and conversion of the CHP primary fuel from natural gas to a post-consumer bio-fuel. The Texas wind farm will be online in 2022. Planning and design for the conversion of the CHP fuel is underway. Research on potential fuels and proxy pricing is complete. Brown is reviewing regulatory requirements for use of alternate fuel(s) with existing boilers and storage tanks. Achieving the remaining 25% reduction and the overall 2040 net zero goal requires modifying heating systems within several campus buildings and lowering the campus loop water system temperature to take advantage of non-combustion sources of heat that will eventually replace the conventional boilers at the Central Heat Plant. Going forward: Phase I: Renewable electricity PPA: ● Dry Bridge: Goldman Sachs (GS) filed petition with PUC, awaiting official filing. GS continues to move forward with the project and have expressed their commitment to deliver. ● (Proposed) Supplemental Small Virtual Net Metering PPA (RI-based) : after formally defining our ghg boundary, looking at capital projects planned to be online by 2025, and analysis showing a steady increase in electricity usage it was determined that we will need to continue to increase our PPA investments. Phase II: ‘BioFuel Conversion’: ●Proposed renewable natural gas (RNG) RFP for the Central Heat Plant. Status: 5 proposals under review Phase III: ‘Roadmap’: ● Building and loop modifications ensure adequate heat delivered using lower temp water. ● FM moving ahead ; developing and bundling initial project packages for FY21. Phase IV: ● Switching from on site combustion of fuel to renewable electricity-powered heating to produce lower temp water. Capital Projects Current Active Projects List Brook Street Residence Halls Churchill House Renovation and Addition Greenhouse Gas Reduction & Decarbonization Project LGBTQ Identity Center Lincoln Field Building Renovation & Addition Lindemann Performing Arts Center Completed Planning Resources Project Delivery Process Design Standards Webcams Explore Brown University Search Brown Show/Hide Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Department of Facilities Management Brown University Box 1941 295 Lloyd Ave. Providence, RI 02912 Directions Facility Emergency: Tel: (401) 863-7800 Service Request: Tel: (401) 863-7800 Main Office: Tel: (401) 863-7850 Fax: (401) 863-7885 FM Portal FM Home Maps Feedback Giving to Brown Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U Google+ LinkedIn SnapChat