Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Research Menu About News Our Research Commitment Research Contacts Find A Researcher White Eye Detector: How Baylor Research Fights Pediatric Eye Disease Meals-to-You Baylor University Celebrates Four 2020 CAREER Grant Winners Baylor Celebrates National STEM Day Highlights Health Data Sciences Materials Science Human Flourishing, Leadership & Ethics Baylor in Latin America Other Research Initiatives Facilities, Centers & Institutes FAQ Priorities Industry Professionals Baylor Researchers R1 Impact Human Flourishing, Leadership & Ethics Research Baylor>Research>Highlights>Human Flourishing, Leadership & Ethics Human Flourishing, Leadership & Ethics Research Human flourishing, leadership and ethics research advances understanding in areas by which individuals, communities and societies thrive. From entrepreneurship to the arts, philosophy and communication, Baylor is a recognized leader in disciplines that broker deeper understanding and ennoble individuals and communities. Learn more about Baylor human flourishing, leadership and ethics research. May 16, 2022 Carter Appointed Dean of Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences Baylor University Provost Nancy Brickhouse, Ph.D., announces that Jason R. Carter, Ph.D., vice president for research, economic development and graduate education at Montana State University, has been selected as the Dean of Baylor’s Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences. Read More Apr. 26, 2022 The Power of Power Distance Belief Success in the education industry partly hinges on successful marketing, and the global reach of the internet presents vast opportunities. Baylor researchers analyze strategic approaches to reaching different cultures. Read More Apr. 6, 2022 The Meaning of R1 Baylor's R1 status is far more than an elite club or glossy résumé item. It positions Baylor to have a significant impact around the world. Baylor faculty explain what that means to them in Baylor Magazine. Read More Mar. 30, 2022 The Community Impact of R1 Nationally-recognized researcher Sara Dolan is an APA "Citizen Psychologist" who has seen firsthand the how research and scholarship can support community wellbeing. She says Baylor's R1 attainment will open new doors to serve the community. Read More Mar. 2, 2022 National Study Examines Link Between Accountability to God, Psychological Well-being Religious believers who embrace accountability to God (or another transcendent guide for life) experience higher levels of psychological well-being, study led by Baylor researcher Matt Bradshaw. Read More Feb. 24, 2022 Student-Engaged Partnership Accelerates Undergraduate Microbiome and Cancer Research Baylor students participate in top-tier research on state-of-the-art equipment, like an anaerobic chamber in Dr. Leigh Greathouse's lab. Learn how a unique partnership, focused on student research opportunities, brought this resource to Baylor. Read More Feb. 17, 2022 WATCH: Baylor's Journey to R1 Baylor's pursuit of R1 recognition became official in 2019, but the roots of the the University's elite R1 attainment date back more than 20 years. See how visionary moves and a purposeful path guided Baylor to preeminence as a Christian research university. Read More Feb. 8, 2022 Baylor Researchers Receive $2.7 Million John Templeton Foundation Grant to Study Higher Education Virtue Formation Grant will fund longitudinal study of students at centers and institutes for Christian study, secular universities, and religiously affiliated universities. Read More Human Flourishing, Leadership & Ethics Research News Archive Highlights Health Data Sciences Materials Science Human Flourishing, Leadership & Ethics Baylor in Latin America Other Research Initiatives General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 About News Our Research Commitment Research Contacts Find A Researcher White Eye Detector: How Baylor Research Fights Pediatric Eye Disease Meals-to-You Baylor University Celebrates Four 2020 CAREER Grant Winners Baylor Celebrates National STEM Day Highlights Health Data Sciences Materials Science Human Flourishing, Leadership & Ethics Baylor in Latin America Other Research Initiatives Facilities, Centers & Institutes FAQ Priorities Industry Professionals Baylor Researchers R1 Impact