Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Skip to primary site search Google Tag Manager For Faculty and Staff For Alumni For Students For Potential Students Biomed A-Z People Directory Warren Alpert Physician-Scientist MD/PhD and Advanced Training Program Show/Hide PhD Programs Curriculum Current Students Alumni How to Apply Leadership How to Apply Applying through the AMCAS application: Complete your AMCAS Application by November 1. Choose the “Combined Medical Degree – PhD” program designation option in AMCAS. Complete the MD/PhD essays in the AMCAS application. Complete the Alpert Medical School Secondary Application. AMS Secondary Application Deadline: December 1. Complete the MD/PhD essay question on the Alpert Medical School Secondary Application. Applicants for the institutionally funded MD/PhD Program may choose from the graduate programs within the Division of Biology and Medicine. (Candidates considering PhD work in other disciplines must apply as Regular MD only. Those who wish to combine the MD degree with a PhD in a field not offered within the Division of Biology and Medicine can apply to the graduate program of their choice, but do not receive funding through the medical school.) Interview invitations are sent between September and January. Interview days for MD/PhD candidates take place in November, December, and January. Decisions for the MD/PhD Program are made after all interviews and will be announced by mid-March. Questions about applying? Email: [email protected] Note: MD/PhD candidates are not considered for the MD-only program. Applying from Brown University’s Program in Liberal Medical Education (PLME): Request a letter of recommendation from the PLME Office at least two weeks in advance of October 1. A transcript for any coursework taken at Brown University will be included with your PLME Letter, and sent to the MD/PhD Office on your behalf. Request a letter of recommendation from a research mentor be sent to the MD/PhD Office at [email protected] by October 1. To complete your application, submit the following to [email protected] by October 1: Official transcripts from any institutions where you have undertaken academic coursework outside of Brown University that does not appear on your Brown University transcript or AMCAS Application. Complete these two MD/PhD essay questions: Describe your background, research experience, and your interest in pursuing a combined MD/PhD program; include your long-term career goals in wanting to become a physician-scientist. Explain your reasons for wanting to complete The MD/PhD program at the Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University. Once materials are reviewed, interviews will be granted for selected students. Decisions will be announced by April 16. Applying as a current Alpert Medical School student: Request a letter of recommendation from a research mentor be sent to the MD/PhD Office at [email protected] by October 1. Request the AMS Admissions Office send a copy of your AMCAS Application from the year you applied to AMS to the MD/PhD Office at least two weeks in advance of October 1. To complete your application, submit the following to [email protected] by October 1: Official transcripts from any institutions where you have undertaken academic coursework outside of Brown University that does not appear on your Brown University transcript or AMCAS Application.\ Complete these two MD/PhD essay questions: Describe your background, research experience, and your interest in pursuing a combined MD/PhD program; include your long-term career goals in wanting to become a physician-scientist. Explain your reasons for wanting to complete the MD/PhD program at The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University. Once materials are reviewed, interviews will be granted for selected students. Decisions will be announced by April 16. Brown Biology and Medicine Search Brown Show/Hide Learn More About Warren Alpert Medical School Program in Biology Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty and Staff Potential Students Alumni Giving to Brown Division of Biology and Medicine Brown University Box G-A1, Providence, RI 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-3330 Maps / Contact Us © 2022 Brown University Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram LinkedIn SnapChat