OU Homepage Search OU The University of Oklahoma Skip Navigation Office of the President Together, as a university community, we endeavor to become worthy of our past – the tremendous legacy we have inherited – and to deliver on our promise of changing lives for generations to come. – President Joseph Harroz, Jr. Inauguration of the 15th President of the University of Oklahoma Joseph Harroz, Jr. was inaugurated as OU's 15th president and delivered his vision for the future of the university on September 17, 2021. See Inauguration Highlights Messages and Statements OU Family Loss May 01, 2022 This weekend we lost three of our own. Beloved meteorology students, Drake Brooks, Nicholas Nair, and Gavin Short, passed away late Friday night in a fatal car crash. Read more OU Family Loss Venables Named Oklahoma's 23rd Head Football Coach December 05, 2021 Brent Venables, a former 13-year University of Oklahoma assistant coach who won a national championship with the Sooners and two more with Clemson University during a highly successful 10-year stint as defensive coordinator, has been named the 23rd head football coach for OU. Coach Venables Venables Named Oklahoma's 23rd Head Football Coach Office of Institutional Equity Update November 03, 2021 The University of Oklahoma announces the tentative appointment of a new Institutional Equity Officer, Equal Opportunity Officer, and Title IX Coordinator, Christine Taylor. Office of Institutional Equity Update Office of Institutional Equity Update Read All Messages and Statements Lead On, University Officially launched in July 2020, Lead On, University defines a clear plan for the Norman campus’ future and the comprehensive strategies to achieve it. As the university’s first Strategic Plan in a generation, it aims to position OU as a top-tier public research university that fosters a culture of innovation, excellence, and inclusivity. The heartbeat of the Strategic Plan echoes the university’s fundamental purpose – We Change Lives – three small but powerful words that affirm who we are and inspire our path forward. Read Lead On, University Tweets by UofOklahoma Follow @ou_president on Instagram Office of the President 660 Parrington Oval, Room 110 Norman, OK 73019 officeofthepresident@ou.edu Accessibility Sustainability HIPAA OU Job Search Policies Legal Notices Copyright Resources and Offices OU Report It!