Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Explore Brown University Search Global Navigation Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Biotechnology Graduate Program Home About Us People Master's Master of Science Master of Arts 5th-Year Master's Degree Part-Time Track Co-op and Employment Opportunities Admission and Financial Aid Career Outcomes For Current Students PhD Program Research Events Site Navigation Home About Us Featured Students Our Community Diversity & Inclusion Resources People Faculty Administration Leadership Master's Master of Science Master of Arts 5th-Year Master's Degree Management Track Part-Time Track Co-op and Employment Opportunities Admission and Financial Aid Career Outcomes For Current Students PhD Program Research Research News and Highlights Events Co-op and Employment Opportunities Basic Co-op Information The Experiential Learning in Industry (ELI) course gives master's students the opportunity to engage in six-month paid positions at top pharmaceutical, device, and biotechnology companies--all while earning a salary, gaining valuable industry experience, and earning course credit. Any student interested in applying for a co-op must read the Co-op FAQ prior to contacting the Program Director, Jacquelyn Schell, Ph.D. ([email protected]). Co-op FAQs What? The ELI, also known as a co-op, is an opportunity for masters students in biotechnology to receive course credit while they work on-site at a biotechnology, biopharmaceutical, pharmaceutical, or medical device company. ELIs may also be available in other businesses that provide relevant services/expertise to the aforementioned companies including patent law, licensing, regulatory and consulting. ELIs are NOT guaranteed and are competitive. You can only register for BIOL 2180 after you receive permission from the Graduate Program Director. When? ELI positions are 6 months in duration. You may apply for an ELI position that takes place either January-June or June- December. Who? If you are enrolled in the 2 year Masters program you may apply for an ELI that begins during January of your first year, June of your first year or January of your second year. If you are a 5 th year Masters student interested in pursuing an ELI, you must petition to the Graduate School to extend your time in the program to 1.5 years. You may apply for an ELI that begins during January of your first year or June of your first year. To extend your 5th year Masters to 1.5 years, you and your research advisor must fill out and sign a petition to alter your course of study. The petition must be delivered to the Graduate Program Director 2 weeks before you wish to alter your course of study (mid-January). 5th Year students participating in an ELI will have time for status changes (full-time/part-time/less than part-time). Please speak with the Program Director about your specific situation and see the guidelines for registering for courses for Biotechnology and Biomedical Engineering masters students (Brown 5th Year Students) below. View Course Guidelines How? If you are a Masters student who is pursuing the ScM degree and needs to do research for your thesis in a professor’s lab, you must discuss with your professor your interest in an ELI opportunity. It is best to have this discussion prior to starting your thesis research. An ELI opportunity is a serious commitment to work full time at a company for six months. This six months will significantly detract from your time to do thesis research in your professor’s lab. To be eligible for an ELI opportunity, all Masters students pursuing the ScM degree must fill out a consent form documenting your discussion with your professor, the agreed upon time for your ELI and your professor’s consent to this plan. Download ELI Consent Form If you are interested in an ELI for the January-June term, you must e-mail your CV to the Graduate Program Director by October 1st . If you are interested in an ELI for the June December term, you must e-mail your CV to the Graduate Program Director by March 1st . Late CVs will not be considered. CVs must be sent as a Word document. E-mail to [email protected]. If you are pursuing the ScM degree you must also submit a signed professor’s consent form. Your CVs will be reviewed, edited if necessary and returned to you via e-mail. Your final CV should be saved as a PDF document in preparation for submission to an ELI opportunity. Brown University has dynamic relationships with numerous companies and companies have changing needs and resources. Each year, multiple companies with ELI opportunities will request that CVs of prospective students be sent to them by the Graduate Program Director or submitted to the company online directly by you. You will be informed of these companies, the method of CV submission and the deadline of CV submission by the Graduate Program Director. Download CV Template Where? Brown University has dynamic relationships with numerous companies at various locations throughout the United States. Affiliated companies can change from year to year. Companies that have hosted ELI students in the past include Pfizer, Eli Lilly, Sanofi Genzyme, Amgen, Molecular MS Diagnostics (MMSD), and Boston Scientific. If you participate in an ELI opportunity, you are expected to work full time, typically 35-40 hours each week. The company will pay you in the range of $20-$25/hr. Specifics are determined by the company. As per standard practice in the industry, the company may ask you to sign a confidentiality agreement, a non-compete agreement or other agreements on condition of employment. Each company has their own policies. If you participate in an ELI opportunity, you will need to be covered by your own health care insurance or plans. The company will not provide health insurance, nor health care services. If your ELI position is beyond a reasonable commuting distance from Providence, you will be required to move close to the company and obtain temporary housing. Moving expenses and housing are NOT covered by the company, nor Brown University. Companies may provide helpful informational resources. If you are not willing to relocate for an ELI, you should disclose this to the Graduate Program Director when submitting your CV so that you can be matched appropriately. You will receive 1 credit for successful completion of an ELI. The ELI course has a standard 1 credit tuition fee associated with it. If you are an international student or you are not a lawful permanent resident of the U.S., visa restrictions may apply. Please contact and work with the Office of International Student Scholars (OISS) to determine your eligibility to participate in an ELI. You must complete the entire ELI as initially agreed upon between you and the company. Failure to do so will result in an INC for a grade. Industry Co-Op Partners Potential industry partners offering co-op experiences to our students: Abiomed Adler, Pollock & Sheehan Amgen Becton Dickenson (BD) Bluebird Boston Scientific Cocoon Biotech CRBard Eli Lilly Genentech Johnson and Johnson Millipore Sigma ModeRNA New Balance Pfizer RI Orthopedic Foundation Roche Sanofi-Genzyme Thermo Fisher Vertex Pharmaceuticals Featured Student: Rebecca W. Rebecca, a Brown Undergraduate who studied biology and visual Art, decided to do a fifth-year ScM in the Biotechnology Program. During her 5th Year, Rebecca had the chance to customize her curriculum to fit her interests and did a master’s thesis on bat echolocation. She also gained real-world industry experience during a co-op with C.R. Bard, a global medical technology firm. Read Rebecca's story Master's Master of Science Master of Arts 5th-Year Master's Degree Part-Time Track Co-op and Employment Opportunities Admission and Financial Aid Career Outcomes For Current Students Graduate Program in Biotechnology Graduate Program in Biotechnology Brown University Box G-B3 171 Meeting Street Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-3262 Fax: 401-863-1595 Email [email protected] Brown University Giving to Brown Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA 401-863-1000 Contact Us Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility All Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top