Skip to content Columbia University Irving Medical Center Find People Events Faculty and Staff Resources Give Now Search About Us About Us Facts and Figures Explore CUIMC Events Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion at CUIMC Community Development and Alumni Explore CUIMC Leadership and Administration A-Z Listing Affiliated Hospitals Campus Map and Directions Campus Resources Contact CUIMC Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion At CUIMC, we are committed to continuous improvement in providing culturally inclusive medical education and clinical care. Learn About Our Commitment Education Education Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Mailman School of Public Health School of Nursing College of Dental Medicine VP&S Columbia Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons is dedicated to developing the next generation of leaders in medicine Learn About Our Academic Programs Research Research The Louisa Gross Horwitz Prize Columbia Technology Ventures Research Administration Columbia Clinical Innovation Lab Patient Care Patient Care ColumbiaDoctors Children's Health Columbia Primary Care Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Digital Health Services at Columbia Find a Doctor Search for a provider by specialty, expertise, location and insurance. Schedule an appointment online. Find a Doctor News News For the Media Share Your News CUIMC Update CUIMC Celebrates Columbia Medicine Read the latest news stories about CUIMC faculty, research, and events Explore Our News COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Information for Patients COVID-19 Campus Safety for Employees and Students COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students COVID-19 Information and Resources for Clinical Staff COVID-19 Vaccine Information Learn about COVID-19 vaccine availability and requirements for employees and students at CUIMC Get the Latest Information You are here Home > News > Share Your News For the Media Share Your News CUIMC Update CUIMC Celebrates Columbia Medicine For Faculty and Staff Share Your News Columbia University encourages faculty to interact with the media to raise awareness of the university’s programs and research. The CUIMC Office of Communications is eager to help publicize news of faculty/staff/student scholarly work, community service, honors, awards, or other newsworthy activities. Please consult with the CUIMC Communications Office prior to any media activity for assistance and expert guidance. Faculty and staff should refer news media inquiries to the CUIMC Communications Office at 212-305-3900 or email cumcnews@columbia.edu. This will enable the communications staff to evaluate the request and respond effectively. Mailman School of Public Health faculty should contact the MSPH Office of Communications at 212-305-5635. School of Nursing faculty should contact the CUSON Office of Communications at 212-305-3282. Faculty, staff, or others requesting a news release or other public relations/communications support should send an email to cumcnews@columbia.edu, and include any relevant materials and dates. This will enable the communications staff to evaluate the request and respond effectively. Faculty are encouraged to notify the CUIMC Communications team as far in advance of major publications or presentations as possible, preferably as soon as notice of a paper’s acceptance is received. We can work with you to develop an appropriate media plan in keeping with journal or meeting guidelines, restrictions, or embargoes. Please provide a copy of the manuscript, a lay summary of the work, and the embargo date if known. To present CUIMC consistently and to maintain strong relationships with the news media, all media relations is the responsibility of CUIMC Communications. This includes drafting and issuing news releases about important research findings or other news, pitching story ideas to the media, and arranging media requests for interviews and photography. The CUIMC team of senior media experts works with each school’s communications officers, faculty, and staff throughout CUIMC to publicize research findings and stories that highlight our clinical expertise, as well as to manage difficult issues and to advise on overall media strategy. Please visit the link below for more information on our communications resources. For specific policies, please visit the CUIMC Administrators Manual. Updated/Reviewed Jan. 31, 2018. Learn more about Communications Policies. Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian About Us Careers News Education Patient Care Research Resources at CUIMC Columbia University Irving Medical Center 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Back to top