COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Graphic Design, Minor MinorGraphic Design All Programs College of Fine Arts Graphic Design Wichita State's minor in graphic design is a valuable addition to virtually any major—and opens doors to diverse careers in journalism, public relations, advertising, marketing and more. Learn how graphic design is the right fit for you. Request Info Start Your Application Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the program To take courses in the College of Fine Arts, you must first be admitted to Wichita State. For WSU's admission requirements, and to apply, click the link below. Admission requirements Inside the Program Childhood passion turns into graphic design career Graphic design students are free to pursue their passions as part of their careers. Most small children go through a phase when they're more interested in the box a toy came in than the actual toy. That fascination never went away for graphic design alumna Lauren Osoba. Buoyed by her experience at WSU, Osoba is now a successful graphic designer and illustrator, specializing in branding and print design. Curriculum A minor in graphic design is available to any student whose major area is outside of the School of Art, Design and Creative Industries (ADCI). The minor consists of a minimum of 15 credit hours in graphic design courses, including: Typography I Introduction to Graphic Design Graphic Design Concepts Graphic Design Applications One additional upper-division course View the curriculum Careers A degree in graphic design from Wichita State will help build your skills, your confidence and your portfolio—leading to careers such as creative director, advertising executive, communications professional and designer in a wide range of settings. Learn more about careers in this field Similar Programs Graphic Design Graphic Design Communication (Minor) Electronic Media (Studio Art) Photo Media (Studio Art) Communication - Integrated Marketing Communication 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©