Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links Campus Safety Menu Main Nav Campus Safety What to do in an emergency Back Back Close About Overview FAQ BC Police Department Overview About Meet Our Team In Memory FAQ News Accreditation Contact Community Relations & Crime Prevention Community Resource Officer (CRO) R.A.D. Programs Crime Prevention Education Compliments or Complaints Services Emergency Management Overview Potential Hazards Communication How to Prepare What to Do in an Emergency Students with Disabilities Environmental Health & Safety Overview Laboratory Safety Occupational Health & Safety Programs Indoor Environmental Quality Fire Safety Contact Documents Overview Crime Alerts Annual Campus Security & Fire Safety Report Business Continuity Emergency Plans and Publications What to do in an emergency Close Directory A to Z Listing Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Indoor Environmental Quality Home Environmental Health & Safety Indoor Environmental Quality Environmental Health & Safety Laboratory Safety Occupational Health & Safety Programs Indoor Environmental Quality Fire Safety Contact The Office of Environmental Health and Safety provides guidance and support for indoor air quality concerns, primarily mold and chemical odors. Mold Management Program Molds are a part of the natural environment and generally do not pose a hazard to healthy individuals. They are found everywhere, indoors and outdoors, throughout the year. They enter buildings on shoes, clothing and air currents. Molds need moisture and a food source to grow. Indoors, mold growth becomes an issue where moisture or water is present, especially in poorly ventilated areas. Molds may produce adverse health effects, such as allergy-like reactions, in a portion of the population. The molds found in our indoor environments do not produce mycotoxins. There are currently no federal standards or recommendations for airborne concentrations of mold or mold spores. Responsibilities Facilities Services personnel have been trained to manage most mold problems at Boston College. Small areas are treated with an appropriate surface cleaner that kills mold, and the area is checked to determine the source of moisture. If the problem is larger than can be handled internally, qualified remediation contractors are brought in. The Office of Environmental Health and Safety is available to answer questions, educate the community, and assess potential mold-impacted areas. They call in consultants when necessary to provide testing. The testing procedure includes air and surface sampling, and takes several days to provide results. What To Do If You Think You Have Mold In Your Room Or Office If you observe mold growth or detect musty odors, complete a Facilities work ticket. Someone will contact you to do an inspection and, if necessary, treat the affected area, or develop a plan to manage the mold. Prevent Mold Growth Because mold is everywhere, the key to controlling mold growth is controlling moisture. There are things you can do: Residence hall bathrooms Don’t take over-long showers, and use the ventilation fan in the bathroom. If the fan is not working, put in a work order. Wipe up standing water, and clean bathroom surfaces regularly with commercial cleaning products. Bedrooms, kitchens and common rooms Do not block heating and air conditioning units with furniture. Also do not block supply and return air vents. Unobstructed air flow is required for proper ventilation. If water condenses on windows, wipe it up. If you notice leaking around or under a sink, submit a facilities work request. In your office or classroom Report leaks immediately. If it is humid outdoors and your air conditioning is working, don't open windows! You are bringing in moisture that will condense and create conditions for mold growth. Drying efforts, cleanup, and removal of water damaged material should be done within 48 hours of initial water infiltration to prevent mold growth. Resources: https://www.epa.gov/mold/ten-things-you-should-know-about-mold If you have questions, send an email to gail.hall@bc.edu. Chemical Odors If you notice persistent chemical odors in your work area, contact Gail Hall, 2-0300. Back To Top Back To Top BC Campus Safety 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 About BC Police Department Emergency Preparedness Environmental Health & Safety Documents To report a campus emergency: Call BC Police @ 617-552-4444 In case of fire call 911 Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College