Skip to Main Content Brown University Graduate Programs Search Menu Graduate Programs BioMed: Pathobiology Ph.D. division Division of Biology & Medicine Inquire Apply All Graduate Programs Navigate This Page Navigate This Page About the Program Admission Information Completion Requirements Alumni Outcomes Leadership Contact and Location The doctoral program in Pathobiology offers students a rigorous curriculum within a collaborative learning environment. Study culminates in the Ph.D. in Pathobiology. The Pathobiology program at Brown is interdisciplinary and devoted to defining and understanding mechanisms of disease through the application of molecular biological, biochemical, genetic and immunological methodologies. The program has four major research themes: toxicology and environmental pathology, immunology and infection, aging, and cancer biology. Additional Resources All graduate student research is carried out in faculty research laboratories located on the Brown campus on College Hill, at the Molecular Medicine Research Laboratories in downtown Providence and in the nearby affiliated hospitals. In addition to basic research equipment, tools and facilities, there are several major shared facilities. Current facilities include the following: a microscope facility that houses two high-resolution transmission electron microscopes, a scanning electron microscope, a confocal microscope and image analysis with processing software; professionally staffed animal-care facility fully equipped for animal maintenance, large animal surgery and experimentation; molecular pathology core facility; DNA and protein core facility; hybridoma laboratory; fluorescence-activated cell sorter; molecular modeling center. The 14-story Sciences Library houses approximately 4,000 current periodicals, many also in electronic format; 530,000 bound volumes; electronic database search facilities; and study space for 300 students. Admission Information Inquire Apply Admission Requirements GRE Subject: Not required GRE General: Recommended Dates/Deadlines Admission Deadline December 1, 2021 Completion Requirements Core courses in pathology; selected courses in toxicology and environmental pathology, immunology and infection, cancer biology, cell biology or developmental biology, and molecular genetics or biochemistry. Research: three laboratory research rotations prior to selection of thesis project; course electives drawn from immunology, environmental and genetic toxicology, cancer biology, virology and 100-level and 200-level courses according to interests; seminars, journal clubs and career preparation workshops. Admission limited to applicants for the Ph.D. degree only. Advance placement is available to students who enter the program having completed a master's degree elsewhere. Alumni Careers Learn More Leadership Department Chair Richard Bennett richard_bennett@brown.edu Director of Graduate Study Amanda Jamieson amanda_jamieson@brown.edu Contact and Location BioMed: Pathobiology Mailing Address Brown University Box G-B604 Providence, RI 02912 Pathobiology@brown.edu (401) 863-6847 Visit the Department of Pathobiology Resources Program Faculty Graduate School Handbook Program Handbook Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Graduate School School of Engineering School of Professional Studies School of Public Health Warren Alpert Medical School This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search BioMed: Pathobiology Open details for BioMed: Pathobiology Bookmark this Page