Skip to main content Skip to main navigation About Baylor Menu Campus The Vibrant Baylor Campus Then & Now Traditions School Song Fight Song Baylor Bucket List The Immortal Message The McLane Carillon Virtual Tour Campus Map Directions to Baylor Connect Social Media Baylor Magazine Baylor Proud Baylor Alumni Connect Wear the Gear Facts & Figures Overview Awards & Rankings Ask Baylor Financial Highlights Heritage History Baylor Presidents Founders & Founders Day The Naming of Baylor Baylor Campus: Then & Now Historical Timeline List of Timeline Events Prominent Bears Commission on Historic Campus Representations Leadership Office of the President Senior Administration Administrative Departments Values & Vision Give Light Core Convictions Mission Top-Tier Academics Research Apply Christian Commitment Celebrating Advent Caring Community Athletic Excellence Strategic Plan Join Us Apply Now Work Here Make a Gift Visit Baylor Our Stories Athletic Excellence Baylor>About Baylor>Values & Vision>Athletic Excellence Athletic Excellence Participating in 19 sports, Baylor student-athletes compete at the highest level on the field, on the court, and in the classroom consistently ranking among the Big 12's and nation's best. A Championship Process: Charting a path to develop Champions for Life By Mack B. Rhoades, IV, Vice President and Director of Athletics As my first full academic year at Baylor University comes to a close, I am pleased by the progress we've made and excited for our bright future. Over the past 10 months, I've come to know the Baylor community, athletic staff, and student-athletes on a more personal level, and I am encouraged by the building process that is well underway. This time has allowed our leadership team to formulate a bold vision for Baylor Athletics, which stands in support of the university's important mission to educate men and women for worldwide leadership and service by integrating academic excellence and Christian commitment within a caring community. This mission informs our day-to-day efforts through one simple purpose: Prepare Champions for Life. Defining Champions In the context of athletics, the word "champion" evokes images of a game-winning shot, a feat of physical strength or a trophy hoisted high by a victorious team. But it has much deeper roots. One of the earliest definitions is as "one who fights on behalf of others" (circa 1300), and later "to fight for, defend, or protect" (circa 1820). When we say we will "Prepare Champions for Life," we are calling to that deeper sense of the word. Each year, more than 500 student-athletes are on campus representing the green and gold. Our job is to educate and prepare these individuals in all aspects of their life, so they leave here with a depth of understanding of what transforms an individual into a champion. No team or individual is successful without a successful process - a championship process. As we move forward, Baylor Athletics will focus on key areas of development to ensure our student-athletes receive the training and support we are uniquely equipped to provide. Our championship process rests on these pillars: Academic Achievement Athletic Success Social Responsibility Spiritual Growth This piece was originally published in the May/June 2017 issue of Insider Magazine. Athletic Facilities McLane Stadium The 2016 campaign marks the third season at McLane Stadium, Baylor's state-of-the-art 45,140-seat home on the banks of the Brazos River. Simpson Center - Highers Athletic Compex The Simpson Athletics and Academic Center is the centerpiece of the Highers Athletics Complex at Baylor University. Allison Indoor Practice Facility With this indoor facility, weather conditions no longer will result in canceled practices. In addition, the synthetic playing surface will complement the two natural grass practice fields adjacent to the facility, preparing the Baylor football team for all playing conditions. Baylor Ballpark Baylor Ballpark is a beautiful facility constructed of red brick and exposed green steel beams, which complement the attractive architecture already found on the Baylor campus. The stadium was designed to ensure outstanding sightlines and comfort for fans, as well as meet the needs of the country's finest college baseball players. Williams Family Soccer & Olympic Sport Center Located near the entrance to the field, the 14,500-square-foot Williams Family Soccer & Olympic Sport Center provides student-athletes with a range of amenities. Its features include a coaches suite and locker and training rooms dedicated to the soccer program, encompassing approximately 2,300 square feet and including 35 player lockers. Betty Lou Mays Soccer Field Betty Lou Mays Soccer Field is set in the plush backdrop of the Brazos River on University Parks Drive. The field is part of the Jim and Julie Turner Riverfront Athletic Complex, which includes Baylor Ballpark, Getterman Stadium and the Hurd Tennis Center. Billy W. Williams Golf Practice Facility The Billy W. Williams Golf Practice Facility includes a short-game and two putting greens, seven target greens and four separate tee areas located on 16.5 acres on University Parks Drive adjacent to the Willis Equestrian Center. Getterman Stadium Getterman Stadium opened in 1999 and houses one of the nation's premier collegiate softball programs. Hurd Tennis Center Ratliff Athletic Performance Center The Weldon and Margaret Ratliff Performance Center, located within the Simpson Athletics and Academic Center, is a student-athlete performance center named in honor of the Ratliff family, who provided the lead gift for the facility. The Ratliff Performance Center includes technologies used to monitor athletes' performance on and off the field; flooring and weight room equipment; video technologies; and lobby enhancements. Willis Equestrian Center The Willis Family Equestrian Center, named for Baylor graduates Richard (1981 and 1982) and Karen (1985) Willis of Colleyville who provided the lead gift for the project, is located near the Baylor campus. Ferrell Center The Ferrell Center, home to Baylor's basketball and volleyball programs for more than 20 years, was built in 1988. The gold-domed Ferrell Center is located on a 14-acre tract on the corner of University Parks Drive and LaSalle Avenue. Clyde Hart Track & Field Stadium Named for legendary Baylor track coach, Clyde Hart, the $18.1 million facility was dedicated on Dec. 5, 2014. The stadium accommodates 5,000 spectators and participants with seating on the front and back stretches. Beauchamp Athletics Nutrition Center Known as the BANC, the Beauchamp Athletics Nutrition Center is located near the Jay and Jenny Allison Indoor Football Practice Facility and the Simpson Strength and Conditioning area amid the Highers Athletics Complex. The BANC directly supports the vital role proper nutrition plays in the pursuit of athletic excellence for Baylor's student-athletes. Hawkins Indoor Tennis Center The Hawkins Indoor Center represents the realization of a longtime vision for Baylor Tennis. The state-of-the-art facility allows the men's and women's tennis team to practice and play year-round, regardless of adverse weather conditions. Values & Vision Give Light Core Convictions Mission Top-Tier Academics Research Research and Discovery Sniffing Out Cancer Saving Lives Building Healthier Lives Saving the Oceans Helping Families Heal Unlocking the Patterns of Life Ensuring Clean Water Ending Hunger in America Stopping the Spread of Disease Apply Christian Commitment Celebrating Advent Caring Community Athletic Excellence Strategic Plan About Baylor Joining the Baylor family is an opportunity to experience a top academic environment within a dynamic Christian community. Ask Baylor Apply Now Work Here Make a Gift Visit Baylor General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 Campus The Vibrant Baylor Campus Then & Now Traditions School Song Fight Song Baylor Bucket List The Immortal Message The McLane Carillon Virtual Tour Campus Map Directions to Baylor Connect Social Media Baylor Magazine Baylor Proud Baylor Alumni Connect Wear the Gear Facts & Figures Overview Awards & Rankings Ask Baylor Financial Highlights Heritage History Baylor Presidents Founders & Founders Day The Naming of Baylor Baylor Campus: Then & Now Historical Timeline List of Timeline Events Prominent Bears Commission on Historic Campus Representations Leadership Office of the President Senior Administration Administrative Departments Values & Vision Give Light Core Convictions Mission Top-Tier Academics Research Apply Christian Commitment Celebrating Advent Caring Community Athletic Excellence Strategic Plan Join Us Apply Now Work Here Make a Gift Visit Baylor Our Stories