Skip to content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation About About Georgia Tech History & Traditions Rankings Mission & Vision Our Values Ethics Visitor Information Institute Leadership Office and Department Directory Student, Staff, and Faculty Directory Careers at Tech Academics Academic Environment Majors and Degrees Colleges and Schools Continuing and Professional Education Georgia Tech Online Academic Calendar Admissions Prospective Students Admissions Overview Campus Tours Tuition and Costs Financial Aid & Scholarships Digital Swag Campus Life Explore the Main Campus Student Activities Athletics Georgia Tech Yellow Jackets Tickets Ramblin Wreck Store Research Research Areas Research News News & Events News Center Experts Guide Feature Stories Campus Calendar Media Contacts Apply Give Search Search form Enter your keywords Get the latest Covid-19 health information, operational status updates, and campus guidelines. You are here: GT Home Campus Life Life at Tech Explore the Campus Georgia Tech’s main campus spans 400 wooded acres in the heart of Atlanta. The campus is a comfortable, yet stimulating living and learning environment, with virtually every amenity close at hand. Campus Life Explore the Campus About Atlanta Housing Dining Health and Safety Campus Life About Atlanta, Georgia Atlanta, Georgia, combines the entertainment, educational, and economic opportunities of an international city with the flavor and personality of close-knit, eclectic neighborhoods. Our Midtown neighborhood is a thriving place to create, learn, live, work, and play. The city's network of diverse neighborhoods offers a taste of home for everyone — from apartments, lofts, and high-rises to small bungalows or impressive mansions. As the state's economic and cultural hub, Atlanta is packed with attractions, small businesses, high-tech startups, and multinational corporations, along with restaurants, theaters, museums, and concert venues. Within an easy walk to campus are green spaces and parks, including Centennial Olympic Park, Piedmont Park, and the Atlanta BeltLine — a network of public parks, multi-use trails, and multiple public transit options. 400+ Student Organizations Bike Friendly Campus Gold Medalist Source: The League of American Bicyclists 5 Satellite Campuses Economic Engine Business, industry, government, health care, media, entertainment, high-tech — Atlanta has it all. And Midtown's innovation hub is where businesses collaborate on creating the next big breakthroughs. Learn More @Tech Square Foodie Heaven Atlanta is home to many of the best, and arguably the most, restaurants in the Southeast. The city's food scene creates an adventure of eating out and finding food from every culture at every price. Learn More @ChooseATL Game On Braves baseball, Atlanta Hawks and Atlanta Dream basketball, Falcons football, Silverbacks Soccer, plus the Georgia Tech Yellow Jackets? Atlanta is a sports town for every season. Learn More @Atlanta.net Music Mecca Big-name stars at Philips Arena. Atlanta Symphony Orchestra at Woodruff Arts Center. Music festivals all over town. Hip-hop, DJs, and electronic music at nearby clubs. Indie artists at the Fox Theater and the Tabernacle. Learn More @ChooseATL Georgia Tech Student Housing More than just places to sleep and study, Tech’s residence halls offer a supportive environment designed to promote positive relationships, personal growth, and academic success. 40 Undergraduate Residence Halls 45% of Undergraduates Live on Campus 98% of First-year Students Live on Campus Georgia Tech Dining Georgia Tech dining offers several meal plans with a variety of options for convenient, flexible dining and snacking. Our three dining halls offer a wide variety of cuisines, including vegan and vegetarian dishes, with an all-you-care-to-eat policy. 20 On-campus Dining Options 3 All-You-Care-To-Eat Dining Halls 8+ Meal Plans Bradley Building/Tech Tower Whistle Bistro Campus Recreation Center The Dive Clough Undergraduate Learning Commons Kaldi's Coffee Sideways Cafe operated by Blue Donkey The Dining Hub Panda Express Twisted Taco Eight St. Curran Parking Deck Cluck N Mooh Engineered Biosystems Building Coming soon! Food Truck Locations Tech Green IC Lawn Institute for Bioengineering and Bioscience Coming soon! North Avenue Apartments North Ave Dining Student Center Food Court Opening Fall 2022 Techwood Drive Brittain West Village Dining Commons Wreck Stop Georgia Tech Safety and Health Georgia Tech Safety and Health Our students' safety, health, and wellbeing are extremely important, and the Institute takes a very proactive stance on campus health and safety. Tech students have access to comprehensive medical and mental health care, plus healthy-lifestyle education. The Georgia Institute of Technology Police Department is a fully operational state certified law enforcement agency. Police officers patrol the campus 24/7, and provide an extensive range of public safety services to reduce crime and create a safer environment. Covid-19 Safety Safety guidelines, information, and updates related to Covid-19 can be found on the Tech Moving Forward website. 90 Police Officers in the GTPD 25 Health Programs and Services LiveSafe App for Campus Safety All Majors and Degrees Admission Information Financial Aid and Scholarships Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Google Plus Instagram Flickr Pinterest RSS Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Colleges, Instructional Sites & Research Colleges College of Computing College of Design College of Engineering College of Sciences Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Scheller College of Business Instructional Sites Georgia Tech-Lorraine Georgia Tech-Savannah Georgia Tech-Shenzhen Georgia Tech Online Professional Education The Language Institute Global Footprint Global Engagement Research Georgia Tech Research Institute Research at Georgia Tech Executive Vice President for Research Student & Parent Resources Student Resources Apply BuzzPort Buzzcard Career Resources Commencement Library Student Life Student Entrepreneurship Study Abroad Canvas Parent Resources Parent and Family Programs Student Life Scholarships & Financial Aid Employee, Alumni, & Other Resources Employees Administration and Finance Advising & Teaching Faculty Affairs Faculty Hiring Human Resources Office of the Provost TechWorks Alumni Alumni Association Alumni Career Services Giving Back to Tech Outreach Startup Companies Economic Development Industry Engagement Government & Community Partners Professional Education Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 Phone: 404-894-2000 Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404.894.2000 Directory Employment Emergency Information Enable Accessibility Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © Georgia Institute of Technology Login