Skip to main content Clemson University Degrees Home Degree Programs MENU Elementary Education (B.A.) LEARN MORE ABOUT Channel your love of children, learning and helping to shape the future by majoring in elementary education. This program will prepare you to teach grades two through six. A diverse range of field experiences will help you hone your skills early in the program. In addition, the elementary education major features the nationally acclaimed Call Me MISTER® program, which is dedicated to increasing the number of teachers from diverse backgrounds. FAST FACTS The program is accredited by the Council for the Accreditation of Educator Preparation (CAEP), formerly NCATE, and recognized by the South Carolina Department of Education for adhering to Association for Childhood Education International (ACEI) standards. We have the only program in the state with elementary English as a second language (ESOL) classes. Our students exceed by 73 hours the state's minimum requirement for field hours before student teaching. Our 72-day student teaching internship exceeds the state's certification requirements for student teaching by 12 days. WHAT YOU'LL STUDY In your freshman year, you'll begin with an orientation into the field of education focusing on what it means to be an educator and how your role as a teacher will impact future generations of citizens. During your first three semesters, you'll concentrate on increasing your content knowledge in subjects you’ll teach in the elementary classroom — social sciences, English language arts, mathematics and science. During your fourth and fifth semesters, you’ll begin to explore theory and pedagogy within the profession of education, and you’ll take courses in child development, educational foundations, assessment and special education. Once you enter the professional development sequence, you’ll take pedagogical methods courses and learn how to teach art, physical education, science, mathematics, reading, social studies and English language arts. Your senior year will focus on field experiences in which you’ll spend each day in a second- to sixth-grade classroom, partnering with a highly qualified practicing teacher so you can experience firsthand what it’s like to educate young learners in a school setting. Curriculum Elementary Education, B.A. Popular Minors American Sign Language Studies Modern Languages Music Psychology Sociology Similar Majors Early Childhood Education (B.A.) Special Education (B.A.) EXPERIENCES BEYOND THE CLASSROOM The College of Education is committed to providing all students with purposeful, challenging and diverse experiences. It is through a range of carefully constructed, challenging and classroom-based instruction and field-based experiences that students recognize the inherent dignity and value of all individuals, promote equity in education and advocate on behalf of children, families and communities. Research Conduct research through Creative Inquiry projects like the "Never Knew" newsletter that exposes students to African-American children's literature. The Geek Squad project allows you to learn instructional classroom technology.Learn More » GoalPOST You can gain firsthand experience working with children in this University-sponsored intervention program at local elementary schools. This after-school program provides academic assistance, physical recreation and goal-setting exercises. Meet a student Damian Williams talks about how he is being prepared to be an elementary school teacher.Learn More » Honor Society Kappa Delta Pi is an international honor society dedicated to scholarship and educational excellence. Clemson's chapter is the oldest chapter in the state. The organization fosters mutual cooperation, support and professional guidance. Read Clemson University International Literacy Association Student Council strives to promote reading instruction and to provide a professional organization for preservice teachers. Members are students, faculty or staff members of the University. Service America Reads is a program that allows work-study students and student volunteers to tutor children at Clemson Elementary School. The University has developed a partnership with this school and its after-school program. Study Abroad Maymester in Italy provides a cross-cultural experience for education majors. You'll be exposed to Italian culture and approach to education, while living with an Italian family and working with local teachers and students.Learn More » CONNECT WITH OTHER STUDENTS Call Me MISTER Student Organizations AFTER GRADUATION Your college decision isn't really about the next four years. We get it. It's about what doors are opened by your degree and whether those opportunities are what you had envisioned for yourself. Here's a snapshot of what life after graduation looks like for some of our most recent students. WHERE OUR RECENT GRADUATES HAVE GONE KEY 41-100% 21-40% 11-20% 0-10% RECENT EMPLOYERS Second grade Teacher Greenville County Schools, S.C. Third grade Teacher Greenville County Schools, S.C. Fifth grade Teacher Lexington County School District 1, S.C. Fourth grade Teacher Anderson County School District 5, S.C. First grade teacher Guilford County Schools, N.C. RECENT POSTGRADUATE STUDIES M.Ed. Teaching and Learning Clemson University M.Ed. University of Virginia M.S. Speech Pathology University of South Carolina M.S. Speech Pathology Radford University COMMON CAREER AREAS Most graduates go on to teach in the state and region, while some continue with graduate education. Second through sixth grades FIND OUT MORE Have more questions or want more information? Fill out the form below, which goes directly to the following department contact. If you’d also like to receive general University information from Clemson’s admissions office, please follow the link to the right and sign up to join our mailing list. Valerie Oonk Academic Adviser 864-656-3482 vwhite@clemson.edu Department Website College Website Loading... Department Website College Website Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Line Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2015 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on Google+ Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on YouTube Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram Search Clemson University degrees Clemson Degree Programs Search Alphabetical List Schedule a Visit Campus Life Admissions Costs & Financial Aid Similar Majors To Elementary Education (B.A.) Early Childhood Education (B.A.) Special Education (B.A.)