Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Baylor Connections Menu Season 1 Season 2 Season 3 Season 4 Season 5 A weekly podcast introducing the Waco community to the people behind Baylor’s teaching, research and distinct role in higher education. Subscribe Episodes Season 5 Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 152 President Linda Livingstone December 28, 2018 / Duration - 23 mins The Baylor campus teems with opportunities to enjoy music, theatre, art, athletics and more. In this Baylor Connections, Baylor University President Linda Livingstone shares how the pursuit of “excellence in human performance through the arts and athletics,” one of the four foundational pillars of Illuminate, will impact those areas at Baylor. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 151 Sara Perry December 21, 2018 / Duration - 23 mins How appealing does it sound to work from home, or at least away from the office? Baylor Assistant Professor of Management Sara Perry has studied the role of stress, autonomy and workplace interaction in the ways individuals handle remote work. She shares her findings and gives tips for those considering remote work in this Baylor Connections. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 150 Stephen Trumble and Sascha Usenko December 14, 2018 / Duration - 23 mins Whale earwax tells a story. In 2013, Baylor Associate Professor of Biology Stephen Trumble and Associate Professor of Environmental Science Sascha Usenko developed a novel technique to study whales’ exposure to pollutants and environmental stressors through the examination of whale earwax. In a follow-up to that groundbreaking study, Trumble and Usenko have released new research uncovering whale stress response to whaling, pollutants, climate and other man-made events. They share more in Baylor Connections. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 149 Randall Bradley December 7, 2018 / Duration - 23 mins Baylor’s Center for Christian Music Studies trains students and develops professionals in all aspects of Christian music. Dr. Randall Bradley, The Ben H. Williams Professor of Music and Director of the Center for Christian Music Studies, examines Christian music from a variety of angles and shares more about the program’s tradition of excellence in classrooms and houses of worship across the nation. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 148 Heidi Hornik November 30, 2018 / Duration - 23 mins Dr. Heidi Hornik, Professor of Art History, is a nationally-recognized expert in Renaissance & Baroque painting. She discusses the intersection of art and faith on this Baylor Connections, and examines the ways art compels meaningful reflection about our neighbors, on important issues and on historical factors that continue to impact the world today. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 147 President Linda Livingstone November 23, 2018 / Duration - 23 mins Baylor’s graduate and professional programs are poised for expansion as Baylor builds on the aspirations of Illuminate, the university’s academic strategic plan. President Linda Livingstone paints a picture of the impact of those programs, both on and off campus, and how their growth will enhance Baylor’s research and influence in the years to come. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 146 Mia Moody-Ramirez November 16, 2018 / Duration - 23 mins Social media has changed the way people consume and disseminate information. In this Baylor Connections, Dr. Mia Moody-Ramirez examines modern communication, race and gender from a number of angles. Dr. Moody-Ramirez, a leading researcher and communications expert, serves as a professor and Graduate Studies Director in Baylor Journalism, Public Relations and New Media. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 145 Jeremy Vickers November 9, 2018 / Duration - 23 mins Striving to be a “solid gold neighbor,” Baylor University partners with local organizations throughout Central Texas for the betterment of the community. Jeremy Vickers, Associate Vice President for External Affairs, explains how Baylor builds meaningful community engagement in areas like education, public service, economic development and more. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 144 Dave Rosselli November 2, 2018 / Duration - 23 mins Over Homecoming weekend, Baylor announced the launch of “Give Light,” a $1.1 billion campaign for Baylor’s future. Vice President for Advancement Dave Rosselli shares how this historic campaign will help position Baylor as a preeminent Christian research university and support the aspirations of Illuminate, Baylor’s academic strategic plan. Learn more about how “Give Light” will build on Baylor’s historic strengths and fund exciting new facilities in this Baylor Connections. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 143 Deanna Toten Beard October 26, 2018 / Duration - 23 mins Illuminate, Baylor’s academic strategic plan, highlights human performance through arts and athletics as a foundational pillar. Dr. Deanna Toten Beard, department chair of Theatre Arts and professor of theatre history and dramaturgy, shares how theatre and the arts enrich the campus community, equipping both students and theatergoers to better understand the world around them. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 142 Lakia Scott October 19, 2018 / Duration - 23 mins In the Baylor School of Education, groundbreaking research and immersive experiences prepare students for the future of education. Dr. Lakia Scott, assistant professor in the Department of Curriculum and Instruction, has founded numerous programs designed to help students succeed. She shares how these experiences equip future educators to better serve their students and communities after college. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 141 President Linda Livingstone October 12, 2018 / Duration - 23 mins Transformative undergraduate education is one of the four foundational pillars of Illuminate, Baylor’s academic strategic plan. President Linda Livingstone explains how Illuminate will enhance Baylor’s strong undergraduate experience and examines a series of signature academic initiatives chosen to prepare students to address society’s most challenging problems. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 140 Andy Hogue October 5, 2018 / Duration - 23 mins The Philanthropy & Public Service Program in the Baylor Honors College trains students to solve problems and think beyond themselves by pairing academic learning with service to the community. Andy Hogue, senior lecturer in the Honors College and director of the program, shares more about this Baylor hidden gem, which has enabled students to distribute more than $500,000 to area non-profit organizations. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 139 Cori Pinkett September 28, 2018 / Duration - 23 mins Cori Pinkett, Assistant Athletic Director for Character Formation, came to Baylor in July with a distinct charge: to oversee character formation programming to Baylor’s more than 500 student-athletes. “Baylor Built,” which provides distinct character formation learning opportunities across five core competencies, represents Baylor Athletics’ roadmap to prepare champions for life. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 138 Truell Hyde September 21, 2018 / Duration - 23 mins What does it mean to oversee the research policy of a Christian research university? As Baylor’s Vice Provost for Research, Dr. Truell Hyde works with faculty across campus to encourage and support meaningful research that impacts the world around us. Hyde shares how Baylor faculty come together to advance important scholarly agendas, and explains how research benefits the Waco and Central Texas community. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 137 Nathan Shelburne September 14, 2018 / Duration - 23 mins A student’s earliest experiences with a university can positively impact the trajectory of their college career. As director of Baylor New Student Programs, Nathan Shelburne and his team provide intentional opportunities for students to connect, plug in and build friendships on campus. In this Baylor Connections, Shelburne explains how programs like Orientation, Line Camp and Welcome Week help students discover their place in the Baylor Family. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 136 President Linda Livingstone September 7, 2018 / Duration - 23 mins Baylor’s unambiguously Christian educational environment uniquely positions the University to impact the world around us. Through dynamic classroom experiences, meaningful research, service experiences and more, Baylor lights shine bright around the globe. In her monthly Baylor Connections visit, President Livingstone shares why the world needs a place like Baylor. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 135 Brad Toben August 31, 2018 / Duration - 23 mins At the beginning of each new year, Brad Toben reminds Baylor Law students that “the legal profession is a service profession.” Toben, the longtime Dean of Baylor Law School, shares the many ways law students at Baylor give of their time and talents, partner with others in the community and live out the call to serve through a variety of law clinics and outreaches. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 134 Mito Diaz-Espinoza August 24, 2018 / Duration - 23 mins More than 2400 Baylor students represent the first generation of their family to attend college. Mito Diaz-Espinoza is the Program Manager for Baylor First in Line, which serves those students through a variety of resources to assist their transition to college life. Diaz-Espinoza, himself the first member of his family to attend college, shares the struggles and joys of first-generation students and the ways they enrich the Baylor Family. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 133 Helen Harris August 17, 2018 / Duration - 23 mins Most people would prefer not to think about topics like bereavement and loss, but Dr. Helen Harris has made them her life’s work. Dr. Harris, associate professor in Baylor’s Diana R. Garland School of Social Work, is one of the nation’s leading experts in loss, grief and faith across all age groups. In this Baylor Connections, she shares insights into how we, individually and culturally, can better serve those dealing with loss. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 132 Rodney Bowden August 10, 2018 / Duration - 23 mins The demand for professionals across the health fields grows unabated. Baylor’s Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences meets those needs by training students to be excellent practitioners and leaders in fields that improve quality of life. Dr. Rodney Bowden, Dean of the Robbins College, shares why the school has become one of the fastest-growing at Baylor and how Robbins College students are prepared to serve their communities. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 131 Gary Carini August 3, 2018 / Duration - 23 mins In May, Dr. Gary Carini was charged by President Linda Livingstone with the completion and implementation of Illuminate, Baylor’s academic strategic plan. Carini, a longtime Baylor management professor who now serves as Vice Provost for Graduate Professional Education, shares how that implementation is taking place, including the ways Baylor faculty help shape the plan in this Baylor Connections. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 130 Kevin Jackson July 27, 2018 / Duration - 23 mins Creating a culture of engaged students means investing in the whole student—academically, spiritually, emotionally and more. In this episode of Baylor Connections, Baylor Vice President for Student Life Kevin Jackson explains how Baylor intentionally provides programs and resources across campus to help connect, nurture and challenge students as they make the most of their Baylor experience. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 129 Rebecca Kennedy July 20, 2018 / Duration - 23 mins What does it mean to live missionally? Rebecca Kennedy, Assistant Dean for Spiritual Life & Missions, explains how an individual’s unique calling is also a call to serve. She shares how Baylor students discover the ways they can live out Missio Dei - the “mission of God” - through Baylor Missions opportunities in this Baylor connections. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 128 Lori Spies July 13, 2018 / Duration - 23 mins Dr. Lori Spies, Assistant Professor and Missions Coordinator at Baylor’s Louise Herrington School of Nursing, was recently awarded a Fulbright Global U.S. Scholar Award to participate in global health research projects in India, Vietnam and Zambia. Through the years, she’s built and grown a missions program that has enabled Baylor Nursing students to serve around the globe. Spies shares how nursing, global health and service go hand-in-hand in this Baylor Connections. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 127 Smith Getterman July 6, 2018 / Duration - 23 mins Baylor’s commitment to sustainability goes beyond the basics—it’s about instilling in students, through initiatives and education, a sense of how being good stewards of our resources intersects with their faith. Smith Getterman, Baylor Director of Sustainability and Special Projects, explains why and how in this Baylor Connections. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 126 Rebecca Nall June 29, 2018 / Duration - 23 mins “Titanic: The Artifact,” the first blockbuster exhibition to come to Waco’s Mayborn Museum, is now on display. Rebecca Nall from the Mayborn Museum shares how the exhibit transports visitors to the ship through a variety of experiences, how the exhibit was brought to Waco and how the museum serves Central Texas in this Baylor Connections. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 125 Mack Rhoades June 22, 2018 / Duration - 23 mins “Preparing champions for life” has been Baylor Athletics’ mission statement since Mack Rhoades became Baylor’s Vice President and Director of Intercollegiate Athletics. In this Baylor Connections, Rhoades looks back at his first two years at Baylor and shares the many ways Baylor Athletics works as a department to shape champions long after their time on campus is through. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 124 Dr. Burt Burleson June 15, 2018 / Duration - 23 mins What does spiritual formation look like in a University of 16,000 students, all at different points in their faith journey? How do today’s students approach their faith? Dr. Burt Burleson, University Chaplain and Dean of Spiritual Life, answers those questions and more in this episode of Baylor Connections. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 123 Dr. Terrill Saxon June 8, 2018 / Duration - 23 mins As the Baylor School of Education approaches its centennial anniversary in 2019, it continues to build on a legacy of immersive classroom experience, dynamic research and local partnerships. Dr. Terrill Saxon, Interim Dean of the School of Education and Professor of Educational Psychology, shares insights on award-winning partnerships with Central Texas schools, initiatives that enhance opportunities for low-income students and more. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 122 Dr. Wes Null June 1, 2018 / Duration - 23 mins As Vice Provost for Undergraduate Education and Institutional Effectiveness, Dr. Wes Null is responsible for overseeing and helping shape a common vision for Baylor undergraduate education. In this episode of Baylor Connections, he explains how that vision is formed and how the University helps students succeed in Baylor’s rigorous academic environment. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 121 Jason Cook May 25, 2018 / Duration - 23 mins Baylor lights shine bright—on campus and across the country. Jason Cook, Baylor University’s vice president of Marketing and Communications, explains how Baylor’s light shines and unpacks the ways the university tells its story on this week’s Baylor Connections. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 120 Jeremy Everett May 18, 2018 / Duration - 23 mins Since its founding in 2009, the Texas Hunger Initiative at Baylor University has grown to become a national leader in the fight against food insecurity. Jeremy Everett, founder and executive director, discusses what hunger looks like in Texas communities, shares the importance of public and private partnerships to address hunger, and shares the vision of eliminating food insecurity in the state of Texas. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 119 Dr. Seung Kim May 11, 2018 / Duration - 20 mins Dr. Seung Kim, Associate Professor of Electrical & Computer Engineering at Baylor, is pursuing a device that could save lives. From his lab in the Baylor Research and Innovation Collaborative, Dr. Kim’s research is focused on building an accessible biosensor device that could detect cancer and other diseases early and affordably. He shares his perspective from the frontlines of the fight against disease in this Baylor Connections. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 118 Dr. Brian Webb May 4, 2018 / Duration - 23 mins Beyond the number, what is a university’s endowment? Dr. Brian Webb, Baylor University Vice President and Chief Investment Officer, gives a class on “Endowment 101” in this episode of Baylor Connections: how the endowment works, what the numbers mean, where the money goes, and the ways it supports Baylor’s future. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 117 President Linda Livingstone Apr. 27, 2018 / Duration - 23 mins How does Baylor nurture a caring community, both on and off campus? In this episode of Baylor Connections, President Linda A. Livingstone discusses the ways in which spiritual formation and campus resources work in tandem to help students serve as lights to their fellow students, the Waco community, and beyond. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 116 Dr. John White Apr. 20, 2018 / Duration - 23 mins Sports have been compared to a secular national religion. At Baylor, the Sports Chaplaincy and Ministry programs trains leaders at the intersection of faith and sports on and off the field. Dr. John White, Associate Professor of Practical Theology and Director of the Sports Chaplaincy and Ministry program in the George W. Truett Theological Seminary, discusses how faith impacts the ways we play, coach and interact with athletics on stages both large and small. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 115 Dr. Jim Ellor Apr. 13, 2018 / Duration - 23 mins Dr. Jim Ellor is a professor in the Diana R. Garland School of Social Work, gerontologist and bi-vocational minister. In this episode of Baylor Connections, he shares expertise and insights on working and living with older adults, mental health, the spirituality of aging and more. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 114 Dr. Jim Marsh Apr. 6, 2018 / Duration - 23 mins The Baylor University Counseling Center provides a comprehensive array of services for the wellbeing of Baylor students. Dr. Jim Marsh, Executive Director for Counseling Services at Baylor, discusses national trends in collegiate mental health and shares how the Counseling Center has grown to meet the needs of students. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 113 Dr. Diane Loeb Mar. 30, 2018 / Duration - 23 mins The Baylor Speech, Language and Hearing Clinic provides services that extend far beyond the Baylor campus. In this episode of Baylor Connections, Dr. Diane Loeb, Professor and Endowed Chair of Baylor’s Department of Communication Sciences and Disorders (CSD), explains how Baylor CSD clinics are a place where miracles happen daily. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 112 Marcus Sedberry Mar. 23, 2018 / Duration - 23 mins Preparing “champions for life” means providing guidance and support to student athletes far beyond their field of competition. Marcus Sedberry, Baylor Senior Associate Athletic Director for Student-Athlete Success, discusses the ways Baylor assists student athletes in academics, spiritual life, service, health and more. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 111 President Linda Livingstone Mar. 16, 2018 / Duration - 23 mins “Illuminate,” Baylor’s Academic Strategic Plan, will provide a roadmap for Baylor to serve as a light to the world through increased research capacity and impact. What role does Baylor’s faith foundation play in such a plan? In this episode of Baylor Connections, President Linda Livingstone explains what it means to be a true Christian research university, and how the search for God’s truth drives both faculty and students. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 110 Dr. Jeffrey Hamilton Mar. 9, 2018 / Duration - 23 mins Dr. Jeffrey Hamilton, Vice Provost for Global Engagement at Baylor, oversees the University's international education initiatives. On Baylor Connections, he discusses "Global Baylor: Addressing Challenges to Human Flourishing." "Global Baylor" is a new quality enhancement plan that will advance internationalization across campus and enhance student experiences through a diverse and comprehensive array of connective opportunities. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 109 Dr. Terry Maness Mar. 2, 2018 / Duration - 23 mins Dr. Terry Maness is the longtime Dean of Baylor University’s Hankamer School of Business. Dean Maness discusses the impact of the Paul L. Foster Campus for Business and Innovation, the importance of partnerships with top executives around the world and trends in business education. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 108 Laura Hernandez Feb. 23, 2018 / Duration - 23 mins Laura Hernandez, professor in the Baylor Law School, is the co-founder of the Baylor Law Immigration Clinic and a leading expert in the experiences of new immigrants to the United States. In this episode, she talks about serving immigrants in Central Texas, and the broader impact of the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) requests. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 107 Dr. Gary Mortenson Feb. 16, 2018 / Duration - 23 mins Dr. Gary Mortenson, Dean of the Baylor University School of Music, explains how the School of Music’s reach extends beyond the concert hall or practice room. In this episode of Baylor Connections, he discusses how Baylor Music enriches the community, the ways Baylor Music students use their calling as a means to serve others and how music serves as a universal language. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 106 President Linda Livingstone Feb. 9, 2018 / Duration - 23 mins Baylor’s aspiration to become a Tier 1 Research institution is reflected in the outstanding research conducted by longtime faculty members and students whose work addresses society’s most important problems. In this episode of Baylor Connections, President Linda Livingstone explains what it means to become a Tier 1 Research university, and discusses the distinct role Baylor’s Christian identity plays in conducting meaningful research. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 105 Dr. Michael McLendon Feb. 2, 2018 / Duration - 23 mins Dr. Michael McLendon, Baylor University’s Interim Provost, works with President Livingstone to provide oversight and strategic direction for the university’s academic enterprise. In this episode of Baylor Connections, he discusses Baylor’s vision in preparing the university’s first academic strategic plan—a roadmap to becoming a top research institution while strengthening Baylor’s commitment to outstanding teaching and student formation. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 104 Lilly Ettinger Jan. 26, 2018 / Duration - 23 mins Lilly Ettinger is the senior coordinator for recovery services at Baylor University. In that role, she provides assistance, support and community to students battling addiction at Baylor University’s Beauchamp Addiction Recovery Center. In this episode of Baylor Connections, she shares how Baylor serves students battling addiction as they work to achieve their academic and personal goals. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 103 Dr. Byron Johnson Jan. 19, 2018 / Duration - 23 mins Dr. Byron Johnson, Distinguished Professor of Social Sciences and Founding Director of the Institute for the Studies of Religion, is one of the country’s leading researchers on the role of religion in public life. In this episode of Baylor Connections, he shows the impact of communities and people of faith on societal issues such as homelessness, crime and incarceration, and shares why the scientific study of religion is so meaningful. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 102 Kevin Pinney Jan. 12, 2018 / Duration - 23 mins Dr. Kevin Pinney, Baylor University professor of chemistry and biochemistry in the College of Arts and Sciences and member of the Institute of Biomedical Studies, is on the front lines of the fight against cancer. In this episode of Baylor Connections, Dr. Pinney describes how he and his Baylor colleagues bring their own unique skills and research interests to work in concert to fight disease. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 101 President Linda Livingstone Jan. 5, 2018 / Duration - 23 mins Baylor University President Dr. Linda Livingstone shares insights from her first seven months on the job and provides an outline for Baylor’s strategic vision moving forward in academics, research, leadership and more. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 253 Meredith David December 27, 2019 / Duration - 23 mins With 2020 approaching, many people will incorporate diet or other areas of self-improvement into a list of resolutions for the new year. In this Baylor Connections, Dr. Meredith David, assistant professor of marketing, delves into her research into phone snubbing and relationships, successful diets and more. David, a nationally-recognized leader in consumer behavior and well-being, offers evidence-based insights and practical tips for phone usage and relationships, dieting strategies and more. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 252 Holly Burchett December 20, 2019 / Duration - 23 mins What does it mean to be a Solid Gold Neighbor in the community? Holly Burchett, Baylor Director of Community Relations, explains on this Baylor Connections. Burchett shares about partnerships between Baylor and local businesses, non-profits, educational institutions, health organizations, boards and more throughout the Waco area to connect university and community and address meaningful issues. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 251 Bryan Shaw and Greg Hamerly December 11, 2019 / Duration - 23 mins When Bryan Shaw’s son, Noah, was diagnosed with pediatric eye cancer at four months old, it sparked in Shaw a mission to help other families avoid the challenges his faced. On this Baylor Connections, Dr. Bryan Shaw, associate professor of chemistry, and Dr. Greg Hamerly, associate professor of computer science, share the moving story behind the White Eye Detector app, an effective screening tool that analyzes photos in the phone to more quickly catch pediatric eye disease. Retinoblastoma claimed Noah’s eye, but today he is a healthy 11-year old who knows his experiences are helping others. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 250 Caleb Martin December 6, 2019 / Duration - 23 mins What role does chemistry play in consumer electronics? Dr. Caleb Martin, associate professor of chemistry at Baylor, conducts nationally-recognized research in the process of boron compound synthesis, which has the potential to improve a number of everyday electronic products using LED lights. In this Baylor Connections, he shares how that process works, the impact of a National Science Foundation CAREER grant, and the ways Baylor’s research focus will impact the University’s ability to address important challenges. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 249 Matthew Fendt November 29, 2019 / Duration - 23 mins What is the role of gaming in higher education? Matthew Fendt, Baylor lecturer of computer science, is an expert on artificial intelligence, the gaming industry, and the role of gaming and interactive digital environments in education. In addition to teaching classes like Baylor’s gaming capstone, in which students create their own video games, Fendt has partnered with professors across campus to create tools for data collection. He recently partnered with Baylor Public Health and the Family Health Center in Waco to create a decision support tool for primary-care physicians. He shares how these various threads tie together in this Baylor Connections. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 248 Jon Eckert November 22, 2019 / Duration - 23 mins Jon Eckert joined the Baylor faculty in 2019 as the Lynda and Robert Copple Endowed Chair in Christian School Leadership. In this Baylor Connections, he examines the ways Baylor can help Christians in education, both in faith-based and non-faith-based school contexts. A longtime teacher and professor who served in the U.S. Department of Education during the Bush and Obama administrations, Eckert shares foundational values in education and casts a vision for future growth in the Center for Christians in Education. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 247 Kevin Chambliss November 15, 2019 / Duration - 23 mins Kevin Chambliss examines Baylor’s research growth and future aspirations in this Baylor Connections. Dr. Chambliss, a longtime professor and researcher in Chemistry and Biochemistry, was named as Baylor’s Vice Provost for Research earlier this year. In this role, he works with faculty across the university in identifying funding sources, building partnerships and more. Additionally, his office will oversee a new area of research growth through the formation of a postdoc hiring program, which he explains on the program. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 246 Julie Hoggarth November 8, 2019 / Duration - 23 mins Julie Hoggarth, archaeologist and assistant professor of anthropology at Baylor, received national attention for the discovery of an ancient vase containing stories of war and conflict among the ancient Maya. While leading a dig in Belize, Hoggarth and her team found the Komkom vase, dated A.D. 812, which featured one of the largest hieroglyphic texts ever uncovered in the Central America lowlands. In this Baylor Connections, she explains how the vase helps shape our understanding of Maya societal breakdown and digs into the stories and meaning behind the text. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 245 Annette von Jouanne November 1, 2019 / Duration - 23 mins Annette von Jouanne, professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering at Baylor, is a national leader in energy systems and renewable energy. In this Baylor Connection, Dr. von Jouanne examines renewable energy in various forms, particularly as it relates to transportation. Dr. von Jouanne worked on the first hybrid sport utility vehicle and partners with the U.S. Navy on electric ship development, and shares her insight on the present and future of electric vehicles. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 244 Provost Nancy Brickhouse October 25, 2019 / Duration - 23 mins As Provost, Dr. Nancy Brickhouse serves as Baylor’s chief academic officer, overseeing 12 colleges and schools, libraries, the University’s research enterprise and more. In this Baylor Connections, Dr. Brickhouse shares about the University’s increased focus on research. Brickhouse, a Baylor alum, examines the ways research enhances the educational experience and advances the Baylor mission, lists priorities in reaching those goals and talks about her return to her alma mater after over three decades in higher ed leadership. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 243 Peter James October 18, 2019 / Duration - 23 mins An enormous mass buried beneath the Moon’s largest crater was discovered by a research team led by Dr. Peter James, assistant professor of planetary physics and founder of the Planetary Research Group at Baylor. The mass, five times larger than Hawaii’s largest island, could be the result of an asteroid that formed the Moon’s South Pole-Aitken Basin. In this Baylor Connections, James shares the process of discovering the mass, analyzes its implications and shares broader views of space research. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 242 President Linda Livingstone October 11, 2019 / Duration - 23 mins Baylor’s 2019-20 Conversation Series will focus on civil discourse, with a variety of speakers and roundtables available to students, faculty and the community to consider this important topic. In this Baylor Connections, Baylor University President Dr. Linda A. Livingstone reflects on the university as a marketplace of ideas, ways to help students grow in the ability to respectfully engage others even in disagreement, and the need for civil discourse more broadly. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 241 Cole Matson October 4, 2019 / Duration - 23 mins Dr. Cole Matson serves as an associate professor of environmental science at Baylor. An environmental toxicologist specializing in the genetic effects of contaminants on wildlife, Dr. Matson’s research was recently featured in the prestigious journal, Science. The study examined a breed of fish, the Gulf killifish, which has rapidly adapted to and survived in the heavily polluted waters of the Houston Ship Channel. Matson identified hybridization with the Atlantic killifish as having provided the necessary genetic tools for survival in this polluted environment, and he explains how and what that potentially means for other species on this Baylor Connections. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 240 Lori Baker September 27, 2019 / Duration - 23 mins Along the U.S.-Mexico border, Lori Baker engages in challenging and important work to repatriate families with lost loved ones. Dr. Baker, professor of anthropology and vice provost for faculty development and diversity at Baylor, founded Reuniting Families in 2003 to assist government agencies with the recovery, identification and repatriation of deceased migrants. Families throughout Latin America have found a friend in Baker and her team, who bring caring and dignity to the lost, and show love to the families faced with unimaginable choices. In this Baylor Connections, she shares the heart behind that work and the examines conditions that shape the border today. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 239 David Jack September 20, 2019 / Duration - 23 mins In David Jack’s line of work, there’s zero room for error. The fruit of his expertise can often be found in airplanes and automobiles. Jack, an associate professor of mechanical engineering, is a national leader in the research and development of composite materials. His goal is to create products that are more lightweight, durable, and most importantly, are safer. In this Baylor Connections, Dr. Jack unpacks the field of materials science, a vital and growing realm that is one of the five signature initiatives in Illuminate, and shares how it positions the University for even greater breakthroughs. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 238 Mark Childers September 18, 2019 / Duration - 23 mins Mark Childers came to Baylor in 2014 after 18 years in the United States Secret Service. In his role as Associate Vice President for Public Safety and Security, he oversees the Baylor Department of Public Safety, comprised of four divisions including the Baylor Police Department. In this Baylor Connections, he examines steps to keep the Baylor community safe and shares more about “Sic ‘em for Safety” month events in September. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 237 Sara Dolan September 13, 2019 / Duration - 23 mins As one of just 30 American Psychological Association “Citizen Psychologists” in the nation, Sara Dolan has a demonstrated commitment to research that benefits the community. Since coming to Baylor in 2007, Dr. Dolan, an associate professor of psychology and neuroscience, has blended high-level research with service to others. After the West, Texas fertilizer plant explosion in 2013, she provided pro bono crisis intervention to emergency workers and community residents. More recently, she received a $3 million grant to facilitate evidence-based assessments for practitioners working with childhood victims of abuse and trauma. In this Baylor Connections, Dolan shares experiences working with first responders, soldiers and citizens, and examines themes of community, scholarship and resilience. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 236 Dwayne Simmons September 6, 2019 / Duration - 23 mins Hearing, the brain and aging: Dwayne Simmons, The Cornelia Marschall Smith Endowed Professor and Chair in Baylor University’s Department of Biology, has dedicated his internationally-recognized research to studying how sensory cells and neurons in the brain respond to aging. These sensory cells and neurons are connected by wiring that degenerates over time, a common disconnect revealed in many senior adults as hearing loss. On a broader level, he’s pursuing breakthroughs in the auditory system that could impact areas far beyond hearing. Dr. Simmons came to Baylor three years ago from UCLA and has invested time and energy to invigorate research throughout the biology program. In this Baylor Connections, he shares why he came to Baylor and the motivation to uncover discoveries that heal. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 235 President Linda Livingstone August 30, 2019 / Duration - 23 mins It’s the start of a new school year, and Baylor University President Linda Livingstone looks ahead to 2019-20 on this Baylor Connections. President Livingstone shares on topics like university priorities, Baylor’s R1/Tier 1 aspirations, the incoming freshman class, a new athletic season and more. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 234 Mayor Kyle Deaver August 23, 2019 / Duration - 23 mins Earlier this spring, the City of Waco was honored with one of Baylor University’s most distinguished awards, the Founders Medal. Waco Mayor Kyle Deaver, a Baylor Business and Baylor Law graduate, accepted the award, which highlighted the partnership between city and university for the betterment of the community. In this Baylor Connections, Mayor Deaver examines numerous ways the City of Waco and Baylor University work together, looks ahead to future growth for the city and shares more about his family’s Baylor experience. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 233 Jason Cook and Jovan Overshown August 16, 2019 / Duration - 23 mins Last spring, Baylor unveiled “United,” a new visual identity featuring an updated interlocking BU and uniforms, a new logo and more. Shortly thereafter, the university adopted the interlocking BU across all colleges, schools and divisions to bring everyone together under “One Brand. One Baylor.” Learn more about the new look and how these changes enhance the Baylor brand in this Baylor Connections with Jason Cook, Baylor University’s Vice President of Marketing and Communications and Chief Marketing Officer, and Jovan Overshown, Senior Associate Athletics Director for External Affairs. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 232 Jeff Brown August 9, 2019 / Duration - 23 mins As Baylor’s Director of Social Media Communications, Jeff Brown oversees one of the nation’s most engaged university social media communities, through platforms like Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, the BaylorProud blog and more. In this Baylor Connections, he examines how to strategically navigate the ever-changing social media landscape, shares how Baylor University utilizes social media to communicate with the Baylor Family and provides tips for social media practitioners in other areas. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 231 Sarah Schnitker August 2, 2019 / Duration - 23 mins Sarah Schnitker, associate professor of psychology and neuroscience, joined the Baylor faculty last year, compelled by the Illuminate vision of a preeminent Christian research university. Earlier this year, she was awarded a $2.6 million grant from the John Templeton Foundation to galvanize widespread development of virtue interventions for adolescents. In this Baylor Connections, she shares what that looks like and examines how individuals can better develop virtues like patience in their own lives. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 230 Monique Ingalls July 26, 2019 / Duration - 23 mins Many churches and services are, in part, identified and defined by the style of music they play. Dr. Monique Ingalls, ethnomusicologist and Assistant Professor of Music at Baylor University, is a worship music expert and the author of the book “Singing the Congregation: How Contemporary Worship Music Forms Evangelical Community.” In this Baylor Connections, she shares how musical styles, technology and parishioners’ expectations shape the communities in which they worship. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 229 Kenneth Hafertepe July 19, 2019 / Duration - 23 mins Kenneth Hafertepe takes listeners on a tour of Waco’s historic homes and architecture in this Baylor Connections. Dr. Hafertepe, department chair and professor in Baylor’s Department of Museum Studies, is the author of the recently-released book, “Historic Homes of Waco, Texas.” On the program, he paints a picture of the community through the eyes of a material culture and decorative arts expert and explains how the buildings people inhabit tell a story of the city’s history. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 228 Tyrha Lindsey-Warren July 12, 2019 / Duration - 23 mins Storytelling, from the movies people watch to the ads they consume, can have a powerful impact. Dr. Tyrha Lindsey-Warren, Clinical Assistant Professor of Marketing, shares insights gleaned from her time in entertainment and education about empowered storytelling, consumer behavior and the significance of word of mouth on the decisions people make in this Baylor Connections. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 227 Chris Hansen July 5, 2019 / Duration - 23 mins Movie studios often save films with broad appeal for summer release. What makes a great summer movie? Chris Hansen, filmmaker and chair of Baylor Film & Digital Media, breaks down summer movies and names a few of his favorites on this Baylor Connections, in addition to sharing personal insights on filmmaking and working with Baylor students on his seven feature films. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 226 David Smith June 28, 2019 / Duration - 23 mins Dr. David Smith—historian, author and Senior Lecturer of History at Baylor—invites listeners to consider the meaning of Independence Day and the cost of freedom through the lens of one of the most pivotal days in world history. D-Day took place just over 75 years ago and, in this Baylor Connections, Smith paints a picture of the heroism shown that day, and examines how we can honor the sacrifice of those who serve. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 225 Jane Damron June 21, 2019 / Duration - 23 mins Jane Damron, Senior Lecturer in Baylor University’s Department of Communication, is the recipient of the 2019 Collins Outstanding Professor Award. In this Baylor Connections, she shares what it means to practice intentional communication—in relationships with others, in the classroom, on social media and more. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 224 Tamar Carter and Jason Pitts June 14, 2019 / Duration - 23 mins Dr. Tamar Carter and Dr. Jason Pitts are Baylor biologists with unique insights into mosquitoes. In this Baylor Connections, they share information about these ubiquitous and unwelcome guests, both close to home and abroad. Learn tips to diminish the impact of mosquitoes on summer plans and discover how, more broadly, mosquito research can help stop the spread of disease in impoverished communities around the world. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 223 Nancy Brickhouse June 7, 2019 / Duration - 23 mins On May 1, 2019, Baylor University welcomed Dr. Nancy Brickhouse back to campus as Provost. On this Baylor Connections, Dr. Brickhouse recalls how her days as a Baylor chemistry major shaped her view of a life’s calling, shares how past experiences as a professor and leader prepared her, and explains why the vision of a Tier One Christian Research University brought her back to Texas. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 222 Horace Maxile May 31, 2019 / Duration - 23 mins Dr. Horace Maxile, Associate Professor of Music Theory in the Baylor School of Music, is a leading expert on the contributions of African-American composers in classical and concert music. In this Baylor Connections, he shares how his work fills a void in scholarly attention focused on African-American composers and offers seminal pieces for listeners to discover. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 221 Carlos Colon May 24, 2019 / Duration - 23 mins As a child growing up in El Salvador, Carlos Colon saw war firsthand before his family left their home country and eventually settled in the United States. Today, Colon composes music and serves as Assistant Director of Worship and Chapel in Baylor Spiritual Life. In this Baylor Connections, Colon shares how his experiences as a refugee inform his music and his calling. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 220 President Linda Livingstone May 17, 2019 / Duration - 23 mins Baylor University recently celebrated the announcement of a historic $100-million gift—the largest current gift ever received by the University. In this Baylor Connections, President Linda Livingstone shares the excitement of this transformative moment, answers questions about its impact and explains how the gift will support the aspirations of Illuminate and Give Light in two major areas—endowed faculty positions and a new Baylor Basketball Pavilion. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 219 Kevin Dougherty May 10, 2019 / Duration - 23 mins Dr. Kevin Dougherty’s religion research has shaped national understanding on topics like religious affiliation, diversity, church attendance, social life and more. In this Baylor Connections, Dr. Dougherty, Associate Professor of Sociology at Baylor, examines the rise of multiracial churches and dives deep into the trends, highlights and meaning behind the numbers of diversity in congregational life. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 218 Lenore Wright May 3, 2019 / Duration - 23 mins Baylor’s Academy of Teaching and Learning supports Baylor faculty through a variety of programs designed to provide development, resources and enrichment. Dr. Lenore Wright, Director of the Academy of Teaching and Learning and Associate Professor of Interdisciplinary Studies, shares how the academy supports professors and the students they teach in this Baylor Connections. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 217 Joel Allison April 26, 2019 / Duration - 23 mins Joel Allison, Chair of the Baylor Board of Regents, shares insights from a meaningful two-year period in the life of the University. In this Baylor Connections, he explains Board of Regent reforms, examines steps taken to serve the Baylor Family and enhance the Baylor Mission, and reflects on two years of leadership with President Linda Livingstone. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 216 Robbie Barber April 19, 2019 / Duration - 23 mins Robbie Barber, Associate Professor of Art in Sculpture and 3D Design, is a professional sculptor with a portfolio of work displayed across the country. In this Baylor Connections, Barber shares the themes that motivate his work, examines the craft of sculpting and previews an upcoming sculpture that will be displayed at the entrance to Waco’s Cameron Park Zoo. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 215 Michael Scullin and Elise King April 12, 2019 / Duration - 23 mins How does sleep impact creativity? Two Baylor professors sought to answer that question in interdisciplinary studies which provide insight into the role of sleep, sleep consistency and more on attention, creativity and academic performance. Dr. Michael Scullin, Assistant Professor of Psychology and Neuroscience and Director of the Sleep Neuroscience and Cognition Laboratory, and Elise King, Assistant Professor of Interior Design in Family and Consumer Sciences, share more in this Baylor Connections. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 214 Steven Fernandez April 5, 2019 / Duration - 23 mins A group of Baylor students has proudly earned the distinction this school year of becoming the University’s inaugural class of McNair Scholars. The McNair Scholars Program provides opportunities for underrepresented and first-generation college students at more than 150 schools nationally. Steven Fernandez, Program Director, shares how McNair Scholars are prepared for graduate school, enjoy purposeful faculty mentorship and participate in research in this Baylor Connections. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 213 Jason Whitt March 29, 2019 / Duration - 23 mins Dr. Jason Whitt is an ordained minister whose calling has led him to the intersection of faith and learning. As a Senior Lecturer in the Honors Program, Dr. Whitt teaches aspiring medical practitioners in Baylor’s one-of-a-kind Medical Humanities program. In January, Whitt and his family accepted the role of Faculty-in-Residence in Alexander and Memorial Halls as well. He shares more about what it means to teach and live among Baylor students in this Baylor Connections. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 212 Martha Lou Scott March 22, 2019 / Duration - 23 mins Dr. Martha Lou Scott joined the Baylor University staff five months before her graduation in 1971. Now Baylor’s Associate Vice President for Student Life, Dr. Scott has impacted generations of students over 48 years of service. In this Baylor Connections, she shares the joys and responsibilities of serving the students she’s cared for, counseled, disciplined, mentored and inspired. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 211 Chloe Honum March 15, 2019 / Duration - 23 mins Dr. Chloe Honum, a Baylor English professor and poet, was recently awarded the Grimshaw Sargeson Fellowship—New Zealand’s most prestigious writing fellowship. In this Baylor Connections, she shares her love of poetry, teaching and the craft of writing before closing with a reading of an original poem. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 210 John Wilson March 8, 2019 / Duration - 23 mins Baylor University Libraries are more than just repositories for books--they’re centers for the creation of learning. John Wilson serves as University Libraries Interim Dean. In this Baylor Connections, he shares how University Libraries are growing to support the research aspirations of Illuminate, and takes us deep inside Baylor’s beautiful library facilities and fascinating collections. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 209 Dominque Hill March 1, 2019 / Duration - 23 mins Baylor’s intramural program is the envy of institutions across the nation, with more than 5300 students participating. In this Baylor Connections, Dominque Hill, Assistant Director for Intramural Sports, shares how the Baylor mission influences the intramural experience, the impact of character and leadership and how participation leads to deeper student engagement. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 208 Hannah Causey February 22, 2019 / Duration - 23 mins As Student Body President, Hannah Causey works with Baylor students and leadership during a time of exciting opportunities in the life of the University. In this Baylor Connections, she discusses that role and shares the importance of maintaining Baylor's distinct, unambiguously Christian role in higher education. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 207 Felecia Mulkey February 15, 2019 / Duration - 23 mins Few coaches have impacted their sport as deeply as Felecia Mulkey. Beyond playing a key role in the creation of Acrobatics & Tumbling, Mulkey has won eight straight national titles, including four consecutive championships since coming to Baylor. In addition to coaching Baylor’s Acrobatics & Tumbling team, Mulkey serves as Baylor Athletics’ Senior Woman Administrator. She discusses what it means to prepare champions for life through those roles in this Baylor Connections. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 206 Lee Nordt February 8, 2019 / Duration - 23 mins As Dean of Baylor’s College of Arts & Sciences, Dr. Lee Nordt leads a diverse academic division housing 25 departments and seven academic centers ranging from science, the humanities, fine arts and more. In this Baylor Connections, he shares how Illuminate, Baylor’s academic strategic plan, will enhance Baylor’s academic influence and engage every department on campus. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 205 Michael Parrish February 1, 2019 / Duration - 23 mins On December 7, 1941, at Pearl Harbor, the brave actions of Waco native and Navy messman Doris Miller made him a United States hero and left a lasting impact on the civil rights movement. In this Baylor Connections, Dr. T. Michael Parrish, the Linden G. Bowers Professor of American History and author of “Doris Miller, Pearl Harbor and the Birth of the Civil Rights Movement” shares how Miller’s heroism remains felt to this day. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 204 Kenny Boyd January 25, 2019 / Duration - 23 mins From physical performance to mental health, Baylor Athletics provides resources to support student-athletes on and off the field. As Baylor’s Senior Associate Athletic Director for Student-Athlete Health and Wellness, Kenny Boyd oversees areas of athletics performance, applied performance, athletic medicine, physical therapy, sports nutrition and mental health. He shares how these units holistically serve student-athletes in this Baylor Connections. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 203 Jason Cook January 18, 2019 / Duration - 23 mins Baylor’s unique role as a leading Christian research university attracts students from across the country. In a field with so many choices, how does the University reach potential students and advance the Baylor brand? Baylor University Vice President for Marketing & Communications and Chief Marketing Officer Jason Cook shares in this Baylor Connections. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 202 President Linda Livingstone January 11, 2019 / Duration - 23 mins Colleges don’t maintain an unambiguously Christian educational environment by accident. Baylor University President Linda Livingstone shares the ways Baylor nurtures that mission through purposeful programs, classes and practices, both historic and present-day, in this Baylor Connections. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 201 Wes Null January 4, 2019 / Duration - 23 mins Baylor’s accreditation was officially reaffirmed last month by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools Commission on Colleges (SACSCOC) for the next decade. What factors into a successful accreditation effort, and what does it mean for the university? Dr. Wes Null, Vice Provost for Undergraduate Education and Institutional Effectiveness, explains on this Baylor Connections. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 351 Perry Glanzer December 18, 2020 / Duration - 23 mins What does it mean to help students discover meaning and build a moral foundation during their time in college? In this Baylor Connections, Perry Glanzer, professor of educational foundations in the Baylor School of Education, shares insights from research into religion and higher education and examines the role of a Christian university both now and in the future. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 350 William Bellinger December 11, 2020 / Duration - 23 mins The season of Advent provides a time to think, reflect and prepare our hearts for Christmas. In this Baylor Connections, William Bellinger, the W. Marshall and Lulie Craig Chairholder in Bible and Professor of Hebrew/Old Testament, shares thoughts on maintaining a faithful hope amidst the trials of the year. An expert on the Psalms and worship texts of the Old Testament, he examines stories of hope and the bonds of community that resonate today. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 349 President Linda A. Livingstone, Ph.D. December 4, 2020 / Duration - 26 mins As the year draws to a close, President Livingstone reflects on the factors that led to a successful in-person semester. In this Baylor Connections, she shares takeaways from the fall, looks ahead to the Spring Semester, and examines new programs like the Hord Scholarship Challenge and Trailblazer Scholars Program, which will open the Baylor experience to greater numbers of future students. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 348 Michael Muehlenbein November 27, 2020 / Duration - 32 mins From working on COVID-19 task forces with Baylor University and McLennan County, to partnering with Waco’s Family Health Center to survey the spread of the virus, Michael Muehlenbein’s work has provided insights into the local behavior of a global pandemic. In this Baylor Connections, Muehlenbein, chair and professor of anthropology at Baylor, analyzes ways we can better understand and slow the spread of COVID-19 and shares why safety measures remain vital heading into the winter. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 347 Robin Wallace November 20, 2020 / Duration - 23 mins Few Beethoven scholars have as meaningful a connection to the impact of deafness on the composer’s works as Robin Wallace, Baylor professor of musicology. Wallace’s late wife, Barbara, suffered from profound hearing loss, providing insights into the impact of the disability both relationally and creatively. This year marks the 250th anniversary of Beethoven’s birth, and on this Baylor Connections, Wallace celebrates his legacy by examining the ways Beethoven, as well as Barbara, found wholeness and expression amidst deep physical challenges. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 346 Leigh Greathouse November 13, 2020 / Duration - 23 mins As a 24-year old, Leigh Greathouse developed a rare form of cancer, an experience that would shape her path into the study of diet and disease. Dr. Greathouse, assistant professor in human sciences & design at Baylor, is a leading researcher into the relationship between diet, the microbiome, disease and health. On this Baylor Connections, she shares her personal story, breaks down key research projects in her field and provides a framework for listeners to think about the relationship between diet and health in their own life. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 345 Sutton Houser November 6, 2020 / Duration - 23 mins There’s a lot on the plate of a Baylor University Student Body President, particularly in 2020. On this Baylor Connections, meet this year’s president, Sutton Houser. He shares details about the duties and responsibilities of student body presidents, what it means to be a voice for students, and takes listeners inside his work with Baylor leadership, local churches, campus initiatives and more. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 344 David Corey October 30, 2020 / Duration - 28 mins How can we model charitable discourse that bridges political, ideological and theological divides? Dr. David Corey serves as director of the Baylor in Washington program and professor of political science in Baylor’s Honors Program. In this Baylor Connections, he analyzes our political climate and tone, examines how Christians can forge a different path in the midst of the current tenor, and shares how the Baylor in Washington program builds leaders as it promotes opportunities for students to work in the nation’s capital. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 343 President Linda A. Livingstone, Ph.D. October 23, 2020 / Duration - 28 mins With the Fall Semester heading into its home stretch, Baylor University President Linda A. Livingstone, Ph.D., analyzes a variety of topics on this Baylor Connections. From COVID-19 safety measures, to Baylor’s growth in the U.S. News & World Report rankings, to encouraging participation and civility during this election season, President Livingstone shares thoughts on a busy season for the Baylor Family. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 342 Kenny Befus October 16, 2020 / Duration - 23 mins What can volcanoes, gemstones and minerals reveal about the geological forces that physically shape our world? Dr. Kenny Befus, assistant professor of geosciences, is a volcanologist who studies clues found in magma flows, gemstones and more that shed light on past and future events. In this Baylor Connections, he shares how these forces interplay, and unpacks an award-winning research project aimed at advancing the study of imperfections in gemstones to uncover geological data. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 341 Kelly Ylitalo October 9, 2020 / Duration - 23 mins Kelly Ylitalo combines high-level, data-driven research with practical community partnerships that address upstream health issues. Dr. Ylitalo, assistant professor of epidemiology in Baylor’s Department of Public Health, focuses her research on physical functioning, obesity and the impact of healthy behaviors on aging trajectories. In this Baylor Connections, she takes listeners inside her partnerships with Waco’s Family Health Center and World Hunger Relief to study the effectiveness of innovative health approaches. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 340 Shanna Hagan-Burke October 2, 2020 / Duration - 23 mins Get to know Dr. Shanna Hagan-Burke, the new Dean of Baylor’s School of Education. She came to Baylor this summer after serving at Texas A&M University, the University of Oregon and University of Georgia, and taught children with behavioral challenges for many years prior in her native Florida. In this Baylor Connections, Dr. Hagan-Burke tells about a unique parental introduction to Baylor that helped draw her to the University, shares experiences that shape her approach to higher education leadership, examines the School of Education’s contributions to Tier 1 research and more. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 339 Frank Newport and Byron Johnson September 25, 2020 / Duration - 27 mins In over three decades at the Gallup organization, Frank Newport has spent his career studying objective data about American attitudes on religion, politics, social issues and more. Newport, a Baylor graduate, is co-host of the podcast Objective Religion, launched earlier this year by Baylor’s Institute for the Studies of Religion. In this Baylor Connections, Newport, senior scientist at Gallup after a long tenure as editor-in-chief, and Byron Johnson, Distinguished Professor of Social Sciences and Baylor ISR founding director, discuss religion’s impact on America today and analyze topics at the intersection of faith and data-driven social science. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 338 Mark Rountree September 18, 2020 / Duration - 29 mins As Chair of the Board of Regents, Mark Rountree works closely with President Livingstone and Baylor leadership. This year, he assumed the role of Chair as the University navigated a global pandemic and addressed important social issues. In this Baylor Connections, Rountree examines leadership amidst rapidly-changing conditions, sharing how the university worked towards an in-person semester and pursues racial healing and justice as an expression of Christian faith. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 337 Provost Nancy Brickhouse September 11, 2020 / Duration - 23 mins For Baylor faculty members, the monumental efforts to deliver interactive, engaging classes amidst the COVID-19 public health crisis necessitate learning new technologies and methods of class content delivery. In this Baylor Connections, Dr. Nancy Brickhouse, Baylor University Provost, breaks down resources to enhance class instruction both virtually and in-person and shares how the University is continuing to advance meaningful research goals to address critical challenges. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 336 Gary Carini September 4, 2020 / Duration - 23 mins Terms like face-to-face, virtual learning and hybrid classes have rapidly become commonplace throughout higher education. Baylor has invested time and resources to equip professors to engage students at the highest levels in both traditional and non-traditional classrooms. In this Baylor Connections, Dr. Gary Carini, vice provost for institutional research and professional education and professor of entrepreneurship and corporate innovation, shares how Baylor is proactively supporting professors in this environment and casts a vision for Baylor as a recognized leader in these new models. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 335 Michelle Cohenour August 28, 2020 / Duration - 23 mins Student Success Initiatives at Baylor University walks alongside students to help them successfully navigate the incumbent challenges of the collegiate journey. In this Baylor Connections, Michelle Cohenour, Student Success Initiatives director, shares how SSI helps students from a variety of backgrounds be their best self, in and out of class, so they can find holistic success and make the most of their time at Baylor. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 334 President Linda A. Livingstone, Ph.D. August 21, 2020 / Duration - 26 mins Months of preparations for an in-person fall semester have led to the arrival of Baylor students on campus for the start of classes Monday, August 24. In this Baylor Connections, President Linda Livingstone goes deep inside the process of welcoming students back to campus safely, preparing meaningful modes of class instruction both virtually and in-person, readying Baylor’s physical spaces for students and more. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 333 Kirk Wakefield August 14, 2020 / Duration - 26 mins The world of sports has been squarely in the news in recent weeks, as teams, leagues and players grapple with the implications of the COVID-19 public health crisis. Dr. Kirk Wakefield, the Edwin W. Streetman Professor of Retail Marketing and executive director of Sports Strategy & Sales in Baylor’s Hankamer School of Business is a nationally-recognized researcher and sports business expert. In this Baylor Connections, he analyzes how teams at both the professional and collegiate levels navigate change, engage fans and work to make the best of uncertain times. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 332 Gail Offringa August 7, 2020 / Duration - 25 mins Every parent wants to support their student through the unique joys and challenges of the college years. As Baylor University’s director of parent engagement, Gail Offringa and her team serve parents as they become a part of the Baylor Family and help them navigate questions that arise. In this Baylor Connections, she shares tips for parents to best support their students and anticipate adjustments throughout the college journey, and addresses common questions heading into the new school year. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 331 Dorina and Marius Mitrea July 31, 2020 / Duration - 29 mins Thirty years ago, Dorina and Marius Mitrea left everything behind in Romania to come to the United States and pursue a career in higher education. In this Baylor Connections, Dr. Dorina Mitrea, Chair and Professor of Mathematics, and Dr. Marius Mitrea, Professor of Mathematics, share their story of life and work together, the drive to teach, research and impact students, and the factors that brought them to Baylor after more than two decades at Missouri. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 330 Dakota Farquhar-Caddell and Bailey Havis July 24, 2020 / Duration - 28 mins No one knows Joy and Lady, Baylor’s beloved black bears, better than their caretakers. Dakota Farquhar-Caddell, associate director of Student Activities and the Robert Reid Director of the Baylor Chamber of Commerce, oversees the Baylor Bear program and Bailey Havis, a rising senior student, is one of two lead caretakers for the bears. In this Baylor Connections, they help us get to know Joy and Lady better—their favorite foods, personalities, what it takes to care for them, Lady’s recovery from a health scare and more. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 329 Holly Oxhandler July 17, 2020 / Duration - 25 mins The uncertainty surrounding the COVID-19 public health crisis has placed added focus on mental health. Dr. Holly Oxhandler, Associate Dean for Research and Faculty Development and Assistant Professor in Baylor’s Diana R. Garland School of Social Work, is a recognized expert on the intersection of faith and mental health. In this Baylor Connections, she shares how individuals can prioritize their own mental wellbeing through both immediate and long-term practices, and discusses the role of an individual’s faith in their mental health. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 328 Carlos Cardoza-Orlandi July 10, 2020 / Duration - 25 mins What happens when Christianity enters a new market? Throughout history, Christians have shared the gospel around the world, and the way people receive that message is inevitably informed by their own customs and culture. In this Baylor Connections, Dr. Carlos Cardoza-Orlandi, the Frederick E. Roach Professor of World Christianity in Baylor’s Department of Religion, examines interpretations of the Christian movement and shares trends that shape the transmission of the faith across the globe Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 327 Brad Livingstone July 3, 2020 / Duration - 23 mins Get to know Baylor University’s First Gentleman. Brad Livingstone is an educator, basketball player, World War II expert, and Baylor’s inaugural “First Gent.” As a high school history teacher, Livingstone has brought hundreds of veterans into his classroom to share their stories with students, and the impact of those moments have become a hallmark of his classes. In this Baylor Connections, he shares how those experiences have been so meaningful, reminisces about meeting President Linda A. Livingstone, Ph.D., in college, and offers insights into his role as First Gent. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 326 Ashley Otto June 26, 2020 / Duration - 23 mins Like many people, Dr. Ashley Otto doesn’t enjoy making decisions; however, she’s become an expert on the topic. Dr. Otto, Assistant Professor of Marketing in Baylor’s Hankamer School of Business, focuses her highly-regarded research on how people make decisions. In this Baylor Connections, she defines terms like “decision-averse” and “decision sidestepping” and explains how such individuals strategically approach the choices they face at home, work and more. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 325 John Morris June 19, 2020 / Duration - 28 mins John Morris capped off his 25th season as “The Voice of the Bears” with a meaningful honor, being selected as the 2019 Texas Co-Sportscaster of the Year. In this Baylor Connections, he reflects on great Baylor moments and working with longtime Baylor announcer Frank Fallon, shares how he prepares for games and spent a spring without sports, and talks about the meaning of the Sportscaster of the Year honor. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 324 Patricia Shih June 12, 2020 / Duration - 23 mins Patricia Shih is an internationally-renowned violinist who has performed as a recitalist and soloist with top global musicians in some of the world’s most prestigious venues. Last year, she joined the Baylor faculty as Associate Professor of Violin in the Baylor University School of Music, and still maintains an active performing schedule. In this Baylor Connections, she shares her appreciation for her instrument, love of music, and why she felt the call to teach. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 323 Peter Hotez June 5, 2020 / Duration - 27 mins Vaccine development and public health approaches to contagious diseases have captured public attention in recent months. Dr. Peter Hotez is an international leader in tropical medicine and vaccine development. He serves as the Dean of the National School of Tropical Medicine at Baylor College of Medicine in Houston, Co-Director of Texas Children’s Hospital Center for Vaccine Development and University Professor of Biology at Baylor University, and leads a unique partnership with Baylor to provide a summer tropical medicine institute experience for Baylor undergraduate students. In this Baylor Connections, Dr. Lee Nordt, Dean of the College of Arts & Sciences at Baylor, engages Dr. Hotez on a variety of subjects such as COVID-19, vaccines, undergraduate research and more. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 322 Ramon Lavado May 29, 2020 / Duration - 23 mins Chemical compounds found in many household products can be major contributors to obesity and other lipid diseases, a Baylor study has found. In this Baylor Connections, Dr. Ramon Lavado, Assistant Professor of Environmental Science, shares important information from his research. Learn more about where such compounds are found, the impact of early exposure to those chemicals, and the ways the study expands our understanding of weight gain and disease. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 321 Matt Burchett May 22, 2020 / Duration - 23 mins How do you help students maintain social connections and meaningful traditions amidst a time of social distancing? In this Baylor Connections, Dr. Matt Burchett, Director of Student Activities, shares ways Baylor helped students stay connected to campus during the semester and honored the Class of 2020 during a different kind of Senior Week. Learn more about what Burchett and student life professionals have learned about interpersonal connections, the power of social media and other online tools, and ways these unplanned adjustments can shape future interactions. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 320 Daniel Romo May 15, 2020 / Duration - 23 mins Dr. Daniel Romo, The Schotts Professor of Chemistry at Baylor, describes his lab’s role as “construction engineering at the molecular level,” spurring potential drug leads for cancer, neurodegenerative diseases like Alzheimer’s, and more. In this Baylor Connections, Dr. Romo shares how he and his lab students go about that process through the synthesis of natural compounds, the innovation of new synthesis strategies and more. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 319 President Linda A. Livingstone, Ph.D. May 8, 2020 / Duration - 30 mins As a semester like no other draws to a close, President Linda A. Livingstone, Ph.D., shares insights into Baylor University’s response to COVID-19 and leadership during a crisis on this Baylor Connections. From ensuring that student support services remained readily available to planning for potential challenges to higher education institutions everyone, she shares how Baylor adjusted and communicated those changes. Looking ahead, she highlights new programs and talks about Baylor’s plans for a phased re-opening of campus for the fall. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 318 Pedro Reyes May 1, 2020 / Duration - 23 mins COVID-19 has forced the global supply chain into the spotlight as consumers seek products that have been, at times, difficult to find. What factors impact the supply chain, and how do industries respond? In this Baylor Connections, Dr. Pedro Reyes, Associate Professor of Operations and Supply Chain Management in Baylor University’s Hankamer School of Business and longtime operations leader, shares lessons in “Supply Chain 101.” He details how disruptions lead to a domino effect and analyzes how supply chain professionals can process current challenges to ensure more products on the shelves when consumers need them. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 317 Mona Choucair and Anne Jeffrey April 24, 2020 / Duration - 23 mins On this Baylor Connections, Baylor faculty share lessons in building community and engaging with students remotely during COVID-19. Dr. Mona Choucair, Senior Lecturer of English and Faculty-in-Residence at South Russell Hall, has spoken to many students after the suspension of in-person classes, and talks about maintaining community ties and being there for them amidst uncertainty. Dr. Anne Jeffrey, Assistant Professor of Philosophy, pivoted her Bioethics class to focus on real-world ethical questions related to resource allocation and more during the pandemic. She shares how students can engage with classmates and topics from separate locations. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 316 Kevin Jackson April 17, 2020 / Duration - 26 mins While the Baylor campus is sparsely populated during the COVID-19 public health crisis, the University continues to provide services and resources to address students’ educational, spiritual and emotional needs. In this Baylor Connections, Dr. Kevin Jackson, Vice President for Student Life, shares how the University quickly ramped up a number of key programs when it became apparent that instruction would be moving online. Learn more about Bear Care, where Baylor faculty coach and support students amidst today’s myriad changes, telecounseling, Spiritual Life programming, and adjustments to longstanding Spring campus traditions like Diadeloso and Steppin’ Out. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 315 Todd Still April 10, 2020 / Duration - 26 mins How does the Church celebrate Easter amidst a worldwide pandemic? In this Good Friday edition of Baylor Connections, Dr. Todd Still, The Charles J. and Eleanor McLerran DeLancey Dean and The William M. Hinson Professor of Christian Scriptures in Baylor University’s George W. Truett Theological Seminary, examines what it means to be the Church when we’re physically separated, recounts how the Church has grown during past times of plague and crisis and shares how the current moment compels us to find hope more deeply in Christ’s sacrifice and resurrection. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 314 Cheryl Gochis April 3, 2020 / Duration - 23 mins For each of the last nine years, Baylor has been recognized as a “Great College to Work For” by the Chronicle of Higher Education. In this Baylor Connections, Cheryl Gochis, vice president of human resources and chief human resources officer at Baylor, shares reasons why. From the university culture to benefits and more, Gochis examines ways that Baylor supports faculty and staff year-round, and specifically talks about the University’s response to help employees transition to remote work during the COVID-19 public health crisis. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 313 Jeremy Everett March 27, 2020 / Duration - 23 mins The Baylor University Collaborative on Hunger and Poverty recently announced a partnership to provide nearly one million nutritious meals weekly across the U.S. through a private/public partnership to ensure more children are fed when school is not in session. The COVID-19 public health crisis has forced the closure of schools across the country, and the United States Department of Agriculture has called on Baylor to help meet the escalating need. In this Baylor Connections, Jeremy Everett, founder and executive director of the Collaborative, shares how they have responded to COVID-19, ramping up long-standing efforts to end hunger across the state of Texas and around the nation. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 312 Sara Perry March 20, 2020 / Duration - 23 mins The response to the COVID-19 public health emergency means that many across the U.S. will be working from home in the weeks ahead to promote social distancing and slow the spread of the virus. Dr. Sara Perry, associate professor of management in Baylor’s Hankamer School of Business, is a leading expert and researcher on remote work. In this Baylor Connections, she shares how individuals and families can approach working from home from a variety of angles—a work-from-home checklist, parenting considerations for children home from school, physical workspace, routines, connectedness with coworkers and more. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 311 Juan Carlos Esparza Ochoa March 13, 2020 / Duration - 23 mins Dr. Juan Carlos Esparza Ochoa is a leading expert on religion across Latin America and the Global South. He joined the Baylor faculty at the start of the 2019-20 season after managing the Pew Research Center’s religious demography projects. In this Baylor Connections, he paints a picture of the impact of religion on Latin American life and culture and shares his Baylor journey. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 310 Amanda Hering March 6, 2020 / Duration - 23 mins Dr. Amanda Hering applies her statistical expertise to a “once in a generation effort” to improve water treatment in the U.S. Hering, associate professor of statistical science, is an internationally-recognized leader in data sciences and their intersection with the environment. In this Baylor Connections, she shares about how data can help us utilize new paradigms of water treatment and delivery and examines the need for students trained in the data sciences in the years ahead. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 309 Linda Olafsen February 28, 2020 / Duration - 23 mins Dr. Linda Olafsen, associate professor of electrical and computer engineering, researches semiconductors for a variety of applications from her lab in the Baylor Research and Innovation Collaborative. In this Baylor Connections, she shares how her research advances the search for lasers and other products that are more safe, useful and efficient, and talks about the impact of Baylor’s Tier 1 research vision in the School of Engineering and Computer Science. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 308 Alan Schultz February 21, 2020 / Duration - 23 mins Alan Schultz’s research takes him deep into the Amazon rainforests of Bolivia, where he studies the Tsimane’, an indigenous people group who have lived a pre-industrial forager-farmer lifestyle for generations. In this Baylor Connections, Schultz, an assistant professor of anthropology, examines the forces of change on the Tsimane’. As the outside world encroaches on their traditional lifestyle, he shares the impact on community, health, families and more. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 307 Robert Darden February 14, 2020 / Duration - 23 mins Baylor University’s Black Gospel Music Restoration Project houses more than 14,000 digital copies of classic black gospel music songs and albums, preserving them for future generations. In this Baylor Connections, Robert Darden, Professor of Journalism, Public Relations and New Media and founder of the Project, shares how black gospel music tells the story of the African-American experience through the generations and examines its underappreciated role in the Civil Rights movement. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 306 President Linda Livingstone, Ph.D. and Jason Cook February 7, 2020 / Duration - 23 mins Baylor University recently partnered with Texas Business Journals for a survey highlighting the insights of Texas business leaders into the state’s economy and attitudes towards industry-university research partnerships. In this Baylor Connections, President Linda A. Livingstone, Ph.D., and Jason Cook, Vice President for Marketing and Communications and Chief Marketing officer, analyze the results and share how Baylor’s research focus drives innovation, uncovers solutions and prepares leaders for the future workforce. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 305 Stephen Reid January 31, 2020 / Duration - 23 mins Biblical scholar Stephen Reid’s research is an example of the ways modern technology can give voice to individuals who might otherwise go unheard. Dr. Reid, Professor of Christian Scriptures in Baylor’s George W. Truett Theological Seminary, recently utilized text mining to learn how African-Americans in the 1700s and 1800s interpreted the book of Deuteronomy. Inside University Libraries, Baylor Digital Scholarship offers powerful technologies to enhance research in the digital humanities. Learn more about how Reid’s experience accelerated his research and provided deep insight into the ways African-Americans shared the Bible on the path to emancipation. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 304 Annie Ginty January 24, 2020 / Duration - 23 mins Stress, and its impact on health, is the broad focus of Annie Ginty’s work. Dr. Ginty, assistant professor of psychology and neuroscience at Baylor, is an Association for Psychological Science Rising Star whose research bridges understanding of the ways the mind and body react to stress. In this Baylor Connections, Ginty defines stress, shares tips for recognizing the body’s response to stress and offers practical approaches to managing the unique stressors that listeners face. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 303 Eva Doyle January 17, 2020 / Duration - 23 mins Baylor’s Department of Public Health seeks solutions to global health issues related to disease, lifestyle, community factors and more. In this Baylor Connections, Dr. Eva Doyle, Department Chair of Public Health and Professor of Community Health, discusses the ways Baylor Public Health professionals conduct meaningful research, enrich students through studies around the globe, and partner with other disciplines to solve critical health challenges. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 302 Bryan Brooks January 10, 2020 / Duration - 23 mins An internationally-recognized leader in water quality, the environment and health, Bryan Brooks has galvanized stakeholders from around the world to partner, identify and address the planet’s most significant environmental challenges. In this Baylor Connections, Brooks, the distinguished professor of environmental science and biomedical studies and director of Baylor’s environmental health science program, examines meaningful environmental issues and shares how partnerships with the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and the National Environmental Health Association have launched initiatives designed to spark meaningful change. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 301 President Linda A. Livingstone January 3, 2020 / Duration - 23 mins 2019 was an exciting year at Baylor University, providing many successes on which to build in the new year. In this Baylor Connections, President Linda A. Livingstone looks back at successes in areas like athletics, fundraising, hiring and more, and examines how Baylor is poised to build on those superlatives in 2020 as the University celebrates its 175th birthday. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 452 President Linda A. Livingstone, Ph.D. December 31, 2021 / Duration - 23 mins Baylor University is now an R1 research institution. The end of 2021 brought this exciting news, as this long-pursued goal became a reality. Additionally, the University celebrates the announcement of an agreement with the City of Waco to locate Baylor’s new basketball facility along the Brazos River near downtown Waco. In this Baylor Connections, President Linda A. Livingstone, Ph.D., discusses these major benchmarks and their impact going forward. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 451 Jameson Graber December 17, 2021 / Duration - 23 mins What is game theory and how can it shape our understanding of economics, business, politics and more? Baylor’s expert in game theory, Jameson Graber, recently earned a prestigious CAREER Award from the National Science Foundation to conduct interdisciplinary research that seeks answers to important societal questions. In this Baylor Connections, Graber, an assistant professor of math, gives listeners a lesson in “Game Theory 101” and shares more about his research. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 450 Brian Raines December 10, 2021 / Duration - 23 mins Brian Raines wears numerous hats at Baylor as he teaches students, serves his fellow faculty and sits on the Board of Regents. On this Baylor Connections, Dr. Raines, professor of mathematics, associate dean for research and strategic planning in Baylor’s College of Arts & Sciences and faculty regent, talks about those roles and the threads that tie them together in service to students and the Baylor mission. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 449 Angela Gorrell December 3, 2021 / Duration - 23 mins Amidst the joy of the holiday season, many dealing with loss or trauma in their own life feel grief. Angela Gorrell, assistant professor of practical theology, has experienced that type of dichotomy. While studying joy at the Yale Center for Faith and Culture, her family suffered a string of tragedies that led to her to question what it means to find joy in the midst of suffering. Her book, The Gravity of Joy: A Story of Being Lost and Found, walks readers through those struggles and what she learned in the process. She takes listeners inside that journey and offers insights on joy in this Baylor Connections. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 448 Sarah Kienle November 26, 2021 / Duration - 23 mins Sarah Kienle is the world’s top expert on the craniofacial anatomy of pinnipeds. In this Baylor Connections, Dr. Kienle, assistant professor of biology, explains what that means and provides a broader understanding of this little-studied area. Pinnipeds are a group of animals that includes seals, sea lions and walruses. They feed underwater, and Dr. Kienle’s foundational study of their facial muscles in Journal of Anatomy deepens understanding of the role those muscles play in feeding and more. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 447 Danielle Parrish November 19, 2021 / Duration - 23 mins As a young social worker in the 1990s, Danielle Parrish noticed significant gaps in the support provided to young women in the juvenile justice system. She’s since dedicated her career to changing that. Dr. Parrish today serves as a professor at the Houston campus of Baylor’s Diana R. Garland School of Social Work. Last summer, she received a $3.1 million research grant to test comprehensive risk reduction strategies for women in juvenile justice. In this Baylor Connections, she shares the needs faced by this at-risk population and how advancing beyond siloed care can lead to better outcomes for their future. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 446 Dave Rosselli November 12, 2021 / Duration - 23 mins The Baylor Family’s generosity has spurred exciting growth throughout the University. From new faculty chairs and student scholarships to major capital projects like a welcome center, basketball pavilion and football operations center, it’s an exciting season in the life of the University. In this Baylor Connections, Dave Rosselli, Vice President for Advancement, takes listeners inside these projects and shares how Baylor alumni and friends across the nation are driving a dynamic vision to become reality. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 445 Byron Johnson November 5, 2021 / Duration - 27 mins The Global Flourishing Study represents the largest initiative of its kind to investigate the determinants of human flourishing. In this week’s Baylor Connections, Dr. Byron Johnson, Distinguished Professor of the Social Sciences and Director of the Institute for Studies of Religion at Baylor, takes listeners inside the massive project that will survey over 240,000 individuals in 22 countries over five years. With $43 million in funding, it’s also the largest funded research project in Baylor history, with a scope that will impact numerous disciplines through scientific, longitudinal data on a variety of factors that influence human thriving. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 444 Jonathan Tran October 29, 2021 / Duration - 27 mins As the son of refugees, Jonathan Tran says the refugee experience is formative to each aspect of a person’s life. Tran serves as associate professor of philosophical theology and is the George W. Baines Chair of Religion at Baylor. In this Baylor Connections, he shares his family’s story, unpacks scholarship in ethics, religion, language and more and examines lessons from his new book Asian Americans and the Spirit of Racial Capitalism. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 443 Kevin Chambliss October 22, 2021 / Duration - 26 mins Baylor has celebrated substantial growth in research marked by quality, visibility and impact since the 2018 launch of Illuminate. This summer, the University shared metrics that position Baylor to reach R1 benchmarks ahead of schedule—as early as 2024. In this Baylor Connections, Vice Provost for Research Kevin Chambliss unpacks those numbers and shares how the research they represent addresses significant challenges, benefits Baylor students and advances Baylor’s Christian mission. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 442 Dawn Rogers October 15, 2021 / Duration - 26 mins Few people have led a city’s Final Four efforts and served in leadership for a program that played in a Final Four, but Dawn Rogers has done both. In this Baylor Connections, Rogers shares more about her role as Baylor’s deputy athletics director and as a sport administrator for multiple sports, including the reigning national champion men’s basketball team. As she provides leadership to Baylor’s sport administrators, she takes listeners inside their importance in the success of across all 19 Baylor sports teams, and shares insights from leading Phoenix’s Final Four Local Organizing Committee prior to coming to Baylor. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 441 Zhenrong Zhang October 8, 2021 / Duration - 26 mins A nanometer measures just 1/100,000 the width of a human hair, but the chemical reactions that take place at that level bear significant implications for scientists, engineers, medical practitioners and more. Dr. Zhenrong Zhang, associate professor of physics, is illuminating the nanoscale through the development of a powerful nanoscale microscope. In this Baylor Connections, she shares how the invention can lead to more accurate medical diagnoses, cleaner sources of energy and more. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 440 Sandeep Mazumder October 1, 2021 / Duration - 23 mins Dr. Sandeep Mazumder was named last spring as The William E. Crenshaw Endowed Dean of Baylor’s Hankamer School of Business after an extensive national search. Meet Dr. Mazumder in this Baylor Connections as he shares his journey from London to Waco, which included stops at some of the world’s most prestigious institutions. He further examines his philosophy on faith and scholarship and highlights the experiences that guided him into a new season of leadership at Baylor. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 439 Whitney Jones September 24, 2021 / Duration - 24 mins Baylor’s Center for Academic Success and Engagement (CASE) is a newly formed center bridging a variety of resources to help students thrive. In this Baylor Connections, Whitney Jones, senior director of CASE, shares the center’s approach and the resources available for academics and engagement, and examines how these services fill needed gaps and help students find a sense of belonging and purpose. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 438 Linda Plank September 17, 2021 / Duration - 24 mins COVID-19 has further highlighted need for nurses who fill a critical care role in a public health crisis. Dr. Linda Plank is a 30-year nursing veteran and longtime educator who was named Dean of Baylor’s Louise Herrington School of Nursing (LHSON) this spring. In this Baylor Connections, Dr. Plank discusses the impact of the pandemic on nursing and nursing education, examines the growth of Baylor nursing and shares what makes LHSON distinct in higher education. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 437 Douglas Henry September 10, 2021 / Duration - 26 mins On the 700th anniversary of his death, Dante still resonates, providing timeless insight into the challenges people face and a guide to navigate those trials. In this Baylor Connections, Douglas Henry, Dean of the Honors College, shares why the Honors College is leading the world’s largest Dante reading group, called “100 Days of Dante,” and takes listeners inside the Honors College’s approach to transformative education. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 436 President Linda A. Livingstone, Ph.D. September 3, 2021 / Duration - 26 mins The start of a new semester heralds much to celebrate. In this Baylor Connections, President Linda A. Livingstone Ph.D., shares the excitement of a new year, and discusses a variety of important topics with the Baylor Family, including the University’s record incoming class, R1 research momentum and ongoing conference realignment developments. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 435 Sinda Vanderpool August 27, 2021 / Duration - 28 mins A lot goes into promoting student success. At Baylor, a coordinated campus effort provides resources and relationships to serve students and enhance their college experience. Sinda Vanderpool serves associate vice provost for academic enrollment management—Baylor’s chief student success officer. In this Baylor Connections, she shares practical and philosophical insights and examines programs that build engagement, resilience and retention. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 434 Jason Cook August 20, 2021 / Duration - 24 mins A new semester is here at Baylor University and with it comes opportunities to connect students to Baylor’s caring community, share in longstanding traditions together and tell the Baylor story. In this Baylor Connections, Jason Cook, vice president for marketing and communications and chief marketing officer, shares how the University communicates with Baylor Family members and friends both on and off campus and highlights the strength of the Baylor brand. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 433 JaeHwan Kwon August 13, 2021 / Duration - 23 mins If you’ve ever enjoyed a message or advertisement, but were unable to fully express exactly why it was appealing, then you can see the value of JaeHwan Kwon’s research. Kwon, associate professor of marketing in Baylor’s Hankamer School of Business, utilizes eye-tracking technology to determine attention and physiological responses to messages. In this Baylor Connections, he examines the role of psychology and physiology in uncovering clues to what draws and keeps our attention. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 432 Sparky Matthews August 6, 2021 / Duration - 30 mins Few professors have a resume quite like that of Dr. Sparky Matthews, clinical professor in Baylor’s Honors Program. Dr. Matthews is a retired Air Force flight surgeon who served as the first surgeon general of the United States Space Force. In this Baylor Connections, he shares how a Baylor mentor shaped his career journey and how returning to teach at his alma mater represents a personal mission. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 431 Alex Yokochi July 30, 2021 / Duration - 23 mins Olympic competition is rarified air reached by few athletes in the world—among them, a Baylor professor. In this Baylor Connections, meet Alex Yokochi, professor of mechanical engineering and a swimmer for his native Portugal in the 1984, 1988 and 1992 games. Yokochi shares his Olympic journey, training regimen and memories, and examines similarities between high-level athletic competition and academics. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 430 Rebecca Sheesley and Sascha Usenko July 23, 2021 / Duration - 23 mins How does urban pollution impact thunderstorm activity? It’s a question of interest to the Department of Energy, which turned to two Baylor professors to investigate. In this Baylor Connections, Rebecca Sheesley and Sascha Usenko, professors of environmental science at Baylor, discuss research that can uncover clues about thunderstorms in urban areas and lead to improvements in public health in Texas and beyond. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 429 Mack Rhoades July 16, 2021 / Duration - 23 mins A banner year for Baylor Athletics included the University’s first men’s basketball national championship, record highs in student-athlete graduation and GPA, new coaching hires and more. That success drew national attention, with Mack Rhoades, Vice President and Director of Intercollegiate Athletics, earning Sports Business Journal’s 2021 Athletics Director of the Year honors. In this Baylor Connections, Rhoades reflects on the impact of the past year, looks ahead to normal operations in the 2021-22 sports season and extolls an Athletics staff that thrived amidst COVID-19’s challenges. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 428 Gary Sheppard July 9, 2021 / Duration - 23 mins Dr. Gary Sheppard is Baylor’s 2021 Alumnus of the Year. An internal medicine physician in private practice in Houston, he provides professional leadership in a number of roles, including as president of the Harris County Medical Society. In this Baylor Connections, Dr. Sheppard shares insights on the practice of medicine and service and examines philosophies and values that carried him and his patients through the challenges of COVID-19. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 427 Sharra Hynes July 2, 2021 / Duration - 23 mins Baylor is thrilled to welcome incoming students and families back to campus this summer for events like Orientation and Line Camp. In this Baylor Connections, Sharra Hynes, vice president and dean of students in Baylor’s Division of Student Life, talks about the impact of student experiences on campus long before classes begin, and shares what makes these events so special for attendees. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 426 Jessica Cope June 25, 2021 / Duration - 23 mins Jessica Cope co-founded The Hopeful Theatre Project in Dallas/Fort Worth, a nonprofit theatre group that donates 100 percent of ticket proceeds to charity. A 2015 Baylor graduate, Cope was named the University’s 2021 Young Alumna of the Year. In this Baylor Connections, Cope shares the story behind The Hopeful Theatre Project and the calling to use her passion for the stage to support other organizations that make the community and world a better place. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 425 Corey Carbonara and Michael Korpi June 18, 2021 / Duration - 29 mins Corey Carbonara and Michael Korpi are developing a system that could revolutionize color display on high-definition screens. 6P has drawn the attention of NASA, the Society of Motion Picture and Television Engineers and a variety of media organizations. In this Baylor Connections, Dr. Carbonara and Dr. Korpi, professors of film & digital media at Baylor, share the story behind a system designed to display a greater range of colors that God created the human eye to see. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 424 Jeremy Vickers June 11, 2021 / Duration - 29 mins It’s a “summer of hope” in Waco, with events returning and businesses moving towards more traditional experiences. What can residents and visitors anticipate this summer? Jeremy Vickers, associate vice president for external affairs, explains on this Baylor Connections. From major summer events to new business and dining opportunities, discover ways to make the most of Summer 2021 in Waco. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 423 Dave Rosselli June 4, 2021 / Duration - 25 mins The Baylor Family’s generosity is astounding. Last month, the University’s Give Light philanthropic campaign crossed the $1 billion mark, providing transformational funding across the University—from academics to athletics, student life to global engagement. In this Baylor Connections, Dave Rosselli, vice president for advancement, provides an update on the campaign and how tangible outcomes will soon be visible across campus. He further delves into each campaign priority and how each will benefit through Give Light’s comprehensive approach. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 422 Kevin Davis and Brittany Rothrock May 28, 2021 / Duration - 27 mins Baylor is regularly mentioned among the top 50 “Best Colleges for Veterans” by U.S. News & World Report, and the VETS Program is a big part of the reason for that ranking. Veteran Education and Transition Services (VETS) is a Baylor program that promotes the academic success of veterans at Baylor, providing a variety of resources to help them successfully transition to college life. In this Baylor Connections, Kevin Davis, VETS Program Manager and a Marine Corps veteran, and Brittany Rothrock, a rising senior engineering major and Navy veteran, take listeners inside the veteran experience at Baylor, sharing both the challenges and the meaningful ways veterans contribute to the Baylor student body. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 421 President Linda A. Livingstone, Ph.D. May 21, 2021 / Duration - 27 mins A school year like no other has drawn to a conclusion at Baylor and, even amidst the challenges presented by COVID-19, it was a time with much to celebrate. In this Baylor Connections, President Linda A. Livingstone, Ph.D., shares a top 10 list—the top 10 moments of the 2020-21 year (plus a few bonus points) highlighting the Baylor Family’s accomplishments in academics, research, athletics, health, giving and more. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 420 Cheolho Sim May 14, 2021 / Duration - 23 mins Mosquitoes are massive global agents of the spread of diseases like malaria and the West Nile virus. Cheolho Sim, associate professor of biology, has dedicated his research towards suppressing mosquito populations and slowing the spread of disease, recently earning a grant from the National Science Foundation to advance those efforts. In this Baylor Connections, Sim shares how genomic research into a mosquito’s circadian rhythm could be key to slowing the spread of disease, and examines how his lab lives out its motto, “driven by science, guided by compassion.” Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 419 Drew Pittman May 7, 2021 / Duration - 28 mins What goes into coordinating events like football games, commencement ceremonies, basketball games and more at venues like McLane Stadium and the Ferrell Center? As Associate Athletic Director for Event Management and Facilities, Drew Pittman works to coordinate a variety of people and resources into a concerted effort that ensures a safe and fun experience for student athletes and fans. In this Baylor Connections, Pittman examines how he and his team navigated the challenges of COVID-19, and shares a personal story of adoption, as he and his wife, Alyssa, opened their homes and hearts in a unique and meaningful way. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 418 Ken Buckley April 30, 2021 / Duration - 23 mins Baylor University’s Career Center helps students navigate each step of the career journey. Amidst the challenges of COVID-19, Baylor’s placement rate grew in the last year, reflecting the hard work of students and staff in the face of job market headwinds. In this Baylor Connections, Ken Buckley, assistant vice provost in the Baylor University Career Center, analyzes that growth and shares how the Career Center provides tailored support for the individual student. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 417 Nancy Brickhouse April 23, 2021 / Duration - 23 mins As the Spring Semester winds down, Baylor University Provost Dr. Nancy Brickhouse reflects on how the Baylor Family came together to reach this point. In this Baylor Connections, Dr. Brickhouse shares how faculty, staff and students served during February’s snow and ice storm, examines how the University is building research infrastructure as it pursues the goals of Illuminate, and shares the excitement of the hiring of two new Baylor University deans. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 416 Brad Toben and Gerald Powell April 16, 2021 / Duration - 29 mins It’s been called “the Marine Corps Boot Camp of lawyering” and ranked by Princeton Review as “arguably the best training ground in the nation for practical lawyering.” Baylor Law’s legendary Practice Court celebrated its 100th anniversary last year, and in this Baylor Connections, two Baylor Law faculty and graduates examine what make it so special. Brad Toben, Dean and M.C. & Mattie Caston Chair of Law and Gerald Powell, Abner V. McCall Professor of Evidence and a longtime director of the Practice Court, reflect on its impact and share stories to take listeners inside the experience. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 415 Jessica King Gereghty April 9, 2021 / Duration - 26 mins Amidst the unprecedented challenges of COVID-19, Baylor welcomed a record incoming class last fall. Baylor University Admissions navigated those challenges to connect students to Baylor and welcome them into the family. In this Baylor Connections, Jessica King Gereghty, assistant vice president of enrollment management, examines how it all came together, and shares how new programs like Summer of Discovery and Accelerate help students connect with Baylor before setting foot on campus. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 414 Terry Maness April 2, 2021 / Duration - 29 mins After 24 years of leading Baylor’s Hankamer School of Business through incredible growth, Terry Maness is retiring this summer as dean of the business school. On this Baylor Connections, Dr. Maness discusses why the timing was right for a new season of life, shares key moments in his career as dean, and reflects on a period of distinction for the school Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 413 President Linda A. Livingstone, Ph.D. March 26, 2021 / Duration - 27 mins This week, Baylor released the independent report of the University’s Commission on Historic Campus Representations. On this Baylor Connections, President Linda A. Livingstone, Ph.D., examines the purpose and impact of their work for the University and shares how an excavation of the past can help Baylor more fully live out its mission today. On the sports stage, President Livingstone delves into the success of Baylor’s two Sweet 16-bound basketball teams and the cultures they have built. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 412 Pablo Rivas March 19, 2021 / Duration - 23 mins Technologies like artificial intelligence, deep learning and machine impact our lives in countless ways, but how much do you know them? On this Baylor Connections, Pablo Rivas, assistant professor of computer science at Baylor, gives listeners a class on “Deep Learning 101.” The author of the book "Deep Learning for Beginners" Rivas shares how it shapes services used by consumers, and analyzes ethical issues to be considered in that growth. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 411 Kathryn Freeman and Elijah Tanner March 12, 2021 / Duration - 30 mins Baylor resident chaplains live in residence halls on campus, providing pastoral care, guidance and community to the students they serve. In this Baylor Connections, two resident chaplains–Kathryn Freeman and Elijah Tanner—unpack the joys and challenges of ministering to students through the normal ups and downs of college, circumstances like COVID-19, and more. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 410 Lyn Prater March 5, 2021 / Duration - 23 mins Baylor nursing students are serving on the front lines of COVID-19 vaccination efforts throughout Waco and Dallas/Fort Worth. In this Baylor Connections, Dr. Lyn Prater, clinical professor at Baylor’s Louise Herrington School of Nursing, takes listeners inside the school’s participation in vaccine distribution locations, with students administering the vaccine to thousands of their Texas neighbors. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 409 Lorin Matthews February 27, 2021 / Duration - 23 mins What do dust bunnies and plasmas have to do with outer space? Dr. Lorin Matthews explains on this Baylor Connections. Matthews, professor of physics and associate director of Baylor’s Center for Astrophysics, Space Physics and Engineering Research (CASPER), is a leading researcher into processes that form planets and continue to shape our galaxy, and she explains the impact of these events while taking listeners inside Baylor space research. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 408 Ronald Angelo Johnson February 19, 2021 / Duration - 30 mins Black History Month provides a meaningful time to study and consider the history and contributions of African Americans. In this Baylor Connections, Dr. Ronald Angelo Johnson, the Ralph and Bessie Mae Lynn Chair of History at Baylor, examines ways we can intentionally expand our study of, and appreciation for, the impact and history of African Americans, further enriching our understanding of what it means to be an American. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 407 Rizalia Klausmeyer February 12, 2021 / Duration - 23 mins Research and teaching are not separate functions of the Baylor experience, but rather inform one another and enhance engaged learning for students. In this Baylor Connections, Dr. Rizalia Klausmeyer, director of the Office of Undergraduate Research in Baylor’s Office of Engaged Learning, describes the impact of research experiences for students and shares ways they can get involved in research across a variety of disciplines. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 406 Peter Klein February 5, 2021 / Duration - 23 mins Baylor’s Entrepreneurship and Corporate Innovation department is one of the nation’s elite—ranked in the top 10 by U.S. News & World Report, The Princeton Review, and Entrepreneurship magazine for more than a decade. Peter Klein is the W. W. Caruth Chair and Professor of Entrepreneurship at Baylor. In this Baylor Connections, he examines the entrepreneurial mindset in a variety of settings, considers the impact of COVID-19 on business leaders, and shares how Baylor Entrepreneurship and Corporate Innovation has established itself as a top national program. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 405 Lauren Barron January 29, 2021 / Duration - 23 mins Baylor’s pioneering Medical Humanities program shapes medical practitioners who treat patients as a whole person as they care for them. Last fall, the DeBakey Medical Foundation made a significant investment in Baylor Medical Humanities that will grow the department and formed a chair position. In this Baylor Connections, Dr. Lauren Barren, the inaugural DeBakey Chair of Medical Humanities, shares how the program partners the humanities with science education to holistically prepare those going into the medical field Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 404 Stacie Petter January 22, 2021 / Duration - 23 mins January is National Slavery and Human Trafficking Prevention month, highlighting a complex problem that challenges communities close to home and around the world. Stacie Petter, the Ben H. Williams Professor of Information Systems and Business Analytics, uniquely applies her discipline to combat trafficking and slavery. In this Baylor Connections, Petter shares information systems’ role in that fight and explains how a grant from the National Science Foundation will help equip law enforcement with resources to identify and prosecute trafficking in their area. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 403 Joaquin Lugo January 15, 2021 / Duration - 23 mins The CDC estimates that 1 in 54 U.S. children meets criteria for Autism Spectrum Disorder, a figure which brings into clear focus the importance of autism research. Joaquin Lugo, associate professor of psychology and neuroscience, is a leading autism researcher focused on uncovering connections between autism and other genetic conditions. In this Baylor Connections, he shares how he follows the data in research in search of autism treatment and analyzes ways families seeking to support their children can sift through a vast array of information and rumor to find evidence-based ASD insights. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 402 Emily Smith January 8, 2021 / Duration - 23 mins To over 50,000 Facebook followers, she’s known as “Your Friendly Neighbor Epidemiologist,” sharing accessible and actionable insights into the COVID-19 pandemic. Those followers, however, may not know that the Baylor professor behind that account is a leader in global health and an advocate for surgical care for children around the world. In this Baylor Connections, Emily Smith, assistant professor of epidemiology, shares the story behind her highly-regarded social media outreach and takes listeners into the halls of the United Nations to understand the need for increased access to surgical care for children and their families. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 401 Benjamin Ryan January 1, 2021 / Duration - 23 mins An expert in environmental health and disease, Benjamin Ryan, clinical associate professor of environmental science at Baylor, has been called on by organizations like the United Nations, World Health Organization and more to address disasters and disease. In this Baylor Connections, he shares what it means for communities to be resilient in the face of such challenges and explains a program he and other colleagues developed which has helped over 4,000 communities around the world equip and prepare. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 521 Kristen Padilla May 27, 2022 / Duration - 23 mins Families throughout the community benefit from the services provided by the Baylor Center for Developmental Disabilities (BCDD), serving those with Autism Spectrum Disorder and other disabilities. In this Baylor Connections, Kristen Padilla, BCDD Director and Clinical Assistant Professor in the Department of Educational Psychology in the School of Education, takes listeners inside the array of services provided by Baylor to address a disorder that impacts an estimated 1 in 44 children. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 520 Andy Hogue May 20, 2022 / Duration - 23 mins Baylor students have set an incredible standard this year in the number of prestigious scholarships and fellowships received—Fulbright, Goldwater, Churchill and more. In this Baylor Connections, Andy Hogue, who serves as Associate Dean of Engaged Learning in the College of Arts & Sciences and directs Baylor’s Office of Engaged Learning, highlights the meaning and impact of these honors and examines the reasons these numbers continue to grow. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 519 Stephen Heyde May 13, 2022 / Duration - 23 mins After nearly 40 years at the helm of the Baylor Symphony Orchestra and Waco Symphony Orchestra, Stephen Heyde is retiring. On this Baylor Connections, he looks back at decades of music and leadership. Learn the roots of his love of music, Heyde’s favorite moments working with students, the impact of his final concert and more. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 518 Liela Romero May 6, 2022 / Duration - 23 mins As an organic chemist, Liela Romero creates “recipes” from naturally occurring molecules that could lead to the discovery of future cancer drugs. In this Baylor Connections, Dr. Romero, assistant professor of chemistry and biochemistry, takes listeners inside her journey from attending Baylor as a student to prestigious graduate education experiences and back to Baylor to serve as a faculty member, researcher and mentor. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 517 President Linda A. Livingstone, Ph.D. April 29, 2022 / Duration - 23 mins This summer marks five years of leadership for President Livingstone at Baylor University. In this Baylor Connections, we look back at major benchmarks from the past year, and revisit 10 significant moments from her first five years as president in academics, athletics, student life, culture and more. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 516 Sara Ray April 22, 2022 / Duration - 23 mins Every college student faces questions about finances as they plan for the future while navigating the present. In this Baylor Connections, Sara Ray, program manager for Student Financial Literacy at Baylor, shares how her office provides resources to build financial literacy and equip them, through individual counseling and education programming, to prepare for success. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 515 Tom Ward April 15, 2022 / Duration - 23 mins Why does John Duns Scotus still resonate, more than 700 years after his death? Tom Ward, associate professor of philosophy at Baylor, was captivated by Duns Scotus as a student. Today, he translates his work through a prestigious National Endowment for the Humanities grant and is writing an introductory book on Duns Scotus more broadly. In this Baylor Connections, Ward explains how Duns Scotus’ work enables us to consider God, faith and the “first principle” still today. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 514 Jim Marsh April 8, 2022 / Duration - 23 mins Supporting mental health and wellness is a priority at Baylor, with numerous resources available for students. In this Baylor Connections, Dr. Jim Marsh, Dean of Student Health and Wellness, examines the challenges students face and shares the heart behind programs designed to meet their mental and physical health needs. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 513 Erika Abel and Leigh Greathouse April 1, 2022 / Duration - 23 mins Erika Abel and Leigh Greathouse are passionate about providing opportunities for undergraduate students to become involved in research, focusing in Greathouse’s lab on the relationship between the microbiome, health and disease. Abel is a clinical professor of biology in the Honors Program, while Greathouse serves as associate professor in nutrition science in Human Science and Design. In this Baylor Connections, they share how an investment from the Honors College is opening new pathways for students to engage in high-level cancer and diet research. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 512 Holly Joyner March 25, 2022 / Duration - 23 mins What does it mean to help students become globally minded? In this Baylor Connections, Holly Joyner unpacks how the Center for Global Engagement (CGE) brings the world to Baylor and sends Baylor into the world. Joyner, who serves as assistant director of marketing and communications at CGE, explains how the Center for Global Engagement offers programming and other resources to help students engage internationally. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 511 Michael Thompson March 18, 2022 / Duration - 23 mins Baylor’s Robert Foster Cherry Award for Great Teaching promotes the value of teaching and honors those who do it well. The $250,000 award is the single largest monetary award presented by a university to an individual for exceptional teaching. In this Baylor Connections, Michael Thompson, committee chair for the award and professor and associate dean in Baylor Engineering and Computer Science, discusses the Cherry Award and highlights the role of great teachers. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 510 Mandy McMichael March 11, 2022 / Duration - 23 mins The history of Baptist women in ministry has long gone untold, but Dr. Mandy McMichael, associate director and the J. David Slover Assistant Professor of Ministry Guidance in Baylor’s Department of Religion, is working to change that. In partnership with Baylor’s Institute for Oral History, she is curating an oral history on the struggles and joys of Baptist women leaders. She examines that topic, and her research on the cultural intersection of faith and beauty pageants, in this Baylor Connections. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 509 Kendra Gagnon March 4, 2022 / Duration - 23 mins Baylor’s Department of Physical Therapy blazed trails as the first doctoral program to blend a two-year degree program with hybrid delivery. Baylor DPT students and faculty reach across the country, learning virtually while regularly visiting Waco for intensive in-person immersion sessions on the Baylor campus. In this Baylor Connections, Kendra Gagnon, clinical professor and chair, takes listeners inside the fast-growing program and shares how it meets needs in communities across the nation. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 508 Larry Lyon February 25, 2022 / Duration - 23 mins Baylor’s attainment of R1 research recognition represents a team effort that played out over a two-decade span. In this Baylor Connections, Larry Lyon takes listeners inside that journey. Dr. Lyon, Vice Provost and Dean of Baylor’s Graduate School, shares how initiatives like Baylor 2012, Pro Futuris and Illuminate helped Baylor advance on a path to research preeminence while remaining committed to its Christian mission. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 507 Gary Mortenson February 18, 2022 / Duration - 26 mins The Baylor University School of Music is celebrating its centennial this year—100 years of making music with spirit and excellence. In this Baylor Connections, Dr. Gary Mortenson, Dean of the School of Music, takes listeners inside the celebration and highlights a meaningful transition within Baylor orchestral studies. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 506 Khristian Howard February 11, 2022 / Duration - 23 mins Texas’ Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) benefits families both nutritionally and financially. Many who are eligible, however, do not access available benefits. The Baylor Collaborative on Hunger and Poverty (BCHP) is working to bridge that gap to address food insecurity. In this Baylor Connections, Khristian Howard, Waco Manager for SNAP Strategy, shares how BCHP works to encourage participation in the program through a collaborative, comprehensive approach. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 505 Robert Darden February 4, 2022 / Duration - 23 mins Baylor’s Black Gospel Music Restoration Project preserves classic Black Gospel music—pieces that were at risk of being lost forever—in digital form for future generations. In this Baylor Connections, journalism professor Robert Darden, founder of the Black Gospel Music Restoration Project, updates listeners on ways that the project’s reach has expanded in recent months, from a new listening center on the Baylor campus to involvement with a PBS documentary and more. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 504 Stephen Sloan and Adrienne Cain January 28, 2022 / Duration - 28 mins Baylor’s Institute for Oral History preserves history through the collection of stories that would otherwise go untold. In this Baylor Connections, Stephen Sloan, director of the Institute and associate professor of history at Baylor, and Adrienne Cain, associate director and lecturer, share more. They explain how oral historians democratize history and offer tips for individuals seeking to preserve the stories of family or friends. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 503 Bernd Zechmann January 21, 2022 / Duration - 23 mins Core research centers at Baylor contain state-of-the-art equipment that students and faculty across campus utilize for impactful research projects. Bernd Zechmann leads one of these centers—he serves as director of the Center for Microscopy and Imaging and as an associate research professor at Baylor. In this Baylor Connections, Dr. Zechmann takes listeners inside labs that advance multidisciplinary projects and spur R1 research. Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 502 Todd Still January 14, 2022 / Duration - 28 mins Baylor’s George W. Truett Theological Seminary enjoyed incredible growth in 2021, from new academic programs and campuses to initiatives that reduce the cost of tuition for students. In this Baylor Connections, Dr. Todd Still, The Charles J. and Eleanor McLerran DeLancey Dean and The William M. Henson Professor of Christian Scriptures at Truett, takes listeners inside a variety of exciting benchmarks and explains how they enhance the ways Truett is “of, by, and for the Church.” Download RSS Apple Podcast Episode 501 Kimberly Monzon and Lauren Weber January 7, 2022 / Duration - 23 mins How can vocal athletes perform at their best, and with optimum health? Kimberly Monzon and Lauren Weber are teachers and performers who seek to help people who use their voices on stage and in other settings. In this Baylor Connections, Dr. Monzon, assistant professor of voice in Baylor’s School of Music, and Weber, a certified vocologist who serves as a lecturer of musical theatre at Baylor, take listeners inside their research and training to advance new understanding in vocal performance. General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 Season 1 President Linda Livingstone Sara Perry Stephen Trumble and Sascha Usenko Randall Bradley Heidi Hornik President Linda Livingstone Mia Moody-Ramirez Jeremy Vickers Dave Rosselli Deanna Toten Beard Lakia Scott President Linda Livingstone Andy Hogue Cori Pinkett Truell Hyde Nathan Shelburne President Linda Livingstone Brad Toben Mito Diaz-Espinoza Helen Harris Rodney Bowden Gary Carini Kevin Jackson Rebecca Kennedy Lori Spies Smith Getterman Rebecca Nall Mack Rhoades Dr. Burt Burleson Dr. Terrill Saxon Dr. Wes Null Jason Cook Jeremy Everett Dr. Seung Kim Dr. Brian Webb President Linda Livingstone Dr. John White Dr. Jim Ellor Dr. Jim Marsh Dr. Diane Loeb Marcus Sedberry President Linda Livingstone Dr. Jeffrey Hamilton Dr. Terry Maness Laura Hernandez Dr. Gary Mortenson President Linda Livingstone Dr. Michael McLendon Lilly Ettinger Dr. Byron Johnson Kevin Pinney President Linda Livingstone Season 2 Meredith David Holly Burchett Bryan Shaw and Greg Hamerly Caleb Martin Matthew Fendt Jon Eckert Kevin Chambliss Julie Hoggarth Annette von Jouanne Provost Nancy Brickhouse Peter James President Linda Livingstone Cole Matson Lori Baker David Jack Mark Childers Sara Dolan Dwayne Simmons President Linda Livingstone Mayor Kyle Deaver Jason Cook and Jovan Overshown Jeff Brown Sarah Schnitker Monique Ingalls Kenneth Hafertepe Tyrha Lindsey-Warren Chris Hansen David Smith Jane Damron Tamar Carter and Jason Pitts Nancy Brickhouse Horace Maxile Carlos Colon President Linda Livingstone Kevin Dougherty Lenore Wright Joel Allison Robbie Barber Michael Scullin and Elise King Steven Fernandez Jason Whitt Martha Lou Scott Chloe Honum John Wilson Dominque Hill Hannah Causey Felecia Mulkey Lee Nordt Michael Parrish Kenny Boyd Jason Cook President Linda Livingstone Wes Null Season 3 Perry Glanzer William Bellinger President Linda A. Livingstone, Ph.D. Michael Muehlenbein Robin Wallace Leigh Greathouse Sutton Houser David Corey President Linda A. Livingstone, Ph.D. Kenny Befus Kelly Ylitalo Shanna Hagan-Burke Frank Newport and Byron Johnson Mark Rountree Provost Nancy Brickhouse Gary Carini Michelle Cohenour President Linda A. Livingstone, Ph.D. Kirk Wakefield Gail Offringa Dorina and Marius Mitrea Dakota Farquhar-Caddell and Bailey Havis Holly Oxhandler Carlos Cardoza-Orlandi Brad Livingstone Ashley Otto John Morris Patricia Shih Peter Hotez Ramon Lavado Matt Burchett Daniel Romo President Linda A. Livingstone, Ph.D. Pedro Reyes Mona Choucair and Anne Jeffrey Kevin Jackson Todd Still Cheryl Gochis Jeremy Everett Sara Perry Juan Carlos Esparza Ochoa Amanda Hering Linda Olafsen Alan Schultz Robert Darden President Linda Livingstone, Ph.D. and Jason Cook Stephen Reid Annie Ginty Eva Doyle Bryan Brooks President Linda A. Livingstone Season 4 President Linda A. Livingstone, Ph.D. Jameson Graber Brian Raines Angela Gorrell Sarah Kienle Danielle Parrish Dave Rosselli Byron Johnson Jonathan Tran Kevin Chambliss Dawn Rogers Zhenrong Zhang Sandeep Mazumder Whitney Jones Linda Plank Douglas Henry President Linda A. Livingstone, Ph.D. Sinda Vanderpool Jason Cook JaeHwan Kwon Sparky Matthews Alex Yokochi Rebecca Sheesley and Sascha Usenko Mack Rhoades Gary Sheppard Sharra Hynes Jessica Cope Corey Carbonara and Michael Korpi Jeremy Vickers Dave Rosselli Kevin Davis and Brittany Rothrock President Linda A. Livingstone, Ph.D. Cheolho Sim Drew Pittman Ken Buckley Nancy Brickhouse Brad Toben and Gerald Powell Jessica King Gereghty Terry Maness President Linda A. Livingstone, Ph.D. Pablo Rivas Kathryn Freeman and Elijah Tanner Lyn Prater Lorin Matthews Ronald Angelo Johnson Rizalia Klausmeyer Peter Klein Lauren Barron Stacie Petter Joaquin Lugo Emily Smith Benjamin Ryan Season 5 Kristen Padilla Andy Hogue Stephen Heyde Liela Romero President Linda A. Livingstone, Ph.D. Sara Ray Tom Ward Jim Marsh Erika Abel and Leigh Greathouse Holly Joyner Michael Thompson Mandy McMichael Kendra Gagnon Larry Lyon Gary Mortenson Khristian Howard Robert Darden Stephen Sloan and Adrienne Cain Bernd Zechmann Todd Still Kimberly Monzon and Lauren Weber