Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Faculty Senate Faculty Senate right arrow down arrow About Us right arrow down arrow Chair & Cabinet Senators Committees right arrow down arrow Academic Affairs Budget & Priorities Committee on Committees Governance Human Relations Information Technology Nominating Planning Research & Scholarship All-University Governance Committees Get Involved right arrow down arrow Meeting Calendar Contact Home » Employees » Faculty Senate » Committees » Human Relations Set Navigation title in component Academic Affairs Budget & Priorities Committee on Committees Governance Human Relations Information Technology Nominating Planning Research & Scholarship All-University Governance Committees Human Relations Chair Brian Rounds Metcalf Assistant Professor Educator, A&S Psychology 5120H EDWARDS 1 Edwards Center 513-556-5590 metcalbr@ucmail.uc.edu Brian Metcalf, PhD, is an Assistant Professor-Educator in the Department of Psychology at the University of Cincinnati. Prior to August 2017, he was an Associate Professor of Psychology at Hawaii Pacific University in Honolulu, HI (since 2000). Originally from Stevens Point, WI, he previously taught and conducted research at Morris Brown College, and before that, at the University of Georgia, where he earned his MS and PhD in biopsychology. He was invited in 2012 by renowned psychologist, Dr. Philip Zimbardo, to be a member of his "Z-Team", a name coined as the antithesis of "The A-Team," those tip of the spear, first-in special forces that enter dangerous situations and create PTSD. The mission of The Z-Team is to research, document, publish articles and books, and in general spread the word in the psychological community and the rest of the word about: the importance of the Zimbardo Time Perspective Inventory (ZTPI) as a psychological scale, Temporal Theory, and Time Perspective Therapy. Brian also collaborates with Phil on his Heroic Imagination Project, training his students the skills and awareness needed to create lasting positive change in their own lives and the lives of others around them. Since 2016, he is also a consultant for AETAS Mind Balancing Apps at http://www.discoveraetas.com. With a background in neuroscience, Brian earned his PhD from the Univerisity of Georgia Department of Psychology in the Biopsychology (since renamed Neuroscience) Program. His teaching experience and interests, however, are wide-ranging. Specializing in teaching courses in Introduction to Psychology, Psychobiology, Sensation & Perception, and Personality (most frequently-taught courses), he has also taught Introductory Statistics in Psychology, Research Methods in Psychology, Advanced Statistics in Psychology, Social Psychology, and "capstone" courses including History & Systems of Psychology and Research Methods in Social Psychology. Since 2012, he has regularly taught online and hybrid course sections as well as the traditional course sections he has been teaching since 1993. Brian has been awarded by his peers with three "Golden Apple Awards for Excellence" in Mentoring, Service to Students, and the Reflective Use of Technology in his online and traditional courses. A long-time faculty advisor to multiple-award-winning student organizations including the Psychology Club and Psi Chi, the International Honor Society in Psychology, Brian has also earned "Advisor of the Year," "Western Regional Psi Chi Chapter Advisor" awards, and was nominated for Psi Chi's "Florence Denmark National Faculty Advisor Award." Psychology Club groups and officers he has mentored have earned University numerous "Club of the Year," "Most Distinguished Club," "Event of the Year," "Best Outreach," "Most Spirited," and "President of the Year" awards over the years. The Psi Chi chapter and student officers he advised received "Model Chapter" status (7 consecutive years), "Western Regional Chapter of the Year," "Research Conference Grants" (5 consecutive years), and student, Caitlin Macy, received the "Kay Wilson Leadership" (National President of the Year) award. View Full Profile Description of Committee The charge of the Human Resources Committee is to monitor existing practices and policies and recommend new policies and practices to ensure a supportive environment that promotes increased diversity and inclusion at the University. Te committee shall also administer award selection processes and Faculty recognition. The committee shall interpret its role broadly, addressing itself to specific issues and, in addition, serving as a source for a just University community. Chair of this committee is also Chair of the Faculty Senate Award for Exemplary Service to the University of Cincinnati. Committee Members Name Term Email Susan Mantel (LCoB) 2020-22 susan.mantel@uc.edu Zekeriya Karatas (UCBA) 2020-22 zekeriya.karatas@uc.edu Melissa Setser (UCBA) 2020-22 mcguirmd@ucmail.uc.edu Beth Monnin (UCBA) 2021-23 elizabeth.monnin@uc.edu Laura Nabors (CECH) 2021-23 laura.nabors@uc.edu Nick Abel (Clermont) 2021-23 abelnp@ucmail.uc.edu Responsibilities Administer award selection processes and Faculty recognition Recommend new policies and practices to ensure a supportive environment Membership 6 total elected members Members elected to serve two year term Terms will be staggered, 3 elected in odd years; 3 elected in even years 300 USQUARE 225 Calhoun St. Cincinnati, OH 45219 (513) 556-3445 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati 300 USQUARE 225 Calhoun St. Cincinnati, OH 45219 (513) 556-3445 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top