Indoor face covering requirements reinstated through June 13. More COVID-19 information. × Skip to main content A to Z Listing Campus Map Find People News Skip to main content University of California, Riverside Search Quicklinks Visit Events Make a Gift Campus Map Jobs Library Parking and Transportation Apply UC Riverside University of California, Riverside University of California, Riverside Search About About Overview Rankings and Facts Impacts History Visitors International Leadership Find Information for... Current Students Prospective Students Faculty Staff Parents Alumni Academics Academics Overview Undergraduate Majors Graduate Programs Colleges and Schools UCR Extension Find Information For... Current Students Prospective Students Faculty Staff Parents Alumni Admissions Admissions Overview Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions International Admissions Transfer Admissions Cost Veteran Admissions Find Information For... Current Students Prospective Students Faculty Staff Parents Alumni Research Research Overview Undergraduate Research Graduate Research Centers and Facilities Library Find Information For... Current Students Prospective Students Faculty Staff Parents Alumni Campus Life Campus Life Overview Events Campus Map Arts and Culture Athletics and Recreation Health and Safety Botanic Gardens Housing Dining About Riverside Find Information For... Current Students Prospective Students Faculty Staff Parents Alumni Quicklinks Visit Events Make a Gift Campus Map Jobs Library Parking and Transportation Apply Campus Life Breadcrumb Campus Life UCR: Get Involved and Inspired Located in the 10th most populous county in the United States and California’s fastest-growing region, UC Riverside has much to offer. Its diverse, inclusive, and globally focused community reflects California’s many cultures and perspectives. As a member of the world’s most prestigious public university system, we offer our students a premier educational experience. UC Riverside ranked as a Top 10 public university in the U.S. — and America’s most transformative public university — by Money Magazine in 2020. But what makes us great goes far beyond our academic rigor and rankings. There are countless ways to get involved and inspired at UC Riverside. We’re home to a thriving arts community, one-of-a-kind campus events, inspiring lecture series, and more than 450 student organizations. More reasons to be inspired on the UC Riverside campus: Our 40-acre Botanic Gardens and famed 22-acre Givaudan Citrus Variety Collection; The UCR Library, home to more than 2 million books and one of the world’s largest cataloged collections of science fiction and fantasy; UCR’s California Museum of Photography, the largest photographic center in the western United States; and KUCR, a non-commercial campus radio station that broadcasts indie rock, jazz, and classical music, as well as public affairs and news programs. Related Topics Campus Life Arts and Culture Athletics and Recreation Health and Safety About Riverside The Arts are Alive at UCR From our live student performances in music, theatre, and dance, to thought-provoking art exhibitions at ARTSblock, UCR's creative spirit and energetic diversity have earned us a reputation across the region as a thriving arts environment. Arts and Culture What is Wellness? The UCR Wellness Program focuses on promoting awareness and education, motivating positive behavior changes, and influencing campus practices and policies that support a healthy environment. Wellness Programs on Campus Fit Happens UCR students stay healthy and balanced with access to group fitness classes, state-of-the-art cardio machines, and a 21,000 square foot weight room. Enjoy exercise classes for every level of fitness, or learn from our certified personal trainers. Whatever your wellness routine, we’ll help you make fit happen through FitWell, our SRC fitness program. Visit the Student Rec Center Previous Next Arts & Culture More Information Athletics and Recreation More Information Botanic Gardens More Information Housing & Dining More Information Health & Safety More Information About Riverside More Information Map More Information Events More Information ADDITIONAL INFORMATION UCR Campus Store Get your gear here Visit the online campus store KUCR Radio Since it went on the air in 1966, KUCR has been the voice of UC Riverside. Listen to KUCR now Palm Desert Center Great facilities with cutting-edge technology Learn More:   UCR Library Millions of ways to expand your mind Visit the Library Search University of California, Riverside 900 University Ave. Riverside, CA 92521 Tel: (951) 827-1012 UCR Library Campus Status Campus Store Career Opportunities Diversity Maps and Directions Visit UCR University Communications 1156 Hinderaker Hall tel: (951) 827-1012 email: webteam@ucr.edu Find Us Related Links Campus Return UCR Admissions UCR News Colleges and Schools Graduate Division UCR Jobs UCR Health Giving Follow Us: Privacy and Accessibility Terms and Conditions © 2022 Regents of the University of California × Let us help you with your search Enter your Search Criteria. Search Cancel