Skip to main content Navigation Academics Admissions Research Locations Student Life Alumni & Giving Athletics Apply Now Kinesiology B.S. – Exercise and Sport Physiology Pursue a career in exercise and sport science, strength and conditioning, health promotion and clinical healthcare with the help of UCF Program at a Glance Program Bachelor College(s) College of Health Professions and Sciences Department(s) Kinesiology&Phys Thpy, Schl of 4 Years In State Tuition Out of State Tuition $212.28 per credit hour $748.89 per credit hour Learn more about program tuition and fees. Gain the Knowledge and Training to Become a Kinesiology Professional The bachelor’s degree program in Kinesiology is appropriate for students interested in pursuing careers in sport science, health promotion, medicine, wellness, strength and conditioning, and clinical healthcare careers such as personal training, sport performance coaching, athletic training, occupational therapy, physical therapy, cardiac rehabilitation, and corporate wellness. The curriculum combines classroom coursework, practical field experiences, current research, and didactic laboratory experiences to build foundational knowledge in exercise science. Additionally, curricula within the coursework prepares students for professional certification exams from the National Strength and Conditioning Association (NSCA) and the American College of Sports Medicine (ACSM) during their degree pursuit. Students planning to continue their education toward a clinical or medical degree should consider pre-requisite requirements for graduate school when choosing certain classes and meet with a Kinesiology advisor regularly to discuss your immediate and future education and career goals. Related Minors: Fitness Training Minor Health Sciences Minor Highlights The Division of Kinesiology received the Education Recognition Program distinction for Undergraduate Strength and Conditioning and Personal Training from the National Strength and Conditioning Association. Practicum opportunities with local healthcare and fitness facilities, sports organizations, and the UCF Sport Science Initiatives. Interdisciplinary research conducted by faculty from the School of Kinesiology and Physical Therapy via the Institute of Exercise Physiology and Rehabilitation Science. Undergraduate Application Deadlines Freshmen Transfers International Fall May 1 Spring November 1 Summer March 1 Fall July 1 Spring November 1 Summer March 1 Fall March 1 Spring September 1 Summer January 1 Ready to get started? Apply Today Start Your Application Today Ready to get started? Take the next step to save your spot at UCF. 1 Check out your application requirements. See what freshmen and transfer students need to apply. 2 Short on time? You can start your application today and come back later to finish. Apply Today Course Overview Applied Biomechanics Build an understanding in the foundations and application of anatomical and mechanical principles involved in human movement. An emphasis is placed on the analysis of skeletal, muscular, and nervous systems and biomechanical factors associated with efficient motor development. Nutrition & Metabolism in Kinesiology Study nutrition with a focus on strategies designed to meet nutrient demands for physical activity, exercise, metabolism and athletic performance in sport and exercise sciences. Exercise Prescription for Special Populations Learn to integrate your knowledge of exercise science, pathophysiology, and fitness conditioning to develop exercise prescriptions for people with certain diseases, conditions, or stage of life. This course provides an in-depth understanding of unique physiological differences affecting such special populations and how they translate to important precautions and considerations for exercise. Motivational Aspects of Athletic Performance Examine the depth and breadth of theories and philosophies regarding motivation in sport. Coursework emphasizes the application of various theories to maximize the operational usefulness of learned strategies as it applies to the individual, pairs, and entire teams. Undergraduate Practicum Experience Apply what you’ve learned from your classroom coursework in a real work environment as a student intern. Practicum is designed to provide opportunities for hands on and practical experiences in a workplace with guided supervision from an approved preceptor. Students who wish to complete this elective can apply with the Division of Kinesiology in their junior or senior year. View all Kinesiology B.S. – Exercise and Sport Physiology Courses The Kinesiology program is one of the finest programs to pursue a career in at UCF. The professors are incredibly knowledgeable in their respective fields, and they are wonderful mentors. I have transformed my life in the pursuit of better health, and I can proudly say this program has prepared me to do just that for others, as it is my passion." — Gina Crittenden ’19 Kinesiology Skills You'll Learn Learn to administer and interpret various fitness and wellness assessments Develop skills to implement evidence-based techniques for improving strength and performance Explore fitness and weight management research, theories, and practice. Gain experience in current practices and technologies used for health and physical performance monitoring Build a foundation of understanding about evidence-based exercise and nutrition recommendations that can prevent some diseases and increase quality of life. Career Opportunities Athletic Trainer Physical Therapist Sport Coach Strength & Conditioning Coach Exercise Physiologist Personal Trainer Physician Assistant Medical Doctor Registered Dietitian Sport Scientist University Professor School Teacher Show More Career Opportunities College of Health Professions and Sciences Check out more stories Health & Medicine Survivor Link National Training Program Launches at UCF The program will support nine social work students, developing their ability to respond to domestic violence. Colleges & Campus UCF Opens New Huntington’s Disease Multispecialty Clinic Located in Research Park, the new clinic offers multidisciplinary care from the College of Medicine, School of Social Work, and College of Health Professions and… Community UCF Class Spotlight: Introduction to American Sign Language In honor of National American Sign Language Day, April 15, here’s a look at a course — plus an instructional video — that teaches students… Health & Medicine UCF Students Team up to Provide Care at Apopka Farmworkers Clinic For the first time since the pandemic, the clinic has returned to in-person services at full capacity. UCF Kinesiology Major Empowers Others Through Fitness Account Gabie Owens is a kinesiology major that started her own fitness account on Instagram to help others with their own workout routines. Learn how she's encouraging others Degree Search College of Health Professions and Sciences programs Bachelors Kinesiology (BS) - Exercise and Sport Physiology University of Central Florida Colleges Burnett Honors Arts and Humanities Business Community Innovation and Education Engineering and Computer Science Graduate Studies Medicine Nursing Optics and Photonics Sciences Undergraduate Studies Hospitality Management × The Kinesiology B.S. Exercise and Sport Physiology track is appropriate for students interested in pursuing careers in sport science, health promotion, medicine, wellness, sports medicine, and allied health (i.e. physical therapy, athletic training, occupational therapy, cardiac rehabilitation, and corporate wellness). Students who may be continuing on to graduate school in a clinical or medical area should consider pre-requisites for graduate school when choosing certain classes. Students are advised to check the Graduate Program's website for updated information, as well as the Undergraduate Catalog for appropriate General Education courses. Degree Requirements Students should consult with an advisor on a regular basis. Students who change degree programs and select this major must adopt the most current catalog. Students should see an advisor prior to selecting this major, and at least every semester thereafter. Students must earn at least a "C" (2.0) in each required course and maintain an overall GPA of at least a 2.5. All pre-requisites for courses taught within the Kinesiology program will be enforced and a required grade of "C" (2.0) or better must be reflected on the degree audit. Students must meet with their advisor prior to enrollment in Kinesiology Practicum to complete the departmental application and approval process. Degree Requirements Core Requirements: Basic Level 24 Total Credits Complete all of the following Complete the following: PET3005 - Introduction to Kinesiology (3) PET3351 - Applied Exercise Physiology (3) PET4312C - Applied Biomechanics (3) APK4110C - Advanced Exercise Physiology (3) PET3361 - Nutrition and Metabolism in Kinesiology (3) PET4325 - Functional Kinesiology (3) PET4550C - Assessment and Evaluation in Kinesiology (3) APK2300 - Basic Sport First Aid and CPR (3) A grade of "C" (2.0) or better is required. Core Requirements: Advanced Level 24 Total Credits Complete all of the following Complete the following: APK4203 - Monitoring Training and Athletic Performance (3) ATR4132 - Human Injuries: Mechanisms & Prevention (3) PET3125 - Fitness and Weight Management (3) PET3771 - Strength and Conditioning Concepts (3) PET4050C - Motor Development and Learning (3) PET4088 - Physical Activity & Preventive Medicine (3) PET4215 - Motivational Aspects of Athletic Performance (3) PET4552 - Exercise Prescription for Special Populations (3) A grade of "C" (2.0) or better is required. Restricted Electives 20 Total Credits Complete all of the following Students have the opportunity to add learning experiences by earning a double major or minor. In addition, many students will use these electives to take the required courses necessary for graduate studies, for example in medicine, physical therapy and other allied health graduate programs. Courses completed and already used to satisfy General Education Program, Basic Level, Advanced Level and selected Track requirements may not be used to meet the Restricted Elective requirement. Kinesiology students must select 20 credits of preferred elective courses. Students with junior or senior standing and an overall GPA of 2.5 or higher may choose to complete a Practicum in an area that is specific to their desired career goals. In order to be placed into Practicum, students must receive department approval. A maximum of 9 credits of Practicum may be taken over two (2) semesters; however, clear and distinct learning outcomes must be established for each Practicum opportunity. A grade of "C" (2.0) or better is required. Earn at least 20 credits from the following: APK2160 - Facts and Fallacies in Exercise and Nutrition (3) APK3400 - Sports Psychology (3) APK4926 - Practicum in Kinesiology (9) BCH4024 - Medical Biochemistry (4) BCH4053 - Biochemistry I (3) PEO3324 - Coaching Volleyball (3) PEO3514C - Coaching Soccer (3) BSC2010C - Biology I (4) CHM2046 - Chemistry Fundamentals II (3) CHM2046L - Chemistry Fundamentals Laboratory (1) CHM2210 - Organic Chemistry I (3) CHM2211 - Organic Chemistry II (3) CLP3143 - Abnormal Psychology (3) DEP2004 - Developmental Psychology (3) CHM2211L - Organic Laboratory Techniques I (2) HSC3537 - Medical Terminology (3) HSC4572 - Clinical Nutrition (3) HUN3011 - Human Nutrition (3) MCB3020C - General Microbiology (5) PCB3063 - Genetics (3) PCB3233 - Immunology (3) PCB3233L - Immunology Laboratory (1) PEM2104 - Personal Fitness (3) PEM2131 - Strength Resistance Training (2) PEM2431 - Beginning Judo (2) PEO3624 - Coaching Basketball (3) PEM2403 - Intermediate Brazilian Jiu-Jitsu (2) PEO3644 - Coaching Football (3) PET3097 - Health and Wellness (3) PET3765 - Coaching Theory (3) PET4083 - Personal Training Methods (3) PET4143 - Current Issues & Trends in Kinesiology (3) PET4763 - Coaching Methods and Principles (3) SPM3204 - Sports and Ethics (3) SPM3415 - Public Relations in Sport and Athletic Coaching (3) SPM3504 - Fiscal and Facilities: Issues in Sport and Athletic Coaching (3) SPM4723 - Legal Issues in Sport and Athletic Coaching (3) HSC3110 - Medical Self Assessment (3) HSC3147 - Introduction to Pharmacology (3) PHY2053C - College Physics I Studio (4) PHY2054C - College Physics II Studio (4) PEM2432 - Intermediate Judo (2) PEM2402 - Beginning Brazilian Jiu-Jitsu (2) SYO4400 - Medical Sociology (3) ZOO3744 - Neurobiology (3) BSC2011C - Biology II (4) Capstone Requirement 3 Total Credits Complete all of the following Complete the following: PET4901 - Capstone in Kinesiology (3) Completed during the final semester in the program. In order to be approved for Capstone, students must meet with their Kinesiology advisor in the term prior to their final semester. A grade of "C" (2.0) or better is required. Grand Total Credits: 71 University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida