Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Learning Commons Learning Commons right arrow down arrow Schedule a Service Programs and Policies right arrow down arrow Academic Coaching right arrow down arrow Meet the Academic Coaches Academic Writing Center right arrow down arrow Meet the Tutors Graduate Tutoring Learning Assistants Learning Communities right arrow down arrow Peer Leader Program Current Peer Leaders Current Peer Leader Coordinators Math & Science Support Center Peer Facilitation right arrow down arrow Current Peer Facilitators Current Peer Facilitator Coordinators Peer Tutoring Success Skills Workshops right arrow down arrow Step by Step Guide to Register Success Skills Workshop Policies Success Skills Workshop Topics Supplemental Instruction right arrow down arrow SI Schedule Supplemental Review Sessions (MATH 1096) Learning Resources right arrow down arrow Note-Taking and Test Strategies right arrow down arrow The Cornell Method for Note-Taking Reading for Main Ideas vs. Details SQ4R: Getting the Most from Your Textbooks PLAN: An Active Reading Strategy How to Ace Your Finals Learning Styles and Study Habits right arrow down arrow Strategies for Aural Learners Strategies for Kinesthetic Learners Strategies for Visual Learners Writing Resources Business Writing Materials right arrow down arrow Resume Writing Tips Cover Letter Tips Memo Writing Tips First-Year Students right arrow down arrow First Semester Checklist Achieve Your Goal GPA Technology Skills Anxiety, Attitude, and Stress right arrow down arrow Managing Stress New Concentration Ideas Look at Your Classes to Find Your Passion Defining Your Career Goals Math Minute right arrow down arrow Math Minute - Algebra Math Minute - Calculus Online Learning Strategies Student Employment right arrow down arrow Academic Coaching Positions Academic Writing Center Positions Front Desk Assistant Positions Learning Assistant Positions Learning Community Peer Leader Positions Peer Facilitator Positions Peer Tutoring Positions Success Skills Workshop Positions Supplemental Instruction Leader Positions SRS Leader & MASS Tutor Positions Professional Staff Home » Campus Life » Learning Commons » Learning Resources » Anxiety, Attitude, and Stress » Managing Stress Set Navigation title in component Note-Taking and Test Strategies The Cornell Method for Note-Taking Reading for Main Ideas vs. Details SQ4R: Getting the Most from Your Textbooks PLAN: An Active Reading Strategy How to Ace Your Finals Learning Styles and Study Habits Strategies for Aural Learners Strategies for Kinesthetic Learners Strategies for Visual Learners Writing Resources Business Writing Materials Resume Writing Tips Cover Letter Tips Memo Writing Tips First-Year Students First Semester Checklist Achieve Your Goal GPA Technology Skills Anxiety, Attitude, and Stress Managing Stress New Concentration Ideas Look at Your Classes to Find Your Passion Defining Your Career Goals Math Minute Math Minute - Algebra Math Minute - Calculus Online Learning Strategies Managing Stress Anxiety is a part of life; in fact, studies have shown that 2 out of 5 people worry at least once every day. Life as a university student can include multiple stressors, especially as students transition in and out of the University. If you’re feeling anxious about classes, future career choices, friends and family, or anything else, you’re not the only one, and there are multiple steps you can take to get back on track. Identifying Your Anxiety One of the first steps to addressing anxiety is to identify its source. Are you terrified of spiders or scared of tests? Constantly worried? Afraid of the future? Everyone’s anxiety is different. If you cannot identify your stressor, the first step is to be aware of the symptoms of your stress and note when they occur. Once you’ve done this, you can begin to address them and the stressful situation itself. We tend to focus our anxiety on the future, or on possibilities that we cannot control or determine in advance. Seeing a counselor or completing a personal inventory about our worries can help us identify those questions or ideas that cause us anxiety. Resources and Strategies for Anxiety Once you’ve determined your stressors, you’ll need to devise a response. For severe and generalized anxiety, visiting UC’s Counseling and Psychological Services is a great first step. You can speak with a professional counselor about your concerns, and they’re right on campus. For less severe anxiety, to supplement your work with a counselor, or simply during stressful time periods, you may also want to try the proven strategies below to increase your focus, decrease your worry, and help you achieve your best at UC! Stress and anxiety can distract you from studying and decrease test performance. The practices outlined below have been repeatedly connected to increased focus and emotional satisfaction. If you feel that test and study anxiety is affecting your test performance, make an appointment with an Academic Coach today! Academic Coaches are trained peers who can help you find the resources you need to succeed. Meditation right arrow down arrow Meditation is easy and free, and there are a variety of meditation types. Anyone can do it; all you need is a few quiet minutes each day. While the effects of meditation may be different for everyone, several studies have shown that meditation can help decrease stress, increase mindfulness, and enhance concentration, so why not give it a try? You can repeat positive mantras, pray, or even do chants, whatever works for you. The Mayo Clinic even lists some easy meditative practices that anyone can adopt without training or instruction. Progressive Muscle Relaxation (PMR) right arrow down arrow Progressive Muscle Relaxation involves learning to tense and release specific muscles. This allows you to stop focusing on other issues and “check in” with your body. Hopefully, you’ll become better aware of how stress impacts your muscle tenseness or soreness. If this strategy seems like a good fit, look around online for an auditory guide through muscle relaxation, or simply reference this module from the Center for Clinical Interventions for written instructions on PMR. Guided Imagery right arrow down arrow Guided Imagery is a type of meditation, but it focuses specifically on concrete images or places that you find relaxing. You can develop your own images on which to focus. Some therapists have developed online resources focusing on beaches, forests, and other locations, but a counselor will be able to provide additional resources or advice as well. Writing Exercises right arrow down arrow Some students find regular journaling a good source of stress relief. Some people keep a “Gratefulness Journal” to keep them focused on the positive. Others simply write down all of their stresses right before exams or other critical events. Try a few different options to determine what works for you. All you need is a pen, paper, and a little time! Diaphragmatic Breathing right arrow down arrow Many meditative exercises will ask you to focus on your breathing because “shallow” or “chest” breathing can become more frequent when you are stressed. This, in turn, can make individuals feel as though they cannot complete a full breath, which can lead to increased anxiety. Instead, focus on breathing through your nose, and feeling the air move into your stomach, so that you feel your abdomen rise and fall with each inhale and exhale. Yoga classes often emphasize Diaphragmatic Breathing, and several mental health researchers and clinicians have created online resources to walk you through such breathing techniques. Learning Commons 2510B French Hall West 513-556-3244 Fax: 513-556-0823 learningcommons@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Learning Commons 2510B French Hall West 513-556-3244 Fax: 513-556-0823 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top