Home Home Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni College of Arts and Sciences Comparative History of Ideas B102 Padelford Hall 206-543-7333 Website Faculty Website chid@uw.edu The Comparative History of Ideas (CHID) program fosters students' examination of ideas and their cultural, historical, and political contexts through experiential learning and self-reflection. The program encourages students to explore how their own subjective position relates to texts, cultures, societies, historical periods, and current global trends. The wide range of topics that CHID offers allows students to follow their curiosity and craft an individual course of study. Students are encouraged to engage thoughtfully in critical intellectual inquiry and reflection. CHID also emphasizes the significance of being actively engaged in the world; of understanding the forces that shape individual lives and identities; and of each person's role in transforming the world. Undergraduate Programs Program of Study: Major: Comparative History of Ideas Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Comparative History of Ideas Program of Study: Minor: Comparative History of Ideas Minor in Comparative History of Ideas Undergraduate Programs Comparative History of Ideas B102D Padelford Hall 206-543-2097 chid@uw.edu Program of Study: Major: Comparative History of Ideas Program Overview The Comparative History of Ideas Program (CHID) is a unique interdisciplinary undergraduate program emphasizing the examination of ideas and their cultural, historical, and political contexts through experiential learning and self-reflection. CHID offers students the creative freedom to follow their curiosity by tailoring their education to their own interests and professional goals, while providing and supporting direct contact with faculty, staff, and local and international organizations. CHID majors engage thoughtfully in intellectual inquiry and reflection, developing critical thinking skills and competencies in their chosen area of study. This program of study leads to the following credential: Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Comparative History of Ideas Recommended Preparation Suggested First- and Second-Year College Courses: Introductory courses in history, philosophy, English, comparative literature, ethnic and gender studies, American Indian studies, and other areas of the humanities and social sciences. Admission Requirements Students in good academic standing may declare this major after meeting with an adviser. Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Comparative History of Ideas Completion Requirements 60 credits CHID 101 (2 credits) Gateways to CHID (10 credits) Cultural and historical engagements (5 to 10 credits). Students choose from three options: CHID study abroad program; local/global engagements; or encounters across cultures. Must be chosen with guidance of program adviser. Ideas in the world (5 credits). Must be chosen with guidance of program adviser. Power and difference (5 credits). Must be chosen with guidance of program adviser. CHID 390 (5 credits) Senior thesis/capstone project (CHID 491 and CHID 493) (10 credits) Remaining 13-18 credits chosen from among approved electives (300 level or above). At least half the credits presented for the major must be at the upper-division level. Minimum 2.50 GPA in courses presented for the major. Students may expand the senior project to 15 credits (CHID 492). The 5 optional senior project credits are in addition to the 60 credits required of all CHID majors. Back to Top Program of Study: Minor: Comparative History of Ideas Program Overview The undergraduate minor in the Comparative History of Ideas fosters students’ examination of ideas and their cultural, historical, and political contexts through experiential learning and self-reflection. This flexible minor encourages students to follow their curiosity in an area of their own design, while developing critical thinking skills and competencies in their chosen area of study. This program of study leads to the following credential: Minor in Comparative History of Ideas Minor in Comparative History of Ideas Completion Requirements 30-35 credits as follows: Gateways to CHID (5 credits) Cultural and historical engagements (5-10 credits). Students choose from three options: CHID study abroad program; local/global engagements; or encounters across cultures. Must be chosen with guidance of program adviser. Ideas in the world (5 credits). Must be chosen with guidance of program adviser. Power and difference (5 credits). Must be chosen with guidance of program adviser. CHID 390 (5 credits) One upper-division CHID course (5 credits) Back to Top Additional Information Student Outcomes and Opportunities Learning Objectives and Expected Outcomes: The program encourages students to adopt nuanced perspectives on their position relative to texts, cultures, societies, and historical periods. Program graduates have gone on to postgraduate studies in the humanities and social sciences, as well as professional training and careers in a wide variety of fields including law, administration and public policy, medicine, education, journalism, new media, and film. Instructional and Research Facilities: Computer workstations for students in B102 Padelford and in C101 Padelford. Honors Options Available: With College Honors (Completion of Honors Core Curriculum and Departmental Honors). With Honors (Completion of Departmental Honors requirements in the major). See adviser for requirements. Research, Internships, and Service Learning: CHID undergraduates participate in a variety of educational experiences outside the classroom. Students interested in the opportunity to integrate theory with practice while making connections to organizations outside the University may sign up for CHID 399. Additionally many CHID study abroad programs incorporate an "engaged community learning" project, which provides an opportunity for students to apply their analytical skills and understanding of the historical and cultural context to a close participation in the work of local organizations. The diversity of these community efforts allows students to engage their particular interests through participation in social welfare organizations, grassroots community groups, after-school programs, health clinics, theater and other performing arts groups, as well as video and other visual arts projects. Department Scholarships: See CHID website for information and deadlines Of Special Note: CHID also sponsors two undergraduate journals: interSections, which features senior theses, research papers, seminar papers, and essays addressing subjects within the arts, humanities, and social sciences; and The Anthology Project, which is dedicated to providing a forum where students can discuss and reflect on experiences abroad. University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms Newsletter © University of Washington | Seattle, WA