Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index Geography Menu Search TTU Department of Geosciences Geography Geography, Environment, and Geographic Information Science The Geography Program provides students with critical thinking skills, specific geographic expertise, and the research experience needed to meet real world challenges. While maps are at the heart of any geographic analysis; geographic information systems (GIS), remote sensing and global positioning have revolutionized the field of geography, environmental science and the study of human-environment interaction. The Geography Program offer students the education, technical skills and hands-on-experience needed to address many of the problems facing our modern society. Academics The Geography Program offers a course of study leading to the Bachelor of Arts in Geography, Master of Science in Geography, a Graduate Certificate in Geographic Information Science and Technology, and the Ph.D. in Geosciences (geography track). At the undergraduate level, non-majors may choose to minor in Geography as part of their degree plan – or Geography majors and non-majors may choose to minor in Geographic Information Science and Technology. The Geography Program also offers a wide variety of courses that can be used as general electives and several approved courses that can be used to meet the general education requirements of the core curriculum. Graduate Student Support Teaching assistantships are available for qualified graduate student applicants on a competitive basis. These assistantships provide the opportunity for students to acquire instructional skills while further developing their understanding of topics in geography. As a matter of university policy, out-of-state tuition and fees are waived for graduate students who serve as teaching assistants in the department. Research assistantships might also be available for qualified applicants depending upon the research needs of the faculty. These research assistantships allow students to participate in funded research projects in the field of geography or GIScience. As is the case with teaching assistants, out-of-state tuition and fees are waived for graduate students who serve as research assistants in the department. Application Procedure Admission to the graduate degree program is granted by the Dean of the Graduate School and is contingent upon acceptance by the department. Each applicant seeking admission to the Geography Program must therefore apply through both the Texas Tech University, Office of Graduate Admissions and the Geography Program in the Department of Geosciences. More information... Graduate Students (Detail List) Faculty (Detail List) Perry Carter, Associate Professor Jen Henderson, Assistant Professor Jeffrey A. Lee, Professor Xiaopeng Song, Assistant Professor Xuantong Wang, Assistant Professor Hannah Webb, Instructor Instructor Post Doctoral Research Associate * Rodolfo Hernández Perez Research in the Geography Program is focused on, but not limited to, several major themes. These program research areas include: Physical Geography Human Geography Environmental Science GIScience and Technology Facilities The Geography Program maintains exceptional facilities that are immediately available to students and faculty for research and teaching. These teaching and research facilities include: Geographic Information Systems Lab Remote Sensing Lab Physical Geography Research Lab Physical Geography Teaching Lab Risk, Equity and Decisions in Disasters Lab (RED) Texas Tech University, Junction Campus Esri University Site License High Performance Computing (HPCC) . Geography Like Geography on FacebookLike Geography on Facebook Connect with Geography on LinkedInConnect with Geography on LinkedIn Address Texas Tech University, 2500 Broadway, Lubbock, TX 79409 Phone 806.742.3102 Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock, Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversityMar 2, 2022 1:08 PM Geography Geography Home General Info Geography General Info Back About Geography General Info About Back History Alumni People Geography General Info People Back Faculty Graduate Students Facilities Geography General Info Facilities Back GIS Computer Lab Remote Sensing Lab Physical Geog Research Lab Physical Geog Teaching Lab Junction Campus Outdoor Lab Esri Site License Partners Geography General Info Partners Back Center Geospatial Technology Climate Science Center COE Water Resources Center USDA ARS CRSL Lubbock High Performance Computing External Resources Geography General Info External Resources Back Assoc American Geographers Geological Society America American Geophysical Union U.S. Geological Survey Academics & Research Geography Academics & Research Back Courses Geography Academics & Research Courses Back Geography (GEOG) GIScience & Technology (GIST) Undergraduate Geography Academics & Research Undergraduate Back Admissions & Advising Geography, B.A. Geography, Undergraduate Minor Graduate Geography Academics & Research Graduate Back Admissions & Advising Geography, M.S. Geosciences, Ph.D. Research Geography Academics & Research Research Back Phyical Geography Human Geography Environmental Science Regional Geography GIScience & Technology Remote Sensing Transformative Experiences Geography Academics & Research Transformative Experiences Back Junction YouthMappers Geosciences Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index