Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Brown University A-Z Index People Directory Students Alumni Careers News Events Search Give Explore Brown University's School of Public Health Admissions Academics Research Faculty About Diversity Admissions Academics Research Faculty About Diversity A-Z Index People Directory Students Alumni Careers News Events Office of Diversity and Inclusion Home About People Programming & Initiatives Training & Events Resources News Site Navigation Home About People Leadership Staff Diversity and Inclusion Committee Staff Advisory Committee Center and Departmental DIAP Committee contacts Programming & Initiatives Support & Diversification of the Talent Pipeline Connecting Talent program Connecting graduate students of color to faculty and staff Connecting staff L.E.A.D. (Learning & Engaging Around Diversity) Public Health Womxn of Color Collective School of Public Health Students of Color Affinity Group Statement on Health Disparities and COVID-19 Training & Events Ongoing trainings Past Events Webinar Resources during COVID-19 Resources Tips for Maintaining Equity and Inclusion in a Virtual Space Tips for Maintaining Equity and Inclusion for DEI Practitioners Resources & Considerations for Researchers, Instructors, and Students Diversity and inclusion offices Abuse, discrimination, and harassment Academic success Mental and physical health and wellness Title IX Resources Confidential Resources Non-Confidential Resources News About The Office of the Dean of Diversity and Inclusion promotes diversity, inclusion, and equity through institutional policies and resources serving the faculty, staff, and students in the School. This Office also serves the diversity and inclusion needs of those considering joining the School. Open Office Hours Please feel free to connect with Dean Aubert during his Open Office Hours on Wednesdays between 3 PM - 4:30 PM EDT in his office in Room 411. You may also request a 1:1 Zoom appointment or send an enquiry by emailing [email protected]. We want to hear from you. We welcome any and all feedback! Do you have ideas for strengthening diversity and inclusion efforts at Brown University School of Public Health? Do you have an idea for a diversity initiative, program, training, or event? Do you have suggestions for how we should recruit faculty, staff, and students to achieve our diversity and inclusion goals? Please use Suggestion Box to offer ideas for how we can work toward a more diverse and inclusive environment! This form will be relayed to the Dean's Office for consideration and/or action. If you choose to identify yourself, we will follow up with you as appropriate. Please use this form for suggestions only. Direct more specific inquiries to [email protected]. Suggestion Box Office of the Dean of Diversity and Inclusion Office of the Dean of Diversity and Inclusion Brown University School of Public Health 121 South Main Street Providence, RI 02912 Email [email protected] Twitter Twitter Brown University Giving to Brown 121 South Main Street, Providence, Rhode Island 02903, USA 401-863-3375 Contact Us Newsletter Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility Brown Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top