Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Department of Biological Sciences Undergraduate Graduate Centers People Research Blog Scholarships Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Undergraduate Resources Advising Advising Resource CenterDegree RequirementsDegree Planning ToolsCommon Minors for Biology MajorsFrequency of Course OfferingsGrade Policy/Course Repeat PolicyPetition to repeat a course a second timeNewsContact Us Undergraduate Research Advanced Placement Scholarships Release for letter of recommendation Alumni UofM Undergraduate Catalog Take Action DEI Resources Seminar Schedule Research and Program Facilities Contact Us Follow Us Online Facebooktwitter Home Biological Sciences Undergraduate Information Undergraduate Alumni Alumni Dr. Lakeisha Chism Dr. Chism was graduated from Meharry Medical College in Nashville, TN in May 2013 with an M.D. degree. She will begin her career in Family Medicine at North Mississippi Medical Center in Tupelo, MS. Dr. Chism writes "I thank you so much for the education that I received from the UofM. I look forward to starting my new career and being able to give back to my alma mater, which has given so much to me. God Bless." Amy Combs, Class of 2009 Ms. Combs, a participant in the Student Research Form, having presented at The National Conference of Undergraduate Research and Ecological Society of America, Tennessee Academy of Science and having completed an internship with the U. S. Environmental Protection Agency was graduated in 2009. She plans to begin Optometry school in 2010. Her mentor was Dr. Matthew Parris. Rachel Savoy, Class of 2009 Ms. Savoy was graduated in 2009 and is now pursuing an advanced degree from The University of Tennessee College of Veterinary Medicine. (view her LinkedIN Profile for updated information) Aimee Dunlap 2000 Amiee Dunlap, Class of 2000 A triple major at The University of Memphis, Dr. Dunlap was graduated in 2000 with degrees in Biology, History and English. During her time at the University she worked closely with Dr. Jerry Wolff researching mate choice and sexual behavior of prairie voles. Her research focuses on the evolution of learning, memory and decision making and how this interacts with patterns of change in the environment. After earning her Masters degree from Northern Arizona University where her research focused on social learning, spatial memory for food caches and aspects of social foraging she completed her Ph.D at the University of Minnesota. Her work there was a combination of mathematical modeling, operant learning experiments with blue jays and experimental evolution studies with fruit flies. She is currently a Post-Doctoral Fellow at The University of Arizona where she is working with bumblebees and modeling to answer questions about the value and use of information. Dr. Dunlap has recently presented at the Animal Behavior Society meeting in Pirenopolis, Brazil and has published several papers, including others currently in review. Summer 2013 she will begin her new position as Assistant Professor in the Department of Biology at the University of Missouri- St. Louis. Keith Pecore, Ph.D. Keith Pecor, Class of 2000 During his undergraduate degree program he worked with Dr. William H. N. Gutzke on several projects, all of which considered the ecology of aquatic animals. Continuing his post-graduate education at The University of Michigan he studied the chemical ecology in crayfish and was awarded a Masters of Science and Doctorate of Philosophy. His dissertation research focused on the use of chemical signals (e.g., sex pheromones) by crayfish native to the Great Lakes region and crayfish that were introduced to that region by humans. Of particular interest were the impacts of introduced crayfish on native species. After completing a two-year faculty position at Rhodes College, Dr. Pecor is now an Assistant Professor of Biology at The College of New Jersey, where he teaches Ecology and Aquatic Ecology. His current research efforts are divided among studies of crayfish chemical ecology, the ecology of introduced crayfish, and crayfish natural history. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 5/25/21 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.