Skip to Main Content Brown University News from Brown Site Navigation Featured Events For Journalists Search Menu Topics News and Events Date March 16, 2022 2022-03-16 Media Contact Jill Kimball [email protected] 401-863-5450 All News Share Facebook Twitter Linkedin Email U.S. Commerce Secretary Gina Raimondo at Brown: ‘We better get to work innovating’ In an Ogden lecture at Brown, the commerce secretary and former Rhode Island governor shared insights on her efforts to grow the American economy, strategically sanction Russian leadership and ease U.S. supply-chain woes. Gina Raimondo, a native Rhode Islander who served as the state’s governor before joining President Joe Biden’s cabinet, visited Providence to deliver the 101st Stephen A. Ogden Jr. ’60 Memorial Lecture on International Affairs at Brown. Photo: David DelPoio/Brown University PROVIDENCE, R.I. [Brown University] — On the night of U.S. President Joe Biden’s State of the Union address, one member of his cabinet was far away from the Capitol in a secret, secure location: Secretary of Commerce Gina Raimondo. Raimondo said she was honored to serve as this year’s “designated survivor,” a senior government leader chosen annually to leave Washington, D.C., on the day of the address and prepare to succeed the president, should tragedy strike. But the full weight of the responsibility didn’t hit her until the moment when she was briefed by her extensive security team and introduced to the person who would, in the event of an emergency, swear her in. “And all of a sudden, it came over me,” Raimondo said with a panicked expression, eliciting laughter during a Tuesday, March 15, event at Brown University. She thought, “don’t let anything happen!” Raimondo, a native Rhode Islander who served as the state’s governor before joining Biden’s cabinet, visited Providence to deliver the 101st Stephen A. Ogden Jr. ’60 Memorial Lecture on International Affairs at Brown. Since 1965, dozens of heads of state, diplomats and observers of the international scene have participated in the series, including, most recently, former British prime minister Theresa May and New York Times editor A.G. Sulzberger, a Brown alumnus. In a presentation titled “Growth, Innovation and Equity: Ensuring American Global Competitiveness in the 21st Century," Raimondo shared ideas on how the U.S. can continue to compete globally by creating an innovative, equitable and collaborative economy. “The world wants and depends on a strong America,” Raimondo said to a crowd of more than 500 students, Brown employees and local residents who listened both online and in person at the Salomon Center for Teaching. “Let’s get back to the business of investing in what makes us strong — and let’s do it with an eye toward equity so we are unified as a nation.” 1 of 2 After her lecture, Raimondo joined Brown President Christina H. Paxson for a Q&A. 2 of 2 Before her talk, Raimondo answered questions from Brown students concentrating in a wide variety of subjects in an intimate meet-and-greet. Raimondo said the U.S. is home to many of the world’s best universities, research and development centers, and entrepreneurs, and that it is still the best place to start a business — yet it is no longer leading the world on important indicators of research, development and scientific progress, and it lags behind other large countries in innovation. That’s partly because there are many fewer manufacturing jobs in the U.S. today, Raimondo said. In the last three decades, the U.S. has lost 9 million manufacturing jobs and 25% of its small- and medium-sized manufacturing companies. That loss not only hurt families in cities across the U.S. but also weakened the country’s supply-chain resilience — leading to the supply-chain issues that have affected all Americans in the midst of the COVID-19 pandemic, and that are beginning to have an even larger impact amid Russia’s invasion of Ukraine. Raimondo said she is working with Congress to pass the Bipartisan Innovation Act, which would create more manufacturing jobs and decrease the country’s reliance on overseas goods. The secretary said she is particularly interested in increasing the domestic production of silicon computer chips, which power household appliances, cars and electronics, and which are today mostly made in Taiwan and elsewhere overseas. “Here’s the reality: Demand for semiconductors globally is through the roof,” she said. “Global companies… are going to build more facilities to make chips. The question is, will they do it here in the United States of America? And the answer better be yes.” Raimondo said she is intensely focused on revitalizing the country’s relationships with allies across the globe, a responsibility she believes the previous presidential administration neglected. In a Q&A session with Brown President Christina H. Paxson after her talk, Raimondo recounted the process of initiating an almost “unprecedented” collaboration among the U.S. and its many allies, including those in the European Union, Canada, the United Kingdom, Japan and South Korea, to sanction Russia in the wake of its invasion of Ukraine. Early on, she said, leaders across the globe agreed to follow Biden’s edict to impose sanctions that would “inflict maximum pain” on Russian President Vladimir Putin and his allies without hurting the Russian people. “We got together and said, these are the products we don’t want to be sold to Russia… technology, semiconductors, avionics, aircraft, all military-related goods,” she said. “The world is with us on this. These actions alone have the potential to paralyze Russia’s military going forward.” “ Let’s get back to the business of investing in what makes us strong — and let’s do it with an eye toward equity so we are unified as a nation. ” Gina Raimondo U.S. Secretary of Commerce The former governor spoke with passion about advancing equity in order to strengthen the economy. She noted that the day of her speech fell on Equal Pay Day, the March 15 date that marks the two and a half extra months the average American woman needs to work to make the same amount as the average American man in a year. When Paxson asked her how the country might address its historic labor shortage, Raimondo said part of the key may lie in providing free or subsidized childcare. “The labor economy is a little hard to figure out, [but] we do know that there are 2.5 million women who fell out [of the labor market] during COVID and who haven’t come back,” she said. “And I know as sure as I sit here, if we provided affordable childcare, those women would come back.” Raimondo told the audience that Brown and other research hubs had a major role to play in strengthening the American economy. In the era after World War II, she said, the U.S. was the unquestionable world leader in research and development. The country was responsible for nearly 70% of global R&D then — but in 2019, its share was just below 30%. She praised Brown’s work in translational science, which brings teams of scientists and local clinicians together to turn scientific findings into medical breakthroughs. The University’s Legorreta Cancer Center, she said, is using translational science to understand how cancer grows and to develop better therapies to treat patients, and its Center for Alzheimer’s Disease Research is making connections between lab science and clinical research to help doctors detect and treat the disease earlier. “The work Brown is doing in translational science is absolutely vital,” Raimondo said. “We cannot meet the challenge of climate change… of curing and treating diseases… without more innovation… We better get to work innovating.” Tags President Related news: News and Events $25 million gift from Shoman family advances Brown’s goal for need-blind international admission June 1, 2022 The largest gift for international financial aid in University history, from alumni Aysha and Omar Shoman, will expand Brown’s ability to educate the most exceptional international students from all socioeconomic groups. Read Article Open details for $25 million gift from Shoman family advances Brown’s goal for need-blind international admission News and Events Brown Corporation elects two new fellows, eight trustees June 1, 2022 Brown’s governing body elected each new member based on their commitment to the University and its mission of education and research. Read Article Open details for Brown Corporation elects two new fellows, eight trustees News and Events Brown Corporation approves base budget for Fiscal Year 2023 June 1, 2022 The $1.5 billion base budget includes deep investments in student financial aid and support for faculty and staff, balancing continued advancement in academic excellence with a focus on long-term financial sustainability. Read Article Open details for Brown Corporation approves base budget for Fiscal Year 2023 Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Snapchat Twitter YouTube Social Media Directory © Brown University Brown University For You Current Students Faculty Staff Parents & Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Featured Events For Journalists Topics Arts and Humanities Environment Health and Medicine News and Events Science and Technology Social Sciences Student Life University Initiatives Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events For You Give to Brown All of Brown.edu People News Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search U.S. Commerce Secretary Gina Raimondo at Brown: ‘We better get to work innovating’ Open details for U.S. Commerce Secretary Gina Raimondo at Brown: ‘We better get to work innovating’ Bookmark this Page