Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Search BC.edu Links Agora Portal Directory A to Z Listing Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close BC News > Campus & Community > Announcements > BC designated a Military Friendly School Boston College designated a Military Friendly School University recognized for its commitment to programs and services that support the campus military community Boston College has been designated a 2022-2023 Military Friendly School based on the University’s commitment and programs to support the campus military community of students, staff, and alumni. Among more than 1,800 organizations, including universities and businesses, that sought out the recognition, BC received a Silver award for efforts that exceeded the basic standards for recognition. Universities were chosen based on public data and survey responses assessed by Viqtory, a marketing consultancy focused on the military community, and the Military Friendly Advisory Council, which draws from higher education and the recruitment sector. The organization recognizes institutions that strive to help veterans make the transition from the military to school and, ultimately, find satisfying careers in the civilian world. “This designation is national recognition for the value we place on military veterans, and the experiences they bring to our community,” said Michael Lorenz, BC’s assistant director for veteran programs and services. “We continue to try and bring veteran experiences here, both inside and outside the classroom.” BC has 135 student veterans enrolled this semester and an additional 80 veterans among the ranks of faculty and staff, as well as thousands of alumni who served in the military, Lorenz said. “This designation is national recognition for the value we place on military veterans, and the experiences they bring to our community. We continue to try and bring veteran experiences here, both inside and outside the classroom.” assistant director for veteran programs and services Michael Lorenz The University also has committed to meeting the standards of the Department of Defense program Employer Support of Guard and Reserve, which promotes cooperation and understanding between Reserve Component Service members and their civilian employers and assists in resolving conflicts that arise from an employee’s military commitment. Lorenz added that the University is committed to providing managers with the tools needed to support staff who are enlisted in guard and reserve programs, as well to recognize the unique talents these employees bring from their military service. Ed Hayward | University Communications | April 2022 Related links Boston College Veterans Back To Top Back To Top Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College