Skip to main content. ADVISORY | COVID-19 Information × kumc.edu School of Health Professions School of Medicine School of Nursing University of Kansas The University of Kansas Health System The University of Kansas Cancer Center Search within this section Search all sites School of Medicine Salina About From the Dean Faculty & Staff Salina Facilities Our Community Contact Information Make a Gift Our Campuses Make a Gift Info for Current Students Blackboard Webmail myKUMC Prospective Students Prospective Employees Alumni Faculty & Staff Residents & Fellows Patients Donors Researchers Visitors KU School of Medicine-Salina Our Campuses Make a Gift Info for KU School of Medicine-Salina Academics Academics Premedical Programs MD Program Admission & Aid Curriculum Lukert Society Student and Faculty Awards Standardized Patient Program Student Affairs Student Affairs Policies and Procedures Counseling and Support Services Health Care for Students About School of Medicine Salina About About From the Dean Faculty & Staff Salina Facilities Our Community Contact Information Make a Gift About Faculty and Staff More than 40 local Salina doctors, representing primary care and all major specialties, participate in the education of the students at the Salina campus. Students get a broad-based and complete clinical experience with the personal attention that is unmatched on a larger campus. Administrative Faculty and Staff Robert Moser, M.D. Dean, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of Population Health Dr. Moser was appointed dean for the University of Kansas School of Medicine-Salina campus on May 1, 2019. Previously, he was the executive director of The University of Kansas Hospital's Health Care Improvement Award focused on improving the outcomes of heart disease and stroke for rural Kansans since late 2014. This program started in 13 northwest Kansas counties in 2014 and expanded to include more than 60 counties across Kansas. The program began on improving outcomes and quality on heart attack and stroke patients but now includes other acute and chronic conditions and continues to operate as the Care Collaborative. Dr. Moser is a family physician, and he attended the KU School of Pharmacy and the KU School of Medicine. He completed his residency in family medicine at the Smoky Hill Family Practice Residency in Salina, Kansas. Following his training, he practiced Family Medicine for 22 years in Tribune, Kansas. He left rural practice in 2010 to enter academic medicine and in January 2011, Dr. Moser was appointed by Governor Brownback as the Secretary and State Health Officer for the Kansas Department of Health and Environment, a position he served in until December 2014. In addition to serving as executive director for The University of Kansas Health System, he was also associate clinical professor of public health practice with the University of Kansas School of Medicine Department of Preventive Medicine and Public Health in Kansas City. Dr. Moser and his wife, Dalene, have been married for 37 years and have two adult daughters. Scott Owings, M.D. Associate Dean for Clinical Experiences and Clerkship Director Dr. Scott Owings earned a Bachelor of Science from Pittsburg State University and a medical degree from KU School of Medicine-Wichita. As a medical student, he was inducted into the Alpha Omega Alpha Honor Society. He completed residency at Smoky Hill Family Medicine Residency where he served as chief resident. Dr. Owings is a member of STFM, AAFP, KAFP, AMA, Kansas Medical Society, NRHA, and Saline County Medical Society. He is currently an associate director for Smoky Hill Family Medicine Residency Program and associate dean of KU School of Medicine-Salina. Dr. Owings is the director of the Lukert Academic Society and advisor for the Family Medicine and Rural Medicine interest groups in Salina. Dr. Owings and his wife, Melanie, both from Maize, Kansas, have three children, Olivia, Abram and Beckett. When they are not watching the Jayhawks, they enjoy sports and spending time with family and friends. His hobbies include carpentry, fishing, hunting and golf. Michael Robinson, Ph.D. Associate Dean of Basic Sciences Though he is a native of Great Britain and had not spent much time in Kansas before coming to the KU School of Medicine-Salina, Dr. Robinson has lived in the Midwest for many years, thanks, in part, to the fact that his wife is from Minnesota. He received his Ph.D. in parasite immunology from the University of Nottingham, United Kingdom. He went on to a fellowship at the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minn., and has held faculty positions at North Dakota State University and North Georgia College and State University. Before coming to Salina, he served as assistant dean of Curriculum and Faculty Affairs at Ross University School of Medicine's Clinical Site in Freeport, Grand Bahama, where he was integral to establishing a medical school campus. Tyler G. Hughes, Sr., M.D., FACS Director of Medical Education Tyler Hughes is a board-certified general surgeon practicing in McPherson, Kansas, and joined the faculty of the KU Schoool of Medicine-Salina in 2016. Born and raised in Dallas, he conducted his medical training at Southwestern Medical School and a residency under Dr. Ernest Poulos at St. Paul Medical Center in Dallas. After residency, Dr. Hughes practiced general and vascular surgery in Dallas for 12 years. During that time he served as assistant director of surgical training and director of surgical intensive care at St. Paul Medical Center. In 1995, Dr. Hughes and his family moved to McPherson and has enjoyed rural surgical practice ever since. He is dedicated to teaching and has provided general surgery instruction for KU medical students since 1999. He currently is a clinical professor of surgery at KU School of Medicine. He has published in lay and peer-reviewed literature on rural surgical issues and has served on the editorial boards of ACS Surgery News (currently co-editor in chief), Evidence-Based Reviews in General Surgery, and Selected Readings in General Surgery. Since 2007 Dr. Hughes has been the co-editor of the Rural Community Web Page for the American College of Surgery and in 2014 became editor-in-chief of the ACS Web Portal, a social media platform for surgeons worldwide. During 2007 he was president of the Kansas Chapter of the ACS, and in 2010 he was elected governor at large of the ACS for Kansas. In 2012 he was elected to a directorship of the American Board of Surgery, as well as the first chair of the ACS Advisory Council for Rural Surgery. In 2012, Dr. Hughes was honored by the National Rural Health Association as the rural practitioner of the year. Dr. Hughes was a private pilot for 26 years. His last and favorite aircraft was a twin Beech Baron. He is a writer and reader who is extremely proud of his wife, Mary, who is an actress. They have two grown children: Dorothy Hughes, an expert in health policy, and Tyler Hughes, Jr., an electrical engineer. Rebecca Martin, M.D. Clinical Assistant Professor of Clinical and Medical Education Dr. Rebecca Martin earned a degree in biology from Kansas State University and a medical degree from the University of Kansas School of Medicine-Wichita. She completed her pediatric residency at the University of Nebraska Medical Center - Children's Hospital & Medical Center - Creighton University Medical Center Joint Pediatric Residency in Omaha, Nebraska. She is board-certified in general pediatrics and is a fellow of the American Academy of Pediatrics. Dr. Martin is a clinical assistant professor of pediatrics and works at Salina Pediatric Care. She also completed a master's degree in health professions teaching and technology through the University of Nebraska College of Allied Health in 2020. Bradley C. Daily, M.D. Clinical Assistant Professor Dr. Daily grew up in Salina, Kansas, and is a graduate of Salina South High School. He always had an interest in becoming a physician and spent time during high school shadowing Dr. Harbin. This helped to solidify his decision to work toward his goal of becoming an orthopedic surgeon. He joined Salina Ortho in 2007 after finishing his residency. Dr. Daily enjoys keeping up with advances in orthopedic surgery for his patients as well as educating and inspiring the next generation of physicians. Dr. Daily is active in teaching orthopedics to KU-Salina medical students and KU-Wichita orthopedic residents. Dorothy Hughes, Ph.D., MHSA Assistant Dean for Student Affairs Dr. Dorothy Hughes currently serves as an assistant professor in the Department of Population Health with a secondary appointment in the Department of Surgery. She teaches Scholarly Projects and Health Insurance sessions in the ACE curriculum; Health Policy and Comparative Health Systems in the Health Policy and Management Ph.D. program; and the Health Care System and Rural Health Care in the Masters of Health Services Administration program. Her teaching techniques include active lecture and group discussion, flipped classrooms, and service-learning. She delivers course content online, in-person and in hybrid formats. Her research interests center on the rural health workforce and rural healthcare professional pipeline, focusing on rural surgeons when possible. She primarily uses qualitative methods but also conducts quantitative and mixed methods studies. She enjoys being in an interdisciplinary department and bringing together principles from health services research, sociology, and behavioral economics. She is passionate about intertwining research and education and is dedicated to increasing all students' access to rural research and learning opportunities. Dr. Hughes holds a bachelor's degree from American University in International Studies, as well as a master's degree in health services administration and a Ph.D. in health policy and management, both from the University of Kansas School of Medicine. After two decades away, she has returned to her hometown of McPherson, where she resides with her Great Pyrenees, Maggie. David Dupy, M.D. Lead Instructor - Simulation and Ultrasound Dr. David Dupy received a bachelor of science from Missouri State University and as medical/health policy and administration degree from KU School of Medicine. He is fellowship-trained in ultrasound through the Ultrasound Leadership Academy. As a medical student, he was inducted into the Alpha Omega Alpha Honor Society. He completed a residency at Smoky Hill Family Medicine Residency, where he served as chief resident. Dr. Dupy is a member of AAFP, KAFP, AMA, Kansas Medical Society, and Saline County Medical Society. He is currently an emergency room physician in McPherson, Saline county coroner, medical director of Central Kansas Foundation and Saline County Health Department. He also works at the medical center as lead instructor for simulation and ultrasound and the Smoky Hill Family medicine residency program teaching emergency room and ultrasound topics. Dr. Dupy and his wife, Megan, met at Missouri State University, where they were both on the golf team. They have three children: Ryan, Anna and Caleb. Lucy Kollhoff, MS Director of Facilities Management and Student Support Services Lucy Kollhoff, a native of Western Kansas, received her bachelor's degree from Fort Hays State University. After working in private industry for several years, she returned to Fort Hays State University to pursue and obtain her master's degree in counseling. She has worked in higher education in the areas of career counseling and coaching, and has been involved in retention, recruitment and placement of students into science, technology, engineering and math careers. She is also a state-certified mediator. Michael Kollhoff, MS Medical Education Instruction Specialist Mike Kollhoff is a native of Kansas (born in Stafford) who grew up in Salina and attended Salina Public Schools K-12. He received a Bachelor of Arts degree in Classical Antiquities and a Bachelor of Science degree in Science Education from the University of Kansas. He earned his Master of Science in Counseling from Emporia State University. Before becoming a full-time school counselor, he taught high school biology, chemistry and physics. When not at work, he enjoys playing golf, sailing and home-remodeling projects. Laura Easterday Phase I and Student Services Program Coordinator A native of Salina, Laura Easterday is the Phase I Senior Coordinator at the KU School of Medicine-Salina. She received her bachelor's degree in Communications and Human Resource Development, along with a certificate in Leadership Studies from Fort Hays State University in 2008. She worked as a project manager for a small firm in Hays, Kansas, for several years before joining the KU School of Medicine-Salina staff in 2011, and completed a Bachelor of Science in Organizational Leadership from Fort Hays State University in 2011. Mary Vernon Clinical Skills Lab Senior Coordinator Mary Vernon hails from small-town Kansas and earned her Bachelor of Science in Education with an emphasis in Sports Information from the University of Kansas in 2001. After stints with a USBL basketball team and a small marketing firm in Salina, Vernon was named the director of marketing and development for the Salina Community Theatre. She began working in higher education in 2011 as the director of public relations, communications, and marketing for Kansas Wesleyan University. As a lifelong Jayhawk, Mary jumped at the chance to work for the University of Kansas and is thrilled to be on staff. In her spare time, she enjoys watching sports, exercising, reading, working on home projects and spending time with her three children. Donna Vandivier, MBA Assistant Director of Facilities Management and Student Support Services Donna Vandivier is a native of Western Kansas and earned her Bachelor of Science in Accounting and a master's degree in business from Kansas Wesleyan University. Before beginning her work in higher education, she worked for a transportation company in Salina. She is also an active member in the community raising money for local charities. In her spare time, she enjoys reading, working on craft projects and riding motorcycles with her husband. Larry Michel, J.D. Ombudsman Larry Michel has been associated with Kennedy Berkley Yarnevich & Williamson, Chtd. since 1993 and has been a shareholder in the firm since 1996. He is a native of Downs, Kansas, and is a 1989 graduate of the University of Kansas School of Law. His undergraduate degree is in organismal biology, also from the University of Kansas. Michel's practice focuses on civil trial practice, including employment, insurance, administrative and personal injury law. He is licensed to practice law in Kansas and Colorado and handles cases in both state and federal courts. He also works extensively with administrative agencies, such as the Kansas Department of Labor, Kansas Human Rights Commission and the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission. Michel has written several articles on legal topics and is a frequent speaker on employment related issues. He was selected by the Federal Court in Kansas to serve on an advisory committee on alternative dispute resolution and is also a past member of the Federal Bench-Bar Committee for the District of Kansas. Year 3 Clinical Clerkship Directors One or more Assistant Clerkship Directors (ACDs) provide overall vision for and monitor students on each of the required third-year and fourth-year clinical clerkships on the Salina campus. They frequently engage in supervising, mentoring, teaching, and evaluating medical students on clinical rotations. The ACDs collaborate with the Clerkship Directors on the Kansas City campus to provide Salina students with excellent clinical experiences. Sara Johnston, M.D. - Family Medicine Assistant Clerkship Director, Co-Facilitator, Problem-Based Learning Sessions Dr. Johnston graduated from the University of Kansas with a BA in biology in 1996 and received her MD from KU in 2000. After medical school, she completed a residency in family medicine at the Smoky Hill Family Medicine Residency Program in Salina. Dr. Johnston is a board-certified family medicine physician at ComCare. Henry Reed, MD - Internal Medicine, subspecialties Assistant Clerkship Director Dr. Reed received his undergraduate degree from Fort Hays State University (BS in Mathematics) and his MD from the University of Kansas School of Medicine. He completed an internal medicine residency at the University of Kansas School of Medicine-Wichita and a fellowship in nephrology and hypertension at the University of Oklahoma Health Sciences Center in Oklahoma City. Dr. Reed is a board-certified internist and nephrologist at the Mowery Clinic. Trent Davis, MD - Neurology Assistant Clerkship Director Dr. Davis attended Hobart College in Geneva, N.Y., before completing medical school at Howard University in Washington, DC. After medical school, he completed a medicine internship at the University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee, a neurology residency at Howard University, and a fellowship in cerebral vascular diseases at Howard. Dr. Davis served on the staff of Howard University and was in private practice in Southern California prior to moving to Salina in 1999. Dr. Davis is a board-certified neurologist in solo practice at Amber Waves Neurology. Chris Graber, M.D. - Obstetrics/Gynecology Assistant Clerkship Director Dr. Graber received his undergraduate degree from Bethel College in North Newton, Kan., with a quadruple major: biology, chemistry, physics and mathematics. He received his MD from the University of Kansas. He completed his residency in Ob-Gyn at the University of Kansas School of Medicine-Wichita in 2009 and is a board-certified Ob-Gyn currently practicing at Salina Women's Clinic. Nicholas Raasch, DO - Obstetrics/Gynecology Assistant Clerkship Director A Nebraska-native, Dr. Raasch is excited to now call Salina home. He and his wife are excited to put roots down and raise a family in Salina. Dr. Raasch completed his medical degree at Des Moines University College of Osteopathic Medicine in Des Moines, IA. He then completed residency at the University of Kansas School of Medicine-Wichita, Wesley Medical Center in Wichita, KS. Dr. Raasch's areas of special interest include family planning, infertility, hormonal imbalance and minimally invasive surgery. Julianne Schwerdtfager, MD - Pediatrics Assistant Clerkship Director Dr. Julianne Schwertfager received her undergraduate degree from William Jewell College in Liberty, Missouri, majoring in molecular biology and philosophy. While at William Jewell she spent a year in the Oxbridge Honors Program at Homerton College at the University of Cambridge in England. Dr. Schwerdtfager received her M.D. from the University of Kansas School of Medicine in 2014. She recently completed a pediatrics residency at Kansas University Medical Center. Following completion of residency training, Dr. Schwerdtfager joined Salina Pediatric Care. She is board-eligible in pediatrics and is a Clinical Instructor at the University of Kansas School of Medicine. Chris Rupe, MD - Surgery, general Assistant Clerkship Director Christopher Rupe did his undergraduate studies at KU-Lawrence (BA in Human Biology and Psychology) and received his MD from KU in 2004. After completing a general surgery residency at the University of Kansas School of Medicine-Wichita he joined the Mowery Clinic, where he has a practice in general, vascular and laparoscopic surgery. Dr. Rupe is a board-certified general surgeon and is married to Abbey. Year 4 Clerkship Director Scott Owings, M.D. Subinternship - Assistant Clerkship Director Rural Preceptorship - Assistant Clerkship Director Dr. Scott Owings received a B.S. from Pittsburg State University and his medical degree from KUSM-Wichita. As a medical student, he was inducted into the Alpha Omega Alpha Honor Society. He completed residency at Smoky Hill Family Medicine Residency where he served as Chief Resident. Dr. Owings is a member of STFM, AAFP, KAFP, AMA, Kansas Medical Society, NRHA, and Saline County Medical Society. He is currently an Associate Director for Smoky Hill Family Medicine Residency Program and Associate Dean of KU School of Medicine-Salina. Dr. Owings is the Director of the Lukert Academic Society and Advisor for the Family Medicine and Rural Medicine Interest Groups in Salina. Dr. Owings and his wife Melanie both from Maize, Kansas, have three children Olivia, Abram, and Beckett. When they are not watching the Jayhawks they enjoy sports and spending time with family and friends. His hobbies include carpentry, fishing, hunting, and golf. Brian Pavey, D.O., MS - Critical Care Rural Preceptorship - Assistant Clerkship Director A native of the state of Washington, Dr. Pavey graduated from Wichita State University in 1995 with a B.A. in biochemistry. Subsequently, he did graduate work at the University of Texas-Houston Health Science Center, receiving an M.S. in Biomedical Science-Biochemistry. Dr. Pavey received is D.O. degree from Kansas City University of Medicine and Biosciences in 2004, followed by an internal medicine residency and a nephrology fellowship at the University of Missouri Hospitals and Clinics in Columbia, Missouri. Dr. Pavey has been in private practice at the Mowery Clinic in Salina since 2009, specializing in nephrology, hypertension, critical care, and general internal medicine. He is board-certified in internal medicine and nephrology. Lead Instructors Lead Instructors are Salina physicians who have assumed a major role in supervising, mentoring and instructing medical students on selected clinical rotations. David Battin, MD - Lead Instructor Cardiology Dr. David Battin graduated from Southwestern College in Winfield, Kansas with a B.S. in biology. He received his M.D. from Kansas University School of Medicine and finished an internal medicine residency at Kansas University Medical Center. After residency he completed a fellowship in cardiology at the University of Tennessee Health Science Center in Memphis, Tennessee, followed by an interventional cardiology fellowship at William Beaumont Hospital in Royal Oak, Michigan. Dr. Battin now practices a full spectrum of cardiovascular medicine at the Mowery Clinic in Salina and is a Clinical Assistant Professor of Medicine at Kansas University School of Medicine. He is board certified in Cardiovascular Diseases and Interventional Cardiology. Mark Mikinski, MD - Lead Instructor Cardiology Dr. Mark Mikinski received his undergraduate degree from Kansas State University and his M.D. from Kansas University School of Medicine. He completed an internal medicine residency and cardiovascular medicine fellowship at Kansas University Medical Center. Following fellowship he joined the Mowery Clinic and founded the Salina Regional Heart Center. Dr. Mikinski is engaged in a practice of non-invasive and invasive cardiovascular medicine in Salina. He is board certified in cardiovascular medicine and is a Clinical Assistant Professor at Kansas University School of Medicine. He loves hunting and barbecuing. Jeremiah Ostmeyer, MD - Lead Instructor Emergency Medicine Dr. Jeremiah Ostmeyer is a graduate of Fort Hays State University with a major in chemistry. He subsequently received his M.D. from the University of Kansas School of Medicine. After medical school Dr. Ostmeyer completed an emergency medicine residency at Palmetto Health Richland in Columbia, South Carolina. Currently, Dr. Ostmeyer is an emergency medicine physician at Salina Regional Health Center. He is board certified in emergency medicine and is a Clinical Assistant Professor at the University of Kansas School of Medicine. Keir Swisher, DO – Lead Instructor Emergency Medicine Dr. Keir Swisher is a 2001 graduate from Bethany College in Lindsborg, Kansas. He then matriculated at Kansas City University of Medicine and Biosciences-College of Osteopathic Medicine, graduating with a D.O. degree in 2006. Following medical school, Dr. Swisher completed a residency in emergency medicine at the University of Illinois College of Medicine at Peoria-OSF Saint Francis Medical Center in Peoria, Illinois. Dr. Swisher is an emergency medicine physician at Salina Regional Health Center, where he also serves as Co-Medical Director of the Emergency Department. He is board certified in emergency medicine and a Clinical Assistant Professor of Emergency Medicine at Kansas University School of Medicine. Matthew Cobb, MD – Lead Instructor Family Medicine After graduating from the University of Northern Iowa in Cedar Falls, Iowa, Dr. Cobb attended the University of Kansas School of Medicine, receiving his M.D. in 2004. Subsequently, he completed a residency in family medicine at Mercy Family Medicine Residency Program in Mason City, Iowa. Following residency, Dr. Cobb joined Comcare in Salina. He is board certified in family medicine and is a Clinical Assistant Professor at Kansas University School of Medicine. Larry Beck, MD - Lead Instructor Hematology/Oncology Dr. Beck received his undergraduate and M.D. degrees from Kansas University. He subsequently completed an internal medicine residency at the University of Kentucky in Lexington, Kentucky. Dr. Beck spent a year in a hematology/oncology fellowship at the University of Kentucky, followed by another two years of fellowship at the University of Colorado in Denver. He practiced in Yakima, Washington and Durango, Colorado before moving to Salina in 1998. He currently is employed at Tammy Walker Cancer Center in Salina, where he cares for patients with hematologic and oncologic diseases. Dr. Beck is a Clinical Assistant Professor at the University of Kansas School of Medicine and is board certified in medical oncology and hematology. Jeffrey Geitz, MD – Lead Instructor Hematology/Oncology Dr. Geitz received both his undergraduate degree and M.D. from the University of Kansas. Following medical school graduation in 2006, he completed an internal medicine residency at the University of Kansas School of Medicine in Wichita and a fellowship in hematology and Oncology at St. Louis University in St. Louis, Missouri. Currently Dr. Geitz is engaged in the practice of hematology and oncology at Tammy Walker Cancer Center in Salina. In 2017 Dr. Geitz was recognized by Salina medical students as Phase 2 teacher of the year. Dr. Geitz is board certified in internal medicine, hematology, and medical oncology and is a Clinical Assistant Professor of Medicine at Kansas University School of Medicine. Rebecca Martin, MD - Lead Instructor Pediatrics Ralph Bharati, MD - Lead Instructor Psychiatry Dr. Ralph Bharati has over thirty years of clinical practice in psychiatry. He completed his medical school at Universidad Autónoma de Ciudad Juárez in 1982 and psychiatry residency at the University of Kansas School of Medicine-Wichita in 1988. He is Diplomat of the American Board of Psychiatry and Neurology and American Board of Addiction Medicine. He is Fellow of the American Psychiatric Association and American Society of Addiction Medicine. He is currently practicing psychiatry at Salina Regional Health Center and previously served as Medical Director in private practice and for many substance abuse treatment facilities, hospitals, and social service organizations. Michael Johnson, MD - Lead Instructor Surgery Dr. Johnson attended Kansas State University in Manhattan before entering pharmacy school at the University of Kansas in Lawrence, where he received his BS in Pharmacy. Not content with being a pharmacist, Dr. Johnson entered medical school at KU and received his MD in 1992. He completed an orthopedic surgery residency at the University of Kansas School of Medicine-Wichita in 1997. Dr. Johnson is a board-certified orthopedic surgeon currently practicing at the Orthopedic Sports Health Clinic of Salina. Ryan Payne, MD – Lead Instructor Urology Dr. Ryan Payne is a 2000 graduate of Kansas State University, where he majored in chemical engineering. He then started his medical studies at the University of Kansas, graduating with a M.D. in 2004. After medical school, Dr. Payne completed an intern year in general surgery and a residency in urology at the Medical College of Wisconsin in Milwaukie. Dr. Payne has been a member of Salina Urology Associates since 2009. He is board certified in urology and a Clinical Assistant Professor of Surgery at Kansas University School of Medicine. KU School of Medicine-Salina KU School of Medicine-Salina Health Education Center 138 N. Santa Fe Salina, KS 67401 Phone: 785-822-0400 KU School of Medicine-Salina Facebook page Make a Gift 3901 Rainbow Boulevard, Kansas City, KS 66160 | 913-588-5000 About Calendar News Equal Opportunity Statement Careers Facebook opens in new tab Twitter opens in new tab YouTube opens in new tab Instagram opens in new tab LinkedIn opens in new tab © 2022 The University of Kansas prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, ethnicity, religion, sex, national origin, age, ancestry, disability, status as a veteran, sexual orientation, marital status, parental status, gender identity, gender expression, and genetic information in the university's programs and activities. Retaliation is also prohibited by university policy. Inquiries regarding our non-discrimination policies should be directed to the Director for the Equal Opportunity & Academic Compliance Office, Mail Stop 7004, 4330 Shawnee Mission Parkway, Fairway, KS 66205, 913-588-5964, 711 TTY (for the Wichita, Salina, and Kansas City, Kansas medical center campuses). Inquiries regarding the University Sexual Harassment Policy should be directed to the Title IX Coordinator at 913-588-8011. Free Expression Statement | Privacy Statement | Notice of Privacy Practices | Consumer Information We use cookies to analyze our traffic & provide social media features. Visit the KU Medical Center Privacy Statement for more information. By closing this window & browsing this site, you agree to our use of cookies.