Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Prospective Newly Admitted Current Alumni Columbia University School of General Studies Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Admissions Educational Financing Academics Student Services About Undergraduate Admissions How to Apply Eligibility Application Deadlines and Decisions Information Sessions/Campus Visits Transfer Students Postbac Premed Admissions How to Apply Eligibility Application Deadlines and Decisions Information Sessions/Campus Visits Newly Admitted Students International Students Planning Day Placement Exams University-Wide Placement Exams U.S. Military Veterans International Dual Degree Programs Types of Financial Aid Institutional Scholarships Federal and State Grants Loans Private Scholarships and Grants Student Employment Financial Aid for Military Veterans Post-9/11 GI Bill® and the Yellow Ribbon Program Veterans Request for Certification Cost of Attendance Applying for Financial Aid Prospective Students Newly Admitted Students Current Students University Employees Postbac Premed Students Counseling Appointments Enrollment Update Form Student Account Refunds Undergraduate The Core Curriculum Degree Fulfillment Course Listings Majors and Concentrations Research Opportunities Study Abroad Academic Calendar Postbac Premed Program Curriculum & Courses Sample Schedule Course Listings Preparatory Coursework Previously Completed Coursework Glide Year Master’s Programs Academic Calendar Applying to Medical School General Admission Linkage Admission Linkage Specific Program Requirements Reapplicants Letters of Recommendation Academic Policies Registration Enrollment and Courseload Leaves and Withdrawals Academic Integrity and Standards Faculty of Arts and Sciences Undergraduate Announcements Postbac Premed Announcements Academic Advising Academic Resource Center Programs & Services Jumpstart Series Tutoring Peer Advising Campus Services Forms and Guides Graduation Health and Wellness Housing International Students Medical School Fair Planning Your Future Accelerated Master's Programs Fellowships and Research Premedical Clinical and Research Positions Student Life Leadership Development Multicultural & Social Justice Education Programs Student Organizations Upcoming Events Veterans Resources and Initiatives Leadership Mission History Statistics and Facts Notable Alumni University Policies Events Staff Directory Faculty News Press Coverage Media Inquiries School of General Studies You are here: Home Educational Financing Applying for Financial Aid Applying for Aid | Prospective Undergraduate Students Applying for Aid | Prospective Undergraduate Students Applying for Aid | Prospective Undergraduate Students Approximately 70 percent of all undergraduate GS students receive some form of financial aid. We are pleased that you are considering the Columbia University School of General Studies to continue your education. We know that a Columbia education is a significant investment, and are committed to working with you to provide an aid package specifically tailored to your financial situation. Once you have been admitted to GS, the Office of Educational Financing will be available to counsel you on managing your educational costs. For a list of commonly-used financial aid terms, please reference the Financial Aid Definitions page. For information about financial aid for Postbac Premed students, visit Types of Financial Aid. Scholarships are awarded to students with demonstrated financial need and are influenced by academic achievement. Prospective students are encouraged to apply for financial aid when completing an admissions application, and are strongly encouraged to apply for admission by the Early Action deadlines. Financial Aid Deadlines Fall Early Action March 1 Complete the CSS Profile (all students) and the FAFSA if you are applying for institutional aid. Students who are not a US Citizen or Permanent Resident, who would like to apply for institutional aid, should only complete the CSS Profile. Note: While completing the CSS Profile, students aged 36+ by December 31 are not required to provide parental income data. June 1 Complete the FAFSA if you are applying for federal and/or state aid, but not institutional aid. June 30* Complete the Tuition Assistance Program (TAP) application if you are a New York State resident attending full time, and did not apply while completing the FAFSA. *Students are encouraged to apply between January and June to ensure funds will be available at the beginning of the fall semester. Fall Regular Decision June 1 Complete the CSS Profile and the FAFSA (US Citizens/Permanent Residents), if you are applying for institutional aid. Note: While completing the CSS Profile, students aged 36+ by December 31 are not required to provide parental income data. June 1 Complete the FAFSA if you are applying for federal or state aid, but not institutional aid. June 30* Complete the Tuition Assistance Program (TAP) application if you are a New York State resident attending full time, and did not apply while completing the FAFSA. *Students are encouraged to apply between January and June to ensure funds will be available at the beginning of the fall semester. Spring Early Action October 1* Complete the CSS Profile and the FAFSA (US Citizens/Permanent Residents), if you are applying for institutional aid. Note: While completing the CSS Profile, students aged 36+ by December 31 are not required to provide parental income data. October 1* Complete the FAFSA if you are applying for federal or state aid, but not institutional aid. *While all applicants who apply by the October 1 deadline will receive financial aid consideration, it is recommended that spring-semester applicants apply for aid as early as possible. November 1* Complete the Tuition Assistance Program (TAP) application if you are a New York State resident attending full time, and did not apply while completing the FAFSA. *Students are encouraged to apply by November to ensure funds will be available at the beginning of the spring semester. Spring Regular Decision November 1* Complete the CSS Profile and the FAFSA (US Citizens/Permanent Residents), if you are applying for institutional aid. Note: While completing the CSS Profile, students aged 36+ by December 31 are not required to provide parental income data. November 1* Complete the FAFSA if you are applying for federal or state aid, but not institutional aid. *While all applicants who apply by the November 1 deadline will receive financial aid consideration, it is recommended that spring-semester applicants apply for aid as early as possible. November 1* Complete the Tuition Assistance Program (TAP) application if you are a New York State resident attending full time, and did not apply while completing the FAFSA. *Students are encouraged to apply by November to ensure funds will be available at the beginning of the spring semester. For information about financial aid for Postbac Premed students, visit Types of Financial Aid. Contact Information GS Office of Educational Financing 408 Lewisohn Hall 2970 Broadway New York, NY 10027 (212) 854-5410 [email protected] Hours Monday - Friday: 9 a.m. - 5 p.m. Schedule an Appointment Payment and Account Inquiries Columbia University Student Financial Services 205 Kent Hall 1140 Amsterdam Avenue New York, NY 10027 (212) 854-4400 http://askus.columbia.edu Hours Monday - Friday: 9 a.m. - 5 p.m. (Cashiering windows in 210 Kent Hall close at 4 p.m. daily) Work-Study Program Work-Study Office 210 Kent Hall (212) 854-6232 [email protected] Hours Monday - Friday: 9 a.m. - 5 p.m. Admissions Undergraduate Admissions Postbac Premed Admissions Newly Admitted Students U.S. Military Veterans International Dual Degree Programs Educational Financing Types of Financial Aid Financial Aid for Military Veterans Cost of Attendance Applying for Financial Aid Counseling Appointments Enrollment Update Form Student Account Refunds Academics Undergraduate Postbac Premed Program Applying to Medical School Academic Policies Faculty of Arts and Sciences Student Services Undergraduate Announcements Postbac Premed Announcements Academic Advising Academic Resource Center Campus Services Forms and Guides Graduation Health and Wellness Housing International Students Medical School Fair Planning Your Future Premedical Clinical and Research Positions Student Life Veterans Resources and Initiatives About Leadership Mission History Statistics and Facts Notable Alumni University Policies Events Staff Directory Faculty News Press Coverage Media Inquiries Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close