Global Navigation ISU News Store Contact Us Offices Iowa State University Hello Visitor! Log In or Register Home Celebrating 100 Years in Every County by mollyd | Fri, 07/06/2012 - 08:20 In 1903, a group of Sioux County farmers cooperated with Iowa State University to establish the "extension idea" - taking the land-grant college to the people. In 2003, Iowa State University celebrated 100 years of ISU Extension and Outreach helping Iowans become their best. Beginning in 2012, and over the next several years, county extension offices throughout the state will celebrate their 100 year milestones of organized extension work and the hiring of their first county agents. Iowa State University Extension and Outreach will continue to carry Iowa State’s land-grant mission beyond campus, to be the university that best serves the citizens of Iowa over the next 100 years and beyond. We serve as a 99-county campus, connecting the needs of Iowans with Iowa State University research and resources. We provide education and partnerships designed to solve today’s problems and prepare for the future. Join us as we celebrate these county centennials. View photos of centennial celebrations on our Facebook page. Click on a county in the map below to visit the county web page. Share | Select LanguageEnglishSpanish Primary Links Block Home Disaster Recovery Events Conference Planning Statewide Calendar Upcoming Conferences Educational Areas 4-H Youth Development Agriculture and Natural Resources Community & Economic Development Human Sciences About Us About ISU Extension County Services Faculty and Staff Directory County Services Finance Finance Diversity and Civil Rights Jobs Leadership Team Office of the Vice President Professional Development Program Development and Evaluation Iowa State University Extension and Outreach, (800) 262-3804, 2150 Beardshear Hall, Ames, IA 50011-2031 Copyright © 2022 Iowa State University | Contact Us | Policies | State & National Extension Partners | For Staff | Website Log In