What Pitt is Doing News Pitt Sustainability Plan Campus Initiatives Education & Research Pitt Climate Action Plan Pitt Sustainability Dashboard What You Can Do Get Active Events "Pitt Green" Designations Recycling, Compost, Zero Waste Funding & Career Opportunities Learn More Pitt Green Guide Sustainability Reports Resources Pitt & Pittsburgh Contact Search Back Menu Close What Pitt is Doing News Pitt Sustainability Plan Campus Initiatives Education & Research Pitt Climate Action Plan Pitt Sustainability Dashboard What You Can Do Get Active Events "Pitt Green" Designations Recycling, Compost, Zero Waste Funding & Career Opportunities Learn More Pitt Green Guide Sustainability Reports Resources Pitt & Pittsburgh Contact Search Creating a Thriving Culture of Sustainability The University of Pittsburgh defines “sustainability” as balancing equity, environment, & economics so current and future generations can thrive. Keeping this in focus, Pitt is actively involved in sustainability initiatives and practices across disciplines, domains, and scales — including a commitment to carbon neutrality by 2037. From business operations to research collaborations to fostering vibrant student groups and activism to master planning, Pitt is earning a strong reputation for its culture of sustainability across the nation. Join us and follow along as we continually challenge the status quo to create sustainable solutions, actions, strategies, and opportunities for students, faculty, staff, our campuses, and Western Pennsylvania. Every person and decision matters; we welcome your help and encourage you to get involved! Don’t know where to start? Curious to know what these icons mean? Take Quiz Interested in joining us? Get Involved Today Featured NewsSee all News + Pitt Climate Action Plan Explore Pitt’s first Climate Action Plan, charting a course to carbon neutrality by 2037. Pitt’s Water Collaboratory Selected to Host Southwestern Pennsylvania Water Network Hosting the SWPA Water Network at Pitt will be a collaboration of the Water Collaboratory, CONNECT, & Western PA Regional Data Center Tree Campus Certification Received for Pittsburgh Campus The University's Pittsburgh campus has been nationally recognized as a Tree Campus for the first time! 2022-23 MCSI Sustainability Research & Education Grant Recipients Pitt faculty awarded 2022-2023 MCSI sustainability research, education, & outreach grants. Explore Sustainability Initiatives on Campus Show me the map GET ACTIVE TIPSSee all Tips + Hydration Stations Pitt has water bottle refilling stations throughout campus for easy access to a refill and to encourage reusable beverage containers. BYO[Bag] Bring your own bag instead of paying a 25¢ bag fee and help the environment. This program has prevented over 770,000 single-use plastic bags from being used on campus—a 95% reduction! Compostables on Campus You can compost on Pitt’s campus at a number of locations across campus. Learn more about what you can compost and where. Did you know Pitt is addressing sustainability through 15 impact areas? Learn more UPCOMING EVENTSSee all Events + Jun 15 Phipps Nature of Place Symposium – The Voice of Change Join Phipps Conservatory virtually June 15 – 17 for their Jun 15-17 | 12pm-1pm | Virtual Jun 26 Open Streets PGH OpenStreetsPGH 2022 is set to take over city streets on Jun 26 | 10am-2pm | Sep 12 Bike to Campus Week Sep 12-16 | Sign up for our e-newsletter Signup Search Pitt.edu Office of Sustainability Mascaro Center for Sustainable Innovation Facilities Management Student Office of Sustainability University of Pittsburgh 153 Benedum Hall Pittsburgh, PA 15261 sustainability@pitt.edu