Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Engineering Project Management Certificate (Graduate) You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Engineering Project Management Certificate (Graduate) Apply Request More Info Engineering Project Management Certificate (Graduate) Admissions Information Graduate Certificate in Engineering Project Management Gain the expertise needed to oversee specific leadership challenges with the Engineering Project Management Graduate Certificate in Temple’s College of Engineering. This nine-credit graduate certificate program is designed to enhance the critical management skills of working engineering professionals and those who are pursuing careers in the field. The objective of engineering management is to incorporate the technical skills related to engineering with the administrative skills of management in order to oversee engineering projects from start to finish. In addition to traditional project management techniques, this program provides in-depth knowledge of Agile project methodologies. You will acquire a deeper understanding of how organizations function and learn how to develop ideas and solutions collaboratively in a team environment. You will also build strength in financial analysis and receive training in a variety of project management tools, so you can effectively plan and execute large-scale efforts. The Engineering Project Management Certificate provides the experience and practical knowledge to excel in an array of relevant professional roles, including civil engineering manager, construction manager and mechanical engineering manager. Clear Path to a Master’s Degree The Engineering Project Management Certificate can be stacked with two other nine-credit graduate certificates to culminate in a Master of Engineering. Students who choose this path are also required to complete a capstone project that integrates skills from each of their chosen certificate programs. Among the programs that may be stacked are the following. Advanced Manufacturing/Robotics Cybersecurity Engineering Management New Product Development Questions about this master’s path may be directed to gradengr@temple.edu. Classes & Curriculum Courses for the Engineering Project Management Graduate Certificate are offered in 1.5-credit formats whenever possible, making this program a cost-effective alternative to other continuing education and professional development options. The program comprises the following required courses. Agile Project Management Financial Management for Technologists Project Management–Execution, Monitor, and Control Project Management Overview and Project Management Essentials Project Manager, Teams and Stakeholder Management Project Scheduling, Estimating and Resources Learn more about courses and requirements for the Engineering Project Management Certificate. Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Graduate Certificate offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $1,184.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,546.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Student Diversity The College of Engineering reflects the diversity that has always been a hallmark of life at Temple. With students from all 50 states, 129 countries and with cultural backgrounds of all kinds, Temple’s classrooms are enriched with countless perspectives, giving students a global point of view across disciplines and fields, and strengthening bonds that encourage success among students. As a community, Temple’s shared responsibility is to enhance the quality of life for all members of the Temple community, providing a safe, supportive and welcoming environment in which to learn, work and grow. Our Advisors A faculty advisor will guide you in navigating the curriculum and selecting the appropriate coursework to achieve your academic and professional goals. A graduate student advisor will also be available to help you with scheduling, policies and procedures to assure your smooth passage through the program. Program Contact If you have any questions about our graduate programs, the admissions process or other general inquiries, do not hesitate to contact us. Phone: 215-204-7800 Email: gradengr@temple.edu EN-EPM-GRAD Additional Program Information Available online. Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Engineering Project Management Certificate (Graduate) Admissions Information Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info