Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Explore Brown University Search Global Navigation Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Home About Us Administrative Core Computational Biology Core Research and Awards Events Site Navigation Home About Us Infrastructure News People Administrative Core Computational Biology Core Project Leads Pilot Awardees Mentors Internal Advisory Committee External Advisory Committee Alumni Administrative Core Computational Biology Core Research and Awards Pilot Awards Funding Opportunities COBRE CBHD Phase 2 Renewal RFA Institutional Pilot Award Proposal Request 7/1/20 - 2/28/21 Proposal FAQ Events Center for Computational Biology of Human Disease The COBRE Center for Computational Biology of Human Disease embraces the age of genomics medicine from an explicitly data-driven, computational perspective. By building a collaborative Center of empirical and computational scientists, we advance new discoveries, algorithms, and genomic screening approaches with direct relevance to several human diseases. This is consistent with NIH's mission of supporting bioinformatics and computational biology to advance all areas of biomedicine. Computational Biology Core Open Office Hours The Computational Biology Core (CBC) has Open Office Hours for bioinformatic and computational consulting every Wednesday 1:30-3:30 pm in the Biomedical Center, Room 405 located at 171 Meeting Street. CBC staff is available to guide you with analyses of genomic-scale data sets such as RNA-, ChIP-, or ATAC-seq, genome/exome SNP calling, microbiome analyses, etc. Please complete the google form to help us manage staffing for the office hours. If you are not able to come during the scheduled office hours, please contact us at [email protected]. Computational Biology Core Services CBC Hosts IPA Lunch & Learn Seminar Monday, November 18, 2019 12:00 - 2:00 pm Seminar 2:00 - 3:00 pm Q&A LOCATION: 70 Ship Street, Room 107 Read More Computational and Analytical Methodologies The center will evolve a culture where computational expertise and biological research are blended within each research group, and not siloed into distinct collaborating teams. Students and postdocs in Sohini Ramachandran’s lab are developing new computational and analytical methodologies to identify risk genes for leukemia that differ in incidence across ethnic groups and genders. PEGASUS: the Precise, Efficient Gene Association Score Using SNPs PEGASUS is a freely available software package, released by Nakka et al. (2016, Genetics), for combining SNP-level p-values into gene scores and conducting gene-level association tests with a phenotype of interest. PEGASUS computes gene scores of association analytically and produces gene scores with as much as 10 orders of magnitude higher numerical precision than competing methods. Message from the Director David Rand, PhD Director of COBRE Center for Computational Biology of Human Disease Co-Director of Computational Biology Core Welcome to the Brown University COBRE Center for Computational Biology of Human Disease. We are grateful to the National Institute of General Medical Sciences (NIGMS) for the support to establish this Center and allow us to build a computational biology infrastructure for the greater Brown and hospital environments that will benefit the study of human disease across all of Rhode Island. This Center provides a centralized service to assist researchers in computational, bioinformatic, and data management challenges of analyzing large data sets made available by modern "omics" technologies. In addition, this funding will support the research activities of junior investigators to ensure their transition to stand-alone extramurally funded research scientists. We use an innovative joint mentoring process, where each junior faculty member is advised by both computational and biological or clinical senior faculty members. In addition, staff in our Computational Biology Core will be active members of each of these laboratory groups to better integrate all phases of the research activities. Featured Research Incorporating Ethnic and Gender Disparities in Genomic Studies of Disease Sohini Ramachandran, PHD Manning Assistant Professor of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology Computational Genomics of Preeclampsia Alper Uzun, PHD Assistant Professor of Pediatric Research Spatial and Functional Organization of Intestinal Microbiome Shipra Vaishnava, PHD Assistant Professor of Molecular Microbiology and Immunology See All Research Projects COBRE Center for Computational Biology of Human Disease COBRE Center for Computational Biology of Human Disease Brown University Box Box G-W101 80 Waterman Street Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-6275 Email [email protected] Acknowledgment Research reported in this publication was supported by an Institutional Development Award (IDeA) from the National Institute of General Medical Sciences of the National Institutes of Health under grant number P20GM109035. Brown University Giving to Brown Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA 401-863-1000 Contact Us Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility All Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top