Skip to main content Search form Search Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers Contact Give About Search Menu Public Health Now News Events Publications Topics Student Voices Celebrating the Centennial Our Work to Address COVID-19 Columbia Public Health Magazine Academics Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy & Procedures Office of Education Research Featured Research Global Health Centers Programs Grants & Awards Corporate Partnerships People Our Faculty Current Students Friends and Supporters Partners Alumni Become a Student Meet Our Faculty Life & Community Degree Finder How to Apply Career Services More Information Master of Public Health Degree Programs Certificate Program Core Curriculum Search You are here Home About Winter Storm Update/Impacts to Campus and Services Last Updated 12:50pm Fri May 6 See Coronavirus Updates for information on campus protocols. About Since 1922, the Mailman School has been at the forefront of public health research, education, and community collaboration. Addressing everything from chronic disease to HIV/AIDS to healthcare policy, the School tackles today’s pressing public health issues, translating research into action. about-1500x632-1.jpg History For 100 years, the Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health has been a global leader in advancing education, research, and practice to prevent disease and disability and improve the health of entire populations. Read More word_art_1500_900.png about-1500x632-2.jpg about-1500x632-3.jpg about-1500x632-4.jpg about-1500x632-5.jpg Mission & History Dean Linda P. Fried Facts & Figures Board of Advisors Fact Sheets Leadership Team From the Dean "We have reached a pivotal moment in public health. Columbia University’s Mailman School of Public Health provides countless opportunities to make a difference." Read more The Mailman Difference At the Mailman School of Public Health, we pursue an agenda of education, research, and service to address the critical and complex public health issues. Read more FORWARD Central to public health—and the Mailman School’s mission—is ensuring equal access to conditions that ensure health and well-being for all. Read more What is Public Health? Public health is the study and practice of assuring the conditions for people to be healthy. Read more Accreditation As a member of the Association of Schools & Programs of Public Health, the Mailman School of Public Health was reaccredited in 2010 and has begun the next process for reaccreditation. Read more Close Columnbia Mailman Connect with Us Public Health Now News Events Publications Topics Student Voices Academics Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy & Procedures Office of Education Research Featured Research Global Health Centers Programs Grants & Awards Corporate Partnerships People Our Faculty Current Students Friends and Supporters Partners Alumni Become a Student Meet Our Faculty Life & Community Degree Finder How to Apply Career Services More Information Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health | 722 West 168th St. NY, NY 10032 Site Map Privacy Columbia University Irving Medical Center Copyright © Columbia University 2019 Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers