Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Fogelman College - Scholarships Welcome Undergraduate Graduate External Apply UofM Scholarships FCBE Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Take Action FCBE Undergraduate Scholarships FCBE Graduate Scholarships Contact Us Return to FCBE Follow Us Online Facebooktwitter Home FCBE Scholarships FCBE Scholarships The Fogelman College of Business & Economics offers over 150 different private scholarships to declared business majors totaling over $350,000. These scholarships are available to incoming freshmen, transfer, continuing, graduate, and doctoral students each year. All FCBE scholarships are awarded for the academic year (fall and spring semesters only). Students are able to apply for two different types of scholarships, general business scholarships and departmental scholarships. We encourage students to apply for both types of scholarships as many high ability students are awarded scholarships from both categories. Please note that all scholarships within the Fogelman College of Business and Economics can be awarded in addition to any scholarship you may receive from the University. How To Apply | UofM Scholarship Website Tiger Scholarship Manager The Tiger Scholarship Manager (TSM) system provides a centralized, searchable database of all scholarship opportunities. This technology matches students to the financial resources they need to make their educational dreams a reality. The University handles most of the Fogelman College scholarships through the (TSM) system. Undergraduate Scholarships The Fogelman College of Business & Economics awards scholarship each year. All scholarships are awarded for the academic year (fall and spring semesters only). Scholarships are awarded based on information submitted on the UofM admission application and the Tiger Scholarship Manager application. For priority consideration, freshmen students should apply to the University of Memphis by December Graduate Scholarships The Fogelman College Graduate programs provides financial support to outstanding graduate students each year. These scholarships are awarded for the academic year (fall and spring semesters only). Thanks to the Dean's visions and generous donors, we are able to offer competitive scholarships. Important Things to Remember All Business Students interested in applying for these college-specific scholarships should visit our How To Apply page. If you do not receive a scholarship the first time you apply, you are still encouraged to reapply the next year. Awarding of any scholarship depends upon the availability of funds. Assuming you meet the requirements you may apply for more than one scholarship. If you do not meet the requirements or fail to complete all sections of the application, you will be eliminated from the selection process. Students should display a solid academic performance in their graduate courses. All students must have officially declared their business major by the scholarship deadline of a future date to be determined. For more information regarding Fogelman College Scholarships, contact us. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 5/9/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.