Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries College Access and Success Certificate (Graduate) You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs College Access and Success Certificate (Graduate) Apply Visit Request More Info College Access and Success Certificate (Graduate) Admissions Information Our Faculty College Access and Success Graduate Certificate Prepare for the ever-changing landscape of postgraduate education with the College Access and Success Graduate Certificate at Temple University. Serving as a critical bridge that helps higher education professionals develop marketable skills and competencies, this certificate’s coursework challenges norms by placing significant emphasis on urban issues and themes of college access, affordability and equity in higher and postgraduate education. Delivery Method The College Access and Success Certificate (Graduate) program can be completed entirely in an online format. Classes & Curriculum In order to complete the College Access and Success Certificate (Graduate) program, students must take the following four courses. Access and Equity in Higher Education Diversity Issues in Higher Education Getting into College: Strategic Enrollment Management The Costs of College Learn more about classes offered within the innovative College Access and Success Certificate (Graduate) curriculum. Who Might be Interested? This graduate certificate is open to Temple students and employees, as well as outside professionals, interested in advancing their knowledge and skills by exploring the urban education experience and investigating themes of equity and access in higher education. Related Graduate Degrees Higher Education EdD Higher Education MEd PhD in Policy and Organizational Studies with a concentration in Higher Education Related Graduate Certificates Digital Education Leadership Diversity Leadership Institutional Effectiveness Student Affairs Leadership Teaching in Higher Education Voluntary Internships Internships give you opportunities to get hands-on experience, refine your understanding of your coursework and make professional contacts who can assist your future career development. Internships are voluntary experiences that take place outside of the program curriculum: students do not receive credit for internships. Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Graduate Certificate offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $966.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,329.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Program Contact Joseph Paris, assistant professor of instruction, is the faculty program contact for the College Access and Success Certificate (Graduate). Phone: 215-204-2810 Email: joseph.paris@temple.edu Our Advisors A faculty program coordinator provides academic support and helps students navigate the certificate program. Questions For more information about this program, the College of Education and Human Development, how to apply for admission, and your application status, contact Enrollment Management. Enrollment Management Ritter Annex 150 1301 Cecil B. Moore Ave. Philadelphia, PA 19122 Phone: 215-204-8011 Email: educate@temple.edu ED-CAS-GRAD Additional Program Information Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in College Access and Success Certificate (Graduate) Admissions Information Our Faculty Apply Visit Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Visit Request More Info