Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Charles Library You are here Home About Libraries Charles Library Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Preferred Name Use Pronoun Use and Gender Identity Temple Thought Leaders Housing & Dining Health & Wellness COVID-19: Keeping Our Community Safe & Healthy COVID-19 FAQ Testing & Tracing Vaccines Academics, Tuition & Aid Temple HEERF III Grant Student Housing & On-campus Life Work-life for Faculty & Staff Faculty Teaching Information Return Scenario Planning Temple Community Health Advisory Group University Communication Vaccination Rates and Active COVID-19 Cases at Temple University International Campuses and Programs City Life Philadelphia Visiting Temple Accommodations Dining Options Religious Services Information FAQs Safety Main Campus and Philadelphia Safety FAQ Contact Temple RAVE Temple Guardian App Community Programs and Research University News Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Campus Life Arts and Culture Clubs and Organizations Housing, Dining and OWLcards Parking and Transportation Safety Student Banking Student Centers Wireless, Computers and Phone Academics Advising and Academic Support Courses and Calendars International Students Libraries Registration, Grades and Books Schools and Colleges Health and Wellness Athletics and Fitness Health and Counseling Tuition and Financial Aid Financial Aid Tuition and Billing Careers and Internships Career Center Internships Student Jobs Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees Presidential Search President University Leadership Board of Trustees Updates Past Presidents 2019 State of the University History & Traditions Russell Conwell Temple Traditions Acres of Diamonds Honorary Degrees Past Honorary Degree Recipients Temple Health News & Media Media Mentions Temple University Wallpapers Temple's Impact Career in Charitable Change Fueled by Temple Experiences Advancing Breast Cancer Research Leaders in HIV Research 21st-century Learning Temple Firsts Paving the Way Medical & Community Support Student Support Contact members of Strategic Marketing and Communications Offices Public Information Facts About Temple Faculty & Staff Resources Working at Temple Calendars and Time Off Holiday Schedule Careers at Temple Human Resources Performance and Training Business Services Catering Exception Policy Double Tree Catering/ Conferences Contact Frequently Asked Questions Trademark Licensing Policy Corporate Responsibility Logo and Graphics Guide Guidelines for Trademark Use The Student, Faculty and Staff Guide to Ordering Licensed Temple Products Becoming Licensed Trademark and Licensing FAQ Where to Buy Temple Gear University-approved Hotels Club Quarters DoubleTree Hotel Hilton Garden Inn Hilton Philadelphia at Penn's Landing Loews Hotel Sonesta Philadelphia The Conwell Inn Campus Services Computers, Email and Phones Conferences and Meetings Health Sciences Center Form Main Campus Meeting Space Howard Gittis Student Center Form Documents & Insurance Facilities and Space ID Cards Parking and Transportation Faculty Resources Calendars, Schedules and Grades Courses and Curricula Instructional Resources Faculty Senate and News Research and Grants Finance and Travel Accounting and Budget Employee Banking and Finance Tuition Remission Travel and Expenses Wellness and Safety Fitness and Health Safety and Alerts Campus Development Frequently Asked Questions Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Data Integrity and Data Verification Unit In-scope Materials Quick Reference Guide Rankings Data Overview and Updates Additional Resources Frequently Asked Questions FAQ: Fox School of Business MBA rankings Enterprise Risk Management Key Terms and Definitions Helpline Frequently Asked Questions Resources Compliance With the Four Pillars Who We Are Libraries Charles Library The library of the future is here Since 1884, Temple University has been committed to challenging the status quo in higher education—Charles Library embodies that continued commitment. Charles was born out of a unique vision of a library that is more than a home for book stacks, study spaces and research materials. The vision was a 21st century library that is a source of inspiration, an incubator for ideas, and a center for engagement and collaboration. Charles is all of these things and more. Photo Gallery View slideshow as list Close 1/7 2/7 3/7 4/7 5/7 6/7 7/7 Experience Charles Library Located at the intersection of Polett and Liacouras walks, Charles Library is truly the centerpiece of our university. This state-of-the-art learning center is transforming our campus with its striking design and sophisticated technology. It’s the most modern library in Pennsylvania and one of the most significant new libraries in North America. It’s a place where all Temple students and faculty, regardless of discipline, can study, learn, create and collaborate. The library boasts an impressive collection of high-demand volumes available in traditional stacks, and additional books available via an automated storage and retrieval system known as the BookBot. Located underneath Charles, the cutting-edge technology increases usability, allowing for more open space in the library where faculty and students can gather and work, while still providing easy access to the library's extensive collection. With Charles Library, we are catapulting Temple University and the City of Philadelphia to a higher position of global leadership. Chancellor Richard M. Englert A center for collaboration Creativity thrives when people come together—a principle upon which Charles was founded. Across Temple’s schools and colleges, we’re united in our mission to create real change in the world. Charles provides a space where walls dissolve, interests align and minds come together to amplify our collective contributions to that mission. Each of Charles’ four floors offers unique collaboration capabilities. With flexible group study and conference rooms, presentation practice studios, ample seating and open spaces, the library is designed to physically bring people together. And as Philadelphia's public university, this library is more than a resource for Temple students—it’s a modern day public square for all Philadelphians. Charles truly belongs to all of us. In more ways than one, Charles is the heart of the Temple community—uniting all of us on common ground. A hub of innovation As digital technology continues to change how we learn, research, communicate and create, students need to have places where they feel anything is possible. Every aspect of this library was designed for today’s world and students. Charles’ incubator-like environment offers everything needed to push the boundaries of research, teaching and learning. The Scholars Studio offers a makerspace with 3D printing capabilities, high-end computing and a virtual reality studio. Study and group workspaces are designed to adapt to student needs, from computer rentals and flexible furniture to technology that allows users to project digital content from personal devices. By bridging traditional research and digital transformation, Charles is redefining learning and teaching in the 21st century. This library inspires me because it’s designed for the kind of collaboration that people do today. It embodies the aspirations and discovery that will make Temple a premier urban university for generations to come. Trustee Steve Charles, KLN ’80 Tomorrow is ours Temple University is an unstoppable force driven by curiosity, collaboration, innovation and an intrepid spirit. As part our global transformation, we’ve seen the rise of Charles Library, Morgan Hall, the Science Education Research Center and the STAR Complex, along with the renovation of the Temple Performing Arts Center. We’ve also entered into a partnership with Showa Women’s University in Tokyo to create a new campus for Temple University Japan. The Temple community is always looking ahead and moving forward—here in Philadelphia and beyond—and Charles is emblematic of that momentum. More than a library, Charles is set to become a cultural destination for Temple, Philadelphia and the region. It's an investment that our students, faculty, local alumni and community members will benefit from for generations to come. Library Resources & Features First Floor Stella’s Cafe, serving La Colombe coffee The Albert M. Greenfield Special Collections Research Center Reading Room One-stop assistance desk 24/7 study area Exhibition and event space Second Floor BookBot viewing area Student Success Center Instruction rooms Third Floor The Loretta C. Duckworth Scholars Studio Periodical Reading Room Student Success Center Fourth Floor Faculty and Graduate Study Fourth Floor Reading Room Traditional open stacks Terrace and green roof Charles Library Hours and Information View library hours. Go back to AboutMore in Libraries Charles Library Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community.