Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Office of Professional & Continuing Education Continuing Education right arrow down arrow Contact Us OLLI right arrow down arrow About OLLI right arrow down arrow Locations Contact Us History, Mission & Vision Board of Trustees FAQs Classes & Registration Member Resources right arrow down arrow Member Handbook Class Handouts Teach for OLLI right arrow down arrow Moderator Info and Resources Support right arrow down arrow OLLI Donors Communiversity right arrow down arrow COURSES right arrow down arrow Arts & Handicrafts right arrow down arrow Floral Arranging Beginning Stained Glass Frame Loom Weaving Mosaics Wire Jewelry: Earrings Drawing Comics Learn to Crochet Art History at CAM Candlemaking Industrial Sewing Intro to Stained Glass Learn to Knit 1 & 2 Sketchbook Workshop Woodworking Computerized Woodworking Soldering & Circuits Laser Cutting & Engraving Soap Making Embroidery Summer Anklet Jewelry Mixed Media Acrylic Painting Color Mixing Intro to Watercolor Paint the Masters: Monet Paint the Masters: Renoir Paint the Masters: Van Gogh Painting Your Pet's Portrait Plein Air Painting Watercolor Florals Drawing Level 1 & 2 Music & Dance right arrow down arrow Ukulele : Level 1 & 2 Guitar: Level 1 & 2 Argentine Tango Dance Fiddling: Level 1 & 2 Mandolin: Level 1 & 2 Country Two-Step Wedding Dance Workshop Belly Dance Special Interest & History right arrow down arrow Cincinnati's Lost Architects Detective Series: 60s Murders History of FBI Cincinnati Chili Pyramid Hill Riding Tour Civil War: Morgan's Raid Cincinnati Mural Tour Photography right arrow down arrow Smartphone Photography 1 & 2 Photography: Level 1 & 2 Intermediate Photography Photo Retouching Fitness & Health right arrow down arrow Tai Chi Zumba & Bootcamp Lite Posture: Alexander Technique Belly Dancing Personal Development right arrow down arrow Insight Meditation Introduction to Voice Overs Makeup for Summer Journaling for Stress Relief How to Buy a Used Car Improv! Acting Personal Colors for Fashion Create Life You Love Personal Energy System Astrology Birthchart Care for Aging Skin Angel Cards Workshop Food & Drink right arrow down arrow Mozzarella Cheese Making Soft Cheese Making Sourdough Bread Making Winemaking at Home Feta Cheese Making Bourbon History & Tasting Home & Garden right arrow down arrow Organize Your Home Cactus & Succulent Centerpiece Staghorn Fern Wall Art Terrarium Lamps DIY Home Repairs Spring Ornithology Native Plant Tour Moss & Air Fern Wall Art Growing an Herb Garden Bees & Butterflies Habitat Garden Language right arrow down arrow Spanish: Level 1 Italian Level 1 & 2 Discover Sign Language Conversational French German: Level 1 & 2 English as a Second Language Sports right arrow down arrow Golf for All Levels Nature & Science right arrow down arrow Behind the Scenes at the Observatory Spring Birdwatching Cincinnati Moundbuilders Native Plant Tour Bees & Butterflies Habitat Garden Plants of Ohio Business & Finance right arrow down arrow Basic Computer Skills Financial Literacy Job Search Estate Planning Buying Your First Home Real Estate Investment Gift Certificates Travel right arrow down arrow Travel Health Travel Solo for Women Travel in Italy Lifelong Learning Online Ways to Register Location of Courses Frequently Asked Questions Suggest a Class Class Evaluation Teach a Class Test Prep right arrow down arrow LSAT TOEFL GRE/GMAT ACT SAT MCAT College Essay Writing CompTIA® Certification Prep Continuing Education for Teachers right arrow down arrow Arlitt Professional Educator Learning Series (APELS) Gifted Education Professional Development K-12 Blended & Beyond Teaching Learning Series Remote Teaching Learning Webinars Professional Development right arrow down arrow Healthcare & Fitness right arrow down arrow NASM Certified Personal Trainer Pharmacy Technician Certified Physical Therapy Aide Certified Nutrition Coach Business Management & Operations right arrow down arrow Lean Six Sigma Call Center Supervisor Certified Administrative Professional HVAC/R Training Marketing Technology Skills & Applications right arrow down arrow Adobe Certification Courses Microsoft Excel Google IT Support IT Fundamentals ITIL v4 Framework DevOps Certification Autodesk Revit Microsoft Power Platform School of IT: Tech Workforce Development right arrow down arrow Azure Cloud Technology Cybersecurity Bootcamp Networking Bootcamp Microsoft Excel Certification Project Management Certification (CAPM®) IMAP - Microcredentials Aspire Talent Acceleration Program right arrow down arrow For Employer Partners For Adult Learners Student Resources Home » About UC » Office of Professional and Continuing Education » Aspire Talent Acceleration Program » For Adult Learners Set Navigation title in component For Employer Partners For Adult Learners Student Resources For Adult Learners: Cincinnati Talent Acceleration Program (CTAP) Welcome! The Cincinnati Talent Acceleration Program (CTAP) is way for you to get the training you need to get a job in information technology quickly. And our career support will get you job-ready and connect you with prospective employers! Start your training to get a job in IT Apply for no-cost tuition at UC! APPLY NOW! The "APPLY NOW" button takes you to the application site where you will enter the words "University of Cincinnati" in the search bar and be directed to the application form. Here are the detailed steps: 1) Enter "University of Cincinnati" in the search bar. 2) Click on the blue "SELECT" button to bring up the green "START APPLICATION" button. 3) Click on the green "START APPLICATION" button. Once your application is reviewed, you will be contacted with more information on the program and what you need to do to finalize your enrollment. If you have questions, please contact us by Email and we'll be happy to help you. THIS PROGRAM IS FOR YOU IF: You are unemployed or underemployed and would like to get a better job. You are a working adult who would like to advance your academic and job skills. You need assistance with basic math, reading and writing skills. IN THE NEWS: CTAP STUDENT'S SUCCESS STORY Spectrum News 1 profiles Cincinnati Talent Acceleration Program October 18, 2021 The University of Cincinnati’s Cincinnati Talent Acceleration Program is providing nontraditional students with training in tech and a path to higher education, the Cincinnati Enquirer reported. Query for this We'll help you every step of the way, connecting you with support services. ABOUT THIS PROGRAM: Class are held online via Zoom. Program is to be completed in 15-weeks and includes a certification exam. Online class attendance is required: 10-15 hours/week in class, plus, 10 hours/week of additional study. Workforce preparation courses includes exploring careers in technology, digital literacy, and connecting with employers through job shadowing, full- or part-time placements and/or apprenticeships. Earn a CTAP digital badge and at least 1 technology-related credential. Adult Education courses included: English, Language Arts, and Literacy right arrow down arrow The English and Language Arts (ELA) content areas include Reading, Writing, Speaking and Listening, and Language. Literacy includes history/social studies, science, and technical subjects. Students will gain academic skills necessary for college, workforce training and life in a technological society. Mathematics right arrow down arrow The mathematics content areas include Numbers, Algebra, Geometry, and Data. Students will gain critical skills and knowledge expected and required for success in postsecondary education/training and employment in the 21st century. Technology Training courses included: NEXT Careers - Exploring the Careers of the Future right arrow down arrow An introduction and overview of all of the possibilities of a career in technology and how to get started. Students will learn professional and personal development skills and come to understand the critical link between education and careers. Students will also learn Microsoft digital literacy content and other learning technologies. Students will explore possible career pathways, resume reflection, and connect with local employers. After the first 4 weeks in the program, you will enroll in one of the following program tracks. TRACK 1 - IT Fundamentals (ITF+) right arrow down arrow The certification exam focuses on the essential IT skills and knowledge needed to perform tasks commonly performed by advanced end-users and entry-level IT professionals alike, including: Using features and functions of common operating systems and establishing network connectivity Identifying common software applications and their purpose Using security and web browsing best practices TRACK 2 - Google IT Support right arrow down arrow This program uses the Google IT Support Professional Certificate, developed by Google and hosted by the Coursera online learning platform. It is designed to prepare the learner for entry-level jobs in IT support. This program is broken up into 5 courses: Course 1: Technical Support Fundamentals Course 2: The Bits and Bytes of Computer Networking Course 3: Operating Systems and You: Becoming a Power User Course 4: System Administration and IT Infrastructure Services Course 5: IT Security: Defense Against the Digital Dark Arts Track 3: Microsoft Office Specialist right arrow down arrow The Microsoft Office Specialist Program provides industry-leading assessments of skills and knowledge through our new project-based testing, giving students and professionals real-world exercises to appraise their understanding of Microsoft Office. This program will prepare you for certifications in Word and Excel 2019 and Office 365. TRACK 4 - CompTIA A+ right arrow down arrow The CompTIA A+ Core Series requires candidates to pass two exams: Core 1 (220-1001) and Core 2 (220-1002) covering the following new content: Demonstrate baseline security skills for IT support professionals Configure device operating systems, including Windows, Mac, Linux, Chrome OS, Android and iOS and administer client-based as well as cloud-based (SaaS) software Troubleshoot and problem solve core service and support challenges while applying best practices for documentation, change management, and scripting Support basic IT infrastructure and networking Configure and support PC, mobile and IoT device hardware Implement basic data backup and recovery methods and apply data storage and management best practices About Your Instructors Emily Aleshire Mulvey Academic Skills Instructor aleshiem@ucmail.uc.edu Emily Aleshire Mulvey, M.A. is a Princeton Review-trained psychometrician who has worked as an educational consultant for 18 years. Emily teaches students the academic skills they need to be a success in college and in their careers. Larry Hodge Math Instructor hodgelb@mail.uc.edu Larry Hodge is a graduate of UC and the co-founder of Hodge EDU, LLC. He has been providing educational services for students in the Cincinnati area for over a decade, as he believes education is what empower's a student's dream. Montez Watson Technology Instructor watso2mk@mail.uc.edu Montez Watson is certified in CompTIA A+ and a graduate of the Community Action Agency's tech training program and UC's Azure programs. He understands the challenges students face in tech education and provides instruction and mentorship support. Tonkia Bridges "Coach Tee" bridgeti@mail.uc.edu Coach Tee is a passionate educator and found of NERDS, an organization to inspire the inner nerd in students and address their academic and social needs. She is a graduate of UC with degrees in Chemical Engineering/Tech and Educational Leadership. Kristen Sims Youth Employment Program Coordinator ksims@cincy-caa.org Kristen is an experienced technical support analyst and graduate of Per Scholas Ready IT Program. Kristen teaches CompTIA IT Fundamentals training instruction for entry-level IT positions. follow us on Twitter! If you have any questions, please reach out to us at: ctap@uc.edu University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-0000 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-0000 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top