Your browser does not support JavaScript! Your browser does not support JavaScript! Skip to main content Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Canvas | Webmail | Contact Us Request Info Apply Now eCourseware | Webmail | Contact Us Request Info Apply Now About UofM Global Learn More Rankings Accreditations Contact Us Degrees & Programs Undergraduate Graduate Certificates All Programs Complimentary Courses Admissions Apply Now Request Info Financial Aid Tuition & Fees Current Students Student Services & Support Register for Courses Graduation Home UofM Global About UofM Global Accreditation About UofM Global About UofM Global Ranked Online Degrees Accreditations Contact Us Need Help? Call 844-302-3886 Email Us Accreditations The University of Memphis is accredited by the Commission on Colleges of the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools (1866 Southern Lane, Decatur, Georgia 30033-4097, telephone number 404.679.4501) to award bachelor's, first professional, master's, educational specialist, doctoral degrees, and graduate certificates. Accreditation Requirements by Program > State Authorization Reciprocity Agreement (SARA) The UofM is authorized to deliver all of our online programs to students located outside of Tennessee through the federally recognized National Council for State Authorization Reciprocity Agreement (NC-SARA). Forty-nine states, excluding California, are members of NC-SARA. As a SARA institution, the UofM adheres to an established common set of standards for offering post-secondary distance education among member states, districts and territories. Participation in SARA is intended to make it easier for students to take online courses offered by post-secondary institutions based in another state and to have a process for resolving student complaints. During your course of studies via UofM Global, any complaint you may have should be communicated in textual form first to your instructor. If unresolved, you may register your complaint through the University Concern or Complaint web service. For students located in California, students with complaints that are unresolved via the University Concern or Complaint process may contact the California Department of Consumer Affairs. Authorization of distance education is a dynamic environment and prospective students should check this site often for updates. It is the student's responsibility to understand current circumstances or special requirements in their state of residence. For more information about SARA, please visit http://www.nc-sara.org/. Professional Licensure Important Note for Prospective Students: If you are considering an academic program that leads to a professional license or certification in your state, it is highly recommended that you first seek guidance from the appropriate licensing agency in your state and from the UofM academic department offering the program to determine if our program meets your state’s requirements. This should be done BEFORE beginning the academic program located outside your state. Important note for students interested in pursuing professional educator programs: Educator licensure and certification are regulated individually by State Departments of Education and no two are exactly alike. Students who seek admission to a UofM College of Education online program for endorsement or initial educator certification in their state should contact their state's Department of Education and the UofM offering department for applicable requirements rules and regulations. Student Code of Conduct and Complaint Resolution We greatly value our student experience and urge all students to adhere to the Student Code of Conduct. Please refer to this website for student expectations and student rights: Student Accountability When an issue is brought to our attention, the UofM will take appropriate action to seek resolution. Students are encouraged to pursue the UofM's internal grievance procedures for any complaint before contacting external sources for resolution. Often, it is the case that communication with the course instructor is the most direct route to resolving issues. If an issue cannot be resolved at that level, a student may contact the academic unit for guidance. If grievances are not satisfactorily resolved by the academic unit, students may file a formal complaint through the UofM Dean of Students. If grievances are not satisfactorily resolved after an internal attempt by the University, a complaint may be filed with an agency in the student's state of residence. About UofM Global Learn More Ranked Online Degrees Accreditations Contact Us Degrees and Programs Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Certificates Corporate Partners Complimentary Courses Admissions Apply Now Request Info Financial Aid Tuition & Fees Contact Us Tuition Financial Aid Students Canvas Student Services & Support SmartStart Learning Support Technology Support Advising Register for Courses Experiential Learning Credit Graduation Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 3/22/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.