Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Prospective Newly Admitted Current Alumni Columbia University School of General Studies Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Admissions Educational Financing Academics Student Services About Undergraduate Admissions How to Apply Eligibility Application Deadlines and Decisions Information Sessions/Campus Visits Transfer Students Postbac Premed Admissions How to Apply Eligibility Application Deadlines and Decisions Information Sessions/Campus Visits Newly Admitted Students International Students Planning Day Placement Exams University-Wide Placement Exams U.S. Military Veterans International Dual Degree Programs Types of Financial Aid Institutional Scholarships Federal and State Grants Loans Private Scholarships and Grants Student Employment Financial Aid for Military Veterans Post-9/11 GI Bill® and the Yellow Ribbon Program Veterans Request for Certification Cost of Attendance Applying for Financial Aid Prospective Students Newly Admitted Students Current Students University Employees Postbac Premed Students Counseling Appointments Enrollment Update Form Student Account Refunds Undergraduate The Core Curriculum Degree Fulfillment Course Listings Majors and Concentrations Research Opportunities Study Abroad Academic Calendar Postbac Premed Program Curriculum & Courses Sample Schedule Course Listings Preparatory Coursework Previously Completed Coursework Glide Year Master’s Programs Academic Calendar Applying to Medical School General Admission Linkage Admission Linkage Specific Program Requirements Reapplicants Letters of Recommendation Academic Policies Registration Enrollment and Courseload Leaves and Withdrawals Academic Integrity and Standards Faculty of Arts and Sciences Undergraduate Announcements Postbac Premed Announcements Academic Advising Academic Resource Center Programs & Services Jumpstart Series Tutoring Peer Advising Campus Services Forms and Guides Graduation Health and Wellness Housing International Students Medical School Fair Planning Your Future Accelerated Master's Programs Fellowships and Research Premedical Clinical and Research Positions Student Life Leadership Development Multicultural & Social Justice Education Programs Student Organizations Upcoming Events Veterans Resources and Initiatives Leadership Mission History Statistics and Facts Notable Alumni University Policies Events Staff Directory Faculty News Press Coverage Media Inquiries School of General Studies You are here: Home Educational Financing Cost of Attendance Cost of Attendance The cost of attendance is set by the University and approved by the Board of Trustees and represents a student's maximum eligibility for financial aid and consists of tuition and fees plus estimated living expenses. Because GS allows students to complete their degree or certificate program in a time and manner that works for them, there is no single figure that represents the cost of attendance. The information below is provided to help students calculate an estimated cost based on their proposed course load and living situation. For details about the below fees, visit the Student Financial Services website. The effective average cost of full-time attendance for the 2021-2022 academic year is as follows: Tuition per point: $1,948 Tuition for a 30-point program: $58,440 Tuition for 17 credits or more, per term: $33,116 Fees: Total fees vary based on enrollment status. Approximate cost of living (room and board) and personal expenses (books, local commuting costs, and miscellaneous expenses) for 9 month academic year: $26,010 Expand all Collapse all Tuition and Fees Tuition and fees are prescribed by statute and are subject to change at the discretion of the University Trustees. Undergraduate Tuition and Fees Postbac Premed Program Tuition and Fees Tuition and Fees Policies Personal Expenses The University advises students to open an account in one of the local banks as soon as they arrive in New York City. Since it often takes as long as three weeks for the first deposit to clear, students should cover immediate expenses by bringing travelers checks or a draft drawn on a local bank. University tuition and room rent may be paid by check. Payments University charges for tuition, fees, dining, and residence halls are due and payable in full, minus any authorized financial aid, by the end of the official Change of Program period, in accordance with the University Academic Calendar. Students who do not pay the full amount of any charge when due may be assessed a late payment fee. Student Account Statements and information describing billing and payment procedures are emailed before the beginning of each term. Thereafter, statements with outstanding balances are emailed approximately four times during the term. Holds It is the policy of the University to withhold registration privileges, diplomas, certificates, and transcripts until all financial obligations have been met. Candidates for graduation are urged to pay their bills in full at least one month prior to graduation. In the event that a diploma, certificate, or transcript is withheld because of an unpaid bill, students may be required to use a certified check, money order, or cash to release any of the aforementioned documents. Student Health Insurance Plan and Health Services Fee Payment of the Columbia Health and Related Services Fee and enrollment in the Columbia University Student Health Insurance Plan is compulsory for full-time students. Enrollment in the Columbia Health Insurance Plan is optional for part-time students however part-time students will still be required to pay a prorated Columbia Health and Related Services Fee. Domestic students may request a waiver from insurance enrollment by submitting proof of comparable coverage, but approval is not guaranteed. For benefits attainable under these plans, regulations governing waiver of participation, and additional information, visit the Columbia Health website. Part-time domestic students may enroll in the Student Health Insurance Plan, and must also pay the Health Service Fee in order to enroll in the insurance. The appropriate charges will be added to the Student Account Statement. International Students All international students, regardless of the number of enrolled points, will automatically be enrolled in the Columbia University Student Health Insurance Plan. For more information, visit the Columbia Health website. Insurance for Families Consult the Columbia Health website for information regarding the premiums for eligible dependents and instructions for enrollment. Withdrawal and Adjustment of Fees Students sometimes need to withdraw from a semester in progress for personal or academic reasons (see Leaves of Absence and Withdrawals for more information). A student may be permitted to withdraw from a semester in progress up until the last day of classes and before the completion of any courses taken that semester. Withdrawal means dropping all classes in a given term as opposed to dropping some classes. Students should consult with their GS advisors if they are thinking about withdrawing, as financial and academic consequences may apply. Multiple withdrawals can lead to a student's failure to make academic progress, which may result in suspension or dismissal. A student who intends to withdraw from a semester in progress must notify in writing their advisor in the GS Dean of Students Office. Notifying instructors or failing to attend classes does not constitute formal withdrawal. Any adjustment of tuition is calculated based on the date the Dean of Students Office receives the student's written notification. If a student withdraws after the change of program deadline, the University retains all fees and a percentage of the tuition, depending on the date of the withdrawal. In all cases, a withdrawal fee of $75 is assessed. For the complete tuition refund schedule, visit the Office of the University Registrar website. Note: The withdrawal fee is not included in the tuition exemption benefit for Columbia employees. Tuition Refund Schedule For the complete tuition refund schedule please refer to the Office of the University Registrar website. Student Life Fee Undergraduate Students All undergraduate students must pay the Student Life Fee, which is used to cover many of the services offered to students at the School of General Studies including student activities, athletics, information technology, and access to the Center for Career Education. This fee combines the Student Activity Fee, Career Education Fee, the Recreational Facilities Fee, Information Technology Fee (all students charged, including part-time,) and the Cross-Cutting Multi-School Activities Fee. Except for postgraduate special students, students registered at Reid Hall, or in another course of study away from the University, the Student Life Fee shall be charged, per term, as follows: Fall: $657 Spring: $741 Below is a breakdown of how this fee is distributed across the various services provided to you as a student: Student Activities Fee Fall 2021 $98 Spring 2022 $98 Printing Fall 2021 $40 Spring 2022 $40 Athletics Fall 2021 $176 Spring 2022 $260 Information Technology Fall 2021 $264 Spring 2022 $264 Lerner Hall Fall 2021 $31 Spring 2022 $31 Career Services Fall 2021 $45 Spring 2022 $45 Multi-School Activities Fall 2021 $3 Spring 2022 $3 Explanation of Benefits Student Activities Fee The Student Activities Fee directly funds the General Studies Student Council and all expenses related to their programming initiatives that serve the undergraduate student population at the School of General Studies. Athletics The athletics fee grants students free access to the Dodge Fitness Center and other initiatives and programs sponsored by the Department of Intercollegiate Athletics and Physical Education. Information Technology The information technology fee helps fund the student support services offered by CUIT (Columbia University Information Technology) including email and network support, SSOL, student computer labs, Courseworks, classroom technology, and the Help Desk. Center for Career Education The mission of the Center for Career Education is to help students and alumni develop the key competencies necessary to make informed decisions and take the necessary steps to achieve their career goals. The Center establishes connections and facilitates interaction among undergraduate students, graduate students, alumni, employers, and organizations to generate opportunities that help students pursue their personal and professional objectives. Cross-Cutting Multi-School Activities The Cross-Cutting Multi-School Activities Fee funds the Interschool Governing Board, which supports student organizations whose members are from all the undergraduate schools. Postbac Premed Students All Postbac Premed students must pay the Student Life Fee. This fee combines the Recreational Facilities Fee, Information Technology Fee (all students charged, including part-time,) the Lerner Fee and the Cross-Cutting Multi-School Activities Fee. It also includes the Student Activity Fee which directly funds the Postbac Premed Student Council (PPSC). This fee shall be charged as follows: Fall: $509 Spring: $593 Paying Your Tuition and Fees Enrolled students are billed by term. Students may view their account balance on Student Services Online (SSOL). Payment for the term is due by the end of the official Change of Program period, in accordance with the University Academic Calendar. Information about payment of tuition for summer courses may be found on the Columbia Summer website. Charges incurred throughout the term will be billed periodically and are due by the date listed on the Student Account Statement, available on SSOL. Payments are processed by Student Financial Services. For specific information on payment options, visit the Student Financial Services website. Living Expenses In order to understand how much it may cost for you to attend GS, it is necessary to understand how much your monthly budget may be. Be sure to include your personal costs as well as those of any dependents you may have. See below for an estimate of living expenses based on full-time enrollment. Living Expenses and Books Estimate | 2021-2022 Academic Year Rent, Utilities, and Food $20,565 Living Expenses and Books Estimate | 2021-2022 Academic Year Commuting $1,040 Living Expenses and Books Estimate | 2021-2022 Academic Year Books $1,400 Housing Whether a student lives in University housing or on their own, the cost of owning a home or renting an apartment/house is determined by many factors, including the number of bedrooms and which town, city, or neighborhood it's located in. Students should also consider whether they are willing to share their living space. Students who are interested in educating themselves about the New York City metropolitan area housing market in order to determine realistic housing expenses may start by consulting the Housing page. Utilities Utilities costs consist of electricity, gas, oil, water, phone, cable, and/or internet service and vary depending upon the level of service required and which company provides those services. Food In order for students to determine how much they may expect to spend on food each month, they should consider how much they will be eating at restaurants versus cooking at home. Restaurants and groceries in New York City tend to be expensive. To get a realistic idea of grocery costs, students may want to visit FreshDirect. For an estimate of how much restaurants around the University may cost, visit MenuPages. Commuting Commuting to and from campus includes public transit costs, cab fare, parking costs, and/or fuel, etc. For general information about all of your commuting options, visit the Columbia Transportation website. To learn the current costs for Metropolitan Transit Authority (MTA) and New York City Transit Authority (the Subway) fares consult the MTA website. New Jersey Transit passengers are eligible for a discount on monthly passes; see the Columbia Transportation website for more information. To learn about parking costs and regulations in New York City, consult the Best Parking website or the New York City Department of Transportation website. Books Most Columbia courses require students to purchase or rent books for most courses. The price of books varies by class as well as condition (used books are available in limited quantities). Visit the Columbia Bookstore website for more information and to view the textbook lists for your classes. Net Price Calculator The College Board Net Price Calculator is designed to give students an early indication of how much and what types of financial aid they might qualify for as a first-year, full-time undergraduate student attending the School of General Studies. Tuition and Fees Charts Undergraduate Postbac Premed Program Make an Appointment GS Office of Educational Financing 408 Lewisohn Hall 2970 Broadway New York, NY 10027 (212) 854-5410 [email protected] Hours Monday - Friday: 9 a.m. - 5 p.m. Payment and Account Inquiries Columbia University Student Financial Services 205 Kent Hall 1140 Amsterdam Avenue New York, NY 10027 (212) 854-4400 http://askus.columbia.edu Hours Monday - Friday: 9 a.m. - 5 p.m. (Cashiering windows in 210 Kent Hall close at 4 p.m. daily) Work-Study Program Work-Study Office 210 Kent Hall (212) 854-6232 [email protected] Hours Monday - Friday: 9 a.m. - 5 p.m. Admissions Undergraduate Admissions Postbac Premed Admissions Newly Admitted Students U.S. Military Veterans International Dual Degree Programs Educational Financing Types of Financial Aid Financial Aid for Military Veterans Cost of Attendance Applying for Financial Aid Counseling Appointments Enrollment Update Form Student Account Refunds Academics Undergraduate Postbac Premed Program Applying to Medical School Academic Policies Faculty of Arts and Sciences Student Services Undergraduate Announcements Postbac Premed Announcements Academic Advising Academic Resource Center Campus Services Forms and Guides Graduation Health and Wellness Housing International Students Medical School Fair Planning Your Future Premedical Clinical and Research Positions Student Life Veterans Resources and Initiatives About Leadership Mission History Statistics and Facts Notable Alumni University Policies Events Staff Directory Faculty News Press Coverage Media Inquiries Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close