Science Research Fellows About SRF Benefits How to Apply FAQ THE UNDERGRADUATE RESEARCH MAJOR The Science Research Fellows program is home to the top undergraduate researchers in the nation. Each year only 10 high school students are selected to be part of this program. Learn how to you can join today. Learn More Here The Science Research Fellows (SRF) is an interdisciplinary major that prepares students for a successful career in research in fields like biology, chemistry, biochemistry, physics, psychology, neuroscience, environmental science, anthropology, and geosciences. Established in the Fall 2017, this flexible major prepares students to immerse themselves in research on their favorite science field early on in their studies while giving them the freedom to explore other fields of study. SRF students are expected to join a research lab at the start of their sophomore year and stay for at least 2 years. They receive individualized mentorship and guidance to make their career goals a reality. The Science Research Fellows is the first major of its kind in the nation. Benefits of Being a Science Research Fellow Individualized help for graduate and medical school admissions as well as top scholarships (Goldwater, Marshall, Fulbright) 1-1 Mentoring with professors and past or current fellows for guidance on classes, career goals, and ways to further your education Priority Registration for Classes The ability to choose which science courses you take / Reduced core curriculum Being part of a close-knit group of top scholars that support each other Should I Apply? Who Should Apply Have participated or want to participate in a research lab Have at least a 32 on the ACT (Superscore) or 1450 SAT Ranked in top 5% of class and GPA of 3.7 or higher Able to maintain a 3.5 GPA in college Interested in either biology, chemistry, biochemistry, physics, psychology, neuroscience, environmental science, anthropology, or geosciences Committed to work in a research lab for three years or more Who Shouldn’t Apply Interested in research only to boost their medical school applications Have under a 32 on the ACT (Superscore) or 1450 SAT Unsure whether to pursue a career in research How to Apply Step 1: Fill out the goBaylor Application at baylor.edu/gobaylor Step 2: Fill out the Science Research Application on the goBaylor home portal (Four < 200 word essay questions + Resume) Step 3: Submit 2 Letters of Recommendation via goBaylor (At least one of the letters must be from a science teacher) Application Open Now! Spring Application Cycle Application Deadline APR 1 2022 Interview Notifications NOW - APR 22 2022 Interview Dates NOW - APR 27 2022 Apply Now Have more questions? Visit the FAQ Click Here to Visit the FAQ Or Email us at Science_Fellows@baylor.edu © Science Research Fellows 2020