Skip to main content Clemson University Degrees Home Degree Programs MENU Middle Level Education (B.S.) LEARN MORE ABOUT If you have a passion for middle school-age students, then a major in middle level education could be a great fit for you. Students in this program will graduate prepared to teach grades five through eight — and will be able to fill a critical teaching area in South Carolina. Throughout your time in the program, you will develop strong disciplinary/content knowledge, classroom management skills, teaching and professional skills and a deep understanding of foundational issues related to academic success and educational opportunities. You will also choose a content area — either math and science or language arts and social studies, which means that you’ll be prepared to teach two subject areas when you enter the classroom. Having expertise and certification in two subjects allows you to have more flexibility in the field, and it makes you a more marketable teacher. FAST FACTS Middle level education is one of Clemson’s newest majors. Clemson’s programs are nationally accredited by the Council for the Accreditation of Educator Preparation (CAEP), and the B.S. in middle level education is aligned with the Association for Middle Level Education (AMLE) preparation standards. Education majors at Clemson exceed 100 hours of field placement in schools prior to student teaching. Our 72-day student teaching internship exceeds South Carolina’s certification requirements for student teaching by 12 days. WHAT YOU'LL STUDY From the moment you step on campus, you’ll explore field and clinical experiences that gradually increase in scope and responsibility. As part of your curriculum, your classes will focus on education courses such as educational psychology, adolescent growth and development, and teaching methods courses focusing on middle school students. Examples of content studied within each emphasis include the following: Mathematics and Science Biology Chemistry Physics Earth science Statistics Calculus Geometry Algebra Language Arts and Social Studies Adolescent literature World literature Critical writing about literature American and British literature United States history Western civilization History of South Carolina Historian’s craft Teacher Residency Program If you want to fast track your graduate degree — and you meet both GPA and credit requirements — consider our Teacher Residency combined degree program, which allows you to earn your bachelor’s and Master of Arts in teaching (MAT) in five years. Instead of having a traditional student teaching experience your senior year, you will take 12 hours of graduate coursework. During your final year in the program, you will work alongside a master teacher in a residency field experience while finishing your MAT courses. This immersive program will enhance your teaching credentials and better prepare you to serve your students in the classroom. Curriculum Middle Level Education: Language Arts and Social Studies Emphasis, B.S. Middle Level Education: Mathematics and Science Emphasis, B.S. Similar Majors Elementary Education (B.A.) Mathematics Teaching (B.S.) Science Teaching (B.S./B.A.) Secondary Education (B.A.) FIND OUT MORE Have more questions or want more information? Fill out the form below, which goes directly to the following department contact. If you’d also like to receive general University information from Clemson’s admissions office, please follow the link to the right and sign up to join our mailing list. Jamie Garland Academic Adviser 864-656-3180 jgarlan@clemson.edu Department Website College Website Loading... Department Website College Website Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Line Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2015 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on Google+ Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on YouTube Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram Search Clemson University degrees Clemson Degree Programs Search Alphabetical List Schedule a Visit Campus Life Admissions Costs & Financial Aid Similar Majors To Middle Level Education (B.S.) Elementary Education (B.A.) Mathematics Teaching (B.S.) Science Teaching (B.S./B.A.) Secondary Education (B.A.)