Skip to main content. ADVISORY | COVID-19 Information × kumc.edu School of Health Professions School of Medicine School of Nursing University of Kansas The University of Kansas Health System The University of Kansas Cancer Center Search keywords, names, etc... Search within this section Search all sites Salina Kansas City Salina School of Medicine-Salina School of Nursing-Salina Resources and Support Facilities Community Kansas Center for Rural Health Wichita Our Campuses Make a Gift Info for Current Students Blackboard Webmail myKUMC Prospective Students Prospective Employees Alumni Faculty & Staff Residents & Fellows Patients Donors Researchers Visitors Our Campuses Make a Gift Info for kumc.edu Our Campuses Make a Gift Info for Academics Academics Prepare for your health care career with top-ranked programs, state-of-the-art facilities and unmatched opportunities for clinical training. Admissions & Aid Degree Programs International Education Clinical Education Interprofessional Education Libraries Student Handbooks Related Links: School of Health Professions School of Medicine School of Nursing Research Research Explore world-class research programs that advance the health sciences and attract national recognition. Centers, Institutes and Cores Our Experts Research News Research Administration Human Research Protection Program Scheduling Research Facilities Related Links: Student Research Forum Summer Research Training Program Patient Care Patient Care As an academic medical center, we work with The University of Kansas Health System and other regional partners to provide high-quality, compassionate clinical care. The University of Kansas Health System The University of Kansas Cancer Center Student-Run Clinics Clinical Education University and Faculty Practice Outreach Outreach We build partnerships throughout the state to find new ways to improve the lives of Kansans. Our community-based efforts extend across the country and around the world. Social Impact Rural Education Global Health Career Development Community Programs Outreach News Related Links: Community Engagement Masonic Cancer Alliance Student Life Student Life Our three campus communities offer unique social events and cultural attractions—the perfect backdrop to our world-class education programs. Student Support Activities & Events Diversity and Inclusion Wellness Why Kansas? Related Links: Office of Student Life Office of Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Office of International Programs About About The University of Kansas Medical Center's mission is to improve lives and communities in Kansas and beyond through innovation in education, research and health care. Kansas City Salina School of Medicine-Salina School of Nursing-Salina Resources and Support Facilities Community Kansas Center for Rural Health Wichita Salina Community The city of Salina has a population of about 47,000 and is located at the crossroads of two major interstates (I-70 and I-135). Salina offers a 50:50 mix of specialty-to-primary care physicians, and its hospital is a major referral center for patients and critical access hospitals from a wide geographic region. Students in Salina will discover a vibrant and active health care community. More than 120 physicians practice all specialties at the Salina Regional Health Center (SRHC), a 390-bed regional hospital. Students in the schools of Medicine and Nursing receive quality training experiences guided by experienced physicians and nurses. Salina has a vibrant downtown, with a variety of local shops, restaurants and businesses and community events throughout the year. Photo by Tanner Colvin. Overhead structures bring art deco style to Santa Fe Avenue in Downtown Salina. Photo by Tanner Colvin. A historic community along the Smoky Hill River, Salina has grown into a commercial and cultural hub for the region. Photo by Tanner Colvin. Home to around 47,000 residents, Salina offers affordable living along with family-friendly attractions and amenities. Photo by Tanner Colvin. About Salina The Salina Area Chamber of Commerce said it best: "Salina is an affordable place to live featuring low-cost transportation and quality health care. Salina has become a regional employment, retail, medical and hospitality hub for North Central and Central Kansas." Here's a few other bragging points about our city: A growing skilled workforce Low crime rates Impressive school test scores Varied attractions and events Want more info on what makes Salina a great place to work, study and play? Visit salinakansas.org. Learn more about local businesses, events and opportunities from Salina Downtown, Inc. at salinadowntown.org Make a Gift 3901 Rainbow Boulevard, Kansas City, KS 66160 | 913-588-5000 About Calendar News Equal Opportunity Statement Careers Facebook opens in new tab Twitter opens in new tab YouTube opens in new tab Instagram opens in new tab LinkedIn opens in new tab © 2022 The University of Kansas prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, ethnicity, religion, sex, national origin, age, ancestry, disability, status as a veteran, sexual orientation, marital status, parental status, gender identity, gender expression, and genetic information in the university's programs and activities. Retaliation is also prohibited by university policy. Inquiries regarding our non-discrimination policies should be directed to the Director for the Equal Opportunity & Academic Compliance Office, Mail Stop 7004, 4330 Shawnee Mission Parkway, Fairway, KS 66205, 913-588-5964, 711 TTY (for the Wichita, Salina, and Kansas City, Kansas medical center campuses). Inquiries regarding the University Sexual Harassment Policy should be directed to the Title IX Coordinator at 913-588-8011. Free Expression Statement | Privacy Statement | Notice of Privacy Practices | Consumer Information We use cookies to analyze our traffic & provide social media features. Visit the KU Medical Center Privacy Statement for more information. By closing this window & browsing this site, you agree to our use of cookies.