Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu School of Social Work About Programs Apply Now Students Faculty & Staff Research Community Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Graduate About the MSW Program BrochureProgram & Study Plans Prospective MSW Students MSW Information Sessions Program Eligibility How to Apply & Deadlines FAQs Current Students Student HandbookSemester SchedulesMSW School Social Work Licensure Program Requirements Field Field HandbookField AgenciesFormsField Powerpoint Financial Aid & Scholarships UofM Graduate Catalog Take Action Learn more about Social Work Explore the School of Urban Affairs and Public Policy Support Social Work Education Contact Us Follow Us Online Facebooktwitter Home Social Work Graduate FAQs FAQs Q: Can I transfer credits into the MSW program? A: It is possible to transfer up to 24 hours of course credit into the MSW program. Courses taken in another accredited or in candidacy MSW program may be transferred as required foundation courses. Courses taken in a graduate program in a related field to social work may transfer in as elective hours. Transfer of credit hours is subject to approval by the student's advisor and the director of the MSW program. Students seeking to transfer credits should work closely with their academic advisor. Q: Can I receive credits by examination? A: Students may receive credit by examination for up to 9 credit hours. Students seeking credit by examination should review the requirements and follow the procedures in the MSW student manual and the Graduate Catalog. Credit by examination may only be given in the following eight courses: SWRK 7001, SWRK 7002, SWRK 7003, SWRK 7005, SWRK 7021, SWRK 7022, SWRK 7025, and SWRK 7030. For the credit by examination form, click here. Q: Is the program accredited? A: The MSW program at University of Memphis received initial accreditation from the Council on Social Work Education (CSWE) in February 2014. You may find the program listed in the directory of accredited programs here. Q: Can I use work/life experience in lieu of academic credit? A: No. The University of Memphis Master of Social Work program does NOT give credit for prior life experience or for prior work experience. In addition, credit may not be given for continuing education hours. This University of Memphis MSW program follows this policy strictly to be in compliance with Council on Social Work Education (CSWE) accreditation standards. Q: What do I do if I'm applying for the MSW program and my GPA is low? A: There is not a minimum GPA required for the program. The admissions committee considers the total application. The committee gives more weight to the last 60 of course credit taken including credit hours taken in other graduate programs. Q: Do I have to take an entrance exam to be admitted to the MSW program? A: Yes. Applicants may take either the GRE or the Praxis CORE Writing Test. Q: How do I register for an entrance exam? A: Registration packets for the GRE/Praxis may be picked up on campus at Graduate Admissions, FedEx Institute of Technology Building, Suite 201, or at the Testing Center, 112 Brister Hall. Contact the University of Memphis Testing Center at 901-678-2428 for more information. You can also take the test by computer by contacting the UofM ETS Computer-Based Testing at 901-678-1457. If you are outside the Memphis area, check the ETS website, http://www.ets.org for test schedule and locations. Q: Is there a minimum score on the entrance exam? A: There is no minimum required score. The committee only looks at the writing scores. Q: How many credit hours is the program? A: Full time and extended study students are required to complete a minimum of 60 semester hours: 30 hours in the foundation curriculum and 30 hours in the concentration curriculum. 6 of the 30 concentration hours are electives. Refer to the MSW Student Handbook for more information. Q: Does the MSW program offer Advanced Standing? A: Advanced Standing (3 semesters of study; 37 credit hours) is an accelerated program for students who have a BA in social work, a minimum undergraduate GPA of 3.0 overall and 3.3 in social work courses. Students interested in the Advanced Standing Program must apply to the program within five years of graduation from an accredited BA/BSW program. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 6/30/20 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.