Skip to main content Restrict my search to Third Ward Initiative Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Third Ward Initiative Third Ward Leadership Get Involved Media UH Home Third Ward Initiative Moving Forward Education. Empowerment. Growth. The Third Ward Initiative is first and foremost a collaborative partnership with the Third Ward community. University of Houston faculty, administrators, staff and students from almost every academic college and administrative division will combine their intellectual talents and physical energies to forge a sustainable partnership that demonstrably improves the quality of life in our shared neighborhood by improving educational outcomes, securing jobs, developing and strengthening businesses, and celebrating the arts, culture and history of the area. Our Goal As a good neighbor and university dedicated to civic engagement, we will partner and collaborate with the Third Ward to transform its schools, businesses, and healthcare resources. We celebrate the culture and history of our shared community. Education Transform academic achievement ratios of six schools. The six schools include four elementary schools: Blackshear, Foster, Thompson & Hartsfield, Cullen Middle School, and Yates Senior High School. Launch a nationally recognized model school program to change cultural and academic outcomes Meet kindergarten school readiness standards Improve STAAR test scores Install book kiosks and implement 1:1 reading programs Improve graduation and college attendance rates Economic Empowerment Help 25 businesses over 5 years. Educate potential entrepreneurs selected by community partners Pilot a program to train and find employment for single mothers Build an education and economic development community outreach center Incubate new business/entrepreneurial development Integrate students with community organizations to launch social impact ventures Health Increase clinical health care services and programs to improve outcomes. Address medical disparities of the under-served Leverage resources to reduce the prevalence of obesity, diabetes, risk of HIV, STIs, substance abuse and mental health incidence Open a comprehensive health care clinic for the community Arts Increase a shared association through art and culture. Share and exchange visual and performing arts with the community Sponsor artists who celebrate the neighborhood culture Establish 10 fellows who will learn about socially engaged art from the College of Arts' McArthur award winner Rick Lowe Partner with schools to expose children to music, theater, and the arts Of 12,917 people in the Third Ward: 16.7%are kindergarten - 18 yrs 45.8%are 18-34 yrs 29.4%are 35 - 64 yrs 8.1%are 65 or older 42.6%fall below the poverty line Learn more about Third Ward Changing Our Community Means Getting Involved Volunteer Today > University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies