Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Health Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Our Services Appointments Health Topics Events Forms and Guidelines Our Organization News See All Services What's Open Now Patient Resources Quarantine and Isolation Support Coping Tools Immunization Compliance Top Services Birth Control Education Individual Counseling Primary Care Register with Disability Services Sexual Assault: Get Support STI Testing Support Groups Travel Medicine Urgent Medical Concerns Workshops and Trainings Cost of Service Overview Make an Appointment Same Day Service Emergency and After-hours Support Alcohol Body Image Concerns Marijuana Disabilities Other Drugs HIV Insurance Men's Health Mental Health and Well-Being Anxiety Depression Stress Nutrition Physical Activity Relationships Overview Academic Relationships Friendships Roommates Sexual and Reproductive Health Sleep Transgender and Gender Expansive Health Violence Prevention Prevention Consent What Is Sexual Assault? Supporting a Survivor What Is Relationship Abuse? Stalking What Is Sexual Harassment? Bystander Intervention-Step UP! Women's Health See All Events Sexual Assault Awareness Month Columbia Health Flu Season Information Virtual Naloxone Training About Columbia Health Who We Are Who We Serve Confidentiality, Patient Rights, & Patient Responsibilities Operating Philosophy Video Library Your Feedback Staff Directory Health Units Alice! Health Promotion Counseling and Psychological Services Disability Services Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) Insurance Office Medical Services Sexual Violence Response Columbia Health You are here: Home Health Topics Men’s Health Men’s Health Columbia Health understands that men may have particular physical, emotional, and sexual health issues and concerns. We are committed to addressing these issues and concerns. Medical care Students may schedule an appointment with one of these clinicians on the Men’s Health Team or with another medical provider at Medical Services for: Prevention, assessment, and treatment of sexually transmitted infections (STIs) Genital concerns (e.g., prostate issues, testicular pain, problems with erections, early ejaculation, etc.) Groin strains or other injuries (e.g., hernias) Rectal complaints Contraceptive counseling Mental health care Students may schedule an appointment with one of these clinicians on the Men’s Health Team or with another provider at Counseling and Psychological Services to discuss: Stress, depression, or anxiety Relationships Drug and alcohol use Sexuality Sleep quality Pornography and internet addiction Managing emotions Eating or body image concerns Gender identity Additionally, Alice! Health Promotion staff are available to talk with students about their health questions and how to access resources related to (but not limited to) those listed above. If you are not sure where to start, the staff aims to help connect students with information and resources to make informed decisions regarding a broad range of health-related topics. Alice! is also a confidential resource. Supporting Male Survivors of Violence Men can be survivors of violence, as adults or as children. They may also be friends, relatives, and partners of survivors. The Sexual Violence Response team is glad to help men better understand the dynamics of violence; we also encourage anyone who is personally dealing with issues related to violence to use the services available. Contact SVR at 212-854-4357 for information about on- and off-campus resources. Peer Education and Advocacy Peer educators are volunteer students committed to violence prevention and education. They plan events for Sexual Assault Awareness (April) and Relationship Violence Awareness (October) months, and facilitate interactive workshops and discussions both on- and off-campus. Peer educators can help students: Learn about healthy, positive sexuality and relationships Build skills to talk with peers about consent and respect, and to support survivors Explore strategies to intervene in violent or concerning situations in your community Discuss masculinity and issues in men's lives Peer advocates provide survivors and their supporters with confidential emotional support, accompaniment, and referrals to on- and off-campus resources. They help survivors make informed decisions about their medical, legal, and disciplinary options. Peer advocates receive 40 hours of training and are supervised by advisors at Columbia and Barnard. Call 212-854-4357 during office hours to contact a peer advocate. Peer advocates also staff the LGBTQ Support and Sexual Health Peer Counseling group. Meet with a peer advocate during drop-in hours to discuss: Coming out (or not) and other identity concerns Sex and relationships LGBTQ life on campus and in New York City Safer sex Learn more about the Quick Escape button. Make an Appointment Medical Services Closed Sorry, we are closed. Open Now edit location Check out our office locations and hours Sexual Violence Response Learn more about the Quick Escape button. Closed Sorry, we are closed. Open Now edit location Check out our office locations and hours Counseling & Psychological Services Closed Sorry, our offices are currently closed. If you are experiencing high levels of distress and are in need of immediate assistance, please call 212-854-2878, available 24/7. Open Now edit location Check out our office locations and hours Men's Health Network The Men’s Health Network is a national nonprofit organization whose mission is to reach men, boys, and their families where they live, work, play, and pray with health awareness and disease prevention messages and tools, screening programs, educational materials, advocacy opportunities, and patient navigation. The Center: The Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual & Transgender Community Center The Center: The Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual & Transgender Community Center is the heart and home of New York City’s LGBT community, providing programs for health, wellness, and community connection. Columbia Health Administration Wallach Hall, Suite 125, Mail Code 4202, 1116 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-2284 Contact Us [email protected] Internal Use Only Login to Access Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close