Skip to Main Content Brown University Department of Religious Studies Secondary Navigation Navigation For Faculty Search Menu Site Navigation Home About Undergraduate Concentration Concentration Advising Courses Capstone & Honors Honors Departmental Undergraduate Group (DUG) Bishop McVickar Prizes FAQ Graduate Doctoral Programs (Ph.D) Coursework and Requirements Advising Progress & Evaluations Graduate Student Handbook Graduate Student Organization Funding Opportunities TA Guidelines People Faculty Emeriti Faculty Visiting & Affiliated Faculty Graduate Students Alumni Research News Events Cultures and Religions of the Ancient Mediterranean K. Brooke Anderson Lecture Past Events Statement on Equity Equity, Diversity & Inclusion in the Field Search Department of Religious Studies Religious Studies The Department of Religious Studies at Brown University provides students with an understanding of a variety of religious traditions, an exposure to the academic approaches employed within the academic study of religion, as well as an opportunity to explore diverse intellectual, social-theoretical, cultural, and ethical issues that arise when one considers the various manifestations of religion in human affairs. Religious Studies The Department of Religious Studies at Brown University provides students with an understanding of a variety of religious traditions, an exposure to the academic approaches employed within the academic study of religion, as well as an opportunity to explore diverse intellectual, social-theoretical, cultural, and ethical issues that arise when one considers the various manifestations of religion in human affairs. The graduate program in Religious Studies, with select areas of concentrated strength, is one of the finest in the world, and the undergraduate program is broad and creative, serving a large number of students both inside and outside the concentration. Religious Studies strives to be an open, inclusive department. In addition to combatting all forms of discrimination, including racism, sexism, and homophobia, we are committed to fostering an appreciation of diverse perspectives in our curriculum, departmental activities, and faculty and student development. Academics Undergraduate The academic study of religion cultivates understanding of societies and cultures throughout the world by exploring religious thought and practice in various historical, geographic, and political contexts. Graduate The graduate program in Religious Studies at Brown is one of the finest in the nation. Recent News All News MLA Daniel Vaca wins honorable mention for new book December 8, 2021 Daniel Vaca, Robert Gale Noyes Assistant Professor of Humanities wins honorable mention for his book, Evangelicals Incorporated: Books and the Business of Religion in America, from the Modern Language Assocation's Matei Calinesco Prize. Read Article Open details for Daniel Vaca wins honorable mention for new book News from Religious Studies New Course Fall 2021: Ecowomanism June 8, 2021 Religious Studies is excited to announce a new course taught this fall 2021: RELS 2600H, Ecowomanism with Visiting Professor Melanie Harris. Read Article Open details for New Course Fall 2021: Ecowomanism News from Religious Studies 2021 McVickar Prize Winners April 26, 2021 The Department of Religious Studies is proud to announce the winners of the Bishop McVickar Thesis Prizes for 2021. Originally instituted in 1909 by the Rt. Rev. William Neilson McVickar, the prizes are awarded annually for the best honor theses written on any topic related to the academic study of religion. Submissions are invited from current Brown University students in any concentration, drawing on any methodology. Read Article Open details for 2021 McVickar Prize Winners Additional Information Contact Location, mailing address, email, telephone and fax People Our staff and faculty support students in fulfilling their research, teaching and learning goals. Research Religious Studies faculty and students engage in a wide array of research. View highlights of ongoing projects in the field. Religious Studies has a new Facebook page! Come check us out and learn about the latest events, news and other happenings in the Department, community and beyond. Latest events, news and other happenings Facebook Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About Undergraduate Concentration Concentration Advising Courses Capstone & Honors Honors Departmental Undergraduate Group (DUG) Bishop McVickar Prizes FAQ Graduate Doctoral Programs (Ph.D) Coursework and Requirements Advising Progress & Evaluations Graduate Student Handbook Graduate Student Organization Funding Opportunities TA Guidelines People Faculty Emeriti Faculty Visiting & Affiliated Faculty Graduate Students Alumni Research News Events Cultures and Religions of the Ancient Mediterranean K. Brooke Anderson Lecture Past Events Statement on Equity Equity, Diversity & Inclusion in the Field Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation For Faculty This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Religious Studies Open details for Religious Studies Bookmark this Page