Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Pre-Pharmacy You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Pre-Pharmacy Apply Visit Request More Info Pre-Pharmacy Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Pre-Pharmacy The College of Science and Technology at Temple provides two pathways to graduate studies through its integrated curriculum. Although it is not a major, students who follow the Pre-Pharmacy track become eligible to apply for admission to the School of Pharmacy at Temple after two years. If you’ve already been accepted to the School of Pharmacy as a Direct Admit student, you can also choose the Pharmaceutical Sciences BS accelerated program, through which you’ll earn your bachelor’s degree and Doctor of Pharmacy (PharmD) degree in seven years. Both options are ideal if you are interested in entering a healthcare profession. In the Pre-Pharmacy track, you’ll take a blend of biology, chemistry and mathematics coursework to prepare you for the School of Pharmacy. Pharmaceutical Sciences students have a broad, interdisciplinary grounding in the sciences—both in the classroom and the lab. You’ll study biology, chemistry, mathematics and physics to understand scientific discoveries in healthcare. Pre-Pharmacy Track versus Pharmaceutical Sciences Major Deciding between the Pre-Pharmacy track and the Pharmaceutical Sciences BS depends on whether you have been admitted to the School of Pharmacy at Temple prior to your freshman year. The Pre-Pharmacy track is tailored for students who wish to attend the School of Pharmacy and earn a PharmD degree but who have not yet applied or been admitted. Students interested in this track declare a major after one academic year and complete undergraduate coursework requirements in two years. During that time, students apply to the School of Pharmacy. If admitted, students move to the School of Pharmacy’s PharmD program after two years in the College of Science and Technology. Students in the Pre-Pharmacy track do not earn a bachelor’s degree and instead work toward the PharmD. Learn more about PharmD prerequisites and the School of Pharmacy at Temple. The Pharmaceutical Sciences BS degree is designed for incoming students who have already been admitted to the School of Pharmacy. Because it is an accelerated program, students complete an undergraduate degree in the College of Science and Technology in three years, and enter the School of Pharmacy in their fourth year. The subsequent three years are spent earning a PharmD in the School of Pharmacy. Students in this program receive the Pharmaceutical Sciences BS degree and the PharmD degree over seven years. Learn more about the accelerated degree. Classes & Curriculum Pharmaceutical Sciences BS students are required to complete 90 credit hours within the College of Science and Technology and the College of Liberal Arts. College of Science and Technology coursework is focused on the fundamentals of the sciences to help prepare them for graduate studies. Some of the classes include Introduction to Biology, Organic Chemistry and Organic Chemistry Laboratory, and Principles of Anatomy and Physiology. Explore more courses for the Pharmaceutical Sciences BS. Many of these classes are also available to students in the Pre-Pharmacy track, though they must be completed in two years prior to entering the School of Pharmacy. Learn more about the Pre-Pharmacy curriculum (PDF). Related Graduate Degrees PharmD* *School of Pharmacy 3+4 Accelerated Programs The College of Science and Technology offers accelerated 3+4 degree programs in a seven-year course of study, instead of the usual eight years. Qualifying undergraduate students can obtain an undergraduate degree from CST and a Doctor of Medicine in Dentistry from the Kornberg School of Dentistry, Doctor of Podiatric Medicine from the School of Podiatric Medicine, Doctor of Medicine from the Lewis Katz School of Medicine, or Doctor of Pharmacy Medicine from the School of Pharmacy. Post-Baccalaureate Pre-Health Program The College of Science and Technology Post-Baccalaureate Pre-Health Program is designed for students planning to apply to medical school or pursue other health-related professions. The program offers the following two tracks. The Basic Core in Health Sciences is intended for professionals who need the required science courses to apply to medical school. The Advanced Core in Health Sciences is a program for current students who have met the premedical requirements and who seek advanced science coursework. Both tracks include classes in the Lewis Katz School of Medicine and the College of Science and Technology. Learn more about the College of Science and Technology’s Post-Baccalaureate Pre-Health Program. Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, the Bachelor of Science offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. Learn more about our tuition and fees. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $20,568.00 per year Out-of-state: $33,792.00 per year Our Academic Advisors Center for Academic Advising and Professional Development The Center for Academic Advising and Professional Development in the College of Science and Technology helps you navigate New Student Orientation, advises on specific degree programs and courses, provides post-graduation guidance, and offers peer support. You can also be matched with a qualified student ambassador/ombudsperson who will further assist with degree and academic questions or concerns. Learn more about the Center for Academic Advising and Professional Development's academic advisors and student ambassadors/ombudspersons. Program Contact Students interested in applying for the Pharmaceutical Sciences Major should contact the Center for Academic Advising and Professional Development and the Office of Pre-Professional Health Studies. Center for Academic Advising and Professional Development Phone: 215-204-2890 Email: cstadv@temple.edu Office of Pre-Professional Health Studies Phone: 215-204-2513 Email: healthadvising@temple.edu Students interested in learning more about admission to the School of Pharmacy should contact Joan Hankins, assistant director of admissions in the School of Pharmacy. Phone: 215-707-4900 Email: joan.hankins@temple.edu Student Clubs & Organizations Student clubs and organizations in the College of Science and Technology provide opportunities to meet with peers, network with professionals or scientists in your field of study and learn about internship opportunities. The College of Science and Technology offers 15 major clubs and 12 pre-health clubs for undergraduate students. Enhance your academic study and social life by participating in a club related to your major or interests. Students pursuing a degree in health sciences might be interested in these clubs and organizations. Alpha Epsilon Delta Health Pre-Professional Honor Society is open to qualified students who are interested in professional careers in health sciences. Be the Change provides healthcare services and education to children living in underserved communities. Future Health Professionals is a service-based organization that emphasizes healthcare awareness and leadership. Explore the full list of College of Science and Technology student clubs and organizations. Study Away Deepen your understanding of your math, natural science or computer science coursework by experiencing firsthand how such disciplines are studied overseas. Temple’s study abroad program offers College of Science and Technology students opportunities to spend a summer or semester studying in Germany, Italy, Japan and Spain. Learn more about your options for studying away. College of Science and Technology undergraduate students can also take part in international research. These opportunities include the following external scholarship programs. The Benjamin Gilman International Scholarship provides funding for underrepresented students to study in nontraditional destinations such as Australia and Eastern Europe. The Boren Scholarship Summer STEM Initiative offers undergraduate STEM majors opportunities to participate in a language-intensive program. The Indian Institute of Science Education and Research and Temple offer opportunities for students in biology, chemistry and physics programs to work in research groups in Pune, India, over the summer. The Siena Biomedical Research Program provides the opportunity for students to spend their summer working full time in a biotechnology and pathology lab based in Tuscany, Italy. The Sicily Applied Biotechnology Program allows students to learn the biological basis behind the technology used for art conservation and then apply that knowledge in the laboratory and in the field. Learn more about study abroad programs for College of Science and Technology students. Accreditation As a division within Temple University, the College of Science and Technology is accredited by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education. ST-PRPH-BS Additional Program Information Visit College Site Go back to AcademicsMore in Pre-Pharmacy Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Visit Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Visit Request More Info