Skip to main content Toggle Tools navigation Toggle Site Navigation Toggle Search University of Cincinnati UC Home Visit UC Directories UC Tools Canopy & Blackboard Catalyst OneStop Student Email Faculty / Staff Email Shuttle Tracker UCFileSpace UC Flex/ESS IT Help UC VPN Concur Success Factors Enter a search term to search UC pages or the directory. Search String University of Cincinnati Orientation Activities Orientation Registration Bearcat Portal Orientation Fees Frequently Asked Questions Parking Family & Guests Bearcat Card Placement Testing About the Office SOL Position Meet the SOLs Student Orientation Leader Position The benefits of being a SOL include opportunities to build and sharpen your leadership abilities, communication skills, and self-confidence. Graduates of the extensive and rigorous SOL Training program are a dynamic group of student leaders who are well connected, close-knit, and best informed on UC’s campus. Through this experience, SOLs become well-known, well-respected, and successful in their future endeavors. Selection to be part of this team is a unique honor and a rewarding opportunity for personal and professional growth. What will your responsibilities be as a Student Orientation Leader? Welcome new students and family members to UC Lead discussion groups with incoming students and family members Assist in the preparation, organization and presentation of orientation activities, materials and programs Explain academic opportunities and procedures Acquaint new students and their families with the campus and campus services Conduct both day and evening sessions as needed Participate as a team player in supporting a diverse team of SOLs Perform tasks & responsibilities as assigned to ensure a successful Bearcats Bound Orientation and other orientation programs Share your UC experience Complete other duties as assigned What are some of the benefits? Earn at least $4,000.00 Free room and board during the Bearcats Bound Orientation program (if circumstances allow) Extensive leadership training Grow, learn, and enhance your leadership & communication skills Consideration for future leadership & employment opportunities Opportunities to network and make connections with UC faculty, prominent administrators, and staff Recognition as one of UC’s outstanding student leaders Have fun! What are some of the qualifications? Positive attitude and enthusiasm for UC Display and promote a courteous, prompt, and friendly attitude toward all Be a full-time returning student for the upcoming academic year Maintain an undergraduate, full-time status during the current academic year Good academic and judicial/disciplinary standing Minimum cumulative GPA of 2.9 (exceptions may be made on a case by case basis) Must be available and able to attend all the Mandatory Dates of Employment listed in the SOL application packet including SOL Training, team meetings, SOL Retreat, Bearcats Bound Orientation, planning sessions, and programs. This requirement is compulsory and binding. Please do NOT apply if you are unable to meet this criterion. There is some discretion with the Flexible Dates of Employment. The Optional Dates are open dates. Must live in the provided residence hall during Bearcats Bound New Student Orientation (if circumstances allow) Due to the considerable time commitment involved you will not be able to take in-person classes during summer semesters throughout SOL Training and Bearcats Bound Orientation Must be reliable, punctual, flexible, energetic, responsible, a team player, and demonstrate strong communication skills Must sign and uphold the terms of the Student Orientation Leader Agreement New Student Orientation University Pavilion, Suite 120C | PO Box 210090 Cincinnati OH 45221-0090 Phone: 513-556-2486 | Fax: 513-556-3728 Alerts Clery and HEOA Notice Notice of Non-Discrimination eAccessibility Concern Privacy Statement Copyright Information © 2018 University of Cincinnati This website offers many PDF files for download, which require Adobe Reader to view.