Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Giving to Baylor Menu About Us Leadership Directory News Stories of Giving Give Light Ways to Give Gifts of Cash Gifts of Securities, Real Estate and Personal Property Matching Gifts Memorials and Tributes Memorial and Tribute Funds Bricks and Pavers Gift and Estate Planning Corporate Gifts Priorities Academic Units College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering and Computer Science School of Music University Libraries Athletics Athletics Excellence Fund Baylor Spirit Squad Bear Foundation Dutch Schroeder Letterwinners' Legacy Endowment Fund Parents Baylor Parent Fund Library Excellence Fund Parents Endowed Scholarship Student Emergency Fund Student Life Excellence Fund Special Interests Baylor in Washington Excellence Fund Baylor/Waco Foundation Museums Senior Class Gift Student Life Baylor Line Camp Student Emergency Fund Student Foundation Student Life Excellence Fund Student Missions Student Scholarships General Scholarship Fund Establishing an Endowed Scholarship The Torch (crowdfunding) Giving Societies 1845 Society 1845 Society Impact Report 2021 Old Main Society Make a Gift Giving to Baylor At Baylor, students find a vibrant, Christian community where ideas are exchanged, experiences shared, and relationships are developed. Explore Start Your Gift Now Amount Give To The Area of Most Need — or — Select a Specific Fund Explore Give Light is a $1.1 billion comprehensive campaign for the future of Baylor University. The campaign undergirds Illuminate, the University's Academic Strategic Plan, and will impact every aspect of campus life, from academics and athletics to student life and global engagement. Learn More about Give Light Giving Priorities Student Scholarships A scholarship to Baylor University opens doors to intellectual and spiritual discovery, to deeper knowledge and to greater dreams. Your gift to student scholarships is a gift that can change a life. Read More The Torch This platform showcases initiatives across campus that are the passion of our students, faculty and staff. Through crowdfunding, you can help the Baylor Family raise funds to launch new projects. Read More Academic Units The thirteen schools and colleges at Baylor University are on the forefront of compelling research, teaching and scholarship. Your gift will support areas that reflect the highest priorities of the University. Read More Student Life Strengthen Baylor students’ opportunities and experiences through a gift to the Student Emergency Fund, Student Foundation, Student Missions, Baylor Line Camp and a number of other opportunities. Read More News Read More News Apr. 14, 2022 Baylor Mourns Passing of Beloved Former First Lady Joy Reynolds WACO, Texas (April 14, 2022) – WACO, Texas (April 14, 2022) – The Baylor University family is grieving the loss of beloved former First Lady Joy Reynolds. The wife of Baylor’s 11th President and later Chancellor and President Emeritus, the late Herbert H. Reynolds, Mrs. Reynolds fulfilled her role as First Lady with boundless grace and energy. Read More Apr. 5, 2022 Baylor University Announces $3 Million Gift Establishing New Chair in Christian Thought WACO, Texas (April 7, 2022) – Baylor University today announced a $3 million gift from Jim and Sharon Harrod of Horseshoe Bay, Texas, establishing an endowed faculty chair position to support exceptional scholarship and transformational learning within the Honors College and the study of great thinkers who have stood at the intersection of the Christian faith and culture at large. Read More Mar. 29, 2022 Graduate and Professional Programs Ranked in U.S. News & World Report’s 2023 Edition of Best Graduate Schools WACO, Texas (March 29, 2022) – Several Baylor University graduate and professional programs were among those nationally ranked in the 2023 U.S. News & World Report Best Graduate Schools rankings, released March 29. Read More Mar. 23, 2022 Who are the Fosters — namesakes of Baylor’s new Foster Pavilion? To the most recent generation of Baylor Family members, the Foster name is synonymous with campus growth and exciting new facilities. The Paul L. Foster Success Center brought academic and career counseling and support together in Sid Rich back in 2007, and the Foster Campus for Business and Innovation provided a stunning new home for the … Read More Stories of Giving See More Stories Shalon Evans I am a Baylor University alum and want to help others join this amazing legacy of academic, spiritual, and personal excellence. ~ Shalon Evans John Steiger Cannot say enough good things about my daughter's experience at Baylor. Baylor has given her the direction and motivation to go out into the world and do great things. ~ John Steiger Mark Dole Proud to be a Baylor Bear. Proud of my degree in the Army-Baylor Healthcare Administration Program. Also proud to be from a family of Baylor graduates. ~ Mark Dole Beth Kilpatrick As we bring a need to God, he meets it, sometimes through perfect strangers, always on time and always in abundance. We feel called to give out of God's generosity to us. ~ Beth Kilpatrick Office of University Advancement Clifton Robinson Tower, Ste. 800 One Bear Place #97026 Waco, TX 76798-7026 (254) 710-2561 (800) 229-5678, option 4 University_Advancement@baylor.edu Alumni Connect Give Light Campaign Give Online Memorials and Tributes General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 About Us Leadership Directory News Stories of Giving Give Light Ways to Give Gifts of Cash Gifts of Securities, Real Estate and Personal Property Matching Gifts Memorials and Tributes Memorial and Tribute Funds Bricks and Pavers Gift and Estate Planning Corporate Gifts Priorities Academic Units College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering and Computer Science School of Music University Libraries Athletics Athletics Excellence Fund Baylor Spirit Squad Bear Foundation Dutch Schroeder Letterwinners' Legacy Endowment Fund Parents Baylor Parent Fund Library Excellence Fund Parents Endowed Scholarship Student Emergency Fund Student Life Excellence Fund Special Interests Baylor in Washington Excellence Fund Baylor/Waco Foundation Museums Senior Class Gift Student Life Baylor Line Camp Student Emergency Fund Student Foundation Student Life Excellence Fund Student Missions Student Scholarships General Scholarship Fund Establishing an Endowed Scholarship The Torch (crowdfunding) Giving Societies 1845 Society 1845 Society Impact Report 2021 Old Main Society Make a Gift