or by: Colleges, Institutes & Centers Agencies Faculty & Staff RESEARCH AT UCF | Post-Doc Program | Share Feedback Research Commercialization Research Integrity & Compliance Centers & Institutes Research Development Research Foundation Research Administration Our office has the tools, resources and support needed to assist the UCF research community throughout the life cycle of a sponsored award. Research... How We Can Help You What is a Sponsored Project? Definition of a Sponsored Project Institutional Information and Facts (F&A Rates, Fringe Benefit Rates, etc.) Important information to assist you in writing proposals such as Facilities and Administrative Costs (F&A) also known as Overhead and Indirect Costs, Fringe Benefit Rates, Travel, Tuition, etc. Proposal Development Overview Who can serve as a Principal Investigator and Co-Principal Investigator? Guide for Budget Preparation Everything you need to create a budget for your project – from calculating personnel costs to fringe benefits, travel and more. Proposal Submission Guidelines Guidelines for submitting proposals. The Office of Research is the only office vested with the authority to sign research proposals and contracts on behalf of the University of Central Florida. Outgoing Subaward/Subcontract Submission Guidelines Guidelines for submitting outgoing subawards and subcontracts requests. The Office of Research is the only office vested with the authority to sign and submit outgoing subawards and subcontracts on behalf of the University of Central Florida. Award Management Now that you've received an award we can help you work through all the necessary procedures to manage it. Award Closeout Steps required to end a funded project. Research Tools A depository of helpful tools, including a glossary of terms and resources available from UCF, the state and federal governments. Forms Here you will find a depository of forms for proposal and award management. Institutional Review Board (IRB) The IRB Committee established to protect the rights and welfare of human participants involved in research. Office of Animal Welfare IACUC is responsible for oversight and evaluation of the University animal care and use program, its procedures and facilities to ensure that they are consistent with the recommendations of the Guide, AWR, PHS Policy, and IACUC Policies. General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) Important information you need to know about data protection regulations when working with colleagues in Europe. News & Updates Important Information Regarding Automated Compliance Improvements of NSF Proposals Important Links 5-day Rule Policy and FAQs Administration Animal Welfare ARGIS to Huron Grants Crosswalk Award Management Contracts Office Organizational Chart Current Funding Opportunities Faculty Travel Florida Research Admin. Conference Forms Glossary of Research Terms Guides and FAQs for Sponsored Awards How to Submit a Proposal Human Research Roles and Responsibilities Matrix Participate in a Research Project Policies and Procedures Post Award Organizational Chart Related Links Sponsored Programs Organization Chart UCF Facts at a Glance UCF Internal Programs View Research Funding History Serving Faculty The Office of Research serves UCF scholars as the official liaison between UCF and funding sources and by helping faculty work through the proposal and contract management process. This site includes information to assist university scholars through the announcement, application and post-award stages and to familiarize prospective partners with the breadth of funded research conducted at the university. UCF is committed to the pursuit of excellence and intellectual growth and seeks to excel at moving ideas to innovation and realization. The Carnegie Foundation rates UCF as a "very high research activity" university. We’ve been on an upward trajectory for years and in 2021 UCF surpassed the $212.9 million dollar mark in external funding. UCF's pioneering efforts to commercialize technology continue to stimulate local economies throughout the state. The number of patents at UCF also continue to climb with 64 U.S. issued patents produced in 2021. Annual Report ORC Information Administration Organization Chart Current Funding Opportunities How to Submit a Proposal Access to Huron Grants Funding History FL High Tech Corridor Council UCF Strategic Plan UCF Job Opportunities Mission and Vision Statement Contact Information © 1997 Office of Research & Commercialization. All rights reserved. Address: 12201 Research Parkway, Suite 501 Orlando, FL 32826-3246 Phone: 407.823.3778 Fax: 407.823.3299 Contact | IT Group | Privacy Policy | Site Credit Staff Directory