Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Skip to primary site search Google Tag Manager Research at Brown Show/Hide Home Conducting Research at Brown Centers, Institutes and Libraries Undergraduate Research Assistance How Do I...? NIH Commons & NSF IDs Please allow 1-2 business days for processing of your account/role request. NIH eRA Commons To obtain an NIH User ID for eRA Commons, please click the link below and complete and submit the form. Or, if you need to add, remove or change any of your roles, please fill out and submit this form: Request a User ID for NIH eRA Commons Please note: If you are an external person, not affiliated with Brown, and wish to request affiliation, you will need to be sponsored by a department. Please refer to the Sponsored ID request process here before requesting an NIH eRA Commons ID. NSF Research.gov/Fastlane* To obtain an NSF User ID please register directly at Research.gov. Please note that NSF accounts have a two-step process for roles (PI, Co-I, Postdoc). If you need a role, you will: Register your account in Research.gov (if you had an account in FastLane, you still need to log into Research.gov for the first time to activate your account). Use your existing FastLane ID & password to log into Research.gov. An activation confirmation email will come to you via Research.gov once you log in for the first time. Request your needed account role(s) when logged into your account at Research.gov. *Please note that as of 2018 NSF has transitioned from FastLane over to Research.gov for accounts. NIH/NSF Account Password Resets and/or Forgotten ID's: Note that any password resets or ID reminders are done directly at each Sponsor's website respectively. RAIS/Brown has no access to resetting passwords at these external, sponsor-owned websites. Make your password or ID retreival request directly via eRA Commons or Research.gov's login areas, or by calling their helpdesk at the numbers provided at the site. The Research Administration and Information Systems Team will contact you as soon as you are set up. For both NIH eRA Commons and NSF Research.gov, you will receive a new account email directly from the sponsor. Conducting Research at Brown Finding Funding Research Strategy and Development (ORSD) Preparing and Submitting a Proposal Managing an Award Sponsored Projects (OSP) Research Compliance (IRB, IACUC, COI, Export Control, Research Data Management and Data Use Agreements) Brown Technology Innovations Research Administration Information Systems (RAIS) Coeus InfoEd InfoEd Knowledge Center InfoEd Training NIH Commons & NSF IDs Sponsored Project Reporting ERAF Newsletter People Huron Research Management Support (RMS) Research Agreements and Contracting International Research & Activities Responsible Conduct of Research (RCR) How Do I...? 2022 Research Achievement Award Winners About the Office Newsletter Forms and Policies Training and Outreach Graduate Student Resources Explore Brown University Search Brown Show/Hide Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Office of the Vice President for Research 350 Eddy Street | Brown University | Box 1937 | Providence, RI 02912 Vice President for Research 401-863-7408 [email protected] Research Strategy and Development 401-863-7999 [email protected] Brown Technology Innovations 401-863-7499 [email protected] Office of Sponsored Projects 401-863-2777 [email protected] Research Administration and Information Systems 401-863-2777 [email protected] Office of Research Integrity 401-863-3050 [email protected] @brownuresearch Giving to Brown Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U Google+ LinkedIn SnapChat