Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu Division of Student Affairs Main Navigation Our Story Show Extended Division of Student Affairs Welcome Leadership Team Organizational Chart Our Purpose Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Assessment Programs Professional Development Staff of the Month Program Publications Faculty Resource Page Student Employment University Employment Contact Us California State University, Fullerton 2018-2023 Strategic Plan Branding Campus News Donate Facts & Figures College Access and Career Pathways Engagement and Well-Being Identity and Belonging Virtual Student Services Associated Students Inc., CSUF Titan Athletics Academic Appeals Title IX and Gender Equity Show Extended Notice of Non-Discrimination on the Basis of Gender or Sex Hispanic-Serving Institution Initiatives VPSA Cabinet TONANTZIN OSEGUERA, ED.D. Vice President for Student Affairs Tonantzin Oseguera, Ed.D., was appointed as Vice President for Student Affairs at California State University, Fullerton, following a competitive national search. Her appointment is both a culmination of a lifelong passion for equitable, student-centered higher education, and passion and pride for Cal State Fullerton. A leader with tremendous poise, intellect, decision-making ability, and strength, VP Oseguera's "students-first" approach and contagious smile have made her a beloved figure within the CSUF community. More importantly, though, her expertise in and passion for the retention, care, and persistence for all students – with great focus on underserved populations – has directly led to the dramatic narrowing of Cal State Fullerton's opportunity gap, rising graduation rates, and so much more. Originally joining CSUF in 2013 as Dean of Students, it was here that VP Oseguera led endeavors that bolstered the University's mission to provide an inclusive and transformational environment for all Titans — from the development of the Title IX Implementation Team and creation of a one-stop-shop for all student concerns to being a key leader in the Student Success Fee Initiative and reimagining the Behavior Intervention Team in a way that better facilitates student care and case management. More recently as an Associate Vice President for Student Affairs — first as AVP for Student Engagement, then AVP for Enrollment Management, and finally AVP for College Access and Career Pathways — VP Oseguera spearheaded or directly contributed to numerous transformative "firsts" at CSUF. Included in these accomplishments are the development of the first Behavior Intervention Team in CSUF history, the first Basic Needs Resource Center (Tuffy's Basic Needs Resource Center) in The California State University history, and one of the first resource centers dedicated to undocumented students in the nation (Titan Dreamers Resource Center). Moreover, her institutional service has been equally impactful for CSUF, serving through the President’s Commission for Equity and Inclusion, the Undocumented and Formerly Undocumented Faculty & Staff Association, Black Excellence Care Group as co-chair, and Graduation Initiative 2025. VP Oseguera is also a national voice on equitable access to higher education for underrepresented groups, and her peer-reviewed publications, keynote speeches, national honors, and various leadership roles for the National Association of Student Personnel Administrators (NASPA) have bolstered CSUF’s reputation as a national model in this arena. Among her proudest local accomplishments is the creation of the CSUF-NUFP chapter for Titans, which is part of the NASPA Undergraduate Fellows Program (NUFP). Thanks to CSUF-NUFP and its curriculum — which was developed and assessed by VP Oseguera — the lives of students are transformed by way of educational and professional development experiences related to the Student Affairs profession. The CSUF-NUFP chapter is now one of the most recognized in the nation, helping produce dozens of Student Affairs professionals and social justice advocates in various industries. A first-generation college graduate born and raised in Mexico City, VP Oseguera earned a doctoral degree in Higher Education Administration from USC; a Master's in Higher Education and Student Affairs Administration from the University of Vermont; and a bachelor's degree in Human Development and Family Studies with an emphasis in Gerontology and Women’s Studies. Jim Donovan Director of Athletics With over 20 years experience in athletics administration to his credit, Jim Donovan was appointed as the 11th Director of Athletics for California State University, Fullerton in 2012. Since taking the reigns, Donovan has brought Cal State Fullerton to new heights as the athletics department has notched several major accomplishments both academically and athletically speaking. Under Donovan’s leadership, the Titans have won 24 Big West Conference Championships and the Titan baseball team made the College World Series in two of the last five seasons after not making it to Omaha since 2009. The softball program has also soared to new heights, as its begun a dynasty of its own, claiming four consecutive Big West Conference titles. Women’s soccer has advanced to the NCAA's in four of the past six seasons, men’s soccer has qualified for the NCAA Tournament in three of the past five campaigns, while Titan Men's Track & Field won back-to-back Big West crowns in 2017 and 2018. Women's Track & Field won their first Big West title in 2019. Men's Golf had an outstanding season in 2018-19, winning the Big West Tournament, and qualifying for the NCAA Regionals for the first time since 2014. Donovan was rewarded for his efforts by being named one of the recipients of the 2019 Under Armour Athletic Director of the Year award, as presented by the National Association of Collegiate Directors of Athletics (NACDA). As dominant as Fullerton has been on the field of competition, the Titans’ accomplishments off of it have been even more impressive. During Donovan’s tenure as Athletic Director, the Titans have raised over $13.8 million through the department's development office. Ticket sales have also increased by nearly 46 percent since his arrival, as the Titans managed to sell a school-record $560,494 in tickets during the 2017-18 campaign. Most impressively, the Titans have shed the “commuter school” label that many thought would be impossible. Since Donovan’s arrival on campus, Titan Athletics has gone from barely being able to attract 1,000 students to athletics events over an academic year, to now seeing an average of nearly 17,000 passionate Cal State Fullerton students supporting Titan student-athletes in each of the past three seasons. The newly created “Stampede” student section has rapidly increased by over 1,200 percent over the last six seasons, making Titan facilities some of the rowdiest in the Big West Conference. View full bio on Fullerton Athletics website Dave Edwards, ed.d. Executive Director Associated Students, CSUF, Inc. A proud Titan for nearly a decade, Dave Edwards, Ed.D., currently serves as Executive Director of Associated Students Inc., CSUF (ASI). After working nearly 15 years in the California State University system and for more than 20 years in higher education, Dr. Edwards became part of the Cal State Fullerton family in 2012. Holding a deep passion for student success and professional development, he possesses an unwavering passion for helping students maximize the fullness of their potential. As Executive Director, Dr. Edwards advises elected student leaders, provides executive management and leadership to the non-profit auxiliary, manages a $20 million-plus operating budget, and oversees operations of the Titan Student Union, the Student Recreation Center, and the Children’s Center. An adaptable and steady leader, Dr. Edwards most recently spent the 2019-20 academic year as Associate Vice President for Student Affairs of Titan Experience and Engagement. It was during this time that he helped enrich the Titan Experience through Student Life & Leadership, Housing & Residential Engagement, and Associated Students, Inc. Prior to CSUF, Dr. Edwards served in a variety of Student Affairs positions at California State University, Long Beach; California Polytechnic State University, San Luis Obispo; Shawnee State University (OH); Pfeiffer College (NC); and Southern Illinois University, Carbondale. Dr. Edwards received a Bachelor of Science degree from the University of Evansville (IN) and a Master of Education in College Student Personnel from Southern Illinois University, Carbondale. Continually striving for more in his education endeavors, Dave became the first individual to receive an independent doctorate degree in the history of The California State University, when he received his Doctorate in Educational Leadership from California State University, Long Beach. His research interests include university presidential leadership, student development, change management, and staff engagement. Martha Enciso, ed.d. Associate Vice President Martha Enciso, Ed.D., was appointed as Associate Vice President for Student Affairs at California State University, Fullerton in July 2021. In this role, she oversees the area of Identity and Belonging, which encompasses Diversity Initiatives and Resource Centers, Retention Initiatives and Special Populations. Dr. Enciso most recently served as the inaugural Associate Director of the Weber Honors College at San Diego State University (SDSU). In this role, she assisted with recruitment, mentored students in high impact practices, advised on graduate school and post-graduate opportunities, and taught interdisciplinary studies courses. Moreover, Dr. Enciso’s long-time commitment to the transfer student community continued through support of the Transfer Student Success Office. Her focus on supporting the transfer student population helped see an increase in transfer student engagement in honors as well as change the perception of who can and should participate in honors communities. Additionally, she held the role of co-chair for the First-Gen Student Success campus-wide initiative and served as the lead in obtaining the NASPA First-gen Forward Institution designation and more recently, the NASPA First-gen Advisory Institution designation for SDSU. Prior to SDSU, Dr. Enciso worked at the University of Southern California (USC) in the Office of Academic and International Fellowships. In this role, she worked with students who received merit scholarships, students who were interested in national and international scholarships/fellowships, and oversaw the Mellon Mays Undergraduate Fellowship Program (MMUF). She also taught courses in the Postsecondary Administration and Student Affairs as well as the Educational Counseling master’s programs. Dr. Enciso presents her work nationally and serves on national leadership teams for professional associations. She currently serves as co-chair of the NASPA Latinx/a/o Knowledge Community, on the NASPA Student Career Development Knowledge Community leadership team, and the NASPA Faculty Council. She is a three-time Trojan, having earned her bachelor's in Sociology, master's in Postsecondary Administration and Student Affairs, and doctorate in Higher Education Leadership, all from USC. Chalea Forgues, m.a. Chief of Operations Chalea Forgues, M.A., was appointed as Chief of Operations for the Division of Student Affairs at California State University, Fullerton in July 2020, assuming the role after a previously successful brief stint in the same position in early 2019. As Chief of Operations, Ms. Forgues is responsible for Division-wide assessment, budget, communications, human resources, strategic initiatives, and professional development. A committed, cheerful, detail-oriented, and highly-personal leader, she works closely with the Vice President and Student Affairs Leadership Team to ensure high-quality student-services for Titans. Before returning to the COO role, Ms. Forgues worked in the area of Special Projects, supporting Graduation Initiative 2025 tracking, University Strategic Planning, and the Black Excellence Care group. Originally joining Cal State Fullerton as the Coordinator for Adult Reentry and Parenting programs in 2014, Ms. Forgues led services related to supporting the success of nontraditional students, CalWORKs, and pregnant and parenting students. Ms. Forgues received both a Master of Education in Counseling and Student Affairs and a Bachelor of Science in Sociology from Northern Arizona University. Rob Scialdone, M.f.a. Director of Business Operations Calling California State University, Fullerton his professional home for more than 20 years, Rob Scialdone, M.F.A., is Director of Business Operations for the Office of the Vice President for Student Affairs, offering tremendous institutional, financial and academic knowledge to help advance the mission of the Division of Student Affairs. A shining example of a Cal State Fullerton alumnus turned Titan executive, Mr. Scialdone joined the Office of the Vice President in 2016 as Budget Manager, following three years in the Office of the Provost as Academic Finance and Operations Manager. Included among his many responsibilities in recent years: Accounting for all of the income and expenses as processed through the State of California, managing capital projects and minor capital projects, overseeing workspace allocation and utilization of space, financial reporting, budgeting and payment processing. Accepting a professional role at Cal State Fullerton in 2001, Mr. Scialdone originally served as chief financial officer for Titan Athletics after a stint in the private sector as a corporate strategist and financial advisor for startup companies. He also worked as a senior financial analyst for a mortgage REIT before returning to CSUF. A native of Southern California, Mr. Scialdone attended Claremont McKenna College until 1995 and graduated in 1996 with a B.A. in Economics from Cal State Fullerton. He later returned to Claremont McKenna College and received a master's degree in finance in 2000. Chelsea Strohm, m.s. Executive Assistant to the Vice President and Chief of Operations Chelsea Strohm, enters her fourth year in the Office of the Vice President for Student Affairs and first as Executive Assistant to the Vice President and Chief of Operations. In this high-level role, Ms. Strohm is responsible for providing executive-level and confidential administrative analysis, maintaining files and records, responding to requests for student records, supporting special projects, and more. She also functions as the point person for all matters related to the Vice President for Student Affairs and the Chief of Operations. Often described as a high-achieving, caring, and detail-oriented individual, Ms. Strohm previously worked as the Assistant to then Associate Vice President and current Vice President, Tonantzin Oseguera. In this role, she was critical to keeping Dr. Oseguera informed and on-task in a fast-paced environment. She staffed high-profile search committees, organized numerous events and fostered many positive relations with the Student Affairs directors and their departments. Ms. Strohm has served in various roles across campus since 2014, including Scheduling Coordinator in Academic Affairs and Administrative Assistant for Liberal Studies, Philosophy, and Woman & Gender Studies. The first in her family to receive a college degree, Ms. Strohm graduated with a Bachelor of Arts degree in Earth Science and a Master of Science in Environmental Studies from Cal State Fullerton. Vincent Vigil, Ed.D. Associate Vice President & Dean of Students A creative, committed and promising Student Affairs executive, Vincent Vigil, Ed.D., has been nothing short of spectacular in a leadership function at California State University, Fullerton. Earning the title of both AVP of Wellness and Care & Dean of Students in July 2020, Dr. Vigil leads highly-visible and significant departments within the Division of Student Affairs. Promoted to AVP in 2019, Dr. Vigil has now overseen Counseling & Psychological Services, the Dean of Students Office, Disability Support Services, the Health Center, and Title IX. Similarly, he has a hand in notable programmatic areas, such as Care Services, TitanWell, and Tuffy's Basic Needs Services, providing solutions to best serve the student population. Moreover, he now leads the areas of Housing & Residential Engagement and Student Life & Leadership, which are huge components of the Titan Experience. Dr. Vigil previously served as Interim Director for CSUF’s Diversity Initiatives & Resource Centers, which includes the five identity-based centers: African American Resource Center, Asian Pacific American Resource Center, Chicana & Chicano Resource Center, Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender & Queer Resource Center, and Titan Dreamers Resource Center. Prior to that role, he worked as the Director for Student Life & Leadership at CSUF, playing a key role in the holistic education of Titans through Student Clubs/Organizations, Club Sports, Fraternity & Sorority Life, Community & Leadership Programs, and Campus Activities. A proven young professional, Dr. Vigil was the Director for Campus Organizations at the University of California, Irvine (UCI) as well as the inaugural Director for the Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender (LGBT) Resource Center at USC. Under his leadership at USC, the LGBT Resource Center was named a ‘Top 20 Best of the Best’ LGBT-Friendly Colleges and Universities, received a ‘five star rating’ from the Campus Climate Index, and an Achievement Award from the Los Angeles City Pride Heritage Month Celebration along with several other local and national accolades. Holding a deep passion for knowledge, Dr. Vigil also has taught several courses in educational counseling and education for the master's and doctoral programs at USC, and the Master's of Higher Education Program at CSUF. He is a first-generation college student from Pico Rivera, CA. He received his bachelor’s degree in Business Administration from Whittier College and his master’s degree in Postsecondary Administration and Student Affairs from the USC Rossier School of Education. In 2007, Dr. Vigil graduated with his doctorate degree in Higher Education Administration from USC. Elizabeth Zavala-Acevez, Ph.D. Associate Vice President Elizabeth Zavala-Acevez, Ph.D., was appointed as Associate Vice President for Student Affairs at California State University, Fullerton in July 2020. She leads the area of College Access and Career Pathways, overseeing the areas of Admissions, Career Center, Center for Educational Partnerships, Center for Internships & Community Engagement, Financial Aid, Orientation, and Outreach & Recruitment. A dynamic, intelligent, and tactful leader, Dr. Zavala-Acevez transitions to AVP after having most recently served as Director of the Career Center at Cal State Fullerton. In this role, she provided strategic direction to all facets of the department as well as leadership and supervision to its 41 staff members. A highly-active and selfless contributor to CSUF, Dr. Zavala-Acevez has led in several capacities across campus to support student success, career readiness, fundraising, professional development, and diversity initiatives. Moreover, she has been actively involved in several professional career development organizations, including Mountain Pacific Association of Colleges and Employers (MPACE) as President-Elect, and National Association of Student Personnel Administrators (NASPA) as an award-winning member (2015 NASPA Region VI Mid-Level Student Affairs Award). Her professional career began at CSUF in 2006 as a Career Development Specialist before earning promotions to Assistant Director, Associate Director, and Director of the Career Center. The epitome of Titan excellence, Dr. Zavala-Acevez graduated from CSUF with a B.S. in Human Services, before earning a M.S. in Counseling with a concentration in College Counseling from the University of La Verne and a Ph.D. in Education with an emphasis in Higher Education and Student Affairs from Claremont Graduate University. This site is maintained by Division of Student Affairs. Last Published 7/30/21 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact danielramirez@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.3.5 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.