Skip to Main Content HBS Home About Academic Programs Alumni Faculty & Research Baker Library Giving Harvard Business Review Initiatives News Recruit Map / Directions Commencement 2022 Commencement & Reunion 2020-21 Harvard Commencement Schedule Awards Videos …→ Harvard Business School→ Commencement 2022→ Awards→ Awards Awards Awards are given annually in several categories. This year’s winners will be featured here after they are announced. Alumni Achievement Awards For more than 50 years, Harvard Business School has selected a number of outstanding graduates to receive its most important honor, the Alumni Achievement Award. Throughout their careers, these distinguished alumni have contributed significantly to their companies and communities while upholding the highest standards and values in everything they do. As such, they represent the best in our alumni body. Exemplary role models, they inspire all those who aspire to have an impact on both business and society. →Read More about the 2022 recipients Baker Scholars Students whose combined academic performance in both years puts them in the top 5% of the MBA Class of 2022 graduate with high distinction and are known as Baker Scholars, named after the School’s initial benefactor, George Fisher Baker. This recognition is a lasting part of a student’s academic record and is noted on their diploma and transcript. 12 MAY 2021 The Story Behind the Baker Scholars 12 MAY 2021 The Story Behind the Baker Scholars Dean's Award This award celebrates the extraordinary achievements of graduating students who during their years of study have also made a positive impact on Harvard, Harvard Business School, and/or broader communities. In addition, these students have contributed to the well-being of society through exceptional acts of leadership. →Read about this year’s Dean’s Award recipients Faculty Teaching Awards MBA Faculty teaching awards are determined by students from the graduating class, and faculty recipients will be named in the Required Curriculum (RC) and the Elective Curriculum (EC) based on the criteria of inspiration, knowledge transfer, accessibility, career guidance, contributions to campus life, and feedback. For our Doctoral Programs, the Wyss Awards for Excellence in Mentoring Doctoral Students will be announced for 2022. →2022 MBA faculty teaching award recipients →2022 Wyss Awards for Excellence in Mentoring Doctoral Students Leadership Fellows The Leadership Fellows program offers nonprofit and public sector organizations the opportunity to leverage the experience, energy, and analytical skills of MBAs for one year. The 2022-23 Leadership Fellows celebrated during Commencement week will work at a wide range of organizations across fields such as education, health care, impact investing, and the public sector. →Read about this year’s Fellows ǁ Commencement Harvard Business School Boston, MA 02163 →Map & Directions →More Contact Information Site Map Jobs Harvard University Trademarks Policies Digital Accessibility Copyright © President & Fellows of Harvard College