Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu Division of Student Affairs Housing and Residential Engagement Main Navigation About Us Show Extended Mission Meet Our Staff Contact Us Student Employment and Leadership Opportunities Parking Information Student Housing Policies Current Residents Show Extended Payment Information Resident Mailing Addresses Wi-Fi for Entertainment Devices Lockouts Dining Services FAQ's Submit a Maintenance Request The Gastronome Community Market Future Residents Show Extended Housing Information Housing Communities Student Housing Suites How to Apply for Housing Payment Information Theme Communities What to Bring on Move-in Day International Students International Programs & Global Engagement On-Campus Housing for International Students Housing Tours Tour Information Campus Tours Residential Engagement Show Extended Residential Engagement Faculty in Residence Theme Communities Housing Policies Of The Month Awards Housing Student Organizations About RSA About NRHH Resources Show Extended SwakU Gifts and Care Packages MicroFridge® with Safe Plug® GradGuard Renters insurance Spectrum Fire Safety Report Off-campus Housing Events and Conference Services Show Extended Meeting Room Reservation Request Form Summer Conferences Dining and Catering Tabling Request Form Marketing Requests Contact our Events and Conferences Team Take a Housing Tour Submit a Maintenance Request Contact Us Housing Portal Faculty In Residence Dr. LaTosha Traylor, a Sociology professor, serves as our Faculty in Residence. Her presence in the Student Housing community offers opportunities for residents to informally interact with a faculty member in a casual setting. She lives in the Student Housing community and provides various other programs and events, including Tuesdays with Tosha. Welcome Letter From Dr. Traylor Dear HRE Family: I hope that your semester is off to a great start! I’m sending this letter to you as a way of introducing myself. My name is Dr. LaTosha Traylor and I am the new Faculty In Residence (FIR). My students call me Dr. or Professor Traylor; but here in the Student Housing community, you can call me “Tosha”. I am a 3rd year Sociology professor, but I’ve been teaching since 2007. My research focuses on issues related to race, class, gender and crime. I teach a variety of grad and undergrad courses in these areas. As the FIR, I am here to assist you with developing your academic skillset and building positive relationships with your professors. I am thrilled about this opportunity to work closely with you in your community. Personally, I have a pretty laid-back, approachable personality and I “keep it real” with my students. They really appreciate that about me. I also have a strong sense of compassion for those who’ve been socially marginalized. I was always that kid on the playground who defended the outcasts and had no tolerance for bullying. I’m still that person. Also, I love learning. Even though I didn't go directly to graduate school after college, I worked on university campuses in order to remain immersed in a learning environment. All of that is to say... I have literally spent my entire adult life on a university campus. And I love it! I’m looking forward to us getting to know one another over this academic year. I’m also excited about the FIR programming coming your way very soon. Once a month I will host “Tuesdays with Tosha” which will cover different topics such as Q & A, and is Orange really the New Black? These programs occur in Gastronome 160 at 6:30pm. Please keep an eye out for flyers! If you are unable to attend my programs, , please feel free to introduce yourself when you see me around the community or email me and we’ll schedule a time to chat ( ltraylor@fullerton.edu) . Take care, Tosha This site is maintained by Housing and Residential Engagement. Last Published 4/13/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact housing@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.10 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.