Skip to main content Skip to main navigation School of Engineering and Computer Science ECS Scholars Program Menu Program Overview News Events Conference ECS Scholars Program There is a vast, explored sea of nature just waiting for things to be discovered in it, and the science and technology needed are progressing at an exponential rate. You see, it all feeds back into itself. Someone discovers a new principle or a new theory and it’s not only new knowledge but a new instrument for seeking more knowledge. – Claude Shannon, Father of Digital Communications and Information Theory The Engineering and Computer Science Scholars Program strives to prepare low-income, high-ability students in acquiring the knowledge, skills, experiences and motivation to join the STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics) workforce. Learn More about ECS Scholars Benefits of the Program Mentoring from faculty and staff for academic and career success Empowering and supportive community Career preparation and professional development Research opportunities Internship opportunities Summer research internships including stipends Academic support analytics using SSC Navigate Contact Us Application now closed Thank you for your interest, the ECS Scholars program is closed and will no longer be receiving new applicants. News & Events Jul 23 2019 Meet the Baylor researchers who will highlight BU's national brand campaign From the labs of Baylor Sciences Building to the borderlands in South Texas, and all around the world, Baylor professors are conducting research that is both influential and inspirational. Soon, that work will be highlighted in a brand campaign that shines a light on the ways Baylor research is forging new pathways of understanding in health, human flourishing, sciences and more. Jun 27 2019 Engineering and the Law: A Powerful Combination Creates a Unique Case File for Top Gun X Professor Joe Donndelinger monitors creation of one of the exhibits used in the Top Gun X National Mock Trial Competition in the Baylor University School of Engineering 3D Print Lab. May 28 2019 Baylor BUV in Uganda Seth Emig, president of Baylor BUV and senior engineering major, said it was a dream come true for the organization to build a BUV with and for the people in Uganda. May 14 2019 Baylor University Joins Research Team Seeking to Transform U.S. Water System Baylor University has partnered with four Department of Energy laboratories and more than a dozen universities in a research alliance to address the country’s water security issues through desalination. ECS Scholars Program School of Engineering & Computer Science One Bear Place #97356 Waco, TX 76798-7356 (254) 710-3871 ECS_Student_Services@baylor.edu ECS Scholars Program Apply General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 Program Overview News Events Conference