Skip to main content Toggle subitems Main navigation Meet Princeton Toggle sub-items In Service of Humanity Facts & Figures History Honors & Awards Contact Us Visit Us Our Faculty Our Students Our Alumni Our Staff Our Leadership Academic Freedom and Free Expression Academics Toggle sub-items Studying at Princeton Library Areas of Study Humanities Social Sciences Engineering Natural Sciences Advising Academic Calendar Course Tools Learning Abroad Career Development Continuing Education Innovative Learning Research Toggle sub-items Engineering & Applied Science Humanities Natural Sciences Social Sciences Interdisciplinary Approach Dean for Research Office External Partnerships Facilities & Labs One Community Toggle sub-items Lifelong Connections Student Life Arts & Culture Athletics Living in Princeton, N.J. Housing & Dining Activities & Organizations Cultural & Affinity Groups Health & Wellness Religious Life Serving the Public Good Families Admission & Aid Toggle sub-items Affordable for All About Financial Aid Current Undergraduate Financial Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission For International Students Utility menu News Events Work at Princeton Services & Resources Work-Life Balance Links for Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Giving Search Sites & People × Advising Overview Supporting Undergraduates' Success Graduate Student Resources Academic Strategies Overview We want you to succeed in your life at Princeton. You will have the academic resources and personal attention to help you discover your intellectual passions and to grow as a scholar. There is no limit to the ideas you might explore — and the people, opportunities and support networks are here to help you flourish. Princeton is distinguished by its close student-faculty engagement, where faculty members often serve as mentors to students as they progress in their studies. The University is committed to fostering intellectual growth every step along the path, from admission to Commencement, with a far-reaching support structure. The Office of the Dean of the College (ODOC) is home base for all aspects of the undergraduate academic experience. The Graduate School supports its students' success and collaborates closely with academic departments. All students are encouraged to take advantage of the many advising and tutoring options throughout their time at Princeton. Supporting Undergraduates' Success Photo by Denise Applewhite, Office of Communications The Office of the Dean of the College oversees the undergraduate curriculum and has a simple message: Study what you love, take advantage of the opportunities around you and find help when you need it. Students are assigned to faculty advisers who assist with course selection and other academic matters. Residential Colleges and Advising It's home — and a place of learning: Academic advising for first-years and sophomores is centered in the residential colleges. Each college has a faculty head supported by deans and directors of studies. Undergraduates are encouraged to explore their academic interests and goals with staff in the residential colleges. Fellow students also are extremely important for academic questions — the residential colleges have undergraduate peer advisers who offer perspectives on the academic experience, while residential college advisers, who are juniors and seniors, serve as mentors. The colleges also have study areas, even libraries, where students can pursue their work. Study breaks at especially busy times can be a fun way to blow off steam with peers. Meeting Students' Needs Princeton is committed to the academic success of all its students. Programs and resources are continually being enhanced to meet the specific needs of our students, who come from a wide range of backgrounds. For example, the Scholars Institute Fellows Program (SIFP) empowers students from first-generation and low-income backgrounds through mentorship, academic enrichment and a support network of faculty, staff and students. Students form an engaged community and build on each others' strengths throughout their time at Princeton. The Freshman Scholars Institute is a seven-week academic program for select incoming students that immerses them in campus life through academic, co-curricular and extracurricular programming. Play video: Play Video: Freshman Scholars Institute Bottle Rocket Launch In this video, students in "Foundations of Engineering," taught by Andrew Houck, associate professor of electrical engineering, launch the bottle rockets they created in the lab over four weeks — a hands-on design and engineering experience that included integrating physics and math skills to build individual circuit boards to track the flight and measure the acceleration of their rocket. Video by Danielle Alio, Office of Communications Graduate Student Resources Photo by Mark Czajkowski Princeton's graduate students are a community of scholars who enjoy a high level of engagement with faculty members. Your academic department and faculty adviser are your first point of contact for information and support. Further support is available through the Graduate School's Student Life team, as well as various campus programs for advising and skills development. Academic Strategies Photo by Denise Applewhite, Office of Communications Support From the McGraw Center Get some tips and learn something new: At the McGraw Center for Teaching and Learning, students can learn strategies to master large reading assignments, take effective notes, study efficiently, prepare for exams and use digital media. You can also get support for specific courses, including individual tutoring and technology training. Help From the Writing Center The Writing Center offers Princeton writers free, one-on-one conferences with experienced fellow writers trained to respond to assignments in any discipline. Fellows at the center offer help to undergraduates and graduate students on writing for various projects and even oral presentations, and to international students adjusting to American academic writing. More in Academics Studying at Princeton Library Areas of Study Humanities Social Sciences Engineering Natural Sciences Advising Academic Calendar Course Tools Learning Abroad Career Development Continuing Education Innovative Learning Contact links Contact Us Accessibility Advanced People Search Media Inquiries Website Feedback Visiting links Plan a Visit Maps & Shuttles Varsity Athletics Giving to Princeton Academic links Library Academic Calendar Student Links Faculty & Staff Links Footer social media Facebook Twitter Instagram Snapchat LinkedIn YouTube Social Media Directory Equal Opportunity and Nondiscrimination at Princeton University: Princeton University believes that commitment to principles of fairness and respect for all is favorable to the free and open exchange of ideas, and the University seeks to reach out as widely as possible in order to attract the ablest individuals as students, faculty, and staff. In applying this policy, the University is committed to nondiscrimination on the basis of personal beliefs or characteristics such as political views, religion, national or ethnic origin, race, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, pregnancy, age, marital or domestic partnership status, veteran status, disability, genetic information and/or other characteristics protected by applicable law in any phase of its education or employment programs or activities. In addition, pursuant to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 and supporting regulations, Princeton does not discriminate on the basis of sex in the education programs or activities that it operates; this extends to admission and employment. Inquiries about the application of Title IX and its supporting regulations may be directed to the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, Office for Civil Rights, U.S. Department of Education or to the University's Sexual Misconduct/Title IX Coordinator. See Princeton’s full Equal Opportunity Policy and Nondiscrimination Statement. Princeton University Princeton, NJ 08544 Operator: (609) 258-3000 © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Subfooter links Copyright Infringement Privacy Notice