Skip to main content Service Request Penn Homepage Penn Sustainability Penn Connects Search this site Main menu About Services Standards & Policies Sustainability Capital Process Maps Signage Signage Print Exterior Signage As stewards of the campus environment, the Office of the University Architect oversees exterior signage for the University. The Penn design aesthetic is intended to unify all campus signage with an appropriate vocabulary for a premier 21st Century research and teaching institution. For more information, please see our exterior campus signage policy here ». Interior Signage Interior signage shall be in compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) of 1990, the 2010 ADA Standards for Accessible Design, which encompasses the 2004 ADAAG including signage and any and all subsequent updates and revisions as enacted. The design and provision for Interior signage as a part of a new construction or renovation project is the responsibility of the Design Consultant(s) and is addressed within the associated construction documents and reviewed by FRES. Maintenance of interior signage elements within an existing School or Center signage system is the responsibility of the School or Center. Schools and Centers may use University approved vendors for the design and production and/or repair of their specific ADA compliant interior wayfinding and signage needs. FRES Shops are able to produce, maintain and/or restore certain types of utility signage. If you would like to work with us to create or repair an interior sign, please create a maintenance request through the online system ». If you have a question, you may contact your area manager ». Services Maintenance and Renovation Campus and Building Plans Landscape Planned Events Real Estate Signage Moving Services Info for: Penn Community Facilities & Real Estate Services 3101 Walnut St Philadelphia, Pa 19104 Emergency/Vehicular Address: 3160 Chestnut Street (proceed to the glass Pavilion at end of the parking lot) © 2022 University of Pennsylvania Report accessibility issues and get help » Webmaster Contact » Service Request Penn Homepage Penn Sustainability Penn Connects About Mission Organizational Chart Departments Campus History Campus Plan News Divisional Overview Vendor Information Directions to FRES Services Maintenance and Renovation Campus and Building Plans Landscape Planned Events Real Estate Signage Moving Services Standards & Policies Standards Policies Safety Procedures Sustainability Energy Management Built Environment Waste Management and Recycling Collaborative Efforts Capital Process Initiate a Project Capital Planning Facilities Renewal Maps and Locations Building Locations Penn Connects Public Art Bike Racks Discover Penn Public Parking Printing the Campus Map PennAccess Location List Contacts Penn Community Penn Homepage