By continuing to use this site, you agree to the use of cookies in accordance with our privacy policy. Dismiss Stay Safe The official source of public health information for Syracuse University. Skip to Content Open menu About Admissions Academics Life Athletics More Search the University Open search Popular searches Close menu Home About Toggle dropdown Leadership Vision & Mission Consumer Information Facts & Figures Plan Your Visit Campus Map History News Partnerships Work at Syracuse Social Media Bookstore Brand Help & Contacts Admissions Toggle dropdown Undergraduate Graduate Online Part-Time Cost & Aid Request Information Visit & Tour Apply Academics Toggle dropdown Schools & Colleges Undergraduate Majors & Minors Graduate Degrees Online Programs Syracuse University Global Study Abroad Opportunities & Support Calendars Departments Research Centers & Institutes Libraries, Collections & Galleries Academic Administration Life Toggle dropdown Accessibility & Diversity Campus Highlights Events Calendar Services & Support Meals & Dining Housing Groups & Activities Recreation & Facilities For Students For Veterans & Military For Faculty & Staff For Parents & Families A-Z Index Sitemap Login Athletics Men’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Football Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Track and Field Women’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Field Hockey Ice Hockey Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Softball Tennis Track and Field Volleyball Athletics Dept. Toggle dropdown Facilities Staff Directory Academic Honors Community Service Spirit Program Varsity Club Sports Medicine Championships Fan Zone Toggle dropdown Dome Schedule Seating Information Orange All Access Otto’s Kids Club Game Photos Promotions Orange Club Schedules News Alumni About Toggle dropdown Notable Alumni Alumni Association Awards News Events and Clubs Toggle dropdown Orange Central Northeast Midwest South West World/Affinity Regions Toggle dropdown Atlanta Boston Chicago Los Angeles Middle East New York San Francisco Washington, DC Services Toggle dropdown Career Network Generation Orange Directory Profile Class Notes Giving Contact Contact Visit Apply Coronavirus Updates Forever Orange Home Stories Expanding Architectural Possibilities Expanding Architectural Possibilities A U.S. Army veteran brings his unique background to architecture to create moving, impactful spaces. As a mortarman with the U.S. Army, Aaron Cass ’21 knows a thing or two about camaraderie, which is why he was pleasantly surprised by the sense of teamwork he discovered while pursuing his degree in Syracuse University’s School of Architecture . “We’re not in it to be better than anyone else,” says Cass. “We’re here to learn from each other. I don’t need to be better than anybody. I want to learn with everybody.” Cass decided to study architecture toward the end of his service. Interested in the subject since he was a boy, he earned an associate degree in architectural technology from Finger Lakes Community College before matriculating at Syracuse University. Now in his final semester of the five-year bachelor of architecture program, he reflects on the strengths he’s developed throughout his somewhat unconventional career path. “I think veterans have the capability of being creative people but don’t often hone that skill during their time in the military,” explains Cass, who also discovered a passion and talent for photography while he was deployed. “I believe veterans have a perspective that is not widely seen in creative fields, but it's really important to give them those opportunities coming out of the service.” Aaron Cass served as a mortarman in the U.S. Army before studying architecture. Finding Independence in the Army Looking to gain some independence, Cass joined the Army out of high school to find out who he was and what he wanted to do in life, ultimately deploying to Iraq and Afghanistan. His four years in the service provided him with “nuggets of gold” for which he is thankful. “I learned how to be independent and take care of myself, and I met my wife,” says Cass. “There are all these little things that if I were to go back in time and not join the Army, I would not be where I am. I’m glad I did, because I am happy with who I am today.” To cover the cost of University tuition, Cass utilizes his G.I. Bill benefits and the Yellow Ribbon Program . He’s also drawn upon some of the many services offered by the Office of Veteran and Military Affairs , most notably its career fairs. “Syracuse really values its veterans. Whether you’re in a five-year program like me or a four-year program—or going into law enforcement, like many veterans do, or even a more creative field—it's really important to have those opportunities. That’s why it’s great that the University is so welcoming,” says Cass. A Unique Perspective on a Creative Field As he prepares to graduate this spring, Cass is busy working on his thesis, which ties together architecture and his expertise as a military veteran. He is studying the relationship between firearms used in mass shootings and the space and architecture in which those weapons are used, with a goal of understanding the role of spatial context in these deadly attacks. It was a topic that his advisors had never heard before and one reason why Cass sees potential in veterans joining creative fields. “It’s an important perspective to have from people who can make beautiful work, but still talk about very real things.” Syracuse really values its veterans. Whether you’re in a five-year program like me or a four-year program—or going into law enforcement, like many veterans do, or even a more creative field—it's really important to have those opportunities. —Aaron Cass Cass was initially worried that his thesis idea would slip from his grasp and become something else entirely. “I came in with very strong ideas and a fairly clear project in mind, and although it has changed in its structure and approach after reviewing with my main thesis advisor, Professor Joseph Godlewski, I feel like I’m working on a much stronger version that he and the panel helped me get to.” Cass is looking forward to working more closely with his thesis panel and Godlewski, who he says has done a great job of balancing critique and honest input with encouragement. Cass credits his advisor with sparking lively discussion and welcoming input from his students during his lectures. “His way of teaching makes the class more involved while making it clear that he’s interested in learning with us and not just teaching at us. I don’t think I’m speaking out of turn when I say that you could ask nearly any architecture student about Professor Godlewski and they would tell you they find him inspiring.” The Possibilities That Lie Ahead Reflecting on some of the architecture that’s had the most profound effect on him, Cass mentions the Jewish Museum Berlin , which he feels best represents the power of architecture and how a space can touch a person. “Just looking at the building itself, you see this object that is intimidating and doesn't look like a place you want to go into,” he says. “That architecture makes you feel something subconscious just by looking at it. But once you get into the building, it’s a different feeling.” He explains how the museum, though not a Holocaust museum, through its architecture and design gives the feeling of loneliness and dread but leads to light and hope. “It’s an incredibly moving space. To me it’s the best example of what architecture can and should be.” Cass eventually hopes to design spaces for humanitarian causes, creating beautiful architecture that offers solutions to issues that affect communities, such as the need for safer hospitals. “Architecture has power, but not everyone sees it. It’s not just the space of it, but also the feeling of it, the atmosphere of it. The abilities and possibilities within it. That’s what I love about architecture.” Lisa Maresca This story was published on February 4, 2021. Also of Interest Link School of Architecture Link As the fourth oldest architecture school in the country, Syracuse's School of Architecture offers a professional curriculum that stresses creativity, research and problem solving. The five-year program leads to a Bachelor of Architecture degree. Veterans and Military-Connected Students Link Syracuse University ranks among the nation's top schools for veterans, including being named the No. 1 Private School for Veterans by Military Times. Popular Toggle dropdown Academic Calendar Campus Map Careers Libraries Majors and Minors Visit and Tour A-Z Toggle dropdown Academic Departments Schools and Colleges Sitemap Search Contact Toggle dropdown Admissions Financial Aid Emergency Contacts Human Resources Make a Gift Login Toggle dropdown MySlice Blackboard SUMail Syracuse University 900 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, NY 13244 Phone: +1.315.443.1870 Follow S.U. on Instagram Like S.U. on Facebook Follow S.U. on Twitter Follow S.U. on LinkedIn Follow S.U. on Tiktok Subscribe to S.U. on YouTube © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy