Skip to main content FSU >> FSU LIBRARIES Top Right Search Box Search Our Website... * OneSearch | My Account Florida State University Libraries Search & Find Advanced Search Find a Database Journal Search Special Collections Search DigiNole Search Services & Research All Services Subject Librarians Distance Learning Digital Research & Scholarship Special Collections & Archives Government Information About the Libraries Libraries Overview Member Libraries Departments Accessibility @ FSU Libraries Diversity & Inclusion Giving to the Libraries Facts & Figures Strategic Plan Advancement Board Materials & Borrowing Borrowing Materials Library Express Delivery Interlibrary Loan Materials Purchase Request Help & Support Get Help Library Hours Maps & Directions Visitor Information COVID Guidelines Home >> Employment Employment We invite you to view our list of employment opportunities for faculty, staff, OPS, & FWS positions. If you are looking for an opportunity to grow, the FSU Libraries is the place for you. Open Faculty Positions Open Staff Positions Part-time Employment Opportunities (OPS, Federal Work Study) Welcome to FSU Libraries! Regardless of where you are in your career, Florida State University Libraries is an exciting place to be. We are an interdisciplinary collaboration center for our university and provide a wide array of opportunities to enhance the research and learning of our students and faculty. With over two million visitors each year, our libraries provide around-the-clock assistance to our large, diverse community. We are a member of the Association of Research Libraries and rank among the largest research libraries in North America. Our team is committed to equity, diversity, and inclusion and we seek candidates who will contribute to a climate that supports students, faculty, staff, and colleagues from all identities and backgrounds. Also, we acknowledge historical, structural, and systemic injustices and are actively working to build a culture that recognizes, values, and empowers all people and provides space for discourse and growth. We recognize that this is an ongoing process, and we will continue to work toward intentionally diversifying our team, our collections, and our services. The Libraries encourage professional development for all employees. We have an excellent mentoring program. There are also many opportunities for cross-functional collaborations and leadership growth. We have developed a mission, vision, values and goals through teamwork and inclusivity and invite you to review them. We encourage individuals who share in our vision and these values to apply. Florida State University Libraries are composed of five divisions: Administrative Services, Research & Learning Services, Resource Management & Discovery Services, Special Collections & Archives, and Technology & Digital Scholarship. Read more about them at our Departments page. Mission of Equity, Diversity, & Inclusion Florida State University is an equal opportunity employer and educational provider committed to a policy of non-discrimination for any member of the University’s community on the basis of race, creed, color, sex, religion, national origin, age, disability, genetic information, veterans’ status, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expresion, or any other legally protected group status. The policy applies to faculty, staff, students, volunteers, visitors, applicants, and contractors in a manner consistent with applicable laws, regulations, ordinances, orders, and University policies, procedures, and processes. View FSU's full Equal Opportunity Statement. Under Federal law, FSU may employ only individuals who are legally authorized to work in the United States as established by providing documents specified in the Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986. If you have questions about employment at University Libraries please contact Sarah Miller. Staff Services Specialist by email: semiller@fsu.edu or phone: (850) 644-5870. Other Resources: Employment at FSU Bylaws of the Florida State University Libraries Faculty Assembly Diversity & Inclusion Library Departments Administration Links Dean's Welcome Employment at FSU Libraries Open Faculty Positions at FSU Libraries Open Staff Positions at FSU Libraries Graduate Assistantships OPS/FWS Employment Values Staff Directory About The Florida State University Libraries The mission of the University Libraries is to support and enhance the learning, teaching, research, and service activities of the Florida State University... READ MORE > Library Hours Maps and Directions Our Libraries Staff Directory Subject Librarians All Forms Library News Library Departments Library Events Library Services Employment Visiting the Libraries Giving to the Libraries Policies About the Libraries FAQ Government Information Staff Intranet Content Editor Login Internal Knowledge Base © Florida State University Libraries 116 Honors Way Tallahassee, FL 32306 Website Suggestions Privacy Principles Copyright Policy Contact Us (850) 644-2706 Search Articles, Books and More... * Connect with us!