Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Center for Innovative Teaching and Learning Advising Finish Line Experiential Learning Credit Distance Learning Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Experiential Learning Overview Military Transcripts Pre- Assessed Experiences Portfolio Development ELC Policies Frequently Asked Questions Contact Us Take Action Apply Now myMemphis Make A Gift Contact Us! Home Center for Innovative Teaching and Learning Experiential Learning Experiential Learning Experiential Learning Credit Overview Welcome to the Experiential Learning Program! Prepare to embark on a journey of Self-Discovery. Believing that rigorous professional and/or personal development often occurs in settings outside the traditional classroom, the University of Memphis grants Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) to students who demonstrate the academic merit of such experiences. Experiential learning is learning by doing. What is ELC? Experiential Learning Credit is a highly individualized process that offers adult and non-traditional students the unique opportunity to petition for college credit for the knowledge, training, and skills they previously learned through a broad range of experiences outside of the traditional academic setting. What Are The Benefits of ELC? An ELC award will save money and accelerate degree completion. Undergraduate students are permitted to petition for up to 30 ELC hours at $75.00 per credit hour. Graduate students should consult with their academic advisors to determine the maximum number of ELC hours to request at $100.00 per credit hour. ELC will reduce the repetition of relevant course-related material for students with prior learning. Most importantly, ELC enables students to gain greater insight about themselves, while having the UofM validate the importance of their prior learning. What Prior Experiences May Qualify For ELC? Formal and informal learning experiences that have resulted from a rich array of: Professional Work Experiences Military Training Classes Professional Skills Workshops and Seminars Volunteerism Unique Life Experiences The ELC Program Guides Students As They: Identify areas of relevant learning from their past experiences, Demonstrate that learning through appropriate documentation, Submit learning materials for assessment, and Possibly gain academic credit for ELC. How Can I Participate In ELC? There are three pathways in which to participate in ELC and potentially earn academic credit: ELC Military Transcripts: Thank you for your service! Knowledge and skills acquired from military service may be converted into college credit. Veterans and active military personnel may have their transcripts re-evaluated by ELC to determine if credit may be granted for military education, training, and/or occupations. ELC Pre-Assessed: Many individuals have completed various kinds of training for which they have earned credentials. Certain professional and standardized training, licensure, and certification experiences whose content is equivalent to offerings from the UofM have been evaluated by faculty for credit hours. Examples of such education credit include Microsoft Certifications and Paramedics License. Current enrolled students are allowed to provide original documentation as proof of satisfactory completion for prior learning experiences. ELC Portfolio: Students without pre-assessed learning experiences are able to seek academic credits by developing a portfolio. The portfolio serves as a reflective narrative of the student's previous learning experiences and includes supporting documentation. Thus, the portfolio helps students articulate what they know and can do, as well as integrate this learning with the principles that would have been learned in university coursework. Strong, professional ELC portfolios with breadth and depth will: Clearly identify key learning concepts and describe concrete examples of the learning experiences; Critically reflect on the learning experiences; Thoroughly demonstrate an understanding of generalizations and principles gained from the experiences; and, Analyze how the learning can be applied in future personal and professional situations. You may be able to convert Critical Learning Events into College Credit by completing the Experiential Learning Credit course which includes the following seven modules. USE YOUR LEARNING EXPERIENCE TO FURTHER YOUR EDUCATION Get Started Now! Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 8/16/21 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.