Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Registrar About Register Students Veterans Faculty & Staff Forms Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Register Quick Guide Errors/Problems Holds Permits Auditing Elite Student Audit Late Add/Late Registration Complete Self Service Guides Take Action View Calendars Order Transcripts View Notices Contact Us Home Registrar Register Elite Student Audit Program Elite Student Audit Program The Elite Student Audit Program (formerly the senior audit program) allows Tennessee residents who are or will become age 60 during the academic semester to audit courses at the University of Memphis without paying tuition charges. A one-time application fee and some course fees may apply. If you will become 65 during the semester and would like to take courses for credit, see University & Student Business Services information about credit courses. How do I apply? We are no longer accepting applications for Summer 2022; the deadline for submitting applications was May 6, 2022. Information about participating in Fall 2022 will be provided during the summer. Questions can be directed to eliteaudit@memphis.edu. If you have participated in the audit program in the past, please complete and return the audit form. If you have attended the University in the past but this is your first time participating in the Elite Student Audit Program: Complete and return the audit form. Include a copy of your driver’s license for proof of age and residency. If this is your first time ever attending the University of Memphis: Complete and return the audit form. Complete and return the immunization form. Be sure to sign in both sections. Include a copy of your driver’s license for proof of age and residency. Mail us a check made to University of Memphis for the application fee: Undergraduate - $25.00 or Graduate - $35.00. You must have a college degree to apply as a graduate. What courses can I audit? You can audit courses in nearly all departments. The only exceptions are LAW, ARCH, NURS, and AVIA courses. You may audit MUAP and MUTC private lesson courses with a permit issued from the Music department. You may not audit Independent Study, Dual Enrollment, or Honors courses. Permission to audit is limited according to space availability. If a permit is required, you will need to request it from the instructor/department. Registration in online classes will be allowed based on the review of space availability in the section. Please email Darla Keel at darkeel@memphis.edu for more information. How do I register? You will be able to register yourself when University & Student Business Services opens registration for non-paying students. For Summer 2022, that date is May 3, 2022 at 7 am. Consult class listings to begin thinking about what courses you may want to take. Please pay special attention to the following: Campus Location – When looking at your results, pay attention to the campus location. Not all courses are offered on the main campus. Seat Availability – Click on the course title line of any section you are interested in to determine if a seat is available. Permit – If a permit is required, you will need to request it from the instructor. How do I attend? Once you have registered, you will receive an email with instructions on how to check your schedule. You will also receive a parking decal from Parking and Transportation Services. If you do not have a parking hangtag or do not receive a decal, contact Parking and Transportation Services. View a campus map and a parking map. See our Semester Dates and Deadlines calendars for term and part of term start and end dates. Student conduct and performance in the courses will be subject to the academic and disciplinary policies of the University of Memphis. See the Student Code of Rights and Responsibilities. How can I contact you? If you have any questions, please email eliteaudit@memphis.edu. Elite Student Audit Program The University of Memphis Office of the Registrar 003 Wilder Tower Memphis, TN 38152-3520 Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 5/6/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.