Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager S4 Hurricane Katrina Project The Hurricane Katrina Project examines the impacts of hurricanes on the Gulf Coast. It began in response to the specific case of New Orleans’ flooding in 2005 and efforts to understand who was affected and what neighborhoods were able to rebuild. Since then it has evolved into a broader study of the Gulf Coast region in the decades since 1950. Major participants in this project have include John Logan, Zengwang Xu (now at the University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee), and Sukriti Issar (now at Sciences Po in Paris). The project resulted in two recent publications. The first develops a way to model the area of damage from hurricane winds and storm surge for all hurricanes in the post-1950 period on the Gulf Coast, and provides maps of hurricane risk: John R Logan and Zengwang Xu. 2015. “Vulnerability to Hurricane Damage on the U.S. Gulf Coast since 1950” Geographical Review 105(2):133–155. The second asks how county-level population growth and decline were affected by hurricane experience. It develops the argument that rather than being displaced by hurricanes, poor, minority and older populations' vulnerability stems from their being "trapped in place." While others tend to move away from risk, these groups do not. See: John R. Logan, Sukriti Issar, and Zengwang Xu. 2016. “Trapped in Place? Segmented Resilience to Hurricanes in the Gulf Coast, 1970-2005” Demography, 53,5: 1511-1534. Click below for the main project page, which includes links to materials on Katrina and New Orleans as well as to the broader Gulf Coast research: Hurricane Katrina Project Project Team John R Logan * Projects American Communities Project Urban Transition Historical GIS Project Diversity and Disparities US Schools Hurricane Katrina Project Brazilian Agricultural Intensification Child Lead Poisoning Child Undernutrition Land Degradation Neutrality Project Night Lights Proyecto Arqueológico Zaña Colonial Rio/São Paulo Project South Africa Migration Project South Africa Segregation The Landscape of Loss Urban China Research Network Urban Transformation in South Africa Also in S4 Home About People Projects American Communities Project Urban Transition Historical GIS Project Diversity and Disparities US Schools Hurricane Katrina Project Brazilian Agricultural Intensification Child Lead Poisoning Child Undernutrition Land Degradation Neutrality Project Night Lights Proyecto Arqueológico Zaña Colonial Rio/São Paulo Project South Africa Migration Project South Africa Segregation The Landscape of Loss Urban China Research Network Urban Transformation in South Africa Training Events Resources COVID-19 Explore Brown University Explore Brown University Learn More Brown Homepage About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Brown & Providence Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Spatial Structures in the Social Sciences (S4) Spatial Structures in the Social Sciences (S4) Brown University Box 1836 3rd floor of Maxcy Hall 108 George Street Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-1064 Fax: 401-863-7497 Email [email protected] Giving to Brown Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat