Skip to main content Go to site search Go to primary navigation Go to resources navigation Penn COVID-19 Response » Penn Home Toggle Site Navigation Toggle Site Search Academics More Academics Undergraduate Graduate Schools Global Initiatives Interdisciplinary Online Learning Off-campus Learning Libraries Admissions & Aid Athletics Research & Innovation More Research & Innovation Research Enterprise Research News Life at Penn More Life at Penn Arts & Culture Community Involvement More Community Involvement Penn & Philadelphia Diversity Groups & Organizations Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Safety & Security More Safety & Security Emergency Contacts Emergency Preparedness Spirituality & Religion About More About Introduction to Penn History Facts News, Media, & Communication Services Sustainability FAQ Penn’s Interim President, Wendell Pritchett Trustees & Administration Policies Toggle Site Search Resources Current Students Faculty & Staff Parents Alumni Visitors A-Z Directory Webmail Services Give to Penn Search Search Close Breadcrumb Home / Academics / Global Initiatives Global Initiatives Welcoming diversity of thought, background, and experience has always guided Penn’s teaching and research, and that mission is more relevant than ever in today’s global society. Penn serves as a welcoming home to thousands of international students, while also supporting students’ academic, research, and professional pursuits abroad, and is always working to build strong connections within the global community. Bringing the World to Penn and Penn to the World Penn Global is the University’s go-to for all things global. It is comprised of seven divisions. Penn Global Reporting Divisions Office of the Vice Provost for Global Initiatives Housed in the Provost’s Office in College Hall, the Office of Global Initiatives serves as a central point of contact for the Penn Global reporting offices, supporting and coordinating the work of Penn Abroad, International Student and Scholar Services, Global Support Services, Perry World House, and the Penn Biden Center. Penn Global Finance and Administration The Penn Global Business Office manages the center’s resources with a focus on fiscal responsibility and sustainability. The Business Office team is responsible for compliance and alignment with the overall goals of Penn Global, as well as providing HR and financial support for the Penn Global departments and affiliates. Perry World House Perry World House is a global policy research center that aims to advance interdisciplinary, policy-relevant research on the world’s most urgent global affairs challenges. At a time of increasing ideological division and highly politicized of policymaking, PWH draws on the wide range of expertise found across Penn’s 12 Schools, connecting Penn with policymakers, practitioners, and researchers from around the world to develop and advance innovative policy proposals. Penn Biden Center for Diplomacy and Global Engagement The Penn Biden Center is founded on the principle that a democratic, open, secure, tolerant, and interconnected world benefits all Americans. Based in Washington, D.C., the Penn Biden Center engages more of our fellow citizens in shaping this world, while ensuring the gains of global engagement are widely shared. Penn Abroad Penn Abroad serves as the hub for student global opportunities at Penn. Each year Penn Abroad sends more than 1,000 Penn students to over 50 countries around the world on semester study abroad, summer internships, and embedded Global Seminars. Explore the Penn Abroad website to find information about the many global opportunities available to Penn students. International Student and Scholar Services The Office of International Student and Scholar Services aims to provide immigration assistance as well as a sense of community for the international population at Penn. In addition to answering technical questions about immigration, ISSS also offers programs and leadership opportunities for students, such as Forerunner and the Intercultural Leadership Program, to foster meaningful engagement. Global Support Services Global Support Services supports the administrative and business functions of the University’s international activities. GSS works closely with the Office of the Vice Provost for Global Initiatives to advise and support central organizations, schools, and centers on new and ongoing international activities. GSS also coordinates with other departments that support global operations, which include the Office of Risk Management & Insurance, Comptroller’s office, Human Resources, Office of General Counsel, Audit and Compliance, Public Safety, Treasurer, ISC, Business Services, and FRES. Penn Global Contact 1 College Hall, Suite 122 University of Pennsylvania Philadelphia, PA 19104 global@upenn.edu International Student Admissions Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions 32,200+ Penn alumni located abroad 6,300+ International students study at Penn 2,600+ Penn students study abroad annually, on average 1,400+ Penn faculty work abroad in more than 190 countries and on all seven continents Penn Global Engagement Map Featured Story Exploration awaits as Penn Abroad ramps up student trips Two years after the pandemic forced Penn Abroad to brings students home, trips are back on and a busier-than-normal abroad schedule is upcoming. Read now Penn Global News Exploration awaits as Penn Abroad ramps up student trips March 23, 2022 In Peru and the U.S., considering the factors that drive public health December 21, 2021 Perry World House turns 5 September 27, 2021 ‘Dreaming of Jerusalem’ July 20, 2021 More Penn Global News Philadelphia, PA 19104 Telephone: (215) 898-5000 Contact Us Maps Parking Navigate Alumni Athletics Diversity Health Care Libraries Online Learning Penn Global Penn's Heritage As America’s first university, Penn has a history that dates back to 1740 and shares many ties with the colonial city of Philadelphia and the birth of our nation. Our History Disclaimer Emergency Services Nondiscrimination Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement Back To Top