COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: English, Major MajorEnglish All Programs Fairmount College of Liberal Arts and Sciences English Language and Literature Wichita State's accelerated bachelor's-to-master's program in English lets you complete an advanced degree in English, faster, by allowing you to take graduate-level courses while completing your bachelor's degree. As a well-rounded graduate, you'll have the writing, critical thinking, creativity and communication skills for success in many different fields—from advertising and law to marketing and journalism. Learn how English is the right fit for you. Request Info Start Your Application Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the program For admission consideration, the following must be satisfied: An undergraduate GPA of 3.0 overall and 3.5 in English courses Completion of at least 60 credit hours of undergraduate study, with at least 18 credit hours remaining for completion of the undergraduate degree Completion of four English classes at the 300 level or above Recommendation from at least one member of the English graduate faculty Admission requirements Inside the Program Dodge City senior wins $55,000 Walsh English Scholarship to attend WSU As an English major you have the opportunity to win scholarships to further your education. Carissa DeVoss won the 2016 Walsh English Scholarship worth $55,000 over four years; the largest English scholarship at WSU. DeVoss chose to major in English so she could emphasize her passion for creative writing and theater. Curriculum Upon admission to the dual/accelerated program, you'll be granted tentative admission to the graduate program in English and allowed to enroll in courses for graduate credit, including 800-level courses, prior to completing undergraduate degree requirements. You're encouraged to create a tentative plan of study in consultation with your undergraduate coordinator and/or graduate coordinator. View the curriculum Careers A degree in English from Wichita State will equip you with skills that lead to diverse career options in the public and private sectors—from advertising agencies and the film industry to non-profits and academia. Learn more about careers in this field Similar Programs English (Minor) Creative Writing Communication - Journalism Communication - Strategic Communication 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©