Skip navigation Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory CareerLAB Handshake Handshake Thank you for your interest in recruiting at Brown! Handshake, Brown’s main job board, is reserved for full and part-time jobs and internships that allow Brown students to explore different careers, learn and develop valuable skills, and make meaningful contributions to organizations. Handshake is Brown's Center for Careers and Life After Brown (CareerLAB) official job and internship board. Employers interested in submitting their job and internship opportunities to Brown can do so by visiting Handshake directly. If you are new to Handshake, this guide will help you get started. To post an opportunity, this guide will give you the step by step. Was your opportunity or event declined? Learn more here. Reasons for employer or job/internship declines can include: Employer registration information missing: business address, website, contacts, etc. Employer registration includes a P.O. Box as a primary address. Employer registration includes a residential address. Employer website lacks content or content is protected by a password. Employer trust score is low. Employer has one or more existing flags. Employer is a third-party recruiting firm. Employer has made false representations concerning job security, salary, potential bonuses or promotions, health risks, or other aspects of employment. Postings from for-profit organizations that are unpaid opportunities. Postings that are volunteer-based. Postings where compensation is based exclusively on commission or fee/percentage of sales from others under their sponsorship in the organization. Postings that require a fee for service (Exception: This does not apply to fees for Federal and State licensing requirements such as real estate, securities, etc.). Postings that are unpaid and fundraising related. Postings that are third-party, regardless of whether the employer is named. Postings for consultants that assist others with the admissions and application processes. Postings for Campus Ambassador Positions that promote a company brand or products. Postings/Employment related to working in an employer’s home. This includes, but is not limited to, childcare, eldercare, housekeeping, and/or tutoring. Postings for full-time positions that do not require at least a bachelor’s degree. Postings for internships that do not require the pursuit of a bachelor’s degree. Postings for tutoring jobs. Postings for summer camp opportunities. Postings for internships that do not provide a proven learning environment supported by supervision for their interns. Positions with organizations located on the U.S. Department of State Travel Warning List. Positions with work experience that is attached to a fee/tuition-based graduate program. Positions seeking concentrations that are not offered at Brown (e.g. Nursing). Positions that are EEO and are legal and lawful. Brown CareerLAB reserves the final right to determine which employers and/or postings are appropriate for inclusion. Home Career Education Undergradate & Graduate Recruiting BrownConnect About Us Academic Year Hours: Monday-Friday: 8:30am -5pm Peer Career Advisor Hours: Learn more here. Email: PeerCareerAdvisors @brown.edu Doctoral Candidates: Email: [email protected] Reserve an interview room Follow us: Subscribe to our Recruiting E-Newsletter Contact us: Box 1907 | 167 Angell Street | Providence, RI 02912 | 401.863.3326 | [email protected] Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube iTunes U Google+ LinkedIn RSS Futurity Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory Social Media like us on facebook follow us on twitter see what we're up to on instagram subscribe to our youtube channel Get Started Find a job or internship!