Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Welcome Week right arrow down arrow Daily Event Schedules right arrow down arrow Campus Maps Convocation right arrow down arrow Live Stream Information for Faculty UC Traditions College Day Campus Worship Services Welcome Week Vision Parent and Family Home » Campus Life » Welcome Week Request More Information About UC! SAVE THE DATE! Welcome Week 2022 | August 14 - 21, 2022 Welcome Bearcats! As you embark on this new experience as a Bearcat, we hope your first few days on campus set the stage for your college career. We hope you are just as excited to be at UC as we are to have you here! Welcome Week features tons of events, from social to educational, and from optional to required. This year, we will host both in-person and virtual events! Don’t miss out on all the fun. Events will be shared on the CampusLINK page and the complimentary app Corq. Don’t have a smartphone? No worries! We’ll also have an online schedule for you to view. All events are open to the entire campus community unless noted in the description. As a new Bearcat, you are required to attend College Day and New Student Convocation. Each year, the schedule is packed with fun events that will allow you to meet new friends, learn about UC's traditions, and get involved in a variety of co-curricular activities and programs! You can also see full descriptions of events on CampusLINK. The more events you attend, the greater your chance to win prizes! Follow us @uc_studentaffairs, @uofcincy, @UC_SALD, and @UC_Wellness for more information! All first year Bearcats will be enrolled into the Welcome Week path to keep track of event attendance. Now that you're ready to BE ENGAGED, Join Cheer and Dance teaching Down the Drive, Alma Mater, and Cheer Cincinnati! https://buff.ly/3aqImiJ CampusLINK An Org Fair Every Day! Connecting Bearcats to engagement opportunities. 1.) Log into CampusLINK Campuslink.uc.edu CampusLINK is like having an organization fair every day! CampusLINK is an online community for UC students to discover opportunities to get involved on campus, join and manage student organizations, and see all campus events in one place! 2.) Edit your Profile Get Started Personalize your profile! Change your preferred name and pronouns, update your privacy and notification settings, and you can even declare your interests! 3.) Download CORQ Be the one in the know CORQ is a mobile app that allows you to discover amazng events and groups aound campus from your favorite mobile device. You can filter events by free food and free stuff! Download CORQ in the App Store or Google Play, Find your Event Pass Your ticket to campus events Many campus events require checking in with your personal event pass. Open CORQ, sign in, and go to your profile. Select “event Pass’ from the menu. Form here, you can save it t o your phone’s wallet to check in to events quickly. Get Involved! An Org Fair Every Day You can now use CampusLINK and CORQ to learn about all of the student organizations and events on campus. You can also request to join organizations through CampusLINK! There is no better way to feel connected to campus than getting involved! University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-0000 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-0000 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top