Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Maguire Center Events Events 21st Annual Bonhoeffer Lectures in Public Ethics: Everyday Ethics for Exceptional Times J. Erik Jonsson Ethics Award Delta Gamma Lectureship in Values and Ethics Ethics & Compliance Certificate Public Scholar Lecture Conference of the Professions Past Events Student Engagement Student Engagement The Ethics Essay Prize Public Service Fellowships Teaching and Research Teaching and Research Teaching Fellowship Public Scholars Faculty Incentive Grant Program Resources Resources COVID-19 SMU Ethics Toolbox Papers Sound Ethics Research Newsletter Newsroom Newsroom From the Director's Desk Ethics Blog About Us About Us Leadership Cary M. Maguire Ethics Center Advisory Board Faculty Advisory Committee Contact Give ☰ Office of the Provost Cary M. Maguire Center for Ethics and Public Responsibility Give Give For a center like ours, there are only two factors that limit what we can accomplish: the breadth of our imagination and the resources to implement what our imagination can visualize. Your contribution can make a difference. No matter the size of your gift, you can help ensure that the Maguire Center continues to provide opportunities for students and faculty alike to enhance the ethical dimension of their studies and scholarly work. Giving is easy and quick Donations may be made through the University's on-line giving page. If you would like to discuss giving opportunities, please feel free to contact us for more information. Many reasons, many ways There are many reasons and many ways to give, for example: donate in honor of a family member, friend, or colleague make a memorial gift contribute to our general endowment fund support a public service internship help with an upcoming conference Your support promotes the enterprise of ethics at SMU, and that gift will have an impact from the classroom to the boardroom for decades to come. Thank you for your interest. Cary M. Maguire Center for Ethics and Public Responsibility Events Student Engagement Teaching and Research Resources Newsroom About Give Apply Visit School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share