Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Division of Student Affairs Student Affairs Parents & Guardians Search BC.edu Links Residential Life Menu Main Nav Residential Life Forms Back Back Close About Overview Meet Our Staff Residential Ministry Job Opportunities Student Staff Resident Directors Graduate Student Assistants Resident Assistants Summer Student Staff Contact Related Links Policies Hall Opening and Closing Dates Signature Programs Living in BC Housing Overview First-Year Student Housing Housing Assignments & Room Selection Residence Halls Room and Board Rates Floor Plans & 3D Models Facilities & Furnishings Hall Access Dry Cleaning Service Mail and Package Delivery Laundry Service Hall Openings & Closings BC Clean Spring 2022 Closing Signature Programs Living & Learning Communities Residence Hall Association Recovery Housing The Recovery House Parents & Guardians Summer Housing Related Links Office for Institutional Diversity Housing Appeals Roommate Concerns BC Dining Eagle One ID Card Transportation & Parking Thea Bowman AHANA and Intercultural Center Living Off Campus Overview FAQs Landlord and Agent Info Community Expectations Overview Policies Housing Concerns Forms Forms Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Division of Student Affairs Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Parents & Guardians BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Hall Openings & Closings Home Living in BC Housing Hall Openings & Closings Hall Openings & Closings BC Clean Spring 2022 Closing Ever wonder how over 7,700 students manage to move in and out of the residence halls so many times a year? Well, to be honest, it's not easy! Students should plan to arrive and depart on the appropriate date listed on the following pages. Adhering to the prescribed move in and move out dates helps to alleviate traffic, make both processes faster and smoother for students, as well as provide our administrative and facilities staff ample time to prepare the halls for our students. If you have any questions that these pages cannot answer, please contact us by email at transitions@bc.edu or by phone at 617-552-3060. Fall and Spring Early Arrival Policy Transition Periods: There are four main transitions throughout each academic year: Fall Opening: Takes place at the end of August through the beginning of September. Fall Closing: Takes place after finals end throughout early December. Students are not required to move their belongings out of the halls (unless they are permanently departing the University). Spring Opening: Takes place during early to mid-January. Spring Closing: Takes place at the end of finals in mid-May. Students are required to move out of the halls completely. There are also four transitions throughout the summer that overlap with the academic year. The summer transitions schedule is updated and published every Spring. Early Arrivals & Extensions: Early Arrivals: Students wishing to return to campus before the official hall opening must request and receive early arrival status. Extensions: Students wishing to stay on campus after the official hall closing must request and receive an extension approval. Back To Top Back To Top Residential Life Maloney Hall 413 617-552-3060 reslife@bc.edu About Living in BC Housing Living Off Campus Community Expectations Get Answers Division of Student Affairs Division of Student Affairs BAIC BC Bands Business Service Center Career Center Counseling Services Graduate Student Life Health Promotion Health Services Residential Life Robsham Theater Student Conduct Student Involvement Student Outreach & Support Women’s Center Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College