Skip navigation Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Brown Grad School About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Graduate School Financing & Support Ph.D. Funding Graduate School Skip to Navigation Ph.D. Funding The Graduate School offers incoming doctoral students five years of guaranteed financial support, including a stipend, tuition remission, health-services fee, and health- and dental-insurance subsidies. This support — which may take the form of a teaching assistantship, research assistantship, fellowship, or proctorship — helps to defray the cost of tuition, and also provides a stipend to assist with living expenses during the student’s program. Doctoral students in the Humanities and Social Sciences are guaranteed six years of support. This support can come from a variety of Brown University resources--including Graduate School funds, departmental funds, and faculty research funds--and/or external funds, as applicable. All students entering the Graduate School with any form of financial support are required to complete an Employment Eligibility Verification Form (I-9). Please note: The I-9 cannot be completed without a valid social security number or a receipt proving that a social security number has been applied for. See additional details here. In addition to the support available through the University, applicants are urged to compete for national and foundation awards available for graduate study. Ph.D. Funding Links Five-Year Guarantee Incoming doctoral students receive five years of guaranteed financial support, including four summers, a stipend, tuition remission, a health-services fee, and a health-insurance subsidy. External Funding External awards are prestigious and a valuable acknowledgement of intellectual pursuit and promis. Writing a fellowship proposal can clarify your thinking about your research and improve your ability to communicate its impact. Internal Funding & Appointments Doctoral student support may take the form of a teaching assistantship, research assistantship, fellowship, or proctorship. All such assignments form part of the student’s professional training, and are viewed as integral to the student’s academic development. DCP Doctoral students in good standing in the humanities and social science who require additional time to complete degree requirements (after five years) may apply for support through the Dissertation Completion Proposal (DCP). Research Travel The Graduate Research Travel Grant provides supplemental funding for scholarly research travel that occurs during the academic year. Home About the Graduate School Healthy Brown FAQs for Graduate Students Academics & Research Living & Resources Financing & Support Tuition & Fees Health and Dental Insurance Financial Considerations Master's Funding Ph.D. Funding Initiatives in Doctoral Education and Student Support Internal Funding & Appointments Student Loans Student Employment Student Payroll Procedures Admitted Students & Orientation Application Information For Graduate Students For Faculty and Staff Related Items Insurance Office Tax Information for International Students Doctoral Funding: Stipend Primer Deans’ Faculty Fellows Program Initiatives in Doctoral Education and Support at Brown Brown University Brown University Graduate School Box 1867 Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-2600 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Resources Graduate School Handbook Academic Code CareerLAB Brown University Writing Center Sarah Doyle Center for Women and Gender Sheridan Center for Teaching & Learning Top Destinations Admission Inquiry Form Commencement Five-Year Ph.D. Support Open Graduate Education External Funding Application Process International Applicants