About Home Events Giving REU Nevis in the News Contact us Basics What we do Students and visitors What is physics? Physics for you Research Overview ATLAS MicroBooNE VERITAS Heavy ion Astrophysics RARAF Info Phone Book Directions Events Meeting rooms Services Webmail Wiki Viewcal (need login) Room reservations DocDB A/V (for tech setup) Giving to Nevis Nevis Laboratories was first established as a center for Physics in 1947 with the most powerful cyclotron of its time inaugurated in 1950. For more than 60 years, the scientists at Nevis have been leaders in international collaborations and global experiments. The research conducted at Nevis looks to answer some of the most fundamental questions about our universe. Our commitment to expanding mankind's knowledge of the universe extends to educating and training the next generation of scientists. The Nevis team is committed to leading education and outreach projects for learners of all ages. How your gift helps Outreach Program The Nevis Science Center is now open! The original carriage house has been converted into a space for public lectures and as an outreach center to conduct programs for science enthusiasts of all ages. Your gift will help support programming for school groups, high school students, and our public lecture series Science-on-Hudson. Student Support Nevis hosts students of all levels: undergraduate, graduate, high school. With your support, we are able to provide additional opportunities for these students to participate in our collaborative experiments happening around the world. Restoration of the Hamilton House at Nevis Laboratories Built in 1835 by the son of Alexander Hamilton, the stately Hamilton House is a prominent feature in the history of the rivertowns of Westchester County. This historic building is in need of restoration and updated facilities, and with your donation we hope to bring the mansion back to its full potential. Research Support Research at Nevis Labs is supported by government agencies: the National Science Foundation (NSF), Department of Energy (DOE), the National Institutes of Health (NIH) and others. Obtaining the funds to support our research has become increasingly difficult. Your gift will assist us in continuing our tradition of excellence in science and research. There are several ways to contribute to Nevis Laboratories Click to make a gift on-line Make a Gift Now » Send a check Please make your check out to "Trustees of Columbia University" with “Nevis Laboratories” in the memo line and mail it to the following address: Director, Nevis Laboratories Columbia University PO Box 137 Irvington, NY 10533 Planned giving You may also contact us to learn more about planned giving options. Nevis Laboratories is part of Columbia University and is a 501c(3) nonprofit organization. Gifts to Nevis Laboratories are tax-deductible in accordance with law. WEBMASTER