Alert By continuing to use this site, you agree to the use of cookies in accordance with our privacy policy. Dismiss Stay Safe The official source of public health information for Syracuse University Skip to Content Toggle menu Search the University Search the University Online Online Programs The Experience Why Online Veteran and Military Online Student Support FAQs Online Online Programs The Experience Why Online Veteran and Military Online Student Support FAQs Home Online Veteran and Military Veteran and Military Students Whether you’re a veteran or serving in the armed forces, Syracuse University is committed to helping you succeed. If you’re looking to advance your education and career while balancing life’s demands, we’re here for you. Pursue your ambitions with our online degrees and certificates, and receive dedicated support that drives long-term success—even if you’re not on campus. Or take advantage of a variety of career and entrepreneurship training programs exclusively for service members, veterans and their families. Dedicated to Your Success Our Office of Veteran and Military Affairs (OVMA) is the single point of entry for all veteran and military-connected students, with a dedicated team of military admissions advisors who can help you define your career goals and navigate the application process. We evaluate your professional military education and any earned college credits so they can be applied toward your selected degree program. Explore available online degrees and programs, then connect with an OVMA advisor to get started. Flexible and Affordable Degrees Your education should not be constrained by the military’s demands on your time or your duty station. Online programs are designed so you can study during off-duty hours. A variety of educational benefits allow eligible active-duty service members and veterans to pursue a degree with little to no out-of-pocket costs: Our online undergraduate degrees are offered at the Department of Defense Tuition Assistance (TA) rate for eligible active duty, U.S. Reserve Component and National Guard members. We participate in the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs’ Yellow Ribbon Program, which helps veterans pay for tuition costs that the Post-9/11 GI Bill doesn’t cover. As an approved Air University Associate-To-Baccalaureate Cooperative (AU-ABC) institution, Syracuse University allows members of the Air Force, Air Force Reserve and Air National Guard to maximize their military career education and training by completing an online undergraduate degree from anywhere in the world. Career Preparedness Training Programs The Institute for Veterans and Military Families offers the following online, noncredit training programs for transitioning service members, veterans and military spouses, as well as members of the National Guard and Reserves. Onward to Opportunity A career skills program that provides civilian career training, professional certifications and employment services support for transitioning service members, members of the Reserves and National Guard, veterans and military spouses.Learn More Entrepreneurship Bootcamp for Veterans Three no-cost training programs for veterans, caregivers, military spouses and their families who are looking to start a business or expand an existing one. These programs aim to open the door to economic opportunity for veterans and their families by developing competencies in creating and sustaining an entrepreneurial venture.Learn More Boots to Business A curriculum that leads participants through key steps in evaluating business concepts and provides the foundational knowledge required to develop a business plan.Learn More Veteran Women Igniting the Spirit of Entrepreneurship A women-focused training program in entrepreneurship and small business management that provides tools, ongoing support and business mentorship for veterans, active-duty service members and military spouses aspiring to become successful entrepreneurs.Learn More Veterans Program for Politics and Civic Engagement A program tailored for those interested in pursuing a career in politics. Learn the mechanics and management of campaigning, fundraising, building your platform, messaging, public communications and more. Instructors include faculty from the Maxwell School of Citizenship and Public Affairs.Learn More Expanding Horizons with a Business Education The balance of flexibility and structure in his online program allows Jeremy Tobias to pursue an M.S. in business analytics while simultaneously serving in the U.S. Army Reserve, working full time and raising his daughter.Read his story Pursuing the Dream of a Law Degree Online As a father and a soldier in the U.S. Army, Joseph Jasper believes his commitment to earning a J.D. degree will lead to a fulfilling career in family or criminal law.Read his story Frequently Asked Questions What kind of financial assistance can I get as a veteran? Can I get credit for my military experience? See More Common Questions Take the next step: Find Your Program PopularToggle dropdown Academic Calendar Campus Map Careers Libraries Majors and Minors Visit and Tour A-ZToggle dropdown Academic Departments Schools and Colleges Sitemap Search ContactToggle dropdown Admissions Financial Aid Emergency Contacts Human Resources Make a Gift LoginToggle dropdown MySlice Blackboard SUMail Syracuse University 900 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, NY 13244 Phone: +1.315.443.1870 Like Syracuse on Facebook Follow Syracuse on Twitter Subscribe to Syracuse on YouTube Follow Syracuse on Instagram © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy