Skip to main content SMU Explore SMU Academics Undergraduate Admission Student Affairs About News Athletics Events Calendar Bush Center Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Apply to SMUGIVE NOW Boldly Shaping Tomorrow Goals Leaders Gifts Ways to give Menu Search Kindling creators, thinkers and problem-solvers Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Also in Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences SMU Fund for Dedman College Faculty strength Graduate student and Ph.D. support Support for faculty research and laboratory space SMU Human Rights Program (HRP) Dedman College Interdisciplinary Institute Energizing future leaders At Dedman College, outstanding students connect with global thinkers and expert problem-solvers through interdisciplinary education and partnerships. Dedman College students build an academic foundation that energizes their future, giving them a competitive edge in fields such as medicine, law, business and technology, to name just a few. With 16 academic departments, nearly 100 undergraduate majors and minors and more than 30 postgraduate programs in SMU’s largest academic unit, there is a degree program for every Mustang. SMU Fund for Dedman College Your gift to the SMU Fund for Dedman College ignites imaginations and inspires innovations. You and fellow Dedman supporters are investing in the powerful intersection of education and opportunity for SMU students. You can help provide the unrestricted resources that are strategically necessary to implement the newest academic programs and address Dedman College’s most pressing funding needs. Make a Gift Make an impact SMU Fund for Dedman College Your gift to the SMU Fund for Dedman College ignites imaginations and inspires innovations. You and fellow Dedman supporters are investing in the powerful intersection of education and opportunity for SMU students. You can help provide the unrestricted resources that are strategically necessary to implement the newest academic programs and address Dedman College’s most pressing funding needs. Faculty strength Dedman College has been enriched over the past several years through the hiring of extraordinary new talent. To continue recruiting and retaining such faculty, we need to provide them with the teaching and research tools befitting their knowledge, skills and talents. With your astute investment, Dedman College can attract and retain top-tier faculty members who are conducting world-changing research, which can also advance our excellence in teaching. This benefits students at all levels. Graduate student and Ph.D. support Graduate students at SMU conduct cutting-edge research across campus, from our Center for Research Computing to the humanities to earth sciences, psychology and biological sciences labs. Because of the vital role graduate students play in the productivity and innovation for the University, Dedman College would like to establish a centralized fund to administer aid for graduate student and Ph.D. support. Support for faculty research and laboratory space The college’s laboratories are the key to achieving the University’s research mission and goal of rising in the national rankings. Undergraduate and graduate students receive invaluable training in these spaces. Many of our labs are outdated, however, and new space is needed so the college can continue to bring in more federal research dollars that support our faculty. Additionally, the Dean’s Research Council provides seed money for early-stage faculty research, boasting an 11:1 ROI for federal research dollars. This targeted fund serves as a springboard to helping faculty move projects from concept to viability. In turn, these investments make faculty more competitive to receive external funding for their most innovative projects. SMU Human Rights Program (HRP) The Human Rights Program is educating a new generation of visionary change-makers to defend and demand human dignity. As one of only seven programs in the United States to grant a bachelor’s degree in human rights, the program offers over 100 academic courses, educational travel opportunities across the globe, and a variety of proven social innovation efforts in North Texas. SMU’s Human Rights Program provides a unique experience that challenges students to think beyond the classroom and encourages compassion and inclusion under the motto, “There is no such thing as a lesser person.” Dedman College Interdisciplinary Institute The Dedman College Interdisciplinary Institute (DCII) responds to a need for a new way of looking at the world, one that embraces the insights gleaned from the humanities, the sciences, the social sciences, business and the other professional endeavors. The institute brings together experts and activists from diverse fields to share and create knowledge and sponsors faculty and academic programs, undergraduate research programs and community lectures. At SMU, I realized my passion for mentoring others and developing future leaders. I’ve been encouraged to find my voice and think of ways in which I want to take action and share my passions. — Johanna Pang ’22, double major in English and human rights Create your legacy Your gifts to support current needs provide immediate impact, and your endowment or estate commitments make a difference in perpetuity. As an alum, parent or friend, you establish a permanent legacy in your field of greatest interest with your endowment gift. SMU IGNITED: BOLDLY SHAPING TOMORROW As the premier private university in North Texas, SMU exists to shape future leaders who transform communities and organizations through ingenuity and thoughtful problem-solving. Building on our history of excellence, we have launched SMU Ignited: Boldly Shaping Tomorrow – our multiyear, $1.5 billion campaign to attract and support outstanding students and faculty, to explore new fields and cutting-edge technologies, and to positively impact Dallas and the world beyond. We invite you to join us and empower the bold, the curious and the creative to better their professions and their communities. Blaze a new path Clayton Ellis Director of Development Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences crellis@smu.edu or 214-768-9202 Let’s stay in touch To sign up to receive updates about SMU Ignited, enter your email address below and hit “submit.” This form needs Javascript to display, which your browser doesn't support. Sign up here instead Ways to giveGive now Back to top Schools and areas Scholarships Endowed faculty positions Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Athletics Libraries Student Affairs Cox School renovation and expansion Hughes-Trigg renovation Owen Arts Center transformation Weber End Zone Complex Ways to Give Endowment giving Current-use giving Capital giving Planned giving University-wide initiatives School and unit giving Contact Us Office of the Vice President for Development and External Affairs Principal and Major Gifts School and Project Development Athletics © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 Give now Contact us Goals Empower outstanding students Enhance campus and community Enrich teaching and research Leaders Message from the President Message from Campaign Leadership Council News Gifts Campaign updates Events and programs Campaign toolkit Ways to give Scholarships Endowed faculty positions Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Athletics Libraries Student Affairs Cox School renovation and expansion Hughes-Trigg renovation Owen Arts Center transformation Weber End Zone Complex Menu Search Search Submit Popular Searches Current Students Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission Faculty & Staff Majors & Minors Alumni COVID-19 Information (Mustang Strong) Did you know? SMU's singular approach to integrating rigorous learning with hands-on experience will prepare you to achieve your educational goals and expand your world in ways you never imagined. Ours is a community of people forging their own paths. We'd like to help you shape yours. Plan your visit Menu Search