Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Alumni Association Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Alumni Clubs Alumni Community Benefits CAA Arts Access Career Resources Events Get Involved News Columbia Alumni Association You are here: Home State-of-the-Field Conference on Cyber Risk to Financial Stability Events Past Event State-of-the-Field Conference on Cyber Risk to Financial Stability Share Add to Calendar: Calendar / Outlook Google Yahoo April 29, 2022 9:00 AM - 12:00 PM America/New_York Online Event Online REGISTER HERE: https://columbiauniversity.zoom.us/webinar/register/WN_RjxUKMDhRlu0IZOmEXC7RQ The Third State-of-the-Field Conference on Cyber Risk to Financial Stability will generate a robust discussion led by experts across the financial and cybersecurity fields and government, academic, and private sectors. Members of Columbia SIPA's CRFS Project and partners at the Federal Reserve Bank of NY will serve as moderators of each panel. They will draw on CRFS’s research, publications, and lessons learned from previous workshops to guide the conversation. The conference will begin on 28 April 2022 with a keynote by Eric Goldstein, Executive Assistant Director for Cybersecurity for the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency. This will be followed by a panel discussion on “Geopolitical Cyber Risks to Financial Stability” which will consider the conditions ten years after Iran’s ‘Operation Ababil’. The day will conclude with a fireside chat with Phil Venables, the Chief Information Security Officer for Google Cloud. On 29 April, the conversation will focus on industry perspectives, commencing with a keynote by Tammy Hornsby-Fink, the Chief Information Security Officer for the Federal Reserve System. This will be followed by panel discussion on “What Are We Learning?” and, “What Are We Doing?” when managing and mitigating cyber threats to financial stability. The event is a collaboration between the Federal Reserve Bank of New York and Columbia University's School of International and Public Affairs Contact Information Virpratap VS [email protected] Upcoming Events Columbia Alumni Center 622 West 113th Street, Mail Code 4525 · New York, NY 10025 Phone 212-851-7800 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close