Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Ethnic Programs & Services right arrow down arrow EPS Staff Darwin T. Turner Scholars Program right arrow down arrow Legacy of Turner Signature Programs Turner FAQs Identity Based Initiatives right arrow down arrow Asian Student Initiatives BEARchats Latino Student Initiatives Native American Initiatives Undocumented and DACA Student Initiatives WorldFest PR1ZE ALLC Events and Announcements Stay Connected Home » Campus Life » Ethnic Programs & Services Ethnic Programs & Services The Office of Ethnic Programs and Services (EPS), within the Division of Student Affairs, embraces the ever increasing diversity of the University of Cincinnati campus by providing quality programs and services that: Enhance the cultural, ethnic, and racial awareness of the entire university community Support the needs, growth, and development of students of color Build bridges between the university and the community Address the academic, social, spiritual and cultural needs of the campus community The Office of Ethnic Programs and Services encourages academic excellence, positive social interaction, cultural enrichment, student leadership development and community service. We value each and every contact with members of the university community and see every interaction as an opportunity to encourage positive relationships. Purpose Statement The Office of Ethnic Programs & Services provides a culturally inclusive environment by enhancing the growth and development of underrepresented students through intentional programming, academic and community engagement, and the access of resources. Signature Programs The Office of Ethnic Programs and Services provides a welcoming atmosphere where students can study, relax and experience a home away from home. We assist in educating the university community through innovative programming that embodies customs and traditions of students of color. We provide a receptive atmosphere where the university community can socially interact, intellectually engage and culturally connect. Housed within the Office of Ethnic Programs and Services includes the following: Darwin T. Turner Scholars Program The Darwin T. Turner Scholars Program (formerly known as the Minority Scholars Program) was established in 1976 to honor Darwin T. Turner, an African American student who, at the age of 16, was the youngest person ever to graduate from the University of Cincinnati. The Office of Ethnic Programs & Services offers this scholarship program to promote academic excellence, foster diversity, and provide leadership and service opportunities to incoming students. The program's goal is to enrich the educational environment for undergraduate students by supporting the recruitment and retention of underrepresented groups with high potential for academic success at the University of Cincinnati. Identity Based Initiatives The Office of Ethnic Programs and Services strives to actively promote the mission of the University by advancing the growth, matriculation, recruiting and retention of African American, Asian Pacific Islander American, Latino, Multiracial/Biracial, and Native American students. We seek to challenge all forms of systematic oppression that have historically inhibited the personal development of students of color attending predominantly white colleges and universities in the United States. As such, the Office of Ethnic Programs and Services offers identity based programming including BEARchats, Asian Student Initiatives, WorldFest, Latino Initiatives, Native American Initiatives, and Undocumented and DACA Student Initiatives. PR1ZE Mentorship Program The PR1ZE Mentoring Program (Putting Retention 1st in the Zest for Excellence) is a faculty and administration support program for historically underrepresented minority students, particularly focusing on African American students. The program began in the College of Arts and Sciences. In 2010, the program expanded to include students university-wide. Contact Information The Office of Ethnic Programs and Services is located at 555 Steger Student Life Center. To find our space, enter the Steger Student Life Center on the southeast side of the building directly across from Center Court Dining Center. The accessible entrance is on the 4th floor of the building. Take the elevator to the 5th floor and make a left down the hallway. We are the first office on the left. For inquiries regarding our office, any of our signature programs, and the Darwin T. Turner Scholars Program please email us at eps@ucmail.uc.edu and/or call the office at 513-556-6008. Additionally, there are four full time staff members (Director, Assistant Director, & 2 ProgramManagers) and two graduate assistants. To learn more about our incredible staff and individual roles and responsibilities, please visit the staff information page! Office of Ethnic Programs and Services 555 Steger Student Life Center P.O. Box 210092 Cincinnati, OH 45221 513-556-6008 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Office of Ethnic Programs and Services 555 Steger Student Life Center P.O. Box 210092 Cincinnati, OH 45221 513-556-6008 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top