Skip to main content UTS: Promo Links COVID-19 Updates Get Involved Search terms Search icon University of Texas System Toggle navigation Primary Navigation News Institutions Regents Administration Offices Breadcrumbs Home News Center Main page content UT System Regents establish $300 million endowment to expand tuition assistance programs at UT institutions Thursday, February 24, 2022 Social Sharing Links Share The UT System Board of Regents and Chancellor James B. Milliken today announced the creation of a $300 million endowment to help undergraduate students at UT institutions pay for college. The “Promise Plus” program will provide tuition assistance to eligible students at seven UT institutions: UT Arlington, UT Dallas, UT El Paso, UT Permian Basin, UT Rio Grande Valley, UT San Antonio and UT Tyler. In 2019, Regents created a $167 million endowment to provide a significant increase in tuition support for students at UT Austin. The funding for the Promise Plus endowment was generated by a series of prudent investments by UT System financial officers that produced higher-than-expected returns over the past fiscal year. The Board of Regents approved the creation of the endowment at its meeting today. “We are committed to increasing the affordability of a college education for more Texans by lowering the out-of-pocket cost of a UT degree for qualified students,” Board Chairman Kevin P. Eltife said. “This is an investment in our students, in public higher education and the state of Texas.” “Today’s action by the Board of Regents means that even more Texans will be able to earn a UT degree tuition-free,” Chancellor Milliken said. “The Promise Plus endowment ensures that our high quality UT institutions will remain among the most affordable in the nation.” Every UT academic institution has a program that covers 100 percent of students’ tuition and mandatory fees, depending on family income. Funds from these programs generally are used to supplement federal and state aid such as Pell grants and TEXAS grants. With additional funding from the Promise Plus program, UT institutions will be able to raise the income threshold, meaning they can help more students cover the full cost of tuition. For instance, if a UT institution has a tuition relief program for students whose families earn $70,000 or less, Promise Plus funding would increase the income threshold, potentially expanding tuition-free eligibility to students from households earning $80,000 or less. The Promise Plus program will generate about $15 million this year, which will be distributed to the seven institutions to provide tuition relief. Individual institutions will receive a minimum of $1 million this year, based on the number of students enrolled with financial need. The endowment is expected to grow in value over time, increasing the annual allocations to the institutions accordingly each year. Only full-time, undergraduate students who are Texas residents, fill out the FAFSA and qualify for need-based aid are eligible to receive Promise Plus funds. Individual institutions may have additional criteria and will be determining how many students will be served by the Promise Plus funding. Over the next month, Chancellor Milliken, Chairman Eltife and the regents will be visiting all seven campuses to announce each institution’s Promise Plus allocation and more details about the UT System’s commitment to affordability and access. About The University of Texas System For more than 130 years, The University of Texas System has been committed to improving the lives of Texans and people all over the world through education, research and health care. With 13 institutions, an enrollment of more than 243,000 students and an operating budget of $23.4 billion (FY 2022), the UT System is one of the largest public university systems in the United States. UT institutions produce more than 67,000 graduates annually and award more than one-third of the state’s undergraduate degrees and more than half of its medical degrees. Collectively, UT-owned and affiliated hospitals and clinics accounted for more than 8.6 million outpatient visits and almost 1.8 million hospital days in 2020. UT institutions also are among the most innovative in the world, collectively ranking No. 4 for most U.S. patents granted in 2020, and the UT System is No. 1 in Texas and No. 2 in the nation in federal research expenditures. The UT System also is one of the largest employers in Texas, with more than 21,000 faculty – including Nobel laureates and members of the National Academies – and more than 85,000 health care professionals, researchers and support staff. News Contact Information Karen Adler: kadler@utsystem.edu • 512-499-4360 (direct) • 210-912-8055 (cell) UT System Links and Contact Information Academic Institutions UT Arlington UT Austin UT Dallas UT El Paso UT Permian Basin UT Rio Grande Valley UT San Antonio UT Tyler Health Institutions UT Southwestern UTMB Galveston UTHealth UT Health San Antonio UT MD Anderson UT System About SmartBook Office of the Chancellor Board of Regents Administration Offices Directory UT4U Outlook Web Access Info Center COVID-19 Site Policy Library Regents' Rules & Regulations Reports to the State Audit Reports Privacy Statement Linking Notice Copyright Accessibility Open Records Resources Careers Document Library seekUT UT System Dashboard Contact UT System State Links State of Texas Fraud Reporting Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Statewide Search University of Texas System New footer logo © 2022 The University of Texas System. 210 West 7th Street, Austin, Texas 78701-2982. (512) 499-4200 The University of Texas System Menu × Primary Mobile Navigation News Institutions Regents Administration Offices