Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Equity, Inclusion & Community Impact Inclusion right arrow down arrow About right arrow down arrow Meet The Team CDO Roundtable Diversity Council D&I Resource Liaisons Student Diversity & Inclusion Council Employee Resource Groups Guiding Principles Equity & Inclusion App Feedback Equity & Inclusion right arrow down arrow Community Education & Workshops right arrow down arrow Workshop Request Form Equity & Inclusion Conference right arrow down arrow Call for Concurrent Session Proposals Equity & Inclusion Incentive Grants Marian Spencer Equity Ambassador Award Services right arrow down arrow Services Request Form Equal Opportunity & Access right arrow down arrow Affirmative Action Plan & Equal Employment Opportunity Section 504/ADA Grievance Procedure Complaint Resolution and Consultation Community Education & Workshops right arrow down arrow Equal Opportunity & Access ACADEMY right arrow down arrow Graduate Class of 2021 Inclusive Excellence Workshops The Student Experience right arrow down arrow Semester/Capstone Projects Gender Equity & Inclusion (Title IX) right arrow down arrow Making a Report right arrow down arrow Confidentiality Employee Responsibility Support & Resources right arrow down arrow Supportive Measures Pregnancy and Parenting Resources Responding to Disclosures Resources for Complainants and Respondents Gender Identity Resources Community Education & Training right arrow down arrow Training Request Form Gender and Sexual Diversity Terminology Title IX right arrow down arrow Reporting Options Title IX Sexual Harassment Policy Sex- and/or Gender-Based Misconduct Policy and Procedure Training Materials for UC Title IX Personnel Community Impact right arrow down arrow CPS Strong Make a Gift right arrow down arrow Darwin T. Turner Scholars Program DEI Toolkit Home » About UC » Equity, Inclusion and Community Impact » Equal Opportunity & Access » The Student Experience » Semester/Capstone Projects Set Navigation title in component Affirmative Action Plan & Equal Employment Opportunity Section 504/ADA Grievance Procedure Complaint Resolution and Consultation Community Education & Workshops Equal Opportunity & Access ACADEMY Graduate Class of 2021 Inclusive Excellence Workshops The Student Experience Semester/Capstone Projects Semester/Capstone Projects Emily Smith, Racial Equity Audit (Spring 2021) This assignment was completed as a semester project for a Public Sector HR Management class. For this project, Emily assessed the College of Arts and Sciences recruitment materials, hiring processes, and practices. Emily analyzed these materials and data using racial equity tools, while also recommending support strategies to further advance the college’s commitment to organizational equity. This educational project taught Emily how A&S performs a very important area of HR, doing so with equitable practices at the forefront of their mission. Leah Lai*, Veterans Demographic Project (Spring 2021) This project was intended to provide the UC Veterans Task Force and advocates some general information about both protected veterans at UC and veterans in the US civilian labor market. This project is organized in four sections: (1) Overview of UC Veterans Task Force Mission & Vision; (2) Hiring Benchmark; (3) Gender, Racial or Ethnic Minority and Disability Comparisons; and (4) Summary and Recommendations. Throughout this project, veterans and nonveterans are compared, highlighting for both groups points of success and areas for action. Adam Miller, Improving Faculty Diversity at Lindner College of Business (Fall 2020) Utilizing data from the 2019-20 Affirmative Action, this capstone project examines the current diversity of faculty at the Lindner College of Business and addresses the barriers the college faces when it comes to the recruitment of new faculty members. The college has recently shared initiatives to increase representation across its departments, moving towards a transformative stage when it comes to creating an inclusive and diverse working place for all faculty members. Adam provides several recommendations for the college to consider moving forward that support the college’s goal of academic excellence through diversity and inclusion. Tanya Malaiya*, 5-Year Analysis of Hiring Efforts for Protected Groups (Summer 2020) This capstone project aims to analyze 5 years of Applicant Flow Logs describing the candidates for every position that the University hired in this time. This data includes information about the candidates regarding their status of 2 protected classes: Protected Veterans and Individuals with Disabilities. According to the 2019-20 AAP results, the proportion of employees belonging to these protected classes in the University of Cincinnati are significantly lower across all job groups and business units compared to the proportions in relevant pools provided by the U.S. Department of Labor. By analyzing the given data, this project aims to develop a strategic action plan for improving the representation of these protected groups by understanding where in the hiring process (recruitment, interviews, selection) are barriers present for such groups. *Student Worker for the Office of Equal Opportunity & Access University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati Oh 45220 513-556-5000 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati Oh 45220 513-556-5000 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top