HOME Make a Gift Clemson Home Students Faculty/Staff Alumni Partners A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps CU Safety Phonebook Webcams Make a Gift Toggle navigation MANAGE MY ACCOUNT MY.CLEMSON MAPS Campus Maps Parking Space Map Long-Term Visitor Parking Short-Term Visitor Parking FORMS BikeShare Release Form Carpool Permit Application Departmental Guest Permits Departmental Space Reservation LEV / EV Employee Permit Application Payroll Deduction Election/Termination Form Special Event Parking Request Tiger Transit Rental Request Vendor Permit Application FAQ CONTACT US Employees Departmental Guests Low Emission Vehicles (LEV) Permit Rates Contract Employees Electric Vehicles (EV) Employee Parking Permits Faculty and Staff: Renew Parking Permits Buy a Permit Now! Employee parking permits for 2021-22 are available online for employees. Telecommuting faculty and staff parking on campus occasionally may consider forgoing an annual permit and may opt to purchase temporary daily permits online or temporary daily hang tag permits from the Parking Office at a cost of $3.00 per day. For your convenience, automated license plate recognition (ALPR) software is in use so temporary online permits no longer need to be printed and displayed. List of items you'll need: Vehicle state and plate number. Important: Be sure to update and maintain your vehicle plate number for our enforcement software. Vehicle make, model, year and color. Permit Payment Payments for permits are only available online. Go to www.clemson.edu/parking and click on Manage My Account to manage your parking account and pay one of two ways: Payroll Deduction: If you are currently enrolled, select “online payroll deduction” as your payment type. If you are currently not enrolled in payroll deduction, select “online payroll deduction” as your payment type, print the pre-tax parking benefit election/change form at http://www.clemson.edu/campus-life/parking/multimedia/pdf/pretaxelectionform.pdf and return the completed form directly to Parking and Transportation Services located on the ground level of the University Union or you can email it to parking@clemson.edu for processing. Debit or Credit Card: Pay with Visa, MasterCard, Discover or American Express. Buy a Permit Now! See a step-by-step buying guide here. For Your Awareness: All parking regulations, including meters, are in effect, and all Employees are required to purchase a parking permit to park your vehicle on campus, including at meters. Park-N-Ride permits offer savings and are great options for employees. If you currently have an employee permit and are enrolled in payroll deduction, you will need to complete a new payroll deduction form for this option. Carefully review the Park-N-Ride webpage for further information. After purchasing an annual permit, a temporary 15-day permit can be printed for display on your dashboard until your permit arrives. Permits will be mailed within 3 days after purchase to the shipping address that you provide. Permits will not be held for pick-up at Parking and Transportation Services and cannot be mailed to a campus office location. If you have not purchased a permit and your vehicle is found on campus, you may receive a citation. Employee permits are issued in the form of repositionable decals and must be displayed in the left front (driver’s side) windshield of your vehicle. Decals may be moved from vehicle to vehicle up to 3,000 times for those who occasionally switch vehicles to another vehicle linked to your permit. Employees who cannot order a permit online (U.S. Forestry, Ricoh, Aramark, intermittent employees need to bring their vehicle information to our office and complete their parking permit application). If you would like to purchase an LEV or EV permit, they are not available online so please contact Tracey Morgan directly to purchase one. All past-due citations must be paid before purchasing a parking permit. Get instant Parking and Transportation alerts by downloading the My.Clemson app and subscribing to Push Notification Channels. Parking & Transportation Services, located on the ground level of the University Union, will be staffed Monday-Friday from 7:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m., and until further notice, will operate under the following in-person appointment schedule: Tuesday through Thursday from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. Contact us by phone or email Monday through Friday from 7:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. (864-656-2270/parking@clemson.edu). Appointments are required for an in-office visit. Book your appointment here. Notice to Users of Disability Access Parking Permits: Anyone who displays a state-issued disability parking permit in order to park on the campus of Clemson University is required to register the permit with the Parking Services office prior to use on campus. Students, faculty, staff and vendors are required to purchase and display a campus parking permit, even when displaying a disability access parking permit. The request to register the state-issued permits prior to use is expected to reduce the incident of unauthorized use, thereby increasing access to disability access parking space by legitimate users. Please contact the office in person, by phone at 864-656-2270 or email us at parking@clemson.edu to register your ADA permit. Parking and Transportation Services G01-C Edgar Brown Union | Clemson, SC 29634 Office Hours: Mon - Fri 7:30 a.m. - 4:30 p.m. Contact Us Copyright 2020 Webmaster