Skip to main content Navigation Academics Admissions Research Locations Student Life Alumni & Giving Athletics Apply Now Bachelor of Science in Mechanical Engineering, BSME Engineer to Design, Build and Test Innovative Devices Program at a Glance Program Bachelor College(s) College of Engineering and Computer Science Department(s) Mechanical & Aerospace Engr 4 Years In State Tuition Out of State Tuition $212.28 per credit hour $748.89 per credit hour Learn more about program tuition and fees. Explore the Intersection of Math, Science and Engineering The B.S. in Mechanical Engineering program helps you gain an understanding of core concepts such as mechanics, kinematics, thermodynamics, materials science, structural analysis and electricity. You’ll pair these core principles with tools like computer-aided design software to design and analyze manufacturing plants, industrial equipment and machinery, cars, aircraft, robotics, medical devices and much more. The mechanical engineering department boasts esteemed international faculty and a dedicated staff who ensure that you gain the skills needed to achieve your personal and professional goals. Throughout your coursework, you’ll get hands-on experience in applying the principles of engineering, science and mathematics to model, analyze, design and realize physical systems, components and processes. Plus, be sure to take advantage of the professional networking and internship opportunities with the university’s partners — many of whom are industry leaders across Florida. Upon graduating with your mechanical engineering degree, you can pursue advanced studies or prepare to go directly into the industry. With top engineering companies around Central Florida, many graduates choose to stay around the area. Related Programs and Minors: Aerospace Engineering, BSAE Bioengineering, Minor Engineering Leadership, Minor Materials Science and Engineering, Minor Highlights UCF ranked as No. 81 for Best Undergraduate Engineering Programs by U.S. News & World Report. Currently, there are more than 650,000 mechanical engineers across the U.S. — a number expected to continue rising over the next decade. Mechanical engineering graduates earn an annual average salary of $94K nationwide. Undergraduate Application Deadlines Freshmen Transfers International Fall May 1 Spring November 1 Summer March 1 Fall July 1 Spring November 1 Summer March 1 Fall March 1 Spring September 1 Summer January 1 Ready to get started? Apply Today Start Your Application Today Ready to get started? Take the next step to save your spot at UCF. 1 Check out your application requirements. See what freshmen and transfer students need to apply. 2 Short on time? You can start your application today and come back later to finish. Apply Today Course Overview Thermodynamics Work, heat and energy transformations. Relation of properties. Laws, concepts and modes of analysis common to all applications of thermodynamics in engineering. Modeling Methods in Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering Explore computer-aided modeling of mechanical and aerospace systems. This entails solution methods, curve fitting, and numerical calculus and solution of differential equations with applications to mechanical and aerospace engineering. Engineering Design I & II Application of the design process in the team solution of a state-of-the-art problem. Aerospace, mechanical, thermo-fluid or material problems are considered. Continuation of the design process in the team building and testing of a prototype. A test plan and a test report are completed. View All Mechanical Engineering Courses You’ll Take Mechanical Engineering Skills You'll Learn Utilize best practices in engineering to design, build and test various devices. Recognize problems and adjust the design as needed to develop effective and efficient solutions. Convey ideas to various teams — explaining complex machines and devices that they may not be familiar with. Oversee the project manufacturing process and analyze the results to ensure expectations are met. Career Opportunities Mechanical Engineer Manufacturing Engineer Combustion Engineer Aircraft Engineer Engine Designer Quality Engineer Thermal Engineer College of Engineering and Computer Science News Check out more stories Colleges & Campus UCF Students Oust Top Teams at 2022 North America Collegiate Programming Contest, Advance to World Finals After beating dozens of top teams to earn seventh place, UCF will advance to the World Finals for the 11th consecutive year. Colleges & Campus 5 UCF Scholars to be Inducted into Academy of Science, Engineering and Medicine of Florida The organization’s members are top scholars and researchers from universities, public agencies, and industries statewide who are committed to addressing key issues and challenges impacting… Colleges & Campus Elite Students Coming to UCF for North America Collegiate Programming Contest UCF will host and compete against 49 other top student programming teams — including Stanford, MIT, Harvard, Caltech, UCBerkeley and Georgia Tech. Research Aerodynamics of Perching Birds Could Inform Aircraft Design A team of UCF researchers have investigated the mystery behind different bird perching maneuvers to better understand the aerodynamic forces of landing an aircraft. Degree Search College of Engineering and Computer Science programs Bachelors Mechanical Engineering (BSME) University of Central Florida Colleges Burnett Honors Arts and Humanities Business Community Innovation and Education Graduate Studies Health Professions and Sciences Medicine Nursing Optics and Photonics Sciences Undergraduate Studies Hospitality Management × Admission Requirements Students wanting to declare a major in an engineering discipline must be in good academic standing and must have a "C" (2.0) or better in each of the following courses or their equivalents: MAC 2311C, MAC 2312, PHY 2048C, and CHM 2045C or CHS 1440. Students wanting to declare a major in an engineering discipline must complete a change of major in the term of completion of the final pending prerequisite course(s) listed above. Degree Requirements The Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering Department requires all students in the Mechanical Engineering Major to earn a "C" (2.0) or Better in the following sections: Common Program Pre-requisites (CPP), Core Requirements Basic Level, Core Requirements - Advanced Level, Restricted / Approved Technical Electives, and Capstone Requirement Students in the Mechanical Engineering major are expected to make consistent good progress toward their degrees to remain enrolled in, or eligible for, any major in the College of Engineering & Computer Science (CECS) or the College of Optics and Photonics (COP). Therefore, any student majoring in Mechanical Engineering who repeats any UCF course and does not earn a grade of "C" (2.0) or better on the second attempt will be placed on Lack of Progress Probation and remain on Lack of Progress Probation as long as the student is enrolled in a CECS or COP major. If a student on Lack of Progress Probation does not receive a grade of "C" (2.0) or better by the third attempt in the same UCF course, the student will be excluded from all CECS and COP majors. Any student majoring in Mechanical Engineering who has accumulated 7 or more unsuccessful attempts (i.e., grades below "C" (2.0) and withdrawals) over all courses taken at UCF will be placed on Lack of Progress Probation and remain on Lack of Progress Probation as long as the student is enrolled in a CECS or COP major. If a student on Lack of Progress Probation has a tenth unsuccessful attempt over all courses taken at UCF, the student will be excluded from all CECS and COP majors. A student who is excluded from CECS and COP majors may seek readmission to a major in CECS or COP after at least one full year has passed since exclusion. Readmission is not automatic and is dependent upon a high probability of success after readmission. Any student who is readmitted to the Mechanical Engineering major will be subject to all probation conditions that applied at the time of exclusion. Degree Requirements Core Requirements: Basic Level 2 Total Credits Complete all of the following The College of Engineering & Computer Science requires all engineering students to achieve a minimum 2.25 GPA in completing these courses, together with the core requirements, restricted electives, and senior design courses listed below. All students must earn a grade of "C" (2.0) or better in Core Requirements: Basic Level. Complete the following: EGS1006C - Introduction to the Engineering Profession (1) EGN1007C - Engineering Concepts and Methods (1) Core Requirements: Advanced Level 48 Total Credits Complete all of the following All students must earn a grade of "C" (2.0) or better in Core Requirements: Advanced Level. Earn at least 39 credits from the following: STA3032 - Probability and Statistics for Engineers (3) COP3223C - Introduction to Programming with C (3) EGN3310 - Engineering Analysis-Statics (3) EGN3321 - Engineering Analysis-Dynamics (3) EGN3343 - Thermodynamics (3) EGM3601 - Solid Mechanics (3) EGN3365 - Structure and Properties of Materials (3) EGN3373 - Principles of Electrical Engineering (3) EML3034C - Modeling Methods in Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering (3) EML3701 - Fluid Mechanics I (3) EML3303C - Mechanical Engineering Measurements (3) EML3500 - Design and Analysis of Machine Components (3) EML4142 - Heat Transfer (3) EML4225 - Introduction to Vibrations and Controls (3) GEP Course: STA 3032 Complete at least 2 of the following: EML3101 - Thermodynamics of Mechanical Systems (3) EML4143 - Heat Transfer II (3) EML4313 - Intermediate System Dynamics and Controls (3) EML4703 - Fluid Mechanics II (3) EML4504 - Design & Analysis of Machine Components II (3) Complete at least 1 of the following: EML4301C - Mechanical Systems Laboratory (3) EML4306C - Energy Systems Laboratory (3) Restricted Electives 15 Total Credits Complete all of the following Earn at least 15 credits from the following types of courses: Technical electives are available in the BSME program to address specific student interests in a variety of technical areas. Students can obtain the updated list of the approved technical electives from the Department website (http://mae.ucf.edu/advising/undergraduate-forms/). All students must earn a grade of "C" (2.0) or Better in Restricted Electives. Capstone Requirements 6 Total Credits Complete all of the following All students must earn a grade of "C" (2.0) or Better in Capstone Requirements. These courses provide capstone design experiences and must be completed in the last 2 major semesters of study before graduation. CECS encourages all engineering students to take the Fundamentals Exam during their senior year. Complete the following: EML4501C - Engineering Design I (3) EML4502C - Engineering Design II (3) Grand Total Credits: 71 University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida