TCSOL Certificate The Teaching Chinese to Speakers of Other Languages Skip to content Skip to main navigation TC Menu Search for people, news & websites Go Resource Links Prospective Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links Columbia Library myTC Directory Apply Now Request Info Search Bar Primary Navigation About Academics Admission & Aid Faculty & Research News Give to TC Home Prospective Students Upcoming Events Academic Calendar People Alumni Association Resources Request More Info Contact Us Menu CIFLTE Center for International Foreign Language Teacher Education (CIFLTE) If any word can capture the essence of the world today, it is ‘change.’ The changes are rapid and the world is increasingly fluid rather than rigidly divided as in earlier times, creating both opportunities and tensions. As citizens of today’s world continue to interact in virtual, physical, social, economic, and political arenas, the demands for the ability to speak additional languages continue to grow more dire. As a predominant medium of communication, knowing a foreign language is key not only to improving the life quality of mankind but also in resolving political and economic conflicts, thereby promoting peace and prosperity worldwide. The Center’s core mission is two-fold: a) to promote and enact top-notch teacher training activities, effectively addressing critical demands for qualified teachers of Chinese and English, especially in Asia, the Middle East, South America and the US; b) to pursue classroom-based inquiries that would enrich the Center’s teacher-training activities and contribute more broadly to the general understanding of foreign language learning and teacher preparation. Learn More CIFLTE Highlights Attention: The TCSOL One-Year Program is likely to be conducted in person, circumstances permitting. Read More Non-degree Programs Program Offerings TCSOL/TESOL Dual Certificate Online Summer Program A TCSOL One-year Certificate Program (New York | Online) TCSOL/TESOL Dual Certificate Online Summer Program B CIFLTE Online Foreign Language Learning CIFLTE Fellow Program Continuing Professional Development Connect with CIFLTE Announcements Currently Accepting Applications The 2022-2023 TCSOL One-year Certificate Program is currently accepting applications. Please click here to learn more. CIFLTE 2022 Summer TCSOL/TESOL Dual Certificate Program is currently accepting applications. Please click here to learn more about Summer Program A, and here about Summer program B. CIFLTE One-on-One Foreign Language Learning Program (AY2022-2023 modules) is currently accepting applications. Please click here to learn more. See all news In the News CIFLTE Public Talk: Doing Narrative Research in Applied Linguistics by Dr. Gary Barkhuizen TCSOL Final Project – From the Beginning to the End Teaching Experience in TCSOL One-year Program: Adult Language Teaching Teaching Chinese in America – A Quest for Sense of Belonging From a Law Student to an Educator 2021 TCSOL/TESOL Summer Dual Certificate Program News Report TCSOL Class of 2021: Farewell and Final Project Presentation TCSOL Class of 2021 Year Book Guest Talk by Dr. Heidi Byrnes | Exploring Systemic Functional Linguisctics (SFL) for Language Education 2021 CIFLTE Open House | Introducing Chinese Traditional music and instruments | Introducing Chinese Ink Wash Painting Guest Talk by Dr. Shaofeng Li | Six Decades of Research on Language Aptitude: A Systematic Review and Critique Research Usage-based instruction, systems thinking, and the role of Language Mining in second language development (2020) Co-equal participation and accuracy perceptions in communal writing assessment (2020) Thirty-five years of instructed second language acquisition (2019) Task-based learning in task-based teaching: Training teachers of Chinese as a foreign language (2018) Pivotal Moments in Student Teaching (2019) Energy conservation: A theory of L2 ultimate attainment (2017) Conversation Analysis and Second Language Pedagogy: A Guide for ESL/EFL Teachers (2020) A Primer for Advanced Beginners of Chinese (co-author) (2004) Handbook for Chinese Teachers (Beijing Language University Press, co-author, 2017) Contact Us Box: 66 Teachers College, Columbia University 360 Grace Dodge Phone: 212-678-8378 OR 212-678-4051 Email: ciflte@tc.columbia.edu CIFLTE Public Talks Dr. Gary Barkhuizen on Language Teachers as Researchers Dr. Gary Barkhuizen on Doing Narrative Research in Applied Linguistics Workshops Teaching Chinese at Upper Levels: Philological Knowledge and Teaching Skills Signature Events TCSOL 2020 - Graduation TCSOL 2019 - Graduation Upcoming Events See all events × Modal title ...4 Contact Us Teachers College, Columbia University 525 West 120th Street New York, NY 10027 Tel: +1 (212) 678-3000 Map & Directions Directory Ask a Question Resources Admission & Aid Student Life Courses Academic Calendar Office of the Registrar Office of Teacher Education TC NEXT Employment Legal Consumer Information / Student Right to Know Legal Notices Policy Library Non-Discrimination Title IX Compliance Ethics Reporting Public Safety GDPR Notice Make a Gift to TC Diversity Work at TC Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Linkedin © 2022, Teachers College, Columbia University, New York, NY 10027.