Skip to main content Submit Close Give to UH Search About Academics Admissions Campus Life Research Athletics Locations Sugar Land Katy UH Technology Bridge News & Events Giving UH Home Policies UH Policies - MAPPs Policies UH Policies - MAPPs 01 General Information 02 Human Resources 03 Administrative Operations 04 Procurement 05 Finance & Accounting 06 Safety 07 Public Safety 08 Research 09 Facilities 10 Information Technology 11 Funding & Budgets 12 Academic Affairs 13 Student Affairs 14 Campus Sustainability UH System Policies - SAMs Board of Regents Policies MAPPs Under Review Policy Development Other UH Policy Resources Contact Policy Office Amanda Rhodes Director of Policy Management 713-743-2910 uhpolicies@uh.edu Subscribe to notifications: MAPP Listserv > SAM Listserv > UH Policies - MAPPs Search MAPPs Policies MAPPs University of Houston policies (MAPPs) can be accessed by clicking the 14 topic areas on the left. MAPPs are considered official policies and procedures of UH, and are intended to provide general information. UH reserves the right to update MAPPs at any time to reflect current law, Board policy, System policy, or guidelines. Information is subject to change and should be consulted as needed for updates. Policy information does not constitute a contract between UH and its employees. Note: the search function above searches MAPPs only. Be sure to perform a separate search on the UHS website to see if a System policy (SAM) or Board policy might apply. Additionally, colleges, divisions, and administrative offices may have required guidelines or procedures. MAPPs under review can be found at the following link: MAPPs Under Review. Your feedback is welcome during the UH Community Review period for any MAPPs under review. University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies