Skip to main content SMU Explore SMU Academics Undergraduate Admission Student Affairs About News Athletics Events Calendar Bush Center Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Apply to SMUGIVE NOW Boldly Shaping Tomorrow Goals Leaders Gifts Ways to give Menu Search Ways to give Athletics Garry Weber End Zone Complex Garry Weber End Zone Complex Igniting the future of Mustang football Sparked by a $50 million commitment from the Garry Weber Foundation – the largest gift in the history of SMU Athletics – the University has undertaken a $100 million drive for the 192,500-square-foot Garry Weber End Zone Complex project at Gerald J. Ford Stadium. The new three-level complex will increase the functionality, efficiency and overall experience of Mustang Football and its fans. It also continues SMU’s century-long commitment to competing at the highest levels. Expected impact Bolsters the efficiency, occupancy and functionality of Ford Stadium through better accessibility and premium fan seating. Empowers Mustang student-athletes with dynamic new spaces for strategy- and team-building activities. Strengthens the health and well-being of SMU Athletics through improved nutrition and sports medicine facilities, as well as better training and recovery options. Furthers SMU Athleticsʼ momentum toward the upper echelons of competitive athletics. Building on a legacy of athletic excellence The new Garry Weber End Zone Complex will anchor Ford Stadium’s south bowl that will connect the stadium’s existing east and west gate entries. The three levels of the new complex will increase the functionality, efficiency and overall experience of Mustang football for student-athletes and fans. Team-focused spaces will include new locker rooms, a weight room, position-specific meeting rooms, a full-team auditorium and a kitchen and training table to support all of SMU’s 484 student-athletes. The new facility will also house football coaches, support staff and video and recruiting services. The newly constructed concourse will offer premium experiences for fans, expand guest facilities, improve pedestrian accessibility and add an inviting breezeway that joins the stadium’s entryways to the internal field. Build your legacy The Garry Weber End Zone Complex supports the SMU Ignited campaign goal to enhance our campus and community through nationally competitive athletics, community engagement and diverse public programming. For more information about giving opportunities to SMU Athletics in support of the Garry Weber End Zone Complex, please contact Matt Peters, senior associate athletics director for development, at mjpeters@smu.edu or 214-768-7009. Contact Us Let’s stay in touch To sign up to receive updates about SMU Ignited, enter your email address below and hit “submit.” This form needs Javascript to display, which your browser doesn't support. Sign up here instead Ways to giveGive now Back to top Schools and areas Scholarships Endowed faculty positions Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Athletics Libraries Student Affairs Cox School renovation and expansion Hughes-Trigg renovation Owen Arts Center transformation Weber End Zone Complex Ways to Give Endowment giving Current-use giving Capital giving Planned giving University-wide initiatives School and unit giving Contact Us Office of the Vice President for Development and External Affairs Principal and Major Gifts School and Project Development Athletics © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 Give now Contact us Goals Empower outstanding students Enhance campus and community Enrich teaching and research Leaders Message from the President Message from Campaign Leadership Council News Gifts Campaign updates Events and programs Campaign toolkit Ways to give Scholarships Endowed faculty positions Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Athletics Libraries Student Affairs Cox School renovation and expansion Hughes-Trigg renovation Owen Arts Center transformation Weber End Zone Complex Menu Search Search Submit Popular Searches Current Students Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission Faculty & Staff Majors & Minors Alumni COVID-19 Information (Mustang Strong) Did you know? SMU's singular approach to integrating rigorous learning with hands-on experience will prepare you to achieve your educational goals and expand your world in ways you never imagined. Ours is a community of people forging their own paths. We'd like to help you shape yours. Plan your visit Menu Search