Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Maguire Center Events Events 21st Annual Bonhoeffer Lectures in Public Ethics: Everyday Ethics for Exceptional Times J. Erik Jonsson Ethics Award Delta Gamma Lectureship in Values and Ethics Ethics & Compliance Certificate Public Scholar Lecture Conference of the Professions Past Events Student Engagement Student Engagement The Ethics Essay Prize Public Service Fellowships Teaching and Research Teaching and Research Teaching Fellowship Public Scholars Faculty Incentive Grant Program Resources Resources COVID-19 SMU Ethics Toolbox Papers Sound Ethics Research Newsletter Newsroom Newsroom From the Director's Desk Ethics Blog About Us About Us Leadership Cary M. Maguire Ethics Center Advisory Board Faculty Advisory Committee Contact Give ☰ Cary M. Maguire Center for Ethics and Public Responsibility Cary M. Maguire Center for Ethics and Public Responsibility Teaching and Research Maguire Teaching Fellowship Maguire Teaching Fellowship The Maguire Center for Ethics and Public Responsibility seeks to encourage teaching in the area of ethics. The field of ethics is both a traditional subdivision of philosophy and religious studies, but is also an important part of a broad range of disciplines and professions. Every year, the Maguire Ethics Center honors faculty members who are developing a course, a module, or other curricular unit in ethics. We also encourage faculty to develop and include ethics content throughout an existing course. The center honors one or more such persons per year with a generous stipend. In addition to the stipend, the center provides the Maguire Teaching Fellow/s with opportunities at the beginning and the end of the venture to discuss the curriculum proposal with interested colleagues. Past Recipients 2012-2013 Dr. Soraya Gollop, Professor of Philosophy, Dedman College Dr. Luke Robinson, Professor of Philosophy, Dedman College SMU's Ethics Toolbox - A Course Module 2011-2012 Dr. Anthony Cortese, Professor of Sociology, Dedman College Ethical Perspectives on Ethnoviolence 2010-2011 Dr. Soraya Gollop, Assistant Professor, Department of Philosophy medical ethics 2010-2011 Dr. Thomas Siems, Senior Lecturer, EMIS Department, Lyle School of Engineering Ethics in Engineering 2009-2010 Dr. Patricia Davis, Director of Pastoral Leadership and Adjunct Professor of Pastoral Care and Leadership, Perkins School of Theology Ethical Dilemmas in Pastoral Leadership 2009-2010 Dr. Renee McDonald, Co-Director of the SMU Family Research Center and Associate Professor of Psychology, Dedman College Ethics in Psychology 2008-2009 Professor Carolyn Smith-Morris & Graduate Student James Kennell, Department of Anthropology, Dedman College Globalization, Society, and the Human Condition 2007-2008 Professor Jeffrey D. Kahn, Dedman Law, Perspectives on Counterterrorism Course Development Grant: Lori Stephens, Dedman College (First-Year Writing Program) The Ethics of Springfield, which focused on ethical behavior by using the pop culture platform, "The Simpsons." 2006-2007 Professor Ravi Batra, Department of Economics, Dedman College Principles of Macroeconomics 2005-2006 Professor Jaime Clark-Soles, Perkins, developed a course entitled How Then Shall We Live? A Course in New Testament Ethics Course Development Grant: Professor Michael Householder, Dedman College (English), developed a new course that explores the interface between ethics, literature, and medical research. 2003-2004 Professor Crista DeLuzio, Dedman College (History), developed a course entitled Women and Social Movements in the U.S. 2002-2003 Adjunct Professor Michael Cassidy, Mechanical Engineering, developed a course entitled Ethics in Engineering and Manufacturing. Professor Martha Satz, Department of English, Dedman College Minority Literature Professor Marc Steinberg, Dedman Law Lawyering and Ethics for the Business Attorney. 2001-2002 Professor Ephrem Fernandez, Department of Psychology, Dedman College Ethics in Human Subject Research Professor Rebekah Miles, Perkins Family Affairs: Ethics, Religion, and the Family Professor Rita Kirk, Department of Corporate Communications and Public Affairs, Meadows The Ethics of Public Persuasion. Professor Matt Wilson, Department of Political Science, Dedman College Religion and Politics. 2000-2001 Professor Anthony J. Cortese, Dedman College (Anthropology), developed a course entitled Value Conflict As Pedagogy for Teaching Ethics. Professor Laura A. King, Dedman College (Psychology), developed a course entitled The Psychology of Character. Professor John Lewis, Dedman College (English), developed a course entitled Fortune, Fame, and Scandal. Professor Trysh Travis, Dedman College (English), developed a course entitled Workers, Citizens, Men. Professor Jeffrey A. Trexler, Dedman Law, developed a course entitled Corporate Law & Personal Values. Professor Rita Kirk, Department of Corporate Communications & Public Affairs, Meadows added an ethics unit to her existing course entitled Persuasion 1999-2000 Professor John Mears, Dedman College (History), developed a course entitled Modernity and Crises of Identity: The Reorientation of Western Culture, 1872-1917. Professor Philip Seib, Meadows (Journalism), developed a course entitled Ethics of Communication. Professor Gretchen Smith, Meadows (Theatre), developed a course entitled Affirmation and Subversion: Gender and Racial Politics in American Dramatic Literature. Professor Kathleen Wellman, Dedman College (History), developed a course entitled Europe in the Age of Enlightenment, 1715-1789. 1998-1999 Professor Jeffrey Mark Gaba, Dedman Law, developed a course entitled Environmental Ethics. Professor Mark McCullagh, Dedman College (Philosophy), developed a course entitled Can a Corporation Be a Good (or Bad) Person? Professor Alexis McCrossen, Dedman College (History), developed a course entitled From Pew to Bleacher: American Culture and Its Institutions. 1997-1998 Professor Alastair Norcross, Dedman College (Philosophy) Animal Rights Professor Martha Satz, Dedman College (English) Ethical Justification of Children's Literature. Professor Martha Selby, Dedman College (Religious Studies) Ethics in the Cross-Cultural Perspective 1996-1997 Professor Cecil O'Neal, Meadows (Theater) The Artist as Citizen. Teaching and Research Maguire Teaching Fellowship Public Scholars Faculty Incentive Grants Apply Visit School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share