Skip to main content Skip to main navigation U.S. Army-Baylor Master's Program in Nutrition Menu Become a Military Dietitian From the Director About Mission, Vision & Values MPN Typical Day Overview Advantages & Benefits Graduation Requirements RD Exam Eligibility Admission Requirements Application Process Tours Research Military Nutrition in Action Military Readiness Course History of Military Dietitians What Graduates Are Doing FAQs Contact Us Baylor>Home Welcome! Officer Pay & Benefits Tuition Free Internship and Master\'s Degree The U.S. Army-Baylor Master's Program in Nutrition (MPN) is a Future Education Model (FEM) program. Future Education Model programs are competency-base education (CBE) program that integrates classroom learning with hands-on supervised experiential learning (SEL) activities. Nutrition and Dietetics is joining other health professions that have transitioned to CBE model, such as physical therapy, speech language pathology, nursing and pharmacy. Similar to a nutrition and dietetics coordinated program, the FEM one-step integrated approach to complete educational requirements will provide a superior learning environment. Students who successfully complete the ACEND accredited 24-month program, (66 Credit Course hours with integrated SEL hours) will receive a Master of Science degree in Nutrition from Baylor University. Learn more about the roles RDs play in the military by reading this recent article from the June 2018 issue of Today's Dietitian. http://www.todaysdietitian.com/newarchives/0618p26.shtml Quick Facts Tuition-free master's degree, salary, plus benefits, program completed in approximately 24 months, and students are guaranteed eligibility to sit for the Commission on Dietetic Registration exam upon graduation Graduates are offered various career focus areas as an Army Dietitian: clinical, foodservice, leadership, health promotion, performance, research and humanitarian nutrition. Selected candidates will become a commissioned officer and attend professional military education prior to starting the MPN. Four-year active duty service commitment post MPN graduation Accreditation The Accreditation Council for Education in Nutrition and Dietetics (ACEND) is the accrediting body for the Future Education Model Graduate Program in Nutrition and Dietetics (GP). The GP is equivalent to a coordinated program in dietetics for USDE recognition purposes and is formally classified as such. The program will receive a comprehensive accreditation site visit no later than December 2025. ACEND contact information: 120 South Riverside Drive, Suite 2190 Chicago, IL 60606-6995 1-800-877-1600, Ext 5400 http://www.eatrightpro.org/resources/acend General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 Become a Military Dietitian From the Director About Mission, Vision & Values MPN Typical Day Overview Advantages & Benefits Graduation Requirements RD Exam Eligibility Admission Requirements Application Process Tours Research Military Nutrition in Action Military Readiness Course History of Military Dietitians What Graduates Are Doing FAQs Contact Us