skip to main content University of Nevada, Reno Homepage Apply Visit News Give Search www.unr.edu Search www.unr.edu Search Search www.unr.edu Search www.unr.edu Quicklinks Expand or Collapse to view popular links for this site Alumni Faculty & Staff Parents Students Academic Calendar Campus Catalog Directory Email Access Library Maps MyNevada WebCampus Workday Zoom Login Menu Expand or Collapse to view links grouped by top level headings Quicklinks Alumni Faculty & Staff Parents Students Academic Calendar Campus Catalog Directory Email Access Library Maps MyNevada WebCampus Workday Zoom Login Virtual front desk About Coronavirus FAQ Graduate Council Graduate Student Association Leadership Council Office of Postdoctoral Affairs Office of the Dean Graduate degrees & programs All graduate programs Interdisciplinary graduate programs Online graduate programs Class search Course catalog Graduate admissions Admission requirements International students Equivalent degrees Apply as Grad Special Funding, awards and assistantships Awards Berner scholarship Robert E. Dickenson Scholarship program Award recipients Graduate Dean's awards Award recipients Assistantships Nevada DRIVE Graduate Assistantships Graduate assistant handbook External resources Grad tuition and fees Domestic cost with GA Domestic cost without a GA International cost with a GA International cost without a GA How to apply to grad school Virtual open house Grad student life Funding and assistantships Health, dental and vision insurance Mental health Orientation Professional resources Professional development workshop Career information GRAD 702/703 GRAD 704 GRAD 778 Individual Development Plans for graduate students Grad student academics Academic calendar for online masters programs Academic standing Forms DocuSign electronic form instructions Graduate faculty Graduation deadlines Program of study requirements Thesis and dissertation filing guidelines Dissertation title form Virtual dissertation defense recommendations Faculty resources Campus visits Faculty forms Grad assistant termination Handbook for graduate program directors Dissertation defense program SLO evaluation Grad program handbooks Grad program marketing and recruitment How to become graduate faculty Policy updates Initiatives GradFIT for aspiring grad students Gradventure for prospective grad students Mentoring Mentors workshop series Nevada DRIVE Program for GRA Funding NSF GAIN Scholars program NSF Grad Research Fellowship Program 2022 GRFP Fellows Research news Three Minute Thesis Competition One scholar, one slide, three minutes Past 3MT winners Apply Visit News Give The Graduate School Virtual front desk About Coronavirus FAQ Graduate Council Graduate Student Association Leadership Council Office of Postdoctoral Affairs Office of the Dean Graduate degrees & programs All graduate programs Interdisciplinary graduate programs Online graduate programs Class search Course catalog Graduate admissions Admission requirements Apply as Grad Special Funding, awards and assistantships Grad tuition and fees How to apply to grad school Virtual open house Grad student life Funding and assistantships Health, dental and vision insurance Mental health Orientation Professional resources Grad student academics Academic calendar for online masters programs Academic standing Forms Graduate faculty Graduation deadlines Program of study requirements Thesis and dissertation filing guidelines Faculty resources Campus visits Faculty forms Grad assistant termination Handbook for graduate program directors Dissertation defense program SLO evaluation Grad program handbooks Grad program marketing and recruitment How to become graduate faculty Policy updates Initiatives GradFIT for aspiring grad students Gradventure for prospective grad students Mentoring Mentors workshop series Nevada DRIVE Program for GRA Funding NSF GAIN Scholars program NSF Grad Research Fellowship Program Research news Three Minute Thesis Competition Welcome, GradFIT participants! This week, the Graduate School is hosting 40 future graduate students from six institutions. Our GradFIT bootcamp will introduce students grad student life, aid them in putting forth competitive applications and provide them with success strategies once admitted. Learn more about GradFIT Experience Graduate School at the University of Nevada, Reno With more than 80 graduate disciplines, opportunities abound A graduate education can equip you with the skills to be competitive in the field of your choice. View programs Admissions Learn more about tuition, funding and how to apply to the Graduate School. Learn how to apply Funding Learn about opportunities to fund your education and gain experience. Funding information Living in Northern Nevada Lake Tahoe, Burning Man and 300 days of sunshine. The Great Basin region has something for everyone. Experience the region Announcements Congrats, Three-Minute Thesis winners! The 2022 winners in the Dissertation, Thesis and Patricia Berninsone People’s Choice categories are: Doctoral Dissertation Category Jennifer Heppner, Ecology, Evolution and Conservation Biology Title: Do mothers know best? Stress in our city birds Advisor Jenny Ouyang Derrick Satterfield, Engineering Education Title: I don’t know why I am here, I never wanted to go to graduate school in the first place ..., Advisor: Adam Kirn Angie Bradley, Educational Leadership Title: Sense of belonging of students of color participating in living-learning communities Advisor: Ethan Ris Master’s Thesis Category Abigail Sandquist, Graduate Program of Hydrologic Sciences Title: The water that doesn’t make it to your sink: a large fraction of rain evaporates from plants before reaching the ground Advisor: Scott Allen Rachel Rein, Master of Arts in Interdisciplinary Arts Title: Chromosome stroll Advisor: Russell Dudley Jessica Obermiller, Anthropology Title: Towards a queer Christianity: The evolution of norms, traditions, values, and culture in a queer affirming Lutheran church Advisor: Erin Stiles Patricia Berninsone People’s Choice Award Jennifer Heppner, Graduate Program: Ecology, Evolution and Conservation Biology, Title: Do mothers know best? Stress in our city birds, Advisor Jenny Ouyang $5,000 research fellowships are available! Apply by Friday, May 20 Deadline to apply for Whittell Forest Graduate Research Fellowship: Friday, May 20, 2022, by 5 p.m. To promote research on the University’s Whittell Forest & Wildlife Area, Research & Innovation is offering three graduate research grant awards for the 2022-2023 year. A total of $15,000 is available (as three $5,000 awards) to support graduate students enrolled in any academic program at the University of Nevada, Reno, or the University of Nevada, Las Vegas who are able to leverage Whittell to advance their graduate work. Read more about Whittell Forest Graduate Research Fellowships Seven NSF fellowship awards for Ph.D. students University students received seven 2022 National Science Foundation Graduate Research Fellowship Program (GRFP) awards. Congratulations to all award recipients! Elijah Boardman, Hydrology, Ph.D. David Paul Bombara, Mechanical Engineering, M.S. Jessica Buelow, Ecology, Evolution and Conservation Biology, Ph.D. Michael Otis Clyne, Ecology, Evolution and Conservation Biology, Ph.D. Ryan Pierce Coulter, Mechanical Engineering, Ph.D. Lily Raymond, Mechanical Engineering, M.S. Read more about our NSF GRFP fellows Congratulations to Arturo Macias Franco, winner of "Outstanding New American" fellowship The Graduate School would like to congratulate Arturo Macias Franco, one of just 30 outstanding immigrants and children of immigrants from all over the country and world to win a 2022 Paul & Daisy Soros Fellowship for graduate education. Selected from more than 1,800 applicants, Arturo and the other fellows were chosen for their potential to make significant contributions to the United States. Arturo will receive up to $90,000 in funding over two years. Interested in applying? Learn more here. Read Arturo's story Watch our recorded graduation workshop Are you planning to graduate this May or August? In case you missed it, this workshop is for you. Watch our discussion of upcoming deadlines; required forms and approvals; and thesis and dissertation formatting and submission guidelines. The workshop was held via Zoom on Wednesday, April 6. Watch recorded workshop Graduate Student Association The Graduate Student Association is a tremendous resource for all graduate students, providing awards, need-based services, social and academic clubs, and terrific camaraderie across campus. Graduate Student Association Graduate School news Grand (re)Opening of the Pillsbury Graduate Quiet Study (MIKC 500) Graduate Research Assistant and Internal Vice President of the Graduate Student Association Taissa K. Lytchenko talks about the dedicated study space for graduate students U.S. News ranks three University of Nevada, Reno online graduate programs as top in the country Nursing, executive MBA and education recognized as “2022 Best Online Programs” The stories of underrepresented graduate students during COVID-19 Pandemic adds extra stress to lives of underrepresented graduate students Upcoming Graduate School events There are currently no events View all Graduate School events YOU are welcome here. The Graduate School is committed to sustaining a diverse, inclusive and welcoming environment for all prospective graduate students and for the entire campus community. The Graduate School works to promote graduate education and strengthen academic excellence by attracting, advancing and retaining a diverse graduate population. Diversity and inclusion Virtual front desk Join Grad Virtual Front Desk Zoom passcode: 112333 Monday through Friday 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. The Graduate School office remains open, both in-person (FSB 225) and virtually from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m., Monday through Friday, excluding holidays. If visiting in person, please follow the instructions on the door to check in. We encourage all services and meetings to be completed remotely when possible. All forms and documents must be submitted online. Call (775) 784-6869 Email GradAdmissions@unr.edu Stay up to date with the latest coronavirus information For the latest coronavirus updates from the University, please visit the University's coronavirus page. For the latest coronavirus updates from the Graduate School, please visit the Graduate School's coronavirus page. College Contact Information Location: Fitzgerald Student Services Room Number: Second floor, room 225 Mailstop: 0326 Mailing Address: 1664 N. Virginia Street, Reno, NV 89557 Email: gradadmissions@unr.edu Email: gradprogression@unr.edu Phone: (775) 784-6869 Fax: (775) 784-6064 Hours: Monday - Friday 8am-5pm Follow us on social media: College Contact Information Graduate School Twitter College Contact Information Graduate School Instagram College Contact Information Graduate School Facebook Follow the University University Twitter University Facebook University YouTube University Vimeo University Flickr University Instagram University LinkedIn University of Nevada, Reno 1664 N. Virginia Street, Reno, NV 89557 (775) 784-1110 Employment & Careers Non-Discrimination Statement Privacy Website Help Commitment to Diversity Commitment to Accessibility Contact the University Equal Opportunity and Title IX