Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search More sites UM Alumni Association Philanthropic Giving Alumni News Get Involved Events Learn Benefits Our Stories Give About Us Get Involved Events Learn Benefits Our Stories Give About Us Search Get Involved Events Learn Benefits Our Stories Give About Us CURIOSITY COMES WITH NO EXPIRATION DATES. The University of Miami's commitment to furthering knowledge does not end at graduation. Education is a lifelong pursuit, and we invite you to continue that journey with us. Our curated portfolio of engaging learning experiences is available to all alumni. We are excited to shape the future of education by adopting a flexible, open, and holistic approach to learning—one that creates opportunities for lifelong engagement. Julio Frenk, President, University of Miami Massive Open Online Courses (MOOCs) Free Online Courses Developed in partnership with UM’s Division of Continuing & International Education, Massive Open Online Courses (MOOCs) are online and on demand certificate programs that have been hand-picked for you. Learn more ULearn Digital Library Access the ULearn Digital Library from your office, home or on the go. Explore free master lectures, podcasts, and online courses by distinguished alumni and subject matter experts from around the world. Learn more Custom Career Content Resources Interested in exploring the career resources available to you? Access free resources, including industry articles, resume prep, and career fairs/events. Learn more Additional Resources Osher Lifelong Learning Institute A UM community of members aged 50 and better seeking intellectual enrichment. Division of Continuing and International Education Dedicated to providing the highest quality education and training to people of all ages, throughout every stage of life. UOnline Access UM's world-class faculty and programs from your desktop, tablet, or smartphone. Richter Library Access Alumni have full access to the Richter Library on campus and to many resources online. Frost Online Combine your passion for music and entertainment with the industry knowledge and skills to create a world of opportunities. Toppel Career Center Whether you’re looking to solidify your interests or skills, to get ready for a job or internship interview, or to make connections that will launch your career, Toppel is here to help. University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 University of Miami Alumni Association Newman Alumni Center 6200 San Amaro Drive, Suite 200 Coral Gables, FL 33146 305-284-2872 305-284-2872 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices