Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Parking Services Parking right arrow down arrow Locations right arrow down arrow Maps Visitors right arrow down arrow Maps Uptown UC Blue Ash UC Clermont 1819 Innovation Hub UC Reading Victory Parkway Students right arrow down arrow Uptown UC Blue Ash UC Clermont Leased Properties Parking Permits Faculty & Staff right arrow down arrow Uptown UC Blue Ash UC Clermont 1819 Innovation Hub Victory Parkway UC Reading Value Pass Mobile Pay Instructions Citations right arrow down arrow View Account Events right arrow down arrow Events Calendar Football Basketball College-Conservatory of Music Event & Meeting Planners Other Event Prepaid Parking Instructions Athletic Events Prepaid Parking Resources right arrow down arrow Policies How-To Videos Alternative Transportation FAQ Home » About UC » Parking Services » Faculty & Staff » 1819 Innovation Hub Set Navigation title in component Uptown UC Blue Ash UC Clermont 1819 Innovation Hub Victory Parkway UC Reading Value Pass Mobile Pay Instructions 1819 Innovation Hub Parking Permit Policies Parking Rate: $57/month Only full-time or part-time professional staff members located at the 1819 Innovation Hub are permitted to purchase parking permits for 1819.  The purchasing process is based on who is paying for the permit; an employee or a company. Students are not permitted to purchase a permit for the 1819 Innovation Hub location unless their names are submitted by a company located within the building. Individuals with other campus permits are permitted to park in the Winslow Lot for an unlimited number of hours. 1819 Innovation Hub Map Employee Is Paying Company submits names of employees purchasing passes through the 1819 Parking for Employees Request Form. Once the names are submitted the employee may come to the Parking Services Office, located at: 51 W. Corry Blvd., 4 Edwards Center, Cincinnati, OH 45221-0624 Office hours are 8 a.m. - 4 p.m., Monday-Friday Permits are sold on a monthly basis, but can be renewed for up to 3 months at a time. UC Faculty/Staff are eligible for automatic renewal through payroll deduction. Payment can be made via cash, check or credit card. Vehicle make, model, color and license plate number are required at time of purchase. Employee is responsible for updating license plate information through the parking portal.  Citations will be issued to vehicles not attached to a permit or paid visitor parking. 1819 Parking For Employees Request Form Company is paying Company should contact the Assistant Director of Parking Services, Service Center, hutchiba@ucmail.uc.edu for a New Account Profile form.   Invoicing will occur on the 1st of every month and will be emailed to the company contact.  The invoice is for the current month of parking.  For example, the April 1 invoice will include charges for April monthly permit parking. Payment terms are Net 30 and can be made in the office by cash, check or credit card.  Check payments can also be emailed to the address on the invoice.  ACH payments can be set up by contacting the Assistant Director of Parking Services, Service Center at hutchiba@ucmail.uc.edu. Permits will be cancelled if payment is not received within 45 days of the invoice date. Monthly permits will auto-renew each month and will continue until Parking Services receives notification to cancel.  Cancellations must occur in person at the Parking Services Office or by written notification. Permits will be charged at the current rate and are subject to rate increases. 1819 Visitor Coupons The 1819 Coupon Request Form allows occupants of the 1819 Innovation Hub to give their visitors a code to use at the pay station. The occupant will be charged or billed for the visitor’s parking expense. You can submit a request for them below. Please read the instructions carefully. 1819 Coupon Request Form Parking Services University of Cincinnati 4 Edwards Center 51 Corry Boulevard Cincinnati, OH 45221-0624 513-556-2283 parking@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Parking Services University of Cincinnati 4 Edwards Center 51 Corry Boulevard Cincinnati, OH 45221-0624 513-556-2283 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top