COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Health Science, Major MajorHealth Science All Programs College of Health Professions Public Health Sciences Wichita State’s Bachelor of Science (BS) in health science is a pre-professional degree program that prepares you for admission to a variety of clinical programs, such as Physical Therapy, Physician Assistant, Occupational Therapy, and medical school. Departmental courses provide you an important and competitive advantage bringing health care systems knowledge into your professional training as a clinical health provider. Learn how health science is the right fit for you. Request Info Start Your Application Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the program To be admitted into the College of Health Professions, you must first be admitted to Wichita State. For WSU’s admission requirements, and to apply, click the link below. Admission requirements Inside the Program Student group works to improve public health during the pandemic Public health science students collaborated with campus organizations during the COVID-19 pandemic. Senior capstone students worked with Student Health Services during the fall semester on mitigation strategies. In the spring, students created a WSU Partner Point of Delivery (POD) plan for distribution of the COVID-19 vaccine to students and faculty, and developed peer-to-peer multilingual vaccine information videos. Students celebrate National Public Health Week annually by volunteering in the community and displaying health educational materials around campus. Curriculum Students complete a health science core curriculum that provides a foundation in health services delivery, population health assessment and leadership. You'll also get an introduction to public health, health services management, aging studies and ethics. This professional degree program requires a mix of science and mathematics courses that prepare graduates for admission to a variety of clinical education programs. Graduates often seek further education in clinical programs such as physician assistant, physical therapy, nursing, medical laboratory sciences and dental hygiene. A departmental honors track is also available for this major. View the curriculum Careers A degree in health science from Wichita State will give you a broad range of health-related knowledge—preparing you for a variety of graduate programs and high-paying careers in settings such as acute-care medicine, community health, long-term care and others. Learn more about careers in this field Similar Programs Health Science (Minor) Health Management Health Management (Minor) Exercise Science 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©