Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Brown University A-Z Index People Directory Students Alumni Careers News Events Search Give Explore Brown University's School of Public Health Admissions Academics Research Faculty About Diversity Admissions Academics Research Faculty About Diversity A-Z Index People Directory Students Alumni Careers News Events Center for Children’s Environmental Health Home About Research Education & Training People News Site Navigation Home About Vision & Mission Contact Career Opportunites Research Interventions to Reduce Chemical Exposures Health Effects of Environmental Exposures Modifiable Determinants of Environmental Exposures Molecular Epidemiology of Environmental Exposures Education & Training CCEH Seminar Series EH Courses at Brown People Core Faculty Affiliated Faculty Trainees Key Partners Staff Past Trainees News Center Trainees The Center team gathers at the ISEE annual meeting in Ottawa to share their research with colleagues. Learn more about our current and past trainees Children's Environmental Health Dr. Joseph Braun leads research on the effects of early life exposure to environmental chemicals on neurodevelopment and cardiometabolic risk across the lifespan. Learn more about Dr. Braun's research Welcome to the Brown University Center for Children's Environmental Health The CCEH is dedicated to promoting the health of children by understanding the determinants, health effects, and biological action of environmental pollutant exposures from before conception until adolescence. Our Center is engaged in studies examining pesticides, drinking water contaminants, metals, and chemicals used in consumer products. Our Center’s interdisciplinary group of faculty, postdocs, clinicians, students, staff, and practitioners conduct research, teaching, and community engagement in Rhode Island and around the world. Members and affiliates of CCEH investigate the connections between human health and environmental pollutants (research), support trainees as they develop, learn or apply innovative approaches to important public health problems (training), and engage with governments, communities, and individuals to improve environmental conditions for children (translation and practice). Specifically, the CCEH: Provides a hub at Brown University and across the region for children’s environmental health research and action; Provides diverse learning opportunities for trainees from any academic background to engage in children’s environmental health research or practice; Facilitates translation of environmental health research into action through engagement of governments, communities, and individuals. On this website, you'll find information about our research, teaching, and outreach activities, as well as about the people that make all this possible. Follow us on Twitter to keep up with Center news and events. CCEH 2020-2021 Seminar Series Upcoming Speaker: Antonia Calafat, PhD Chief, Organic Analytical Branch Center for Disease Control and Prevention Twitter feed Tweets by CCEH In the news ... Professor Joe Braun Appointed Center Director Jan 15, 2020 Read More Intersection of Schools and Highways Produces Bad Air Nov 6, 2019 Gregory Wellenius, director of the Center for Environmental Health and Technology, provided commentary in this article about the health risks children face when their schools are in close proximity to major highways. Read More With a little help from its friends, NIEHS updates congressional staff Nov 4, 2019 Professor Joseph Braun recently spoke to members of Congress and their staff during a National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences (NIEHS) briefing on children's environmental health. Braun described how even low levels of per- and polyfluoroalkyl substances (PFAS) may place children’s health at risk. Read More more news Center for Children’s Environmental Health Center for Children’s Environmental Health Brown University Box G-S121-2 121 South Main Street Room 213 Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-5397 Email [email protected] Twitter Twitter Brown University Giving to Brown 121 South Main Street, Providence, Rhode Island 02903, USA 401-863-3375 Contact Us Newsletter Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility Brown Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top