Skip to main content Jump to main navigation Search content University of Pennsylvania | Penn University Life Search query Search Toggle Site Navigation Toggle Site Search VPUL Home Student Involvement Fraternity and Sorority Life Office of Student Affairs Platt Student Performing Arts House Event Registration Cultural Centers Greenfield Intercultural Center La Casa Latina LGBT Center Makuu: The Black Cultural Center Pan-Asian American Community House Penn Women's Center Student Supports Career Services Naval ROTC Penn Violence Prevention Student Intervention Services Weingarten Center About Leadership Team Emergency and Opportunity Funding Give to University Life Strategic Priorities University Life Facilities at Perelman Quadrangle University Life Technology Services MyWeingartenCenter Academic Support Learning Consultations Tutoring Workshops and Programs Study Tools and Strategies Become a Peer Educator Disability Services Getting Started Academic Accommodations Campus Accessibility Assistive Technology and Alternate Format Materials Scholarships Reconsideration Process For Faculty and Staff Standards for Accommodating Exams Provost Memorandum Weingarten Center Canvas Pages Syllabus Statement Refer a Student Request a Workshop Exam Analysis About Contact Us Our Team Weingarten Ambassadors Advisory Board Disability Symposium MyWeingartenCenter WLRC Home Penn's Home for Academic Support & Disability Services Academic Support Learning consultations, tutoring, and interactive programs support students as they develop learning strategies and content knowledge to further their academic and professional goals. Learn More Disability Services We provide comprehensive, professional services and programs for students who self-identify with disabilities to ensure equal academic opportunities and participation in University-sponsored programs. Learn More Dear graduates, Take the time to reflect upon the start of your Penn journey. What were your expectations, concerns, and fears? What were the highlights of your journey? Perhaps you expected to struggle with Calculus but discovered your passion for math and decided to add it as a minor to your program. Making friends can be daunting, yet you and your first-year roommate have planned a post-graduation trip. How about that professor or academic advisor who saw something in you and encouraged you to apply for a scholarship? Regardless of the struggles, disappointments, and obstacles, put those in the background and celebrate your accomplishments and the joy of commencement events. As you begin the next path in your life, my parting advice to you: Think about transferable skills. Both academic and experiential skills gained during your Penn days will continue to inform your personal and professional life. Reflect upon your internship, study abroad experience, and Penn organizations/clubs. You made friends, learned about cultural issues, and strengthened your problem-solving and decision-making skills. Remember those Penn staff and faculty who touched your spirit. Take the time to write an e-mail to your favorite advisor and provide an update about your post-graduation activities. Tell a professor how she made a difference in your way of thinking. You are turning into an alumnae/alumnus on Commencement Day, yet you are still part of the community. Read those updates you will receive from Alumni Relations about the changes at Penn. Stay connected with your Penn friends. If you are in the Philadelphia area for an event, stop by campus. The Weingarten Center staff is cheering you onward. Take this well-deserved time to celebrate! Jane Holahan, Ed.D., Executive Director Access the Weingarten Center Portal Schedule an appointment Register for a workshop Request and manage accommodations MyWeingartenCenter Weingarten Center Events Access the Weingarten Center's calendar for current events and activities. Calendar of Events The Weingarten Center is happy to partner with Penn faculty, student organizations, and our many campus partners to offer an array of programs and workshops throughout the academic year. Currently, we are accepting requests for virtual and in-person programs. In those programs, we are happy to address Learning Strategies, Tutoring, or Disability Services, or we can provide joint programming inclusive of all services within the Weingarten Center. Request a Workshop Get tips. Hear from students. See where we study. Read our Blog Latest news. In your inbox. Once a month. Sign up for our Newsletter Instagram Twitter Primary Footer Athletics Diversity Health & Wellness Libraries Online Learning Penn Global Resources University Life Calendar Student Jobs Help Contact Us Maps Parking University of Pennsylvania Address Philadelphia, PA 19104 Telephone: (215) 898-6081 Legal Copyright Disclaimer Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Skip to content Open toolbar Accessibility Tools Increase Text Decrease Text Grayscale High Contrast Negative Contrast Light Background Links Underline Readable Font Reset