Skip to main content Close search Search for people, topics, events, etc. Search Go to homepage Toggle menu Toggle search Close menu Events & Exhibitions Visit Upcoming Events Past Events Fellowship Fellows Become a Fellow Schlesinger Library About the Library Research Services Collections Visit the Library News & Ideas Opportunities For Students For Researchers For Educators Toggle search About Give Media Harvard and Slavery Opportunities For Students For Researchers For Educators About Give Media Harvard and Slavery Directions & Parking Share Share this page on Facebook Share this page on Twitter Share this page on LinkedIn Copy Link Related Visit Coronavirus (COVID-19) Critical Information Information for Persons with Disabilities Directions Radcliffe Institute for Advanced Study Harvard University 10 Garden Street Cambridge, MA 02138 See Radcliffe Yard on the Harvard University Campus Map. Parking Note: Parking can be very difficult in Harvard Square. If you are unable to find on-street parking, we suggest you try one of the following commercial parking lots. Church Street Lot The Church Street Lot is the parking area closest to the Radcliffe Institute. From John F. Kennedy Street, go straight through the traffic lights at Memorial Drive, Eliot Street, and Mount Auburn Street. The next traffic light will put you in the center of Harvard Square. Take a sharp left, then bear right immediately onto Brattle Street. Take the first right onto Church Street. The parking lot is halfway up the street on your left. Harvard Square Parking Garage From John F. Kennedy Street, go straight through the traffic lights at Memorial Drive, then turn left at the first light onto Eliot Street. Harvard Square Parking Garage is immediately on your right. University Place Garage From John F. Kennedy Street, go straight through the traffic lights at Memorial Drive, then turn left at the first light onto Eliot Street. Go straight through the next light onto Bennett Street. Bennett Street dead ends onto University Road. Turn left onto University Road, and University Place Garage is immediately on your left. Charles Hotel Lot Charles Hotel Lot is located across the street from the University Place Garage and below the Charles Hotel. Follow the previous instructions to the University Place Garage. When you are on Bennett Street, look for the Charles Hotel parking garage on your left. Alewife T Station Parking Parking is available at Alewife T Station at the intersection of Route 2 and Route 16, and midway between Massachusetts Avenue and Fresh Pond Circle. Alewife T Station is located on the Red Line and any train will take you to Harvard T station (the third stop from Alewife and approximately a fifteen-minute ride). Share: Share this page on Facebook Share this page on Twitter Share this page on LinkedIn Back to top B a c k t o t o p Get the latest Radcliffe news delivered to your inbox Enter your e-mail address Continue Radcliffe Institute for Advanced Study Harvard University 10 Garden Street Cambridge, MA 02138 Directions Give Now Contact Visit Careers Housing Meeting Spaces Site Map Digital Accessibility Accessibility Harvard University Policies Follow us on Facebook Follow us on Twitter Follow us onInstagram Subscribe to our RSS feed Visit our LinkedIn page Visit our YouTube channel © 2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College