Toggle navigation About University of Houston UH-Clear Lake UH-Downtown UH-Victoria Mission Statement Planning and Performance UHS Leadership Board of Regents Board Members Former Regents Committee Structure Meetings Code of Ethics Bylaws Policies Priorities Galleries FAQ Historical Office Staff Chancellor About Renu Khator Communications Governmental Relations Texas Legislature US Congress Useful Links Offices Compliance & Ethics Internal Audit Legal Affairs Real Estate Services Treasury News Quick Links Crossroads (Title IX - Sexual Misconduct) Online Degree Programs Student Pathways DACA Information Public Art Home Students Online Degree Programs Students Online Degree Programs Student Pathways Crossroads DACA Information University of Houston System Online Degree Programs The University of Houston System Online Program offers accredited degree and certificate programs with the flexibility to help students complete an undergraduate degree, seek a graduate degree, or earn a certification for career development. The students, classes, and faculty in our online program are the same exceptional quality as our traditional on-campus degree program. Browse online programs offered by a specific institution within the University of Houston System, or survey an alphabetical listing of all online programs. Choose a university to search for specific programs. Browse All Certificate, Undergraduate Degree Completion, and Graduate Degree Programs How to Apply All universities within The University of Houston System (UHS) follow the same admission procedure as the traditional classroom degree program. For detailed information on the application process, please visit one of the university sites below. Online Programs UHS offers 115 online degree and certificate programs. Click here to see a complete list. Student Pathways Program Through the UHS Student Pathways program, an undergraduate student in any of the four UH System universities, with the approval of their academic department, is able to take up to six (6) hours of courses toward their degree, at any of the universities. About Online Programs at the Universities University of Houston - The largest university in Houston and the third largest in the state, UH is a nationally competitive doctoral degree-granting, comprehensive research university that has recently been recognized by the Carnegie Foundation for its very high level of research activity. University of Houston-Clear Lake - Located near the NASA Johnson Space Center, UH-Clear Lake is an upper level and graduate institution situated in the heart of Clear Lake's high-technology community. University of Houston-Downtown - The second largest university in Houston and the most ethnically diverse university in the state, UHD is a four-year, primarily undergraduate institution that is now expanding its portfolio of graduate programs. University of Houston-Victoria - Located in the Coastal Bend region of Texas, UHV is an undergraduate and graduate university that enrolled its first freshman class in fall 2010 and has one of the most dynamic online educational programs in the state. Houston Texas 77204 © 2022 University of Houston System Contacts • Report Copyright Infringement • Texas.gov • Texas Homeland Security • TRAIL • Fraud Reporting • Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline • Linking Notice • Privacy Notice • Open Records/Public Information Act • Institutional Résumé • Required Reports • Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility • Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness • UH System Policies