Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links Campus Safety Menu Main Nav Campus Safety What to do in an emergency Back Back Close About Overview FAQ BC Police Department Overview About Meet Our Team In Memory FAQ News Accreditation Contact Community Relations & Crime Prevention Community Resource Officer (CRO) R.A.D. Programs Crime Prevention Education Compliments or Complaints Services Emergency Management Overview Potential Hazards Communication How to Prepare What to Do in an Emergency Students with Disabilities Environmental Health & Safety Overview Laboratory Safety Occupational Health & Safety Programs Indoor Environmental Quality Fire Safety Contact Documents Overview Crime Alerts Annual Campus Security & Fire Safety Report Business Continuity Emergency Plans and Publications What to do in an emergency Close Directory A to Z Listing Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Laboratory Safety Home Environmental Health & Safety Laboratory Safety Environmental Health & Safety Laboratory Safety Occupational Health & Safety Programs Indoor Environmental Quality Fire Safety Contact How we can help Please contact us if you have questions about environmental health and safety issues in your laboratory, including but not limited to: Chemical usage Proper use of gas cylinders Chemical storage Chemical health effects Fume hood usage Exposure concerns Use of radioactive material Glove selection Training needs Cleanup of spills Responding to emergencies Available resources Disposing of waste When a material is a waste Safe packaging and receipt Eric Johnson, Senior EHS Officer: eric.johnson.5@bc.edu 617-552-0363 Gail Hall, Director, EHS and Biosafety Officer: gail.hall@bc.edu 617-552-0300 Biological Safety Radiation Safety Chemical Safety Laser Safety Boston College's biological safety program has been developed to protect staff, students, faculty and visitors from potentially hazardous biological materials, to assist workers with compliance with regulations, to provide information about standards and guidelines pertaining to biological research, and to promote good microbiological work practices. Links: NIH Guidelines CDC's Biosafety In Microbiological and Biomedical Laboratories, 5th edition Boston College Biosafety Manual and other resources (BC log-in required) Training: All laboratory workers (undergrads, grad students and employees) are required to take Laboratory Safety Training and Laboratory Waste Training through the BioRAFT platform. Your PI will need to list you as a member of the lab to have access to this training. Biosafety Training: Boston College has contracted with CITI Program to provide on-line training in the handling of Biohazards in the laboratory. All students, faculty and staff who work with Biohazards should take the Basic Biosafety Training Course, Emergency Response for Spills, and OSHA PPE. If appropriate to your work, IN ADDITION you should take the OSHA Bloodborne Pathogens course (for work with human body fluids or other potentially infectious materials (OPIMs), and the NIH Recombinant DNA (rDNA) Guidelines course. Each course involves reviewing the content and taking required quizzes. Once the course is complete you will recieve a certficate (which you should print and retain), and your course completion will be reported to BC's Biosafety Officer. For addional information, contact Gail Hall. gail.hall@bc.edu; 617-552-0300. CITIprogram.org - follow the instructions to register. The purpose of the Radiation Safety Program at Boston College is to keep exposure to radiation as low as reasonably achievable (ALARA) for users, workers, and the general community. This is done by using appropriate personal protective equipment (PPE), training users in regulatory compliance and safe handling practices, keeping work areas clean, and monitoring for accidents and spills of radioactive materials. All workers in labs that use radioactive materials must attend Initial Radiation Safety Training, and investigators must have their protocols approved by Boston College’s Radiation Safety Committee. The Radiation Safety Committee meets on quarterly basis. For more information on the Radiation Safety Program, please consult Boston College’s Radiation Safety Manual (pdf). In the event of a radioactive spill, contact Eric Johnson at 617-552-0363. After hours, call the Boston College Police Department at 617-552-4444 and ask for the EHS Office to be contacted via RAVE Alert. Training All individuals potentially exposed to radiation due to the nature of their own or their lab's work are required to have initial training for radiation exposure before they purchase or work with radioisotopes. Annual refresher training is required for all those cleared to work with radioisotopes. During radiation safety training, certain instructions from regulatory agencies are presented. The documents below provide important information about occupational radiation exposure and prenatal radiation exposure: Instruction Concerning Risks From Occupational Radiation Exposure: Regulatory Guide 8.29 (pdf) Instruction Concerning Prenatal Radiation Exposure: Regulatory Guide 8.13 (pdf) Forms Rad worker registration form: Bring this form with you when you attend Radiation Training. Principal Investigator Application Form: Complete this form and submit to the Radiation Safety Committee for review. Radioactive Waste Storage: Post in lab at waste collection area. Radio Nuclide Inventory: Post at isotope storage location. Personal Surveys for Users of Rad Materials: Post near your work area. Radioactive Material Order Form: Submit completed form to RSO. Orders cannot be placed until you have the signed form returned to you. It may take up to 24 hours to get the authorization. Radioactive Waste Sink Disposal: Post near sink. Authorization to Possess and Use Equipment That Produces Ionizing Radiation: Submit this form if you use x-ray diffraction equipment. The purpose of the Chemical Safety Program is to ensure the proper handling of hazardous chemicals, as well as hazardous waste management and disposal. Exposure to hazardous chemicals is kept at a minimum by using the appropriate Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) and by performing experiments in a certified chemical fume hood. The Chemical Hygiene Committee meets twice annually; this committee oversees lab safety issues and reviews information regarding pertinent regulations and requirements. For more information about any of these programs, including manuals, please contact Eric Johnson, Senior Environmental Health and Safety Officer, at 617-552-0363. The purpose of the Boston College Laser Safety Program is to: register Class 3B and 4 lasers used on campus; identify potential hazards to health and safety associated with lasers, laser systems, and laser operations and to prescribe suitable means for the evaluation and control of these hazards; provide guidance for compliance with applicable state and federal regulations and other applicable technical standards; indicate specific responsibilities and activities for laser safety, inventory maintenenace, training, medical evaluation, and job assessment. The Laser Safety Program is administered by the Office of Environmental Health and Safety and the Radiation Safety Committee. Eric Johnson is BC's Radiation and Laser Safety Officer. Training All laser users are required to have initial laser training before they purchase or work with lasers. Depending on the laser system in use, other workers in labs may need training to understand their own potential exposure risks. Contact your building's operations manager or Eric Johnson to find out when training will be offered next. Manuals and Forms Laser Safety Manual Application for Registration of Laser Systems Laser Safety Audit Checklist Laser Worker Registration Form Back To Top Back To Top BC Campus Safety 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 About BC Police Department Emergency Preparedness Environmental Health & Safety Documents To report a campus emergency: Call BC Police @ 617-552-4444 In case of fire call 911 Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College