Skip to site alert. Skip to content College of Dental Medicine Students Alumni Faculty Giving Contact Us Search About Us About Us Our Mission History Leadership and Administration Board of Advisors Global Dean's Council News Diversity Community Outreach Global Initiatives Support the College of Dental Medicine Events Calendar Contact Us Columbia Visiting Professorship Program CDM Publications Education Education DDS Program Advanced Standing Program for Foreign Trained Dentists Postdoctoral and Residency Programs Tuition, Fees and Financial Aid Global Programs Visits & Externships Continuing Education Academic Sections/Divisions Academic Calendars Research Research Research Areas Research Labs Research Centers Research Faculty Clinical Trials Research Resources Student Research First International Symposium of Fusobacteria Patient Care Patient Care ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Teaching Clinics Patient Resources COVID-19 Safety ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Our Doctors Our Services Our Locations Make an Appointment Make an Appointment Choose between ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry and our affordable Dental Clinics. Para Español, haga clic aquí. Explore Your Options Events News You are here Home > Patient Care > ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry > Our Services > TMJ/Facial Pain ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Our Doctors Our Services Cosmetic Dentistry Dental Implants Endodontics General Dentistry Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery Maxillofacial Prosthodontics Orthognathic (Jaw) Surgery Oral Pathology Oral Pathology Biopsy Service Orthodontics Pediatric Dentistry Periodontics Prosthodontics TMJ/Facial Pain Our Locations Make an Appointment Teaching Clinics Patient Resources COVID-19 Safety TMJ/Facial Pain Make an Appointment at a Location Near You Appointment Information Headaches, jaw pain, clicking or locking of the jaw, and related pain or discomfort can be particularly frustrating and difficult to diagnose. The Clinic for Oral, Facial, and Head Pain at ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry offers a unique, interdisciplinary approach to the diagnosis, management, and treatment of acute and chronic oral, facial and head pain. At our state-of-the-art pain clinic, our doctors take a comprehensive approach to these types of disorders, so that you can avoid visiting many different specialists as you seek relief. Our pain specialists work together and stay in close communication with you and your physician as we develop a treatment plan that addresses your particular pain issues. We are dedicated to helping you find relief for your chronic or acute pain. Our providers include specialists from the world-renowned NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital, ranked among U.S. News and World Report's top seven hospitals in the country. Conditions treated at the center Doctors at the Clinic for Oral, Facial and Head Pain evaluate and treat patients for a number of complex conditions, such as: Musculoskeletal disorders of the head, face and neck Temporomandibular joint disorders (TMJ/TMD) Trigeminal neuralgia Cephalic/Cranial neuralgias Headache Burning mouth and tongue syndromes Snoring and Sleep Apnea Cost of Evaluation The Clinic for Oral, Facial, and Head Pain at ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry runs on a fee-for-service basis. Most evaluations are partially covered by insurance carriers. Our administrative staff will be happy to assist patients in obtaining reimbursement. Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian ColumbiaDoctors About Us Education Research Student Life Alumni Faculty Contact Us Intranet Columbia University College of Dental Medicine 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Back to top