COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Applied Computing, Major MajorApplied Computing All Programs College of Engineering School of Computing A Bachelor of Science in applied computing from Wichita State will equip you with the knowledge and practical skills needed for a successful career in the growing information technology sector. Students get hands-on experience through industry- and community-sponsored projects, which they present to industry at WSU’s Engineering Open House. Learn how applied computing is the right fit for you. Request Info Start Your Application WSU engineering students benefit from applied learning at NetApp, a Fortune 500 company with offices in Wichita. Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the program To be admitted into the College of Engineering, you must first be admitted to Wichita State. For WSU’s admission requirements, and to apply, click the link below. Admission requirements Inside the Program Students learn about cybersecurity first-hand There is a growing need for cybersecurity expertise in the Wichita area. To answer that call, the WSU Hub for Cybersecurity Education and Awareness (HCEA) was created on campus. As a student, you have the ability to work at the group and learn first-hand about cybersecurity. This direct involvement prepares you for a job delivering the highest level of cybersecurity and IT support. Curriculum In additional to core coursework, applied-computing students complete a required 12-credit-hour core certificate—Fundamentals of Information Technology—in addition to a minimum of two additional applied-computing certificates based on their interests and career goals. View the curriculum Careers WSU’s vast industry connections—and experience-based learning for every major—gives applied-computing students the chance to grow their professional network, build a resume and earn a paycheck, all while still in school, leading to high-paying, high-demand careers. Learn more about careers in this field Similar Programs Information Technology and Management Information Systems Information Technology and Management Information Systems (Minor) Computer Science Computer Science (Minor) Electrical Engineering Engineering Technology - Civil Engineering Technology 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©