Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Conference & Event Services Conference & Event right arrow down arrow Services right arrow down arrow Conference Planning Event Registration Event Equipment Rental Specialty Lighting Promotional Tabling Weddings Summer Intern Housing Summer Conferences & Camps Catering On-Demand Meeting Rooms Venues right arrow down arrow Tangeman University Center right arrow down arrow Great Hall Rates Meeting Rooms Other Event Spaces Nippert Stadium West Pavilion right arrow down arrow West Pavilion Event Policies West Pavilion Catering right arrow down arrow Corry Street Catering Menu West Pavilion Rates Campus Recreation Center Outdoor Classrooms Athletic Facilities Other Stratford Heights Resources right arrow down arrow COVID-19 For Students For Faculty & Staff For Non-University Clients Event Policies Use of Facilities Catering Guide West Pavilion Event & Catering Guide FAQ Contact Us Request A Space right arrow down arrow 25 Live Instructions Home » About UC » Conference & Event Services » Venues » Nippert Stadium West Pavilion » West Pavilion Catering Set Navigation title in component Tangeman University Center Great Hall Rates Meeting Rooms Other Event Spaces Nippert Stadium West Pavilion West Pavilion Event Policies West Pavilion Catering Corry Street Catering Menu West Pavilion Rates Campus Recreation Center Outdoor Classrooms Athletic Facilities Other Stratford Heights Corry Street Catering Corry Street Catering is the exclusive caterer in West Pavilion, no outside food and beverage permitted. Discover what Corry Street Catering has to offer on our menu. About Corry Street Catering Corry Street Catering is committed to making your event very special for you and your guests. If you do not see something specific on our menu, consult with your CES Event Coordinator for your desired menu. Corry Street Catering will make every effort to provide the service or food that you request. Vegetarian, vegan and other specific dietary options can be arranged as part of your menu options. Discuss in advance with your CES Event Coordinator. Our goal is to apply our culinary expertise and hospitality towards making your event memorable. The menus in this guide are a great starting point for planning your next event, but we are happy to work with you on creating specialty menus. Ideas and suggestions are encouraged. Important Information Clients will work directly with a CES event coordinator (513-558-1810) to arrange food, beverages and linens. All food, beverages and linens will be provided by Corry Street Catering, the exclusive caterer for Nippert Stadium West Pavilion. No outside food or beverage may be brought in for events taking place in Nippert Stadium West Pavilion event space. Client must provide final menu selection ten business days prior to event start date. Client must provide final guarantee of the food and beverage order five business days prior to event start date. Catering orders will be billed based on final guarantee or actual numbers, whichever is higher. Failure to follow the catering guidelines may result in a 10 percent default fee. Student organization catering discounts do not apply in West Pavilion. Food waiver requests are not permitted. Corry Street Catering Policies Alcohol Programs with alcoholic beverages passed, served, or sold are subject to the below guidelines, taken from the university’s alcohol policy regarding on-campus use. Alternative beverages and food are required. Events may not begin before 11 a.m., end after 12 a.m., or be longer than five hours. Events may not be sponsored by alcohol brand manufacturers, wholesalers, distributors and/or retailers. A majority of the attendees must be 21 and older. Identification must be checked at point of sale. Programs with alcoholic beverages passed, served, or sold in the indoor spaces are permitted via liquor licenses and/or permits held by Aramark’s Corry Street Catering, the exclusive caterer. Client is responsible for the conduct of all event attendees. Events with alcohol will have a Security Officer present and will be charged the Security Fee. Order Lead Times For catered meals, we require finalized menus and foods selections ten business days prior to the event start date. For beverage service only, require finalized selections and attendance five business days prior to the event start date. Orders placed outside of these deadlines may be subject to additional fees. However, we will make every effort to accommodate your requests. Pricing Prices are based on a minimum of 25 guests or minimum order of $100 for all buffet and plated meals. Off-campus delivery is available with a minimum order of $500. All prices and items in the catering menu are based on a two-hour service period, with the exception of Break Service, and all are subject to change due to seasonality and availability of items. The 50% Student Organization catering policy does not apply in in West Pavilion. China and Linen Service Linen service is included for catered events held in Nippert Stadium West Pavilion, upon request, for no additional charge. This service includes lap length tablecloths for round tables based on eight guests per table and table linens and linens for standard size buffet tables. Premium disposable serviceware is standard for all receptions and hot buffets that are held in Nippert Stadium West Pavilion. White china service is available for an additional charge listed below. Standard color choices for linen napkins and lap length tablecloths are: red, white or black. Other choices are available by special order. Pricing for China and Linen Service: China Service: $5.00 per person (China is required for all Plated Meals & the $5.00 is an additional fee) Additional Napkins: $3.00 each Table Skirting: $45.00 per table Additional Lap Length Tablecloths: $15.00 each Full Length Tablecloths: Ask CES for a quote. Server and Bartending Rates Event Servers An event fee of $25.00 per hour will be charged for each server with a four-hour service minimum. Capacity server requirements: Receptions - 1 server for every 50 guests Buffets - 1 server for every 25 guests Plated Meals - 1 server for every 16 guests Bar Service At least one bartender is mandatory, and a fee of $37.50 per hour for each hour over the four-hour minimum. A 4 hour minimum is $150 for each bartender. Bar Service - 1 bartender for every 50 guests Please note: Event fees for additional wait staff, late night events and late bookings may be added. Catering Cancellation Policy Cancellations must be made at least three business days prior to an event. Events cancelled on the third day prior to the event will be assessed a surcharge equal to 25 percent of the total billing amount; cancellations on the second day or day prior to the event will be assessed a surcharge equal to 50 percent of the total billing amount. Events cancelled the day of the event will be charged the full billing amount. Catering Late Fees All food orders must be made with Corry Street Catering ten business days prior to the first day of your event, or your food and beverage charges are subject to a 10 percent late fee. All beverage service orders must be made with Corry Street Catering five business days prior to your event or your food and beverage charges are subject to a 10 percent late fee. Conference & Event Services 513-558-1810 Tangeman University Center, Suite 265 2766 UC MainStreet Cincinnati, OH 45221-0031 event.services@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Conference & Event Services 513-558-1810 Tangeman University Center, Suite 265 2766 UC MainStreet Cincinnati, OH 45221-0031 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top