Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Explore Brown University Search Global Navigation Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering The Harriet W. Sheridan Center for Teaching and Learning Home About Staff Proctors and Head Teaching Consultants Teaching Consultants Sheridan Center Advisory Groups Departmental Liaisons Visit Staff Jobs at the Center Student Jobs at the Center Programs & Services Teaching & Learning Resources Learning Collaborative News & Events Site Navigation Home About Staff Proctors and Head Teaching Consultants Teaching Consultants Sheridan Center Advisory Groups Departmental Liaisons Visit Staff Jobs at the Center Student Jobs at the Center Programs & Services Assessment Departmental Assessment Plans Campus Assessment Projects Assessing and Researching your Teaching Certificates Sheridan Teaching Seminar Course Design Seminar Teaching Consultant Program Head Teaching Consultants Invited Speaker Program Consultations Course Consultations Grant Consultations Teaching Observations Goals and Contexts Early Student Feedback Departmental Support Departmental Assessment Plans Learning Outcomes and Mapping English Language Support English Language Workshops Individual Support Conversation Partners Program English Language Program Fellowships & Awards Provost’s Faculty Teaching Fellows Graduate Student Proctorship in Academic Administration Graduate and Postdoc Teaching Fellows Junior Faculty Teaching Fellows University Awards Grant Support Institutes & Retreats Launch Anchor Problem Solving Course Design Institute Data Science Course Design Institute Seminar for Transformation Around Anti-Racist Teaching Orientations Tutoring Tutoring Supported Courses Summer 2022 Language Courses Apply to be a Tutor People Workshops & Roundtables Teaching Essentials for Graduate TAs Teaching Statements & Portfolios Sheridan-RISD Museum Collaborative Workshop Series Writing [email protected] Past [email protected] Programming Writing Center People Consultations FAQ Opportunities Writing Fellows People Courses English 1190M Outreach Apply Teaching & Learning Resources Teaching Resources Teaching in Times of Disruption Course Design Creating a Syllabus Resources for New Instructors Interpreting Your Course Feedback Evidence-based Practices Establishing Learning Goals Classroom Assessment Entrance and Exit Tickets Sample Exit Tickets Mid-Semester Feedback Guidelines for Assessing Student Learning Grading Criteria & Rubrics Creating Grading Criteria Designing Grading Rubrics Rubrics Criteria Rubrics Scales Enhancing Student Learning with Technology Promoting Study Skills Classroom Practices Learning Contexts First Day(s) of Class Lectures & Large Classes Discussions & Seminars Labs Active Learning Critical Reading Contemplative Pedagogy Promoting Metacognition Teaching with Podcasts Classroom Communication Tips Effective Multimedia Lecture Slides Teaching Problem Solving Writing to Learn Digital Teaching & Learning Working with TAs Teaching Writing Writing Fellows Courses Teaching a WRIT Course A Guide to the Writing Support (WSUP) Flag for Faculty Teaching Statements & Portfolios Mentoring Resources Effective Mentoring Practices Inclusive Teaching Anti-Racist Teaching Definitions Diversity & Inclusion Inclusive Mentoring Learning Collaborative Problem Solving Problem Solving Course Design Institute Problem Solving Fellows Research Writing Writing Across the Curriculum Seminar WAC Participants Writing Fellows People Courses English 1190M Apply Data Science Data Science Course Design Institute Data Science Fellows News & Events Upcoming Events Past Events Newsletter About Our Mission The Sheridan Center seeks to provide a place where all learners can grow, interdisciplinary collaborations can form, and educators can experiment with different modalities of teaching and learning. At the core of our work is a commitment to educational excellence, equity and access through evidence-based, reflective practices. Through educational partnerships at Brown and globally, we advance the university’s mission and create teaching and learning communities dedicated to improving learner success and supporting educators’ professional growth. Who We Serve Our programs, services and resources are available to all members of the Brown teaching and learning community, including full-time and part-time faculty, postdoctoral fellows, teaching fellows and teaching assistants, undergraduates, staff and administrators. What We Do Major initiatives of the Sheridan Center include: ● The Brown Learning Collaborative, offering rigorous academic courses for undergraduate teaching fellows and evidence-based course design institutes for faculty and GTAs, to enhance student learning in key liberal arts skill areas, such as writing, problem-solving, and research. ● Inclusive teaching, embedded in Sheridan programs and offered as customized workshops for departments, drawing upon pedagogical research in the disciplines. ● Writing, academic tutoring, and English language expertise to offer direct support to students and to develop peer fellows and tutors, as well as faculty and department practices to help all students succeed as learners and communicators. ● Interdisciplinary learning communities, such as certificates on reflective teaching and course design, a Junior Faculty Fellows program, dissertation writing groups, and writing and problem-solving course design institutes. ● Assessment and research support for program review, cross-institutional grants supporting educational innovation, and initiatives to enhance teaching and learning at Brown. We also offer: ● Confidential consultations – classroom observations; early student feedback; consultations on inclusive teaching, course design, writing pedagogy, assessment, student evaluations, and graduate and undergraduate TA training. ● Services to enhance student learning – Excellence at Brown pre-orientation program on writing, conversation partners program, classroom-based writing workshops on topics such as peer review, academic tutoring. ● Programs on teaching - orientations for instructors and students, certificate programs, institutes, disciplinary and interdisciplinary workshops. ● Educational research and assessment – collaboration on course and curricular assessment, consultations on the scholarship of teaching and learning, assistance with evaluation sections of postsecondary educational grants. The Center also has a resource library open to the Brown community. ● Community - programs and projects that bring together faculty, graduate students, postdocs, and undergraduates from across the disciplines. Sign-up to receive bi-weekly emails announcing news and upcoming events at the Sheridan Center. Our Impact Our 2020-21 Annual Report documents the Center's activities, outcomes, scholarship, and the people who support our work. Please also see this document for our Departmental Diversity and Inclusion Action Plan (DDIAP), which documents the Center's contribution to Brown's Pathways to Diversity and Inclusion. This one-page overview summarizes how we evaluate our programs and services. For the literature basis behind our practice, please see Faculty Development Improves Teaching and Learning. Values Evidence-based: We value and promote approaches to teaching and learning that emerge through sustained research and investigation. Collaborative: We believe that we are our most innovative and effective when we bring together varied perspectives, foster the open exchange of ideas, and celebrate each other’s expertise in an interdisciplinary community. Reflective: We create strong foundations for lifelong learning through the habits of observing, taking stock, and planning intentionally for growth. Inclusion: We support the university’s diversity, inclusion, and equity goals through a strengths-based approach that recognizes that this work must be a thread that weaves through the fabric of what it means to teach and learn at Brown community. History In 1987, former Dean of the College Harriet W. Sheridan founded the Center for the Advancement of College Teaching to establish an interdisciplinary forum dedicated to improving the quality of undergraduate teaching and learning at Brown and to prepare graduate students for faculty careers. Since her death in 1992, the Center, comprised of its staff working in collaboration with its advisory groups and faculty, post-doctoral and graduate students from across the University, has supported the professional development needs of the entire Brown teaching community. In 1997, the Brown Corporation renamed the Center “The Harriet W. Sheridan Center for Teaching and Learning” in her memory. From 2003-2016, the Center was located in the Frederick Lippitt and Mary Ann Lippitt House at 96 Waterman Street. The Center moved to the fifth and seventh floors of the Science Library building in 2016, coincident with its integration with the Writing Center, tutoring, and English language support. In 2020, the Sheridan Center integrated with the Science Center, as well as Digital Learning & Design, and moved to report to the Office of the Provost. To learn more about the Center’s history, see Artful Teaching: A Brief History of the Harriet W. Sheridan Center for Teaching and Learning, 1987-2007. Strategic Plan 2021-2026 This report summarizes the planning process and presents a revised mission statement, key goals for the Sheridan Center in alignment with this mission, and a five-year plan (2021-2026) of activities to enable the Center to reach these goals. Read More About Staff Proctors and Head Teaching Consultants Teaching Consultants Sheridan Center Advisory Groups Departmental Liaisons Visit Staff Jobs at the Center Student Jobs at the Center The Sheridan Center The Sheridan Center Brown University Box 1912 Sciences Library 201 Thayer Street, 7th Floor Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-1219 Fax: 401-863-6976 Email [email protected] Facebook Facebook Brown University Giving to Brown Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA 401-863-1000 Contact Us Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility All Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top