Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content News Contact Us Experts Latest News Latest News 2021 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 Broadcast Studio Research ☰ Research SMU News Latest News Research Video game software patented for age-related macular degeneration research Machine learning software for OCT images aids in identify progression and treatment options January 18, 2022 BALANCED Media|Technology (BALANCED), in partnership with the Retina Foundation of the Southwest (RETINA) and Southern Methodist University (SMU), today announced a patent-pending medical imaging technology (U.S. Patent Application Serial No.16/538,662) that uses automated software and a video game to provide standardized, accurate, and precise identification of ocular diseases including age-related macular degeneration (AMD), the leading cause of visual impairment in the world. Which personality traits can be improved without personal motivation? Research says 'it depends' December 07, 2021 Could a company train an employee to become more conscientious, even if the worker isn’t invested in improving that trait? A new study suggests yes. But improving someone’s emotional stability without that person’s commitment is not likely to happen, says SMU psychology professor Nathan Hudson. New high-resolution camera records holograms of hidden objects SMU and Northwestern collaborate on technology with defense, hazard identification and medical applications December 02, 2021 Researchers at SMU (Southern Methodist University) and Northwestern University are using new technology that enables cameras to record high-resolution images and holograms of objects that are hidden around corners, obscured from view and/or beyond the line of sight. SMU Lyle prof listed among most "Highly Cited Researchers" for 2021 November 23, 2021 SMU’s Jianhui Wang was named to the 2021 list of Highly Cited Researchers from Clarivate. It’s the fourth time Wang, a professor with the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering in SMU’s Lyle School of Engineering, has won the award. SMU research aims to better understand how molecules interact and bond Research has broad applications for healthcare, designing new materials November 16, 2021 Researchers and students in the Computational and Theoretical Chemistry Group (CATCO) at Southern Methodist University (SMU) are using vibrational spectroscopy to gain new insights into molecules with the help of SMU’s powerful high performance computer. CATCO is led by Elfi Kraka, the Dedman Family Distinguished Professor and chair of the Department of Chemistry at SMU. Giant bottom-dwelling fish fossils in northeast Texas November 16, 2021 SMU paleontologists have helped in the analysis of fossils from an ancient fish found in Texas. SMU launches powerful new supercomputing research system with NVIDIA NVIDIA DGX SuperPOD will fuel transformational high-performance computing ecosystem for SMU and North Texas November 11, 2021 SMU is collaborating with accelerated computing leader NVIDIA to dramatically boost the University’s high-performance computing system – increasing SMU’s current supercomputer memory tenfold and setting the stage for artificial intelligence (AI) and machine learning 25 times faster than current levels. SMU professor Brian Stump appointed Chair of TexNet Technical Advisory Committee November 11, 2021 Gov. Greg Abbott has named prominent SMU seismologist Brian Stump as chair of the TexNet Technical Advisory Committee, which is charged with providing oversight and advice on the operation of the Texas wide seismic network, TexNet. SMU joins forces with Children's Health to harness the power of sports to improve kids' well-being October 28, 2021 SMU and Children’s Health through its Children’s Health Andrews Institute for Orthopaedics and Sports Medicine are launching a collaboration dedicated to leveraging the transformational power of sports to improve the health, activity levels and well-being of kids. Research finds prescription drug misuse among college students most common during weekdays NIH-funded study focused on pain relievers, stimulants, sedatives, tranquilizers October 20, 2021 College students who misuse prescription drugs do so more often during the week and when they are alone at home, according to a recent study. SMU researchers partner with CAE USA to improve pilot training October 12, 2021 Researchers at SMU’s AT&T Center for Virtualization are testing the effectiveness of an innovative approach they developed to improve pilot training and better understand what stress factors pilots may experience in the cockpit. New landslides on US West Coast detected by SMU scientists Team of Dallas-based university researchers use satellite radar imagery to reveal hundreds of unseen landslides occurring in western states September 27, 2021 SMU geophysicists have used satellite imagery to identify more than 600 slow-moving landslides occurring near the U.S. West Coast. Fewer than 5% of these landslides in California, Oregon and Washington state had previously been identified. New SMU grant from National Science Foundation takes math off the chalkboard and onto the streets September 14, 2021 Koshi Dhingra, founder and CEO of talkSTEM, and Candace Walkington, associate professor, SMU’s Simmons School of Education and Human Development, are co-investigators on a five-year $2.5 million National Science Foundation grant studying how STEM walks can help students see the world through the lens of math. Titan-in-a-glass experiments hint at mineral makeup of Saturn moon August 26, 2021 SMU researchers have recreated Titan's conditions in small glass cylinders, revealing fundamental properties of two organic molecules that are believed to exist as minerals on Saturn's largest moon. CT scan of an ancient reptile skull reveals little evolutionary change over 22 million years August 25, 2021 A CT scan of the skull of a long-necked plesiosaur shows the cranial architecture of these long-extinct marine reptiles didn’t evolve much over 22 million years that they lived during the Cretaceous time. Frosty: A micro-fabricated optical seismometer to measure minute forces in a mighty environment August 17, 2021 A NASA-sponsored team at Michigan Aerospace Corporation and Southern Methodist University (SMU) is developing a microfabricated all-optical seismometer called Frosty that can gather data in the harsh environments encountered on icy worlds such as Europa. Lower-dose chemotherapy can be made more effective in killing HPV-induced cervical cancer cells by inhibiting a key survival factor SMU study suggests that inhibiting the TIGAR protein is key to new treatment strategy for virus-induced cancers August 11, 2021 Researchers at SMU have found a way to make chemotherapy drugs more lethal to HPV-infected cervical cancer cells without collateral damage to normal cells, a study suggests. The science behind the medals August 04, 2021 Ever wonder how speed and distance shape how Olympians run? The New York Times sent a crew to SMU to observe and record three elite runners on the world's fastest treadmill in human speed expert Peter Weyand’s Locomotor Performance Laboratory. 'Smart contract' uses computer code, blockchain technology to reduce the need for a lawyer when the deceased leaves no will July 15, 2021 A recent graduate of SMU’s Dedman School of Law has written computer language for a smart contract that, if adopted by courts, could make it much easier and less expensive for someone to sort out the estate of a loved one who dies without a will. How racial bias shaped Dallas highways SMU graduate student publishes book about forgotten history, seeks infrastructure change July 13, 2021 For SMU engineering graduate student Collin Yarbrough, a classroom assignment to evaluate the design of Dallas’ Central Expressway resulted in a recently published book about the long-forgotten history of Dallas’ racist past buried beneath the city’s freeways. Pets on board: Meet the multispecies American family New book defines trend – pets really are part of the family July 13, 2021 Do you sign your pets’ names to your holiday card? Have you ever sent your dog to day care? Do you shop regularly for cat or dog toys? Welcome to a new breed of American family – the multispecies family. The American Society of Biomechanics Honors Peter Weyand with Hay Award July 13, 2021 SMU's Peter Weyand will receive the Jim Hay Memorial Award for Research in Sports and Exercise from the American Society of Biomechanics during its annual conference in August. The award recognizes “originality, quality, and depth of biomechanics research that addresses fundamental research questions relevant to extraordinary demands imposed in sport and exercise.” SMU and Air Force Academy forge agreement for mentorship, collaborative research opportunities for cadets and faculty July 12, 2021 SMU's AT&T Center for Virtualization has signed a four-year agreement with the United States Air Force Academy to collaborate on mutually beneficial projects and joint research, providing opportunities for both USAF cadets and SMU students. SMU professor awarded NSF grant for models to better aid evacuees after natural disasters like Hurricane Harvey, Katrina 'We can do better with a systems approach...instead of catching up after each hurricane' July 01, 2021 Halit Üster, an engineering professor at SMU, has been awarded a three-year National Science Foundation (NSF) grant of $315,580 to investigate integrated evacuation planning and disaster preparedness models that offer relief to evacuees in a more robust, predictive, timely and cost-effective manner than was seen in past natural disasters. Four professors named SMU 2021 Ford Research Fellows Cash prizes will support their noteworthy research June 23, 2021 Four outstanding SMU faculty researchers have been named as 2021 Ford Research Fellows. This year’s recipients are Alejandro Aceves, Joseph Camp, Heather DeShon, and Xin-Lin Gao, all of whom will be honored by the SMU Board of Trustees this fall. Ten years of ancient genome analysis has taught scientists 'what it means to be human' June 17, 2021 A ball of 4,000-year-old hair frozen in time tangled around a whalebone comb led to the first-ever reconstruction of an ancient human genome just over a decade ago. Economics professor and campus leader Tom Fomby receives SMU Faculty Career Achievement Award June 17, 2021 SMU’s Tom Fomby, Professor of Economics in Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences, is the 2021 recipient of the Faculty Career Achievement Award for his contributions to the teaching, scholarship and service missions of the University. P-glycoprotein removes Alzheimer’s-associated toxin from the brain June 16, 2021 A team of SMU biological scientists has confirmed that P-glycoprotein (P-gp) has the ability to remove a toxin from the brain that is associated with Alzheimer’s disease. Janille Smith-Colin awarded National Academies 2021 Early-Career Research Fellowship June 10, 2021 Janille Smith-Colin, assistant professor in the Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering in SMU's Lyle School of Engineering, has been named one of the seven recipients of the 2021 Early-Career Research Fellowships by the Gulf Research Program (GRP) of the National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine. SMU professor receives NASA funding to study distant galaxies built around massive black holes May 18, 2021 Not just for finding planets: Exoplanet-hunter TESS telescope spots bright gamma-ray burst April 30, 2021 SMU research provided basis for ruling on Paralympic runner Blake Leeper’s prostheses for the Tokyo Olympics April 27, 2021 SMU and Japanese paleontologists find second hadrosaurid species April 27, 2021 Death and driving: SMU statistical model predicts the odds tying behavior, other variables to car accidents April 20, 2021 SMU's ChemGen completes essential drug discovery work in days April 14, 2021 "A revolution in archaeology": SMU professor Mark D. McCoy to be honored with prestigious Society for American Archaeology book award April 13, 2021 Dallas Morning News: SMU meets the opportunities of the data-driven world with cutting-edge research and data science programs As a research and data science powerhouse, SMU helps Dallas extend its reach nationally and internationally. April 09, 2021 SMU chemist and team to study how photosynthesis uses sunlight to support growth in changing environments Human Frontier Science Program grant provides more than $1 million in support April 06, 2021 Killer asteroid that deleted the dinosaurs also created the Amazon rainforest April 06, 2021 Researchers issue policy agenda: Texas growth depends on urban investment March 26, 2021 Dominique Baker recognized with Early Career Award for outstanding research in education policy March 24, 2021 Richard Duschl will join the National Academy of Education March 23, 2021 Raytheon Intelligence & Space partners with Virginia Tech and Southern Methodist University on artificial intelligence and machine learning research Harnessing AI/ML capabilities from research universities for defense systems will strengthen military capabilities in future multi-domain operations February 23, 2021 Study shows enrollment of Black students at HBCUs rose in states with increased hate crime reports February 03, 2021 SMU AT&T Center for Virtualization to conduct R&D for Naval Information Warfare Center Pacific February 02, 2021 Dogs likely migrated to the Americas with humans over 15,000 years ago, study says January 26, 2021 When their parents fight: Autistic kids may have a harder time recognizing healthy vs. toxic arguments January 21, 2021 'Lab on a Chip' test has potential to detect COVID-19 immune response faster than current antibody testing January 12, 2021 Latest News Featured News Research Research Archives View Archives Apply Visit School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share