Skip to main content Menu Resources Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply or Give Apply Now Make a Gift Student Financial Aid Federal School Code: 003425 Other Programs Nonresident Aid Some states offer their residents grants that can be used at out-of-state institutions. Clemson University provides this link (http://www2.ed.gov/about/contacts/state/index.html) to contact information for other states’ higher education assistance authorities so that non-residents can pursue assistance from their home states if appropriate. American Opportunity Tax Credit and Lifetime Learning Tax Credit There are currently two types of federal tax credits for families to offset tuition costs. These tax credits reduce the amount of federal income tax families must pay. Families who will benefit are middle- and lower-middle-income families who do not receive enough gift aid to cover tuition payments. The American Opportunity tax credit is valued up to $2,500 per tax year, per eligible student, for the first four years of post-secondary education. Forty percent of this credit may be refundable. The Lifetime Learning tax credit is up to $2,000 per year, per family, for an unlimited number of years. This nonrefundable credit varies according to family income, tuition costs, and amount of gift assistance received. , To be eligible, a taxpayer must file a tax return, must owe taxes and must claim the student as an exemption (self, spouse or dependent). Additionally, married filers must file jointly. Tax filers should contact their tax advisor for details. Additional information is available in Publication 970 at IRS.gov. South Carolina Tax Credit To help ease the financial burden for South Carolina college students and their families, the South Carolina General Assembly has recently increased its income tax credit for eligible students for tuition paid to South Carolina colleges and universities. To claim up to $1,500 in tuition tax credits, a Form SC 1040 must be filed. When preparing the South Carolina income tax return, Form I-319 Tuition Tax Credit must be completed. This form is included with all state individual income tax booklets. To determine if you are eligible, and for more information about the tax credit, please visit the South Carolina Department of Revenue Tuition Tax Credit website. National and State Agencies Students should investigate sources of financial assistance, such as veterans' educational benefits, Social Security benefits and grants for the disabled through S.C. Department of Vocational Rehabilitation. Academic Common Market The Academic Common Market (ACM) is a Southern Regional Education Board (SREB) program that has been in place for over 35 years and allows out-of-state graduate students to pay in-state, resident fees in specialized fields. The program allows students in the 16 SREB states to apply for and be approved for in-state tuition. Clemson has graduate programs that have been approved for the Academic Common Market. More information can be found on the Academic Common Market Website. Free Tuition There are educational benefits for veterans, war orphans, and children of deceased or disabled law enforcement officers or firefighters. The Veterans Administration provides educational assistance for veterans and children of deceased or totally disabled veterans who meet requirements of applicable laws and regulations. Any veteran or child of a deceased or totally disabled veteran should communicate with the nearest Veterans Administration Office to determine whether he/she is entitled to any educational benefits. Free tuition is available to children of South Carolina law enforcement officers or firefighters who were totally disabled or killed in the line of duty. Certification is required from the agency of the parent’s employment. Upon presentation of proof of eligibility, a student shall not become eligible for educational assistance until the beginning of the next academic term. Senior Citizens South Carolina residents who are at least 60 years of age may qualify for free tuition. Applicants who are auditing classes must obtain an audit card from the Registrar’s Office in 102 Sikes Hall to initiate enrollment each semester. Degree-seeking students and applicants who are auditing classes must complete a waiver application form through the Financial Aid Office in G-01 Sikes Hall each semester. The waiver must be submitted prior to the first day of class and is not retroactive to prior terms. All questions should be directed to the Financial Aid Office at 864-656-2280. Cooperative Education This program integrates a student’s academic studies with career-related work experience in the private or public sector. Students are NOT eligible for financial aid during co-op assignments unless they are simultaneously enrolled at Clemson University for at least six hours. Co-op students with academic recruiting scholarships who maintain eligibility may request that their scholarships be deferred for their co-op semesters and receive stipends in a later semester not to exceed eight semesters, or they may receive the stipend during summer if enrolled full-time (12 hours) depending on co-op schedules. However, they may receive only two stipends per award year and should schedule work assignments to receive the maximum benefits. Details are available from the Cooperative Education Office, located in the Michelin® Career Center, the third floor of the Hendrix Student Center, at clemson.edu/coop or from Financial Aid in Sikes Hall. South Carolina National Guard College Assistance Program The South Carolina National Guard College Assistance Program (SCNG CAP) is administered by the SC Commission on Higher Education, and awards enlisted service members of the South Carolina National Guard on a first-come, first-served basis. Eligible undergraduate service members can be awarded up to a maximum of $4,500 (Army National Guard) or $9,000 (Air National Guard) each academic year. The maximum lifetime award is $18,000. Recipients of ROTC scholarships are not eligible for this award. Eligibility is determined by the date of enlistment. Further information: http://www.che.sc.gov/Students,FamiliesMilitary/PayingForCollege/FinancialAssistanceAvailable/ScholarshipsGrantsforSCResidents/NationalGuardCollegeAssistanceProgram.aspx Application information: https://getsmartsc.com/scng-cap/ Reserve Officer Training Corps (ROTC) Programs Army ROTC and Air Force ROTC offers two-, three- and four-year scholarships that pay tuition and fees, books and laboratory expenses. In addition, a monthly stipend of $250 to $400 is paid directly to scholarship recipients. For more information about Army ROTC, call 864-656-4912, visit Johnstone Hall (next to the Student Post Office) or visit the Army ROTC website. For Air Force ROTC information, call 864-656-3254, visit 300 Tillman Hall or visit the Air Force ROTC website. Please be aware federal ROTC programs, e.g. Unlimited, will affect other scholarship funding, especially recruiting scholarships like the Non-Resident Merit Scholarship or Grant. Please follow up with the Financial Aid Office in Sikes Hall for specifics concerning your scholarships. Clemson Corps Out-of-State Scholarship Students receiving freshman/sophomore recruiting funding (Clemson Corps) from the Army or Air Force at Clemson will receive that financial aid based on rosters sent to the Student Financial Aid office from the Army and Air Force departments. This additional aid is usually posted to students’ accounts by mid-August or early January. Out-of-state students may receive only one out-of-state tuition specific scholarship. If a student is offered an Army or Air Force Clemson Corps out-of-state tuition scholarship, then the highest offer is awarded to the student. Once the Clemson Corps out-of-state tuition scholarship no longer applies then the student may contact Student Financial Aid to regain the original out-of-state tuition recruiting scholarship if the student meets all eligibility requirements for renewal. Home Types of Students Types of Aid Grants Scholarships Loans Student Employment Other Programs Aid Eligibility Deadlines and Timeline Costs Forms and Resources Summer Session Terms and Conditions FAQ Contact Us Consumer Information Related Links iROAR Financial Literacy Residency Classification Accepted Students International Services Graduate School Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram