Menu Homepage Leadership and Staff Director Deputy Director Program Leaders Executive Committee Administrative Staff Research Penn Autoimmunity Center of Excellence (ACE) Overview ACE ME Time! Faculty in the News Immune Health Lynch Syndrome Program Publications Resources Archived Pubs Members Faculty Interest Areas CyTOF CyTOF Mass Cytometer Events Immunology Colloquium Research in Progress MITI Clinical Trials Cancer Immunology Virtual Retreat Close Menu Penn Institute for Immunology Homepage Leadership and Staff Director Deputy Director Program Leaders Executive Committee Administrative Staff Research Penn Autoimmunity Center of Excellence (ACE) Overview ACE ME Time! Faculty in the News Immune Health Lynch Syndrome Program Publications Resources Archived Pubs Members Faculty Interest Areas CyTOF CyTOF Mass Cytometer Events Immunology Colloquium Research in Progress MITI Clinical Trials Cancer Immunology Virtual Retreat Home Interest Areas Systems Immunology and Genomics Stuart N. Isaacs Stuart N. Isaacs Associate Professor of Medicine Department: Medicine Graduate Group Affiliations Cell and Molecular Biology Contact information Perelman School of Medicine at the University of Pennsylvania Division of Infectious Diseases 319 Johnson Pavilion Philadelphia, PA 19104-6073 Office: 215-573-7515 Fax: 215-349-5111 Email: ISAACS@pennmedicine.UPENN.EDU Publications Search PubMed for articles Links Search PubMed for articles Cell and Molecular Biology graduate group webpage Department of Medicine Division of Infectious Disease webpage Education: B.A. (Chemistry/Biology) Brandeis University, 1981. M.D. (Medicine) Yale University School of Medicine, 1985. Permanent link > Perelman School of Medicine > Faculty > Details Description of Research Expertise Research Interests Viral pathogenesis and viral evasion strategies from the host immune response Recombinant vaccinia viruses as vaccine vectors Counter-bioterrorism research focusing on smallpox Molluscum contagiosum Key words: Vaccinia virus, Recombinant vaccines, poxvirus , pathogenesis, smallpox vaccines and therapeutics, molluscum contagiosum Description of Research Dr. Isaacs' laboratory focuses on using poxviruses as a model system to study viral proteins that are involved in viral pathogenesis, dissemination, and evasion of the host immune response. Poxviruses, which are used widely as a tool for research and vaccine development, express proteins that inhibit complement activation, bind IL-1, TNF, and interferons, and decrease the host inflammatory response by other mechanisms. Elucidation of these processes could lead to a safer virus vector. Furthermore, the study of these defense molecules encoded by the virus might give insights into the control of inflammation, as well as, the development of new anti-inflammatory drugs. The laboratory has also been pursuing the use of vaccinia virus as a vaccine vector and with anti-bioterrorism research. Dr. Isaacs was the poxvirus program project leader for the Middle Atlantic Regional Center of Excellence in Biodefense and Emerging Infectious Diseases and was involved in developing a safer smallpox vaccines as well as therapies to treat smallpox and complications from the current smallpox vaccine. The Isaacs lab is also working with molluscum contagiosum, a poxvirus that causes a very common skin infection, especially in children. This virus has been difficult to study because it cannot be grown in cell culture. The Isaacs lab is pursuing approaches to grow this virus in cell culture systems. Lab personnel: Yuhong Xiao Past lab personnel: Asha Abdool Edward Alexander Jeanie Chu Matt Cohen Brian DeHaven Xin Fan Natasha Girgis Elizabeth Herrara Heesun Kwak Shamim Mohammad Kendra Viner Jessica Weaver Description of Clinical Expertise General Infectious Diseases Selected Publications Buchman, G.W., Cohen, M.E., Xiao, Y., Richardson-Harman, N., Silvera, P., DeTolla, L.J., Davis, H.J., Eisenberg, R.J., Cohen, G.H., Isaacs, S.N. : A protein-based smallpox vaccine protects non-human primates from a lethal monkeypox virus challenge. Vaccine 28(40): 6627-36, Sep 2010. DeHaven, B.C., Girgis, N.M., Xiao, Y., Hudson, P.N., Olson, V.A., Damon, I.K., Isaacs, S.N. : Poxvirus complement control proteins are expressed on the cell surface through an intermolecular disulfide bridge with the viral A56 protein Journal of Virology 84(21): 11245-11254, Nov 2010. Isaacs, S.N. : A stimulating way to improve T cell responses to poxvirus-vectored vaccines. Journal of Clinical Investigation 121(1): 19-21, Jan 2011 Notes: Invited, peer-reviewed commentary. Girgis, N.M., DeHaven, B.C., Xiao, Y., Alexander, E., Viner, K.M., Isaacs, S.N.: The vaccinia virus complement control protein modulates adaptive immune responses during infection. Journal of Virology 85(6): 2547-56, Mar 2011 Notes: Selected by Editors of Journal of Virology for "Spotlight Feature", which highlights 5 articles as meritorious. Cohen ME, Xiao Y, Eisenberg RJ, Cohen GH, Isaacs SN: Antibody against Extracellular Vaccinia Virus (EV) Protects Mice through Complement and Fc Receptors. PLoS ONE 6(6): e20597, Jun 2011. Hudson, P.N., Self, J., Weiss, S., Braden, Z., Xiao, Y., Girgis, N.M., Emerson, G., Hughes, C., Sammons, S.A., Isaacs, S.N., Damon, I.K., Olson, V.A.: Elucidating the role of the complement control protein in monkeypox pathogenicity. PLoS One 7(4): e35086, Apr 2012. Xiao, Y. and Isaacs, S.N.: Enzyme-Linked Immunosorbent Assay (ELISA) and Blocking with Bovine Serum Albumin (BSA) - Not all BSAs are alike. Journal of Immunological Methods 384(1-2): 148-51, Oct 2012. Isaacs, S.N. (Editor): Vaccinia Virus and Poxvirology: Methods and Protocols, 2nd Edition. in Methods in Molecular Biology. Humana Press : Springer, 890, Jul 2012. Xiao, Y., Zeng, Y., Alexander, E., Mehta, S., Joshi, S.B., Buchman, G.W., Volkin, D.B., Middaugh, C.R., Isaacs, S.N.: Adsorption of recombinant poxvirus L1-protein to aluminum hydroxide/CpG vaccine adjuvants enhances immune responses and protection of mice from vaccinia virus challenge. Vaccine 31(2): 319-326, Jan 2013. Guan, H., Nuth, M., Zhukovskaya, N., Saw, Y.L., Bell, E., Isaacs, S.N., Ricciardi, R.P.: A novel target and approach for identifying antivirals against molluscum contagiosum virus. Antimicrobial Agents and Chemotherapy 58(12): 7383-9, Dec 2014 Notes: My lab made and tested the recombinant vaccinia virus that was critical to this publication. back to top Last updated: 05/30/2022 The Trustees of the University of Pennsylvania Contact Us Penn Institute for Immunology 421 Curie Blvd. 357 BRB II/III Philadelphia, PA 19104 Email Us Directions Follow Us  Twitter Links of Interest University of Pennsylvania Perelman School of Medicine © The Trustees of the University of Pennsylvania | Site best viewed in a supported browser. | Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help | Privacy Policy | Site Design: DART Web Team. | Sitemap