Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu International and Global Studies Major & Minor People News & Events Career Study Abroad Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact People Director Associate Director Advisory Board Faculty Affiliates Student Board Members Take Action Opportunities Governor's School for International Studies Contact Us Give to International Studies Home International and Global Studies Who We Are Director Catherine L. Phipps Associate Professor History cphipps1@memphis.edu Dr. Phipps is an associate professor in the Department of History. Her fields of research are in global empires, modern Japan, transmarine East Asia, port cities, and historical geography. She has taught Modern Japan; Modern East Asia; A Tale of Two Empires: Connecting American and Japanese Imperialisms; Mapping Human Lives; World Civilizations II. Her professional affiliations include President, Southeast Conference, Association for Asian Studies (2016-17). Associate Director Dr. Robert Kelz Associate Professor of German rkelz@memphis.edu An associate professor of German, Dr. Kelz teaches courses on modern German literature, music, film, and history. He also has led study abroad programs to Berlin, Bremen, and Eichstätt, Germany. His research explores German-speaking Jewish, nationalist, and antifascist emigration to South America. Dr. Kelz is a Fulbright and DAAD (German Academic Exchange Service) scholar, research fellow at the Payró Institute of the University of Buenos Aires, and board member of the Archive of German Immigration to Argentina. His most recent book is Competing Germanies: Nazi, Antifascist, and Jewish Theater in German Argentina, 1933-1965 (Cornell UP, 2020). Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/5/20 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.