HOME Make a Gift Clemson Home Students Faculty/Staff Alumni Partners A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps CU Safety Phonebook Webcams Make a Gift Toggle navigation MANAGE MY ACCOUNT MY.CLEMSON MAPS Campus Maps Parking Space Map Long-Term Visitor Parking Short-Term Visitor Parking FORMS BikeShare Release Form Carpool Permit Application Departmental Guest Permits Departmental Space Reservation LEV / EV Employee Permit Application Payroll Deduction Election/Termination Form Special Event Parking Request Tiger Transit Rental Request Vendor Permit Application FAQ CONTACT US Visitor Parking A visitor is a guest to Clemson University Campus who is not enrolled or employed by Clemson University in any manner. Visitors who bring cars to the Clemson University Campus must park their vehicles in accordance with the campus parking rules and regulations. A visitor is not a faculty, staff, student, vendor, or contractor of Clemson University. Parking and Transportation Services provides the following visitor parking options: Metered Parking for $2.00 per hour- No Permit Required Daily Weekday Visitor Permits - Permit purchased online for $7 per day Weekend Visitor Permits - Permit purchased online for $8 per weekend (excludes home football game weekends) Departmental Guest Permits - Permits purchased by a department for a guest for $7 per day. Metered Parking – No Permit Required Visitors are encouraged to park at over 400 conveniently located metered Visitor parking spaces on campus without the need to obtain a permit. Metered parking is $2.00 per hour and multiple payment options include quarter, $1.00 bills, credit and debit cards, or via the Flowbird App for touchless payment. More information about locations and using the meters can be found on the Metered Parking Around Campus website. Football General Admission Parking Permit (Online) Join us for the 2021 Football season! 2021 Parking Rates: Car Single Game Pass - $30 All car single game pass holders MUST present a printout of the receipt to gain admission to the lot and the license plate number of the vehicle must match the receipt. No refunds will be issued. Note: Vehicles larger than 12 passenger vans are not permitted. Cash, Credit or Debit Cards (Visa, MasterCard, Discover, American Express), and pre-paid permits are accepted. Please have payment in hand when you approach the parking attendant. Note that cash is the preferred payment in the lot as credit card machines may be affected by loads on the cellular network. Pre-payment guarantees your space on Game Day! C-1 Parking Lot, accessible from Perimeter Rd, has been converted to a general admission paid lot. Aisles 1 - 4 of the lot are reserved for IPTAY parking only with Aisles 5 - 12 available for general admission paid parking. All non-IPTAY vehicles entering the lot will be charged $30 for parking in the lot. Shuttle service from this lot to the Academic Success Center is available from when the lot opens until 1 hour after kick off. No post-game shuttles are offered. Purchase C-1 Lot General Admission Parking Pass Here! Snow Parking Lot, located at the Snow Family Outdoor Fitness and Wellness Center, accessible from SC 93, contains a grass field used for paid general admission parking. All non-IPTAY vehicles entering the lot will be charged $30 for parking in the lot. Shuttle service from this lot is available from when the lots open until 1 hour post-game. Purchase Snow Center Lot General Admission Parking Passes Here! 2021 Football Parking Information and Policies Car or van parkers, who fail to abide by these policies, may be asked to leave the property at any time without refund. General Policies Cash, credit, debit, and pre-paid permits accepted on-site. Pre-payment guarantees your space! After payment, a receipt must be printed off and presented each week. The license plate on the receipt must match the license plate of the vehicle driven on Game Day. Failure to produce a printed receipt with a matching license plate may result in repayment. No refunds will be given on game day parking permits. The resale or reproduction of any passes will result in your pass being revoked and potential criminal charges. The parking lot opens at 6 a.m. for noon games and 8:00 a.m. for all other games. Tailgating is allowed 5 feet behind each vehicle into parking aisle. Any tailgating activity that limits the ability of the parking attendant to efficiently park all cars will be asked to move. Saving space(s) is not allowed. Pets are welcome, provided they are wearing/displaying ID and current rabies tags and are kept on a leash at all times. Pet owners are required to clean up after their pets. Clemson University assumes no responsibility or liability for lost or stolen items or damage to your vehicle during its stay. Owners assume full responsibility for their property. Overnight parking is not allowed. Golf carts, mopeds, motorcycles and scooters are prohibited inside the interior of Clemson’s parking areas unless they have the proper credentials. Golf cart passes are issued to university vehicles, vendors and working staff; these are not for sale or general distribution. Portable generators are allowed as long as they are rated at 70dB or lower as to not disturb other tailgaters. No bands, large speakers or PA equipment that disturbs others. Solicitations of any kind are prohibited. Items will be confiscated, and you will be removed from the campus. IPTAY General Football Parking - first come-first serve and subject to availability based on weather conditions. For a map and more information visit IPTAY's Football Gameday Guide. View IPTAY's donor parking map here. Contact Us Parking@clemson.edu Phone: 864-656-2270 Daily Weekday Visitor Permits (Online) Visitors can purchase Daily Weekday permits online for $7.00 per day. This new service has been implemented to aid in managing customers’ time and travel needs and allows Clemson University Visitors a convenient option to purchase discounted daily permits instantly and print them from their home or office computers. In order to purchase an online Weekday Visitor permit, you must have a valid email address and the make, model year, color and license plate of their vehicle to create a Guest Account. If after creating a guest account and you are a returning Visitor, go to www.clemson.edu/parking and click on Manage My account. Individuals are able to purchase permits up to 14 days in advance for designated lots. The designated lots are located directly on CAT bus routes which serve the east and west sides of campus so you can decide which lot to park in. Transportation service will be provided to and from these lots from 7:30 am until 5:30 pm Monday through Friday. Parking Locations during Fall & Spring Semesters Parking Locations during Summer Break & Holidays. Weekend Visitor Permits (Online) Visitors who visit the campus on weekends (Excluding Home Football Game Weekends) can purchase an online Weekend Visitor permit for $8.00. The Weekend permit allows you to park in unrestricted employee and student parking spaces for the entire weekend from 4:30 pm on Friday through 7:00 am on Monday. In order to purchase an online Weekend Visitor permit, you must have a valid email address and provide the make, model year, color and license plate of your vehicle to create a Guest Account. If after creating a guest account and you are a returning Visitor, go to www.clemson.edu/parking and click on Manage My account. Individuals are able to purchase Weekend Visitor permits up to four (4) weekends in advance. Departmental Guest Permits Departments may purchase daily Departmental Guest Permits for $7.00 per day for guests. Departmental Guest permits are valid at metered spaces and unrestricted employee and student spaces. To purchase permits, departments must complete the online departmental guest permit request form and be ready to provide a chartfield string. Click Here to Request Departmental Guest Permits Today! Departmental Space Reservations If a department would like to provide a reserved parking space for their guests, arrangements can be made with Parking and Transportation Services for $5.50 per space per day using the online Departmental Space Reservation Form. A guest must display a Departmental Guest Permit (purchased separately) provided by the department once parked. Advance notice of a minimum of 3 business days is required to ensure the space reservation. A member of Parking and Transportation Services will reserve a space at the requested location using our "Event Parking" barricades in preparation for the guests arrival. A representative from the requesting department should be present when the guest arrives to move the barricade. Click Here to Request a Departmental Space Reservation Today! Summer Program Information For more information about obtaining Summer Program Parking Permits or reserving bus transportation, please download the following document. Summer Program Parking and Transit Guide Visitor permits are available for purchase online seven days a week and online after hours at the Clemson University Police Department located 124 Ravenel Center Place. Payment for permits can be made using a debit or credit card (Visa, Mastercard, Discover and American Express). All Visitor permits are non-refundable. View parking citation rates here. Please contact Parking and Transportation Services at parking@clemson.edu or call 864-656-2270. You can also visit us at the Edgar Brown Union Monday through Friday from 7:30 am to 4:30 pm if you have any questions or need any additional information. Parking and Transportation Services G01 Edgar Brown Union | Clemson, SC 29634 Office Hours: Mon - Fri 7:30 a.m. - 4:30 p.m. Contact Us Copyright 2020 Webmaster