Skip to main content Faculty Research Clusters Cyber Security and Privacy Skip to Section About the Cluster News Projects and Publications Degree Programs Faculty Cluster Lead: Yan Solihin, Ph.D. Professor of Computer Science [email protected] UCF’s Cyber Security and Privacy Cluster is on the cutting edge of data protection by not only understanding and exploring existing ways to stay secure but also inventing new ones. The cluster also focuses on understanding the social implications new technology and the Internet of Things have on our daily lives. This research provides the modern world with much needed solutions to both the human and the technological causes of security and privacy problems. This aids people, businesses and the government and enhances faculty expertise for teaching students. Security and privacy problems can involve human users, physical facilities, hardware, software, communication protocols and potential attackers. The cluster spans many disciplines – computer science, computer engineering, industrial engineering and management systems, legal studies, mathematics, optics and photonics, philosophy, political science, psychology and statistics – to meet these security and privacy challenges head on. UCF Colleges Involved with Cyber Security and Privacy Research: Cyber Security & Privacy College of Engineering and Computer Science College of Business School for Modeling, Simulation and Training In The News Colleges & Campus Champions of Defense UCF’s Collegiate Cybersecurity Competition Team won the Collegiate Cyber Defense Competition National Championship this weekend. Here’s a day-to-day look inside the team’s run to an… Research U.S. Cyber Command Selects UCF For Academic Engagement Network New partnership aims to help alleviate national shortage of cybersecurity experts. Colleges & Campus New Chief Information Security Officer Named UCF’s Deputy Chief of Police David Zambri will now serve as the university’s new associate vice president and chief information security officer. Explore the News Archive Tweets by UCFCyberSP Cyber Security and Privacy Research Projects WiFi-based IoT Devices Profiling Attack based on Eavesdropping of Encrypted WiFi Traffic Privacy and radicalization Cross-cultural privacy difference Supertype abstraction and behavioral subtyping Persistent Memory Objects in Non-Volatile Main Memories Efficient Memory Persistency for GPUs Analysis of Configurable Software Publications “An empirical study of real-world variability bugs detected by variability-oblivious tool”, Paul Gazzillo, Ph.D., Austin Mordahl, Ph.D., Jeho Oh, Ph.D., Ugur Koc, Ph.D., Shiyi Wei, Ph.D., Proceedings of the 2019 27th ACM Joint Meeting on European Software Engineering Conference and Symposium on the Foundations of Software Engineering 50-61: Aug, 2020 “Hardware-based domain virtualization for intra-process isolation of persistent memory objects”, Yan Solihin, Ph.D., Yuanchao Xu, Ph.D., ChenCheng Ye, Ph.D., Xipeng Shen, Ph.D., 2020 ACM/IEEE 47th Annual International Symposium on Computer Architecture (ISCA) pp. 680-692: May, 2020 “Improving security of persistent memory objects via efficient memory exposure reduction”, Yan Solihin, Ph.D., Yuanchao Xu, Ph.D., Xipeng Shen, Ph.D., Proceedings of the Twenty-Fifth International Conference on Architectural Support for Programming Languages and Operating Systems pp. 987-1000: Mar, 2020 Cyber Security and Privacy Degree Programs UCF offers multiple certificates for students interested in cybersecurity and privacy. For more programs, search UCF programs below. Search Programs Cyber Security and Privacy Master of Science Cyber Risk Management Certificate Modeling and Simulation of Behavioral Cybersecurity Certificate Cyber Security and Privacy Faculty Mary Jean Amon, Ph.D. Assistant Professor in Modeling, Simulation and Training (IST) Email [email protected] Paul Gazzillo, Ph.D. Assistant Professor of Computer Science Email [email protected] Gary Leavens, Ph.D. Professor of Computer Science Email [email protected] Yao Li, Ph.D. Assistant Professor of Modeling, Simulation & Training (SMST) Email [email protected] David Mohaisen, Ph.D. Associate Professor of Computer Science Email [email protected] Yan Solihin, Ph.D. Professor of Computer Science Email [email protected] Sung Choi Yoo, Ph.D. Assistant Professor in Global Health Management and Informatics Email [email protected] Changchun “Cliff” Zou, Ph.D. Associate Professor of Computer Science Email [email protected] UCF Research Clusters Faculty Clusters Home Biionix Cyber Security and Privacy Disability, Aging and Technology (DAT) Genomics and Bioinformatics Learning Sciences Renewable Energy and Chemical Transformation (REACT) Resilient, Intelligent and Sustainable Energy Systems (RISES) Sustainable Coastal Systems Violence Against Women (VAW) Additional Research Links World-class Faculty Research Technology Transfer Ethics and Compliance Research Development Areas of Excellence 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816