Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Health Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Our Services Appointments Health Topics Events Forms and Guidelines Our Organization News See All Services What's Open Now Patient Resources Quarantine and Isolation Support Coping Tools Immunization Compliance Top Services Birth Control Education Individual Counseling Primary Care Register with Disability Services Sexual Assault: Get Support STI Testing Support Groups Travel Medicine Urgent Medical Concerns Workshops and Trainings Cost of Service Overview Make an Appointment Same Day Service Emergency and After-hours Support Alcohol Body Image Concerns Marijuana Disabilities Other Drugs HIV Insurance Men's Health Mental Health and Well-Being Anxiety Depression Stress Nutrition Physical Activity Relationships Overview Academic Relationships Friendships Roommates Sexual and Reproductive Health Sleep Transgender and Gender Expansive Health Violence Prevention Prevention Consent What Is Sexual Assault? Supporting a Survivor What Is Relationship Abuse? Stalking What Is Sexual Harassment? Bystander Intervention-Step UP! Women's Health See All Events Sexual Assault Awareness Month Columbia Health Flu Season Information Virtual Naloxone Training About Columbia Health Who We Are Who We Serve Confidentiality, Patient Rights, & Patient Responsibilities Operating Philosophy Video Library Your Feedback Staff Directory Health Units Alice! Health Promotion Counseling and Psychological Services Disability Services Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) Insurance Office Medical Services Sexual Violence Response Columbia Health You are here: Home Getting Started Student Insurance International Students International Students How does the Columbia Plan work with Columbia Health? Learn more Navigating the health care system in the United States can be complex. To help ensure that international students have access to the highest quality care on- and off-campus, Columbia University requires all international students to enroll in The Columbia Plan. International students are defined as any enrolled student that is not a US Citizen or Permanent Resident. All international students, regardless of the number of enrolled credits, will be enrolled in the Columbia Plan. We encourage students to contact the Columbia Health Insurance Office with questions: John Jay Hall, 3rd Floor 212-854-3286 [email protected] Expand all Collapse all Why is enrollment in the plan mandatory for international students? Inadequate health insurance can result in catastrophic health outcomes and extraordinary costs, as well as unexpected barriers to achieving academic success and scholarly pursuits. International students are frequently targeted by companies offering lower rates for substandard plans that are described in marketing materials as comparable. Students unfamiliar with our health care system may then be unable to access care using these limited non-Columbia plans. This requirement reinforces Columbia’s commitment to protecting the health of the student community through access to high-quality health services and provision of insurance coverage to supplement on-campus resources. How do I enroll in the required plan? Upon registering for classes, students are automatically charged the Columbia Health and Related Services Fee and enrolled in The Columbia Plan. Students receive an email providing a link to confirm their enrollment in The Columbia Plan. Do not ignore this message. Are there any exceptions? On a case-by-case basis, international students may be considered for an exception to this requirement when covered by a US-based group health insurance plan (for example, a US-based, employer-sponsored, ACA-Compliant group plan). In order to request an exception, an international student must first document they are covered by a plan that meets the one potential exception described above. Once confirmed the plan is of an eligible category, the plan must then meet all of the Columbia University exception requirements. All exemption requests are considered though no approval is guaranteed. All determinations regarding exceptions are made by the Student Health Insurance Office on the Morningside Campus and shall be considered final. Note: Some programs whose students are considered short term visitors to campus may be eligible for an exemption to the requirement. Please contact the Student Health Insurance Office on the Morningside Campus campus for more information. How does this impact my financial aid? Students should talk with their financial aid advisor regarding any impact. Funded graduate students already have coverage for the health insurance plan costs in their financial aid package. In most other cases, financial aid can be used toward paying the health insurance premium and the Columbia Health and Related Services Fee. Can I go to Medical Services or Counseling and Psychological Services on campus? Yes. The Columbia University Student Health Insurance Plan works with on-campus services. Students’ care begins on-campus, and they will be provided a referral for any necessary off-campus services. Do Columbia Health providers speak languages other than English? Yes. On-campus Medical Services and Counseling & Psychological Services providers speak multiple languages and we also offer a translation services. Additionally, The Aetna network has providers that speak many languages. Students can search for a provider that speaks a preferred language using the DocFind© feature on the Aetna Student Health website. The Columbia Health referral coordinator is also available to assist in locating an off-campus provider with a specific language request. Contact the Student Health Insurance Office at [email protected] or 212-854-3286 for more information. What if I need health care when I am not in New York or am traveling outside the U.S.? In addition to comprehensive coverage within the U.S., the Columbia University Student Health Insurance Plan provides global coverage. This benefit is unique to the Columbia Plan and designed specifically to support our students. We encourage students to learn more about this benefit as well as how the plan will support health and well-being while studying at Columbia. Contact the Student Health Insurance Office to discuss the specifics of using coverage outside of New York. Why are part-time students required to enroll? Unlike domestic part-time students, international part-time students are often focused solely on their studies and are not working in positions that provide health insurance. As a result, part-time international students are not likely to have the level of coverage that truly supports their potential health needs while at Columbia. I’m graduating in December. Do I have to pay for the full year? No. Premiums are billed by semester, so student graduating in December will only be charged for the fall term and coverage will end on December 31. Does Columbia benefit financially? No. Columbia does not keep the health insurance premiums. The University collects the premium and sends it to Aetna, the insurance provider. We use this system because it allows students to pay for health insurance using available financial aid options. Related Links About the Columbia Student Health Insurance Plan Dental and Vision Benefits Eligibility for Columbia Student Health Insurance Plan Loss of Health Insurance Insurance for Families Health Care for International Students Referral Requirements Request a Waiver Contact Us Columbia Health Insurance Office John Jay Hall, 3rd Floor [email protected] 212-854-3286 Need help with weekend or late night distress? Check out our Coping Tools page for various digital services, mobile apps, and online resources outside our regular hours of operation. Our limited podcast series, Invisible and On Stage, provides an open conversation around racism-related stress, identity, and community, and the way they impact mental health. Listen now! The entire Columbia Health team, photographed in Lerner Hall. Click the image to see a larger version. Columbia Health Alice! Health Promotion Disability Services Counseling and Psychological Services Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) Insurance Office Immunization Compliance Office Medical Services Sexual Violence Response All Columbia Health offices are closed on University Holidays. Annual Report Columbia Health Annual Report Stay Connected Receive important news and event info from Columbia Health Columbia Health Events Join us for workshops, panel discussions, skill-building opportunities, and other events! Accessibility Accommodations Columbia Health makes every effort to accommodate individuals with disabilities. If you require disability accommodations to attend an event sponsored by Columbia Health, or by the University, contact Disability Services at 212-854-2388 at least 10 days in advance of the event. 212-854-2284 [email protected] Columbia Health Administration Wallach Hall, Suite 125, Mail Code 4202, 1116 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-2284 Contact Us [email protected] Internal Use Only Login to Access Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close