Skip to main content Navigation Academics Admissions Research Locations Student Life Alumni & Giving Athletics Apply Now MBA Programs College of Business Request Info Move Forward with a Master of Business Administration from UCF The UCF MBA is an Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB) accredited, 39-credit hour program with full-time and part-time schedule options. Through our rigorous curriculum, case study-based learning and teamwork, the UCF MBA equips students with advanced business skills and strong leadership abilities while evolving their perspective and growing their professional network. The UCF MBA is a combination of quantitative and qualitative coursework mixed with a focus on developing strategic thinking, collaboration and leadership skills. With our applicable curriculum, students can directly apply what they learn in the classroom to their work, providing immediate benefits to their organization. UCF offers three MBA options: executive, evening, and professional part-time or full-time. Our MBA options provide students with the program that best fits their career goals as well as their professional and personal schedules. Request Information Highlights Only AACSB accredited graduate college of business in Orlando, Florida Best Graduate Schools Business Part-time MBA, U.S. News & World Report, 2023 Choose from Our UCF MBA Programs The UCF MBA is an AACSB-accredited graduate program with a 39-credit hour, 13 course applicable curriculum. It’s offered in three different program formats with different levels of admission and professional work experience requirements, as well as campus location. Executive MBA The Executive MBA is a 19-month, cohort program designed for mid to senior-level professionals. The EMBA offers an applicable curriculum and international residency in a rigorus, leadership focused program. Classes are held three Saturdays and one Friday per month starting each fall at the UCF Downtown campus. Evening MBA The Evening MBA is designed to accommodate working professionals of all levels who want to pursue an MBA at their own pace. Offered fall and spring, the Evening MBA is a part-time program with evening, weekday classes held at the UCF main campus. Professional MBA The Professional MBA (PMBA) combines the rigor and depth of a traditional MBA program and offers two scheduling options: part-time in the evening for 24 months, or full-time during the day for 12 months. Not sure what program fits you the best? Register for an info session to learn more about the UCF MBA and our program options. Register for MBA Info Session My graduate degree from UCF provided me with the leadership and networking skills that I use every day. I currently lead EY’s recruiting efforts at UCF, which has helped to not only set me apart from my peers, but also allowed me to continue our strong alumni network.” — Meghan McPhee ’14MBA, assurance manager for Ernst & Young Compare UCF MBA Options Executive Professional Part-Time Professional Full-Time Evening Program Type Full-Time Part-Time Full-Time Part-Time Program Length 19 months 24 months 12 months 32 months (minimum) Program Format Cohort, Classroom Cohort, Classroom Cohort, Classroom Classroom Credit Hours 39 39 39 39 Curriculum 13 courses 13 courses 13 courses 10 required courses + 3 electives Program Location Downtown Downtown or Regional Campus Downtown Main Campus Class Schedule Daytime 3 Saturdays & 1 Friday per month Evenings 2 Weekdays Daytime Monday – Thurs Evenings 2 Weekdays Class Size Cap 24 36 36 70 International Residency Yes No No No Tuition $47,000 $39,000 $39,000 Per credit hour Program Start Fall or Spring Term Summer or Fall Term Fall Term Fall Term Early Application Deadline March 1 Downtown: Dec. 1 Regional Campus: March 1 March 1 N/A Early Application Discount $1,200 $1,000 $1,000 N/A Final Application Deadline July 1 Downtown: April 1 Regional Campus: July 1 July 1 July 1 International Student Application Deadline Jan. 15 N/A Jan. 15 N/A Admission Requirements 3.0 Undergraduate GPA, 5 years minimum work experience 3.0 Undergraduate GPA, 3 years minimum work experience 3.0 Undergraduate GPA, 1 year work experience 3.0 Undergraduate GPA, 2 years minimum work experience GMAT Requirements No No No No Have questions? Speak to an Advisor The advising team works directly with our UCF MBA students as you journey from admission to graduation. They are dedicated to your academic, professional, and personal success through a collaborative advising process that will assist you in achieving your goals. Reach Out Today Degree Search College of Business programs Masters Business Administration (MBA) Request Information × Enter your information below to receive more information about the Business Administration (MBA) program offered at UCF. Loading... University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida