Skip to main content Menu Resources Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply or Give Apply Now Make a Gift Office of Access and Equity American with Disabilities (ADA) Clemson University is committed to providing a positive working and learning environment that fosters respect and equitable treatment. It is our policy not to discriminate against qualified individuals with disabilities in regard to application procedures, hiring, advancement, discharge, compensation, training or other conditions and privileges of employment. As part of our commitment, this website has been established as a resource to assist faculty, staff, supervisors, students and visitors with their disability related questions or concerns. Policy (PDF) ADA Frequently Asked Questions Request an ASL Interpreter Request live event captioning Disability Inclusive Language Guide The Accessibility Event Checklist File an ADA Complaint ADA Fact Sheet Disability: A physical or mental impairment that substantially limits one or more major life activities; a record of such an impairment; or being regarded as having an impairment. Essential Job Functions: Fundamental job responsibilities which are a primary task of why the position exists. Hardship: An accommodation that constitutes an undue financial and administrative burden on the University, or it requires a fundamental alteration in the nature of the program. Major life activity: A key function of life such as caring for oneself, performing manual tasks, seeing, hearing, eating, sleeping, walking, standing, lifting, bending, speaking, breathing, learning, reading, concentrating, thinking, communicating, working and major bodily functions. Qualified Individual with a Disability: A “qualified” individual with a disability is one who satisfies the requisite skill, experience, education and other job related requirements of the position, AND can perform the essential functions of the position with or without a reasonable accommodation. Reasonable Accommodation: A reasonable accommodation is any modification or adjustment to a job, an employment practice or the work environment that makes it possible for a qualified individual with a disability to enjoy equal employment opportunities. Request for Reasonable Accommodation If you are an employee, prospective employee, or visitor and have a disability that is covered under the Americans with Disability Act, please inform your Supervisor or the University ADA Coordinator located in the Office of Access and Equity of your need for an accommodation. Students who have a disability should contact Student Disability Services. To request a reasonable accommodation, complete the Request for Reasonable Accommodation Form and return to your supervisor or submit directly to the University ADA Coordinator at cuae@clemson.edu. Request for a Short-Term Parking Pass, Scooter Rental or Point-to-Point Transportation To Request a short term parking pass, scooter rental or point to point transportation, please complete the Request for Short-Term Transportation Accommodations. Employees must present full documentation of a mobility-related disability along with the completed request form to the University ADA Coordinator at the address below, or email to cuae@clemson.edu, or fax to 864-656-4235. Voluntary Self-Identification Voluntarily self-identifying is a good thing - it's how things change. This video explains why companies doing business with the federal government ask job applicants and employees to voluntarily self-identify if they have a disability, and the important role that self-identifying plays in ensuring equal employment opportunity for people with disabilities. Review the Voluntary Self-Identification form that is used at Clemson University to help ensure equal opportunities for people with disabilities. For more information: Office of Access and Equity University ADA Coordinator 223 Holtzendorff Hall Box 345404 Clemson, SC 29634-5404 Priscilla R. Harrison, ADA Coordinator 864-656-3553 priscih@clemson.edu Jerry Knighton, Director, Office of Access and Equity 864-656-3181 knightl@clemson.edu Students: additional resources at Student Accessibility Services. Home American with Disabilities (ADA) Graduate Diversity Doctoral Fellowship Award Policies and Procedures Services SREB Conference Supplier Diversity Contact Us Related Links Title IX Inclusion and Equity Student Accessibility Services ClemsonLife Request an ASL Interpreter Request real-time or live captioning Accessibility Portal Accessibility Commission Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram