Skip to Main Content Brown University Graduate Programs Search Menu Graduate Programs Healthcare Leadership Sc.M. school School of Professional Studies Inquire All Graduate Programs Navigate This Page Navigate This Page About the Program Admission Information Leadership Contact and Location A 16-month program that prepares visionary leaders who drive innovative, sustainable cross-industry solutions to today's complex healthcare challenges. Transforming Leaders. Transforming Healthcare. Healthcare is undergoing rapid, disruptive and persistent change. Now more than ever, strategic leadership is needed to respond to crisis events. The Master of Science in Healthcare Leadership is an accelerated 16-month program of intense study focused on leading transformative change in the healthcare industry. Our rigorous curriculum, taught by world-class faculty, is curated to break down industry silos, build cross-function collaborations and bring a diversity of perspectives into your learning experience. We develop leaders with a broad vision who can innovate the healthcare industry. Participants gain a comprehensive perspective that goes beyond local concerns, and develop the knowledge and skills to create flexible, responsive and sustainable organizations across the healthcare industry. Graduates are well-positioned to lead in the clinical, corporate, and public sectors. Program Format 16 Months; blended online and low-residency Structured for professionals, our program blends online learning with in-person sessions so you can earn a Brown degree and build the network and skills vital for advancing your business — without interrupting your career. Leadership Director of Graduate Study Sandra H Ferretti sandra_ferretti@brown.edu Contact and Location School of Professional Studies Location Address Brown University Mailing Address Box T 225 Dyer Street professional@brown.edu 401-863-2700 Resources Program Website Curriculum Program Faculty Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Graduate School School of Engineering School of Professional Studies School of Public Health Warren Alpert Medical School This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Healthcare Leadership Open details for Healthcare Leadership Bookmark this Page