COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Diversity at WSU Section Menu Student Life Arts and Culture Campus Recreation Dining Diversity Explore Wichita Health and Wellness Activities and Traditions Housing and Residence Life Rhatigan Student Center Student Engagement, Advocacy and Leadership Student Government Association Student Advocate Student Conduct Graduate Student Council Stop Video Wichita State University is the most diverse university in Kansas and has a strong commitment to diversity as a core institutional and educational value. We want our faculty, staff, and student body to mirror the variety of the types of people found in society. Building future leaders and advocates Office of Diversity and Inclusion is involved with more than 100 events annually that promote multicultural understanding. Through programs such as the Multicultural Student Mentoring Program and the Ambassadors for Diversity and Inclusion, students are given the opportunity to learn more about diversity and the resources available to provide a more rewarding college experience. Visit the ODI website Diversity, Equity and Inclusion The Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Plan is a university-wide strategic focus to build a culture that values transparency, accountability and communication around issues of diversity and inclusion. Military and Veteran Student Center The Captain Riley Leroy Pitts Military and Veteran Student Center exists to build and maintain a community of students with military experience and to provide comprehensive support for the unique needs of veterans, military members and military dependents in an environment of respect. Strategic Engagement and Planning Strategic Engagement and Planning (SEP) works to increase capacity, improve sustainability, and foster conditions necessary for economic prosperity for the university and the communities we serve. President's Diversity Council The President's Diversity Council (PDC) is an advisory and leadership team responsible for developing, overseeing and monitoring university-wide efforts to achieve Wichita State University's commitment to diversity as a core institutional and educational value. Community Engagement The Office of Community Engagement joins with the surrounding communities, neighborhood representatives and local government to help maintain safe, economically vibrant neighborhoods near campus. TRIO/GEAR-UP Programs TRIO and GEAR-UP are sets of federally-funded college opportunity programs that motivate and support students from disadvantaged backgrounds in their pursuit of a college degree. Among the services offered are mentoring, college preparation and financial aid counseling. Tilford Commission The Tilford Commission is a campuswide group of faculty, staff, students, and administrators dedicated to promoting diversity, equity, and inclusion in all areas of the Wichita State University community. Public Policy and Management Center The Public Policy and Management Center (PPMC) at Wichita State University advances public good by strengthening people, organizations and communities. The PPMC provides expertise and support in the areas of research, talent development and community engagement. Additional Diversity Links Spectrum: LGBTQ & Allies Disability Services Cultural Student Orgs Faith-based Student Orgs Campus Ministries Adult Learning International Education Office of Institutional Equity and Compliance 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©