Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Explore Brown University Search Global Navigation Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Division of Campus Life Home About Us Resources Student Initiatives Staff Initiatives News & Events Site Navigation Home About Us Mission, Vision, Values Senior Team Executive Group Organizational Chart Office of the VP for Campus Life Resources Emergency Contacts Campus Resources Remote Access to Campus Resources Help for Students in Distress Graduate and Medical School Students Campus Life Staff Resources For Parents & Families Legal Services - Open Hours Student Initiatives Student Awards Buoy Newsletter The Culture of Respect at Brown Campus Life Student Advisory Board CLSAB 20-21 Membership CLSAB 21-22 Membership Disability Justice Student Initiative Disability History at Brown Timeline JUST Lead Leadership Development Initiative Staff Initiatives Campus Safety Working Group Campus Life Fellowship Campus Life Staff Excellence Awards Multi-Partial Team Professional Development Grant for Staff News & Events Campus Life in the News Campus Life Newsletter Wellness Residential Experience at Sternlicht Commons Space Programming Housing Selection FAQs Housing Application Loc Truong Assistant Vice President for Campus Life Engagement 20 Benevolent Street [email protected] Biography Loc Truong is the Assistant Vice President for Campus Life Engagement. This position oversees important departments, centers, and initiatives (BCSC, Community Dialogue Project, Global Brown Center for International Students, LGBTQ Center, Office of Military Affiliated Students, Sarah Doyle Center for Women and Gender, and U-FLi Center) as well as provide leadership and vision around the communications and professional development and growth efforts of the division. As AVP, he will continue to work most closely with the BCSC staff until a new Director is hired. He comes to Brown from MIT where he was an assistant dean in Student Support Services. Before MIT, he held a number of positions at Harvard University most recently as director of diversity and inclusions programs for the Office for Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion. He brings a wide range of expertise and experience working with first year students on the challenges and opportunities they experience transitioning to higher education, supporting historically underrepresented students in higher education including being the first staff person appointed explicitly to support undocumented and DACA status students at Harvard, and providing educational and capacity building opportunities for faculty, staff, and students focused on equity and justice. He also brings significant experience related to program development and assessment especially peer education programs. At Harvard, he had the opportunity to help lead the strategic visioning and planning process that restructured and re-envisioned the mission of the Office of Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion. He earned his Ed.D. in higher education administration writing his dissertation on how first generation college students navigate elite academic institutions. He earned a M.A. in management and operations from Harvard University, M.S. in science of counseling from the University of La Verne, and B.S. in biochemistry from California Polytechnic State University. He also earned a professional certificate from the Administrative Fellowship Program at Harvard University. Division of Campus Life Division of Campus Life Brown University Box 1896 20 Benevolent Street Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-1800 Email [email protected] Instagram Instagram Brown University Giving to Brown Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA 401-863-1000 Contact Us Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility All Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top