Skip to main content Navigation Academics Admissions Research Locations Student Life Alumni & Giving Athletics Apply Now Bachelor of Design in Architecture (BDes) Program at a Glance Program Bachelor College(s) College of Arts and Humanities Department(s) Dean's Office CAH In State Tuition Out of State Tuition $212.28 per credit hour $748.89 per credit hour Learn more about program tuition and fees. This program is offered by UCF at the Valencia West Campus. The Bachelor of Design in Architecture was created to meet the local need in Central Florida for an architecture program. The Bachelor of Design (B.Des.) degree program is a partnership with Valencia College and the University of Florida, as part of a 2+2+2 program to enable students to complete an NAAB accredited architectural program in Central Florida. Note: Architecture (B.Des.) majors must have continual access to a computer. Contact the Architecture advising office (407-582-5500) for the minimum hardware and software specifications. Admission Requirements Completion of an Associate of Arts (A.A.) in Architecture (or similar program) that meets the common course prerequisites of the Bachelor of Design in Architecture program. Submission of a completed UCF application packet. Participation in a competitive review prior to acceptance. Completion of the General Education Program (GEP) at UCF or equivalent. UCF admission files from other transfer students will be reviewed on an individual basis to determine if prerequisites and General Education Program requirements are met. Successful completion of PHY 2053C, or its equivalent, with a "C" (2.0) or better is required. Degree Requirements Students who change degree programs and select this major must adopt the current catalog. Departmental Residency Requirement consists of at least 36 semester hours of regularly scheduled 3000-4000 level courses taken from the UCF School of Visual Arts and Design. Students must earn at least a "C" (2.0) in each required course and maintain an overall GPA of at least 2.0. Co-op credit cannot be used in this major. Students should consult with an architecture advisor before selecting the major, and at least annually thereafter. Completion of at least 120 semester hours of course work, including all required courses. No more than 12 hours of overlap allowed in majors or minors completed in the School of Visual Arts and Design. View Full Description Undergraduate Application Deadlines Freshmen Transfers International Fall May 1 Spring November 1 Summer March 1 Fall July 1 Spring November 1 Summer March 1 Fall March 1 Spring September 1 Summer January 1 Ready to get started? Apply Today Career Opportunities UCF prepares you for life beyond the classroom. Here, you’ll experience a wide range of opportunity, like learning diverse skills from world-renowned faculty to networking with top employers across Central Florida to gaining first-hand experience in internships nearby. Achieve your degree and more as a Knight. Architectural Design Professor Architecture Professor Building Architect Building Architectural Designer Electrical Engineering Director Engineering Design Manager Engineering Manager Engineering Research Manager Global Engineering Manager Interior Design Professor Landscape Architecture Professor Mechanical Engineering Director Process Engineering Manager Structural Architect Show More Career Opportunities Degree Search College of Arts and Humanities programs Bachelors Bachelor of Design in Architecture (BDes) University of Central Florida Colleges Burnett Honors Business Community Innovation and Education Engineering and Computer Science Graduate Studies Health Professions and Sciences Medicine Nursing Optics and Photonics Sciences Undergraduate Studies Hospitality Management × This program is offered by UCF at the Valencia West Campus. The Bachelor of Design in Architecture was created to meet the local need in Central Florida for an architecture program. The Bachelor of Design (B.Des.) degree program is a partnership with Valencia College and the University of Florida, as part of a 2+2+2 program to enable students to complete an NAAB accredited architectural program in Central Florida. Note: Architecture (B.Des.) majors must have continual access to a computer. Contact the Architecture advising office (407-582-5500) for the minimum hardware and software specifications. Admission Requirements Completion of an Associate of Arts (A.A.) in Architecture (or similar program) that meets the common course prerequisites of the Bachelor of Design in Architecture program. Submission of a completed UCF application packet. Participation in a competitive review prior to acceptance. Completion of the General Education Program (GEP) at UCF or equivalent. UCF admission files from other transfer students will be reviewed on an individual basis to determine if prerequisites and General Education Program requirements are met. Successful completion of PHY 2053C, or its equivalent, with a "C" (2.0) or better is required. Degree Requirements Students who change degree programs and select this major must adopt the current catalog. Departmental Residency Requirement consists of at least 36 semester hours of regularly scheduled 3000-4000 level courses taken from the UCF School of Visual Arts and Design. Students must earn at least a "C" (2.0) in each required course and maintain an overall GPA of at least 2.0. Co-op credit cannot be used in this major. Students should consult with an architecture advisor before selecting the major, and at least annually thereafter. Completion of at least 120 semester hours of course work, including all required courses. No more than 12 hours of overlap allowed in majors or minors completed in the School of Visual Arts and Design. Degree Requirements Core Requirements: Basic Level 0 Total Credits Complete all of the following Completed in the A.A. in Architecture from Valencia College with two exceptions. While ARC 2461, Materials and Methods of Construction, and ARC 2180, Introduction to Digital Architecture, are electives in Valencia College's architecture program, they're required for the B.Des. at UCF. See courses below. ARC 1201 - Theory of Architecture Credit Hours: 2 (CPP) ARC 1301 - Architectural Design I Credit Hours: 4 (CPP) ARC 1302 - Architectural Design II Credit Hours: 4 (CPP) ARC 1701 - History of Architecture I or equivalent Credit Hours: 3 (CPP) ARC 2180 - Introduction to Digital Architecture Credit Hours: 3 (CPP) ARC 2303 - Architectural Design III Credit Hours: 5 (CPP) ARC 2304 - Architectural Design IV Credit Hours: 5 (CPP) ARC 2461 - Materials and Methods of Construction Credit Hours: 4 (CPP) ARC 2702 - History of Architecture II or equivalent Credit Hours: 3 (CPP) PHY 2053C - College Physics I Credit Hours: 4 (GEP) Core Requirements: Advanced Level 42 Total Credits Complete all of the following Completed as part of the Bachelor of Design program at UCF. Earn at least 42 credits from the following: ARC3181 - Advanced Topics in Digital Architecture (3) ARC3320L - Architectural Design 5 (6) ARC3321L - Architectural Design 6 (6) ARC3463 - Materials and Methods of Construction 2 (3) ARC3503 - Architectural Structures (3) ARC3610 - Environmental Technology 1 (3) ARC3463 - Materials and Methods of Construction 2 (3) ARC4220 - Architectural Theory 2 (3) ARC4322L - Architectural Design 7 (6) ARC4323L - Architectural Design 8 (6) ARC4620 - Environmental Technology 2 (3) CPP Course : ARC 3503 Grand Total Credits: 42 University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida