Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Explore Brown University Search Global Navigation Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Global Brown Center for International Students Home About Incoming Students Undergraduate Students Graduate Students What to Bring Banking and Finances Cultural Adjustment Cell Phones Current Students Additional Resources Academic and Language Campus Life & Student Services Health Care & Insurance Immigration and Visas Working as a Student Providence and Rhode Island Life After Brown Site Navigation Home About Global Brown Lounge Meet Our Team Andrew Heald Stay in Touch! Incoming Students Undergraduate Students About the International Mentoring Program (IMP) International Undergraduate Orientation Fall 2022 Graduate Students What to Bring Banking and Finances Cultural Adjustment Cell Phones Current Students GBC Programs & Events Semester Breaks and Summer Additional Resources Academic and Language Campus Life & Student Services Health Care & Insurance Immigration and Visas Working as a Student Providence and Rhode Island Life After Brown Health Care & Insurance United States Health System The internet has a variety of helpful introductions to the role of insurance in health care in the United States, including InternationalStudent.com and the International Student Guide to Study in the United States. Please note that these links are provided only for your convenience. Brown does not endorse these sites or their services. Please don't hesitate to contact Brown's Office of Insurance and Purchasing Services with any questions you may have. The Office of International Student and Scholar Services maintains an up to date list of hospitals and medical care centers in the Providence area. Health Insurance at Brown Brown Health Services offers a variety of medical services to all students (undergraduate, graduate, and medical). An annual health services fee is charged to all students to cover the cost of providing care at Health Services. However, this fee does not include health insurance. All students must have separate health insurance to cover services not provided by the Health Services fee (such as lab, x-ray, pharmacy and hospital expenses). Students are automatically enrolled in the Brown Student Health Insurance Plan. This plan is designed specifically to complement the services provided by Health Services and Psychological Services. However, students may waive enrollment in the Student Health Insurance Plan if they are covered by a comparable health insurance plan. It is particularly important that international students verify that their insurance plan provides adequate coverage accessible in the Providence area before waiving the Student Health Insurance. Additional Resources Academic and Language Campus Life & Student Services Health Care & Insurance Immigration and Visas Working as a Student Providence and Rhode Island Life After Brown Global Brown Center for International Students Global Brown Center for International Students Campus Life & Student Services Box 1840 Page-Robinson Hall 312 69 Brown Street Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-6397 Email [email protected] Facebook Facebook Instagram Instagram Brown University Giving to Brown Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA 401-863-1000 Contact Us Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility All Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top