Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages MSEd You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages MSEd Apply Visit Request More Info Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages MSEd Admissions Information Careers & Opportunities Our Faculty Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages MSEd The Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages (TESOL) MSEd program emphasizes the structure of the English language and language variations. Students will help language learners gain access to the wealth of opportunities associated with the ability to read, speak and write English. Develop the skills to adapt instruction to learners’ age, communicative and academic needs, linguistic backgrounds, literacy development, native languages, and proficiency levels. The program also teaches research-based practices and strategies related to planning, implementing and managing English as a second language (ESL) and English as a foreign language (EFL) content instruction. The TESOL MSEd program can be completed on a part- or full-time basis, with evening classes that accommodate the schedules of working professionals. Who might be interested? This program is designed for those interested in teaching positions that do not require state certification. For those who are already certified to teach in a public school system in Pennsylvania, this program can inform them to better meet the needs of language learners. Teachers from abroad can also use this program to teach English in their native countries. The master’s program in TESOL at Temple does not offer teacher certification. Those who are interested in teaching ESL in Pennsylvania’s public K through grade 12 schools should pursue the ESL certificate program prior to the TESOL MSEd. Classes & Curriculum During the fall and spring semesters, all courses are offered in the evenings to accommodate teachers. Each course meets once each week from 5:30 to 8 p.m. As a part-time student, you may take one or two courses each semester. Learn more about courses and curriculum for the TESOL MSEd program. Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Master of Science in Education offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $966.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,329.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Student Clubs & Organizations Find peer support and leadership opportunities while tackling the challenges of your program. You'll also find opportunities to give back to the community, either locally or globally. Students can join the Temple University Graduate Students Association, a student employee union that maintains positive working lives and conditions for graduate student assistants. Temple Student Pennsylvania State Education Association, which hosts events to share effective classroom techniques and other resources for developing teachers. Search for additional College of Education and Human Development and education-related student organizations. Related Graduate Degrees Accomplished Teaching MSEd Education PhD with a concentration in Applied Linguistics Related Graduate Certificates English as a Second Language English Language Teaching Program Contact Di Liu, assistant professor of instruction, is the program coordinator for the Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages MSEd. Phone: 215-204-4885 Email: diliu@temple.edu Our Advisors Individual faculty advisors will guide you in navigating the curriculum and selecting the appropriate coursework to achieve your academic and professional goals. A graduate academic advisor will also be available to help you with scheduling, policies and procedures to ensure your smooth passage through the program. Questions For more information about this program, the College of Education and Human Development, how to apply for admission, and your application status, contact Enrollment Management. Enrollment Management Ritter Annex 150 1301 Cecil B. Moore Ave. Philadelphia, PA 19122 Phone: 215-204-8011 Email: educate@temple.edu ED-TESO-MSED Additional Program Information Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages MSEd Admissions Information Careers & Opportunities Our Faculty Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Visit Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Visit Request More Info