Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Skip to primary site search Google Tag Manager Joukowsky Institute for Archaeology Show/Hide Home People Undergraduate Graduate Courses Research & Projects Fieldwork Past Projects Fieldwork Opportunities Publications Think Like an Archaeologist Galleries and Media Projects Archaeological and Research Resources Kaelyn McGregor Numismatic Research Fund Events News About Us Brown University Fieldwork Current Field Projects Archaeology of College Hill, Providence, RI Laurel Bestock and Anna Soifer, co-directors Archaeology of College Hill, an ongoing fall term course and fieldschool for Brown undergraduates, has worked at multiple sites in the area immediately surrounding the Brown main campus. Begun in the fall of 2006 at the First Baptist Church in America, the field school moved in fall 2008 to the John Brown House Museum, and to the "Quiet Green" of Brown University in 2012. In Fall 2015, excavations began at Moses Brown School, on the East Side of Providence. Brown University Abydos Project, Egypt Laurel Bestock, director BUAP was founded in 2008 to investigate parts of the North Cemetery of Abydos, seat of the earliest rulers of Egypt and the cemetery for kings of the First Dynasty. Brown's current excavations concentrate on both the very early and the very late history of Abydos, dealing with First Dynasty royal mortuary temples and monumental Ptolemaic graves and animal hypogea. Brown University Labraunda Project, Turkey Felipe Rojas, director BULP's main objectives are to excavate and document a monumental fountain in the mountain sanctuary of Labraunda in Western Turkey, arguably the most important religious site in ancient Caria. Brown University undergraduate and graduate students conduct archaeological fieldwork alongside specialists from Turkish, Swedish, and French universities in a vibrant interdisciplinary environment. Koutroulou Magoula Archaeology and Archaeological Ethnography Project, Greece Yannis Hamilakis and Nina Kyparissi-Apostolika, co-directors Koutroulou Magoula is a multi-period archaeological site in central Greece with the main period of occupation around 6000 BCE (Middle Neolithic period). There are also burials dating to the Bronze Age (1500 BCE), and the Medieval period (c. 1200 CE). It is a finds-rich site, with buildings surviving to more than 1 m. in height, pottery, lithics, animal bones, and an impressive corpus of more than 350 clay figurines. MonArch: Wesleyan-Brown Monastic Archaeology Project, France Sheila Bonde and Clark Maines, co-directors MonArch brings together a multi-disciplinary team to focus on the larger role of monasteries in medieval and early modern France. Work has been conducted, since 1982, at three sites: Saint-Jean-des-Vignes, Bourgfontaine and Notre Dame d’Ourscamp. Excavations continue at the medieval charterhouse of Bourgfontaine in northern France, focusing on the 14th c. Great Cloister and the excavation of a monastic cell. Notion Archaeological Survey, Turkey Christopher Ratté, director, and Felipe Rojas, assistant director Notion in Ionia is a well-preserved and almost completely unexcavated ancient city, which was occupied from the early first millennium B.C. until the Middle Ages. A program of systematic archaeological investigation of the site begun in 2014 will lay the groundwork for the conservation and management of the site. This project is a joint endeavor of the University of Michigan and Brown University. Petra Terraces Archaeological Project, Jordan Felipe Rojas, director The Brown University Petra Terraces Archaeological Project (BUPTAP) is working to refine scholarly understanding of the history and dynamics of Petra’s agricultural landscapes, concentrating on the agricultural hinterlands immediately north of Petra and, more specifically, on the Wadi Baqa’ east of the road between Umm Seyhoun and Bayda and west of the rock of Shammasa. Proyecto Arqueológico Busiljá-Chocoljá, Guatemala Andrew Scherer and Charles Golden, co-directors The Proyecto Arqueológico Busiljá-Chocoljá is exploring the ancient cultural and natural landscapes of the of the Classic Maya kingdoms (AD 250-900) of Piedras Negras, Yaxchilan, and Sak Tz'i'. Current fieldwork aims to deepen our knowledge of Maya political history through the comparative study of competing polities in the western Maya lowlands, focusing especially on warfare, economy, and environmental history. The S'Urachi Project: Cultural Encounters and Everyday Life around a Nuraghe, Italy Peter van Dommelen and Alfonso Stiglitz, co-directors First built in the Bronze Age, nuraghi, the famous stone towers of Sardinia, are usually regarded as prehistoric monuments. They continued to be inhabited throughout later millennia as well, however, and it is these later phases of the Archaic to Roman periods that are under investigation at the monumental site of S'Urachi on the central west coast of Sardinia (Italy). Survey and Landscape Archaeology on Montserrat, West Indies John F. Cherry and Krysta Ryzewski, co-directors SLAM aims to create a thorough inventory of known and unknown archaeological sites in the northern non-exclusion zone of Montserrat in the West Indies, home to numerous significant prehistoric and historic archaeological remains now under severe threat from volcanic activity and resulting population relocation. Upper Sabina Tiberina Project, Italy Candace M. Rice, Tyler V. Franconi, Dylan Bloy, and Gary D. Farney, co-directors The Upper Sabina Tiberina Project, in operation since 2011, seeks to understand the long-term development of rural settlement and economy in the Sabine region of Italy. The project focuses largely on the excavation of a mid-Republican to mid-imperial multi-phase villa located in the town of Vacone. The villa has an elaborately decorated residential area and large agricultural production area with one of the largest olive oil production facilities known to date from central Italy. There is evidence for sporadic occupation of the site following the abandonment and collapse of the villa, along with numerous burials dating to the Lombard period. Uronarti Regional Archaeology Project, Sudan Laurel Bestock and Christian Knoblauch, co-directors Uronarti, an island in the Nile in Lower Nubia (modern Sudan), was the site of a major fortress constructed by the kings of the Egyptian Twelfth Dynasty. URAP is working both to document the fortress and to better comprehend its setting in a complex physical and cultural landscape in order to illuminate the relationships between Egypt and Nubia at this critical period. Research & Projects Fieldwork Past Projects Fieldwork Opportunities Publications Think Like an Archaeologist Galleries and Media Projects Archaeological and Research Resources Kaelyn McGregor Numismatic Research Fund Explore Brown University Search Brown Show/Hide Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Joukowsky Institute for Archaeology Joukowsky Institute for Archaeology Brown University Box 1837 Rhode Island Hall, 60 George Street Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-3188 Fax: 401-863-9423 Email [email protected] Twitter Twitter Facebook Facebook Instagram Instagram Giving to Brown Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat