Skip to main content Skip to site menu Skip to Brown menu Skip to site search Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Enter search keyword About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Office of the Chaplains and Religious Life Christina Germak, Campus Minister Office of the Chaplains and Religious Life Christina Germak, Campus Minister Campus Minister, Brown-RISD Catholic Community Contact Information Office Location Office Hours or Schedule a Meeting [email protected] 401-863-3314 Page-Robinson Hall, Room 413 Tuesdays, 1 - 3 pm or book an appointment with Christina, here. Hello Brown students, alums & friends! My name is Christina Germak, and I am thrilled to introduce myself as the Campus Minister for the Brown OCRL and the Brown-RISD Catholic Community! After several years of gaining experience in a variety of settings - serving as a missionary at the Northeastern University Catholic Center, graduate studies in Theology at Boston College and working as the Director of Campus Ministry at an all-girls Catholic high school - I am eagerly returning to the college campus, where I hope to accompany Brown students in their own pursuits of purpose, truth and faith. Learn more about the Brown-RISD Catholic Community here. Home About News & Events Religious Communities and Services Programs & Projects Places: To Pray, to Gather, to Meet Resources on Campus Print this Page Share this Page Office of the Chaplains and Religious Life Brown University Box 1931 Page Robinson Building (formerly J. Walter Wilson), Room 410 69 Brown Street Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401-863-2344 Fax 401-863-9359 [email protected] Calendar Sep 6 All Day Opening Convocation at 4:00 p.m.EDT Sep 7 All Day Classes of the first semester begin. Oct 10 All Day Indigenous Peoples’ Day. No University exercises. Nov 8 All Day United States Election Day. No University exercises. Nov 23 All Day Thanksgiving recess beginning Wednesday at noon EST. View full calendar > Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory