COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Exercise Science, Major MajorExercise Science All Programs College of Applied Studies Human Performance Studies The dual / accelerated 4+1 bachelor’s to master’s program in exercise science is specifically designed to prepare qualified students for graduate-level work in exercise science through a coordinated accelerated program leading to both a Bachelor of Arts in Exercise Science and a Master’s of Education in Exercise Science. As a graduate, you’ll be well prepared for high-demand careers in a wide range of settings such as health care, the fitness industry and community-based programs. Learn how exercise science is the right fit for you. Request Info Start Your Application Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the program To be considered for admission to the Accelerated 4+1 program, the following must be satisfied: An undergraduate GPA of 2.750 overall; Completion of at least 60 credit hours of undergraduate study (junior standing); Currently hold and maintain a nationally accredited CPR / AED certification; and Completion of HPS prerequisite courses for the master's program. Admission requirements Inside the Program Get real-world experience in high-tech research lab In WSU's Human Performance Lab, you'll get to choose your path. As a student researcher, you'll work alongside faculty and be fully supported as you pursue a project or niche that suits your interests. As you prepare for a career in exercise science, you'll be continuously exposed to research projects, including opportunities to work within local, state and regional companies. Many students who have come before you have gone on to full-time jobs with those very businesses. Curriculum The degree requires a minimum of 120 credit hours. You’ll study the natural sciences and human anatomy. Then, you’ll move on to more focused courses such as kinesiology, exercise and sport nutrition—and your required field practicum and internship. View the curriculum Careers An exercise science degree from Wichita State will equip you with the knowledge, skills and professional connections that’ll prepare you for diverse roles. Graduates work as wellness directors, teachers, cardiology technicians, exercise gerontologist, personal trainers and more. Learn more about careers in this field Similar Programs Exercise Science Sport Management Physical Education: PreK-12 Dance 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©