Skip to main content Navigation Academics Admissions Research Locations Student Life Alumni & Giving Athletics Apply Now Social Sciences (BS) Program at a Glance Program Bachelor College(s) College of Sciences Department(s) Sociology In State Tuition Out of State Tuition $212.28 per credit hour $748.89 per credit hour Learn more about program tuition and fees. Students majoring in the Social Sciences Interdisciplinary B.S. program are provided with interdisciplinary breadth and depth in the Social Sciences as they fulfill the requirements of three separate social science minors of their choice, a statistics course, and a methodology course. The Social Science minors are housed in Anthropology, Communication, Political Science, Psychology, Sociology, and Women's and Gender Studies. This major supports UCF's goal of offering the best undergraduate education available in Florida with flexibility that is absent in most discipline-specific programs. Social Sciences (B.S.) may be completed fully online, although not all elective options or program prerequisites may be offered online. Newly admitted students choosing to complete this program exclusively via UCF online classes may enroll with a reduction in campus-based fees. Degree Requirements Students who change degree programs and select this major must adopt the most current catalog. Students must meet the residency requirements specified in each minor. Special topics courses may be used if they are acceptable within the specific minor. Grades below "C" (2.0) in lower level courses and core courses are not accepted. Students must achieve a minimum cumulative UCF GPA of 2.0 in all courses satisfying major requirements. Students must maintain a minimum GPA of 2.0 in each Social Science discipline. Internship credit must be approved by Coordinator of Social Sciences. Independent Studies and Directed Independent Research (course numbers 3905, 4906, 5907, 4912, 5917, 3940, 4941) must be approved by the Coordinator of Social Sciences prior to enrollment. All prerequisites of courses taught within the College of Sciences will be enforced. Courses designated in 1 (General Education Program) and 2 (Common Program Prerequisites) are usually completed in the first 60 hours. Online Social Sciences, BS View Full Description Undergraduate Application Deadlines Freshmen Transfers International Fall May 1 Spring November 1 Summer March 1 Fall July 1 Spring November 1 Summer March 1 Fall March 1 Spring September 1 Summer January 1 Ready to get started? Apply Today Career Opportunities UCF prepares you for life beyond the classroom. Here, you’ll experience a wide range of opportunity, like learning diverse skills from world-renowned faculty to networking with top employers across Central Florida to gaining first-hand experience in internships nearby. Achieve your degree and more as a Knight. City Planning Aide Demographer Economic Research Assistant Economist Research Assistant Ethnologist Etymologist High School English Teacher High School French Teacher High School History Teacher High School Music Director High School Teacher Historian Research Assistant Linguist Philologist Political Science Research Assistant Psychologist Research Assistant Social Science Professor Sociology Research Assistant Survey Research Professor Urban Planning Professor Show More Career Opportunities Degree Search College of Sciences programs Bachelors Social Sciences (BS) University of Central Florida Colleges Burnett Honors Arts and Humanities Business Community Innovation and Education Engineering and Computer Science Graduate Studies Health Professions and Sciences Medicine Nursing Optics and Photonics Undergraduate Studies Hospitality Management × Students majoring in the Social Sciences Interdisciplinary B.S. program are provided with interdisciplinary breadth and depth in the Social Sciences as they fulfill the requirements of three separate social science minors of their choice, a statistics course, and a methodology course. The Social Science minors are housed in Anthropology, Communication, Political Science, Psychology, Sociology, and Women's and Gender Studies. This major supports UCF's goal of offering the best undergraduate education available in Florida with flexibility that is absent in most discipline-specific programs. Social Sciences (B.S.) may be completed fully online, although not all elective options or program prerequisites may be offered online. Newly admitted students choosing to complete this program exclusively via UCF online classes may enroll with a reduction in campus-based fees. Degree Requirements Students who change degree programs and select this major must adopt the most current catalog. Students must meet the residency requirements specified in each minor. Special topics courses may be used if they are acceptable within the specific minor. Grades below "C" (2.0) in lower level courses and core courses are not accepted. Students must achieve a minimum cumulative UCF GPA of 2.0 in all courses satisfying major requirements. Students must maintain a minimum GPA of 2.0 in each Social Science discipline. Internship credit must be approved by Coordinator of Social Sciences. Independent Studies and Directed Independent Research (course numbers 3905, 4906, 5907, 4912, 5917, 3940, 4941) must be approved by the Coordinator of Social Sciences prior to enrollment. All prerequisites of courses taught within the College of Sciences will be enforced. Courses designated in 1 (General Education Program) and 2 (Common Program Prerequisites) are usually completed in the first 60 hours. Online Social Sciences, BS Degree Requirements Core Requirements: Basic Level 3 Total Credits Complete all of the following In addition to completing STA2014 (GEP), Complete the following: STA2023 - Statistical Methods I (3) Depending on the concentration to be followed, complete three (3) of the following: ANT2000 - General Anthropology POS2041 - American National Government PSY2012 - General Psychology SPC1608 - Fundamentals of Oral Communication SYG2000 - Introduction to Sociology WST3603 - Introduction to Gender Studies Note: one or more may have been completed in the GEP or CPP. Core Requirements: Advanced Level 3 - 4 Total Credits Complete at least 1 of the following: ANT4852 - GIS Methods in Anthropology (3) COM3311 - Communication Research Methods (3) POS3703 - Scope and Methods of Political Science (3) PSY3213C - Research Methods in Psychology (4) SYA3352 - Spatial Sociology I: Intro to GIS (3) SYA4300C - Research Methods (4) Required Minors 54 Total Credits Complete all of the following Earn at least 54 credits from the following types of courses: Complete the requirements for three (3) Social Science minors from the following list; however, only one minor may be taken within a single department or school: - Anthropology Minor (18 hours) - American Indian Studies Minor (18 hours) - Anthropological Archaeology Minor (18 hours) - Biological Anthropology Minor (18 hours) - Crime, Law, and Deviance Minor (18 hours) - Cultural Anthropology Minor (18 hours) - Diplomacy Minor (18 hours - at least 6 hrs of Restricted Electives must be taken from courses with INR or POT prefixes) - Diversity and Social Inequality Minor (18 hours) - Global Peace and Security Studies Minor (18 hours - at least 9 hrs of Restricted Electives must be CPO, INR, or POT prefixes) - Global Sociology Minor (16 hours) - Human Communication Minor (21 hours) - International and Global Studies Minor (21 hours - 3 hrs of Restricted Electives from "Group C'. Other must be COP or SYP prefixes) - Journalism Studies Minor (18 hours) - Magazine Journalism Minor (18 hours) - Mass Media Minor (18 hours) - Mass Culture and Collective Behavior Minor (18 hours) - Medical Anthropology Minor (18 hours) - Medical Sociology Minor (18 hours) - Political Science Minor (18 hours) - Political Science, Prelaw Minor (18 hours) - Psychology Minor (25 hours) - Sociology Minor (18 hours) - Terrorism Studies Minor (18 hours - at least 9 hrs of Restricted Electives, including Restricted Upper Division Electives, must be COM, CPO, INR, or other prefixes approved by Coordinator of Social Sciences) - Women's and Gender Studies Minor (18 hours - at least 6 hrs of Restricted Electives must be taken from courses with ANT, CLP, COM, CPO, INR, SOP, SYD, SYO, or WST) Capstone 0 Total Credits Students will be required to take an exit exam in their graduating semester. Grand Total Credits: 60 - 61 University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida