Menu Close Menu Skip to content Information For: Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Friends & Supporters A to Z index Search for: Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health Email People Departments Calendar Careers my.harvard Giving About Faculty & Research Admissions & Aid Academics Executive/Continuing Ed News News > News > Press Releases > 2020 Release News Menu Search for: News Home Press Releases 2020 Releases 2019 Releases 2018 Releases 2017 Releases 2016 Releases 2015 Releases 2014 Releases 2013 Releases 2012 Releases 2011 Releases Search the press releases archive Features In the News Multimedia 2021 Multimedia 2020 Multimedia 2019 Multimedia 2018 Multimedia 2017 Multimedia 2016 Multimedia 2015 Multimedia 2014 Multimedia 2013 Multimedia 2012 Multimedia HPH Magazine Faculty Stories Faculty News, Notes, and Accolades Student Stories Student News, Notes, and Accolades Alumni Stories Explore Research by Topic Office of Communications Make a Gift Press Release Archives 2020 In liver, a stressed cell can be bad news for its neighbors Findings provide new insights into obesity, diabetes, and fatty liver disease For immediate release: December 18, 2020 Boston, MA – A key protein in … Continue reading “In liver, a stressed cell can be bad news for its neighbors” Posted on December 18, 2020 December 18, 2020 PTSD with depression may significantly increase risk of early death in women For immediate release: December 4, 2020 Boston, MA – Women with post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) and depression have an almost fourfold greater risk of … Continue reading “PTSD with depression may significantly increase risk of early death in women” Posted on December 4, 2020 Frequent, rapid testing could turn national COVID-19 tide within weeks For immediate release: November 20, 2020 Boston, MA – Testing half the population weekly with inexpensive, rapid-turnaround COVID-19 tests would drive the virus toward elimination … Continue reading “Frequent, rapid testing could turn national COVID-19 tide within weeks” Posted on November 20, 2020 Significant link found between air pollution and neurological disorders For immediate release: October 19, 2020 Boston, MA – Air pollution was significantly associated with an increased risk of hospital admissions for several neurological … Continue reading “Significant link found between air pollution and neurological disorders” Posted on October 19, 2020 A call for greater transparency, reproducibility in use of artificial intelligence in medicine For immediate release: October 14, 2020 Boston, MA – Scientists working at the intersection of Artificial Intelligence (AI) and cancer care need to be … Continue reading “A call for greater transparency, reproducibility in use of artificial intelligence in medicine” Posted on October 14, 2020 2016 U.S. presidential election associated with uptick in heart attacks and stroke For immediate release: October 12, 2020 Boston, MA – The hospitalization rate for acute cardiovascular disease (CVD) events in a large southern California health … Continue reading “2016 U.S. presidential election associated with uptick in heart attacks and stroke” Posted on October 13, 2020 Poll: 24% of households in rural America report being unable to get medical care for serious problems during the coronavirus outbreak, with 56% reporting harmful health consequences as a result At a time when America is largely relying on the internet for their jobs and education, about one-third of rural households report serious internet … Continue reading “Poll: 24% of households in rural America report being unable to get medical care for serious problems during the coronavirus outbreak, with 56% reporting harmful health consequences as a result” Posted on October 7, 2020 Poll: 61% of U.S. households with children report facing serious financial problems during the coronavirus outbreak More than one-third of households with children report serious problems keeping their children’s education going during the coronavirus outbreak. Most households with children where … Continue reading “Poll: 61% of U.S. households with children report facing serious financial problems during the coronavirus outbreak” Posted on September 30, 2020 September 30, 2020 Poll: 46% of U.S. households report facing serious financial problems during the coronavirus outbreak More than one-third of U.S. households with children also report serious problems keeping their children’s education going and internet connectivity issues during this time. … Continue reading “Poll: 46% of U.S. households report facing serious financial problems during the coronavirus outbreak” Posted on September 23, 2020 Poll: Majorities of Latino, Black, and Native American households across the U.S. report facing serious financial problems during the coronavirus outbreak At least four in ten Latino, Black, and Native American households report using up all or most of their household savings during this time. … Continue reading “Poll: Majorities of Latino, Black, and Native American households across the U.S. report facing serious financial problems during the coronavirus outbreak” Posted on September 16, 2020 Posts navigation Page 1 Page 2 Page 3 Next » Explore HSPH research by topic Harvard Chan School News on Twitter In the wake of a May 24 mass shooting at a Uvalde, Texas, elementary school that left 19 students and two teachers… https://t.co/x8GHo0fMZS RT @dengdiit: This week,I had the honor and responsibility of receiving a master’s degree in public health with concentration in health pol… RT @Harvard: “Don’t let your generation be defined by the pandemic. Let it be defined by public service,” said Attorney General Merrick Gar… RT @HarvardCCHANGE: Looking for ways to take action on #climate? The Climate Health Organizing Fellowship trains health professionals to u… RT @HarvardCCHANGE: Creativity is turning coal mines, landfills, and toxic waters into opportunities for #CleanEnergy. Your lights yearn to… RT @HarvardCenterHH: What is the relationship between #technology and #happiness? This @Forbes article offers potential considerations, wit… Information For: Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Friends & Supporters About Key Facts Renaming the School Office of the Dean Location and Facilities Administrative Offices Contact Us Faculty and Research Faculty and Researcher Directory Academic Departments, Divisions and Centers International Research Postdoctoral Research Fellows Office of Faculty Affairs Faculty Searches Office of Diversity and Inclusion Admissions & Aid Why Harvard Chan Degree Programs Non-Degree Programs Financial Aid Student Experience Career Advancement Apply Academics Academic Departments Divisions Research Centers Flagship Initiatives International Research Research Administration and Support Degree Programs Fellowships and Residencies Summer Programs Continuing Professional Education Interdisciplinary Concentrations Academic Calendar Harvard Chan Viewbook Executive/Continuing Ed Program Offerings Custom Programs Request Information News and Resources About ECPE Contact News Featured News Press Releases Student Stories In the News Newsletters HPH Magazine Why Public Health? Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health 677 Huntington Avenue Boston, MA 02115 +1 (617) 495‑1000 Twitter Facebook YouTube LinkedIn Instagram iTunes Harvard Chan Home Contact Us Harvard University Home Make a Gift Privacy Policy Report Copyright Violation Accessibility Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College Loading Comments... Write a Comment... Email (Required) Name (Required) Website