Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links Office of Student Services Menu Main Nav Office of Student Services Office of Student Services Academic Calendar Back Back Close About Overview Contact Hours Student Checklists Notices & Disclosures June Checklist Registrar Overview Academic Calendar 2022–2023 Academic Calendar 2023–2024 Academic Calendar Registration Calendar Summer 2022 Registration Spring 2023 Registration Summer 2023 Registration Fall 2023 Registration Course Information & Schedule Course Registration Undergraduate Registration Graduate Registration Summer Registration Cross Registration Final Exam Schedule Course Evaluations Enrollment Certification Transcript Requests Name Change Academic Forms & Diploma Information Financial Aid Overview Undergraduate Financial Aid How Aid Works Applying for Aid Types of Financial Aid Frequently Asked Questions Policies & Eligibility Graduate & Law Financial Aid Applying for Aid Types of Financial Aid After Receiving Your Award Cost of Attendance International Students Frequently Asked Questions Student Financial Wellness Financial Aid Forms Contact Related Links Undergraduate Cost of Attendance Graduate & Law Cost of Attendance Billing & Student Accounts Overview Billing Tuition & Fees Loan Repayment Medical Insurance Eagle One Card MBTA Passes & Parking Permits Student Employment Overview Job Listings 21–22 Academic Year On-Campus 21–22 Academic Year Off-Campus FWS 2022 Summer On-Campus 2022 Summer Off-Campus FWS Finding a Job On Campus Finding a Job Off Campus Earned Sick Time New Hires Frequently Asked Questions Information for Employers Warning: Job Scams & Fraud Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund (HEERF) Close Academic Calendar Directory A to Z Listing Search Student Services Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Home Financial Aid Undergraduate Financial Aid Types of Financial Aid Undergraduate Financial Aid How Aid Works Applying for Aid Types of Financial Aid Frequently Asked Questions Policies & Eligibility Types of Financial Aid Learn more about your options when it comes to aid types—including scholarships, grants, loans, and work-study opportunities. Institutional Grants and Scholarships Federal Direct Loans Nursing Loans Federal Direct PLUS Loans Private Educational Loans Work Opportunities Outside Scholarships Veterans' Education Benefits Institutional Grants and Scholarships Each year Boston College awards millions of dollars in need-based grants and scholarships to eligible undergraduates. Eligibility for Boston College grants and scholarships is determined based on the student’s demonstrated institutional need. Generous benefactors to the University can fund a portion of these scholarship grants through donor-established scholarships. Students who are eligible for Boston College need-based grants will be considered for a donor-established scholarship once they have completed the standard application for financial aid. Federal & State Grants Federal and state grants are part of the scholarship portion of the overall financial aid award. As such, funding from these sources is determined and/or verified by the Office of Student Services and can replace institutional scholarship funding. Changes in grant levels from federal or state agencies can result in a dollar-for-dollar change in the Boston College scholarship. In addition to the application priority deadlines established by Boston College, students must also meet any deadlines established by their state scholarship program. These deadlines are listed on the FAFSA and are available at studentaid.gov. Estimates of federal and state grants are included in the initial award based on data submitted on the CSS PROFILE, FAFSA, and other application materials. The Office of Student Services is responsible for verifying all application information and reporting the corrected information to Federal and state agencies. If any changes are made during our verification process, a revised award notification will be sent to you. Federal and state grant funds will be disbursed to your student account once the necessary application materials have been received and reviewed (verified) and funding has been received. Because these programs operate on different schedules, not all federal and state grants will be credited to your account at the same time. In general, these awards will be disbursed to your student account in two even installments—one each semester. Federal and state grant programs include: Federal Pell Grant: A federal grant program awarded to students with exceptional financial need. Federal Supplemental Educational Opportunity Grant (SEOG): A federal grant program awarded to students with exceptional need, with preference to students receiving Federal Pell Grants. Federal TEACH Grant: A Federal grant program awarded to students who intend to teach full-time in high-need subject areas for at least four years at schools that serve students from low-income families. If the teaching requirements are not met, this grant becomes an unsubsidized Federal Stafford loan, with interest accruing from the date the grant was initially disbursed. For more information, visit studentaid.gov/manage-loans/forgiveness-cancellation/teacher. MASS Grant: A Massachusetts grant program awarded to students with exceptional financial need. Gilbert Grant: A Massachusetts grant program awarded to students with financial need. Other State Scholarships: Several other states have reciprocal agreements with Massachusetts allowing the grants from those states to be used at Boston College. Because of the differences in the programs between states, Student Services is often not able to make estimates of state grant funds awarded by other states. Therefore, students should send copies of their state grant award notifications to Boston College, so that Student Services may provide an adjusted award letter well in advance of the Fall semester. If Student Services does not receive notification from the student, the adjustment will be made once the state notifies the office of the student's state grant eligibility, usually during the Fall semester. Federal Direct Loans Direct Loans are low-interest loans for students and parents to help pay for the cost of a student's education after high school. The lender is the U.S. Department of Education (the Department), though the entity you deal with once you go into repayment, your loan servicer, can be a private business. With Direct Loans a student may borrow directly from the Federal government and have a single contact—your loan servicer—for everything related to repayment, even if you receive Direct Loans at different schools. Each student will have online access to individual Direct Loan account information via the servicer's web site. Students can choose from several repayment plans that are designed to meet the needs of almost any borrower and can switch repayment plans if your needs change. Print Open All Close All Subsidized Direct Loan Interest rate is 4.99% fixed during repayment as of July 1, 2022. Origination fee is 1.057% for loans disbursed on or after Oct. 1, 2021, and before Oct. 1, 2022. Both interest and principal are deferred through enrollment. Repayment on both principal and interest beginning six months after the student ceases to be enrolled in school on at least a half-time basis, generally extending over a 10-year period. Unsubsidized Direct Loan Interest rate is 4.99% fixed during repayment as of July 1, 2022. Origination fee is 1.057% for loans disbursed on or after Oct. 1, 2021, and before Oct. 1, 2022. Interest accrues while the student is enrolled as well as during the grace and repayment periods. Repayment on both principal and interest beginning six months after the student ceases to be enrolled in school on at least a half-time basis, generally extending over a 10-year period. Direct Annual Loan Limits Effective for loans first disbursed on or after July 1, 2008: Grade Level Subsidized Federal Direct Loan Unsubsidized Federal Direct Loan Total Federal Direct Loan First Year Student $3,500 Dependent = $2,000 Independent = $6,000 Dependent = $5,500 Independent = $9,500 Sophomore $4,500 Dependent = $2,000 Independent = $6,000 Dependent = $6,500 Independent = $10,500 Junior/Senior $5,500 Dependent = $2,000 Independent = $7,000 Dependent = $7,500 Independent = $12,500 Aggregate Loan Limits $23,000 Dependent = $31,000 Independent = $57,500 To determine eligibility for a Direct loan, you must apply for financial aid each year by submitting the FAFSA®. Entrance Counseling If you have not previously received a Federal Direct Loan, the government requires you to complete entrance counseling to ensure that you understand the responsibilities and obligations you are assuming. As an undergraduate student, the entrance counseling will fulfill requirements for the Direct Subsidized Loan and Direct Unsubsidized Loans. You can complete the Entrance Counseling online at studentaid.gov. Entrance Counseling Presentation Master Promissory Note To take out a Direct Loan for the first time, you must complete a Master Promissory Note (MPN). You can complete the MPN online at studentaid.gov. The MPN is a legal document in which you promise to repay your loan(s) and any accrued interest and fees to the Department. It also explains the terms and conditions of your loan(s). To complete an MPN online, you will be required to use your FSA ID. In most cases, once you've submitted the MPN and it's been accepted, you won't have to fill out a new MPN for future loans you receive. You'll receive a disclosure statement that gives you specific information about any loan that the school plans to disburse under your MPN, including the loan amount, fees, and the expected disbursement dates and amounts. Master Promissory Note (MPN) Presentation Exit Interview You are required to complete an exit interview during your final semester if you have borrowed Federal Direct loans. Instructions for completing the online exit interview will be sent in an email from the Office of Student Services. Failure to complete the exit interview process will result in a hold on your transcript and diploma. The purpose of the exit interview is to inform you of your rights and responsibilities based on the financial aid you accepted from Boston College. The information presented during the interview is a summary of the information contained on the promissory note(s) you signed. We suggest that you review your promissory note(s) carefully in order to become familiar with interest rates and repayment terms. For more information, visit the Loan Repayment web page. Repayment For more information, visit the Loan Repayment web page. Federal Loan Resources studentaid.gov—The U.S. Department of Education's website for federal student aid. On this page you can: Complete a Direct Loan Electronic Master Promissory Note (MPN). Complete Direct Loan Entrance Counseling. View Disclosure Statements and other electronic loan correspondence. Find links to other tools and resources. Initiate a PLUS Loan application. Access the National Student Loan Data System (NSLDS). The Department of Education's Direct Loan Applicant Services hotline: 800-557-7394 Nursing Loans This is a federally subsidized loan program awarded to nursing students demonstrating financial need. Repayment of principal and interest (fixed at 5%) begins nine months after you cease to be enrolled at least half-time. The minimum monthly installment is $40.00, and the loan must be paid within ten years. You will be required to complete a Master Promissory Note (MPN) and related disclosure materials. This is an electronic process; specific instructions will be emailed to you once the financial aid process is complete. Funds will be disbursed to your student account only after completion of all forms. Disbursements of this loan will be made in two equal installments—one each semester. Application Disclosure Students who have been awarded the Nursing or Law loan for the first time or the Balfour, Peter Jay Sharp, or the Bank of America Loan this year must complete Entrance Counseling and sign a promissory note. Visit ECSI's website for more information. Students will receive an email from the ECSI when it is time to sign their documents. Please make sure that your email client does not block communications from ECSI. Federal Direct PLUS Loans Direct PLUS loans are unsubsidized loans for the parents of dependent students. PLUS loans help pay for education expenses up to the Cost of Attendance minus all other financial assistance. Interest is charged during all periods. Apply for a Federal Direct PLUS through the U.S. Department of Education. Interest rate is 7.54% fixed during repayment for loans disbursed on or after July 1, 2022. Interest starts accruing at the loan’s first disbursement. Rates are annually reset by the federal government on July 1. Origination fee is 4.228% for loans disbursed on or after Oct. 1, 2021, and before Oct. 1, 2022. Eligibility is COA (cost of attendance) minus any aid received by the student. The school will determine the amount you are eligible for upon certification of the loan. A Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA®) must be completed for the student before you apply for a Federal Direct PLUS loans. Parents must complete an MPN (Master Promissory Note) The MPN is completed online using your FSA ID. As the parent of the student, you will need to sign with your own parent FSA ID and cannot use your son or daughter's FSA ID. Federal Loan Resources studentaid.gov—The U.S. Department of Education's website for federal student aid. On this page you can: Complete a Direct Loan Electronic Master Promissory Note (MPN). Complete Direct Loan Entrance Counseling. View Disclosure Statements and other electronic loan correspondence. Find links to other tools and resources. Initiate a PLUS Loan application. Access the National Student Loan Data System (NSLDS). The Department of Education's Direct Loan Applicant Services hotline: 800-557-7394 Private Educational Loans Private Educational Loans are loans not guaranteed by the Federal government. The borrower (either student or parent) may borrow a private educational loan through various banks, credit unions, or savings and loan associations. There are many different types of private educational loans for different types of borrowers. These loans are not need based; rather, they are based on creditworthiness. Most students will need a creditworthy co-signer such as a parent or other relative in order to obtain a private educational loan. Terms and conditions applicable to these loans vary greatly. Factors such as interest rate, APR, length or repayment, loan minimum and maximum, and fees should be carefully considered when researching and choosing a private educational loan. One feature of many private educational loans is the ability to completely postpone (defer) repayment until you graduate from college. Private educational loans almost always offer lower interest rates than credit cards do. While we encourage students and families to pursue Federal financial aid before considering private educational loans, there are many student/family situations where a private educational loan is viewed as a preferred alternative. Sometimes parents want their student to be responsible for his/her education. In other cases, the convenience of not needing Federal forms to borrow funds is also a consideration. Whatever your situation may be, borrow only what you need, and compare your options before you borrow. ELM ELM Resources is the only not-for-profit mutual benefit corporation serving the student loan industry today. ELM Resources provides a common, non-proprietary, and open data exchange and disbursement system that seamlessly links the diverse computing platforms of schools and lenders through its industry-leading products. ELM also offers a lender comparison solution, ELM Select, for schools that provide their own page to display a recommended lender list and offers students the ability to compare and select the loan that best fits their needs. Over 1,800 campuses use ELM Resources to send and receive loan data for alternative loans with the lender of their choice. ELM Select Credible Credible is an online tool that allows students to compare personalized loans from multiple lenders. Students can analyze prequalified rates, terms, and eligibility rules side-by-side in just a matter of minutes. Credible is not a lender or bank. Credible partners with student loan lenders, so that applicants have a variety of competitive options, each addressing their particular needs. Credible is completely free! You can find out more about Credible and begin the process at www.credible.com. CREDIBLE Note: Boston College does not endorse any of the lenders included at the links above and cannot recommend specific lenders. Students may also choose to use a loan provider that does not appear in the list of lenders included at either of the links above. Print Open All Close All Application Process The private educational loan process is a family-initiated process in which the family (student or parent) contacts the specific lender in order to borrow the loan. Boston College has put together a comprehensive list of lenders for your convenience (best viewed in Firefox). Once you have been approved for the private educational loan of your choice, the selected lender will send Boston College a certification request, which will be completed by the Office of Student Services. This information is submitted online, the application is approved, and funds will be disbursed to the Boston College student’s account. The annual maximum amount that a private educational loan can be certified for is the student’s cost of attendance minus all financial aid received. Some private educational loan lenders may have annual or aggregate loan limits as well. List of Private Loan Lenders Note: Boston College does not endorse any of the lenders listed at the link above and cannot recommend specific lenders. In addition to the lenders listed at the link above, you can also choose to use a loan provider that does not appear on the list. Disbursement Funds are disbursed in two equal disbursements, Fall and Spring, in the form of a check made out to the student and Boston College. Once endorsed, the check will be deposited to the student account. Refunds Should any disbursement create a credit balance, you may request a refund at bc.edu/myservices, by phone, or in writing. Please note that refunds cannot be issued before the first day of classes for any semester. Repayment Repayment of student private educational loans begins six months after you graduate or if the student falls below half-time (6 credits) enrollment at Boston College. Interest accrual begins at disbursement and may be paid as it accrues, or it may be capitalized with the principal. Repayment of parent private educational loans begins immediately after the full disbursement of the loan. Some lenders offer deferment options. Private Educational Loan Self-Certification Form Information Effective February 14, 2010, lenders of private educational loans are required to collect a completed and signed Self-Certification Form prior to disbursing the loan proceeds. This applies to any private educational loans that are not at least partially disbursed prior to the effective date. Private educational loans include all non federal loans, as well as certain loans issued by Boston College directly. Individual lenders have implemented their own procedures to comply with this new regulation, so you should contact your lender directly if you have specific questions about the process for submitting this form. To complete the Self-Certification Form, you will need to provide your demographic information as well as information about your total cost of attendance and estimated financial assistance. This information can be found on your electronic financial aid award notification. Please refer to this example of a financial aid award to determine where the information can be found on your award notification. If you are not a financial aid applicant or have not yet received your award notification, you can determine your cost of attendance by visiting the Cost of Attendance tab on the How Aid Works web page. If you do not submit a completed and signed Self-Certification Form to your lender, your loan will not be disbursed. Loan Type Self-Certification Form Required? Process for Submission Direct Loan (Subsidized or Unsubsidized) No N/A PLUS Loan (Graduate or Undergraduate Parent) No N/A Alternative Loan Yes Contact your lender Boston College Law School Loan Yes Complete electronic form as part of the promissory note E-Signature process Nursing Loan (Graduate and Undergraduate) Yes Complete electronic form as part of the promissory note E-Signature process Boston College Bank of America Scholars Loan Yes Complete electronic form as part of the promissory note E-Signature process Boston College Sharp Urban Scholars Loan Yes Complete electronic form as part of the promissory note E-Signature process MA No Interest Loan Yes Contact the Massachusetts Office of Student Financial Assistance (OSFA). Regulation Z (Truth in Lending) Information for Students On July 30, 2009, the Federal Reserve approved final amendments to Regulation Z (Truth in Lending) that revise the disclosure requirements for private educational loans. The amendments implement provisions of the Higher Education Opportunity Act (HEOA) enacted in August 2008. Under the amendments, creditors that extend private educational loans must provide disclosures about loan terms and features on or with the loan application, and must also disclose information about Federal student loan programs that may offer less-costly alternatives. Additional disclosures must be provided when the loan is approved and when the loan is consummated. The rules became effective on September 14, 2009, and lenders were required to be in compliance on February 14, 2010. Loans Effected by Regulation Z The amendments to Regulation Z (Truth in Lending) apply to all private education loans. They do not apply to Federal Title IV loans (Stafford and PLUS). Certain loans issued by Boston College directly are subject to compliance with the new disclosure requirements. These include the Law School Loan Program and undergraduate and graduate Nursing Loans. For these loans, the Application/Solicitation Disclosure Statement will be presented to you with your electronic financial aid award notification. These disclosures have also been listed below for your convenience. The subsequent disclosures, as well as the Self-Certification Form, will be presented to you electronically when you sign the loan promissory note. The Massachusetts No-Interest Loan Program is also subject to compliance with the new regulations. For this loan, the disclosure statements and the Self-Certification Form will be processed on paper by the Office of Student Services. Impact to Borrowers The disclosure requirements for private education loans will change the process of applying for and receiving private education loans. The process will take longer from application to disbursement, and you will have additional responsibilities beyond the application, including acknowledgement of the new disclosure statements and completion of the Self-Certification Form. If you are planning to finance all or part of your cost of education with a private education loan, you should start the application process as early as possible to avoid any potential repercussions that could result from nonpayment of your student account. Disclosure Statements Application/Solicitation Disclosure Statement The Application/Solicitation Disclosure Statement will be provided to you by your lender when you apply for a private education loan. This disclosure will describe the general terms of the loan and the estimated amount that you will repay over the life of the loan. It will also provide you with information regarding the potential availability of lower-cost Federal loan options. You are not required to take any action upon receipt of this disclosure, but you should review it carefully so that you understand the terms of the loan that you are requesting. Law School Loan Disclosure Nursing Loan Disclosure Approval Disclosure Statement The Approval Disclosure Statement will be provided to you when the loan is approved. It will include the specific terms of the loan being offered to you and could be presented to you on paper or electronically, depending on your lender's policies and procedures. You are required to accept the terms of the loan within 30 days by signing (or E-signing) and returning the Approval Disclosure Statement to your lender. The lender is not permitted to change the terms of the loan as described on the Approval Disclosure Statement, except as permitted by law. Failure to return the signed Approval Disclosure Statement may void the offer of credit from your lender. Final Disclosure Statement The Final Disclosure Statement will be provided to you once all requirements of the loan have been met, and prior to disbursement. You have 3 days from receipt of this disclosure to request that the loan be canceled. You are not required to take any action upon receipt of the Final Disclosure Statement unless you wish to cancel the loan. Boston College is committed to providing information in a manner that is accessible to all. If you are in need of a printed copy of the material presented on this web page, please contact the Office of Student Services. Contact the Office of Student Services Understanding Interest Rates An interest rate is the cost of borrowing money, usually expressed as a percentage, that is paid to the lender. Borrowers pay interest for the privilege of borrowing. Lenders charge borrowers fees and interest for the use of their money. Interest is charged because the lender is taking a risk lending money to a borrower. Fixed Interest Rate An interest rate that remains the same for a set period of time, regardless of the changing underlying interest rate index. Advantages of a Fixed Interest Rate Borrower will know what all future monthly payments will be. Monthly payments will never change. Borrower can calculate how long it will take to pay off all the interest and principal. Disadvantages of a Fixed Interest Rate Might have a higher monthly payment than with other interest rate loans. This is due to the fact that lenders are making borrowers pay for this luxury. Interest rate will never go down even if underlying interest rate index goes down. Variable Interest Rate An interest rate that moves up and down based on the changes of an underlying interest rate index. Advantages of a Variable Interest Rate Offer the most attractive interest rates at the beginning of the loan. A borrower’s interest rate can go down if the underlying interest rate index goes down. Might be a cap on the interest rate. Disadvantages of a Variable Interest Rate Monthly payments will fluctuate as interest rate fluctuates. Might not be a cap on the interest rate (Massachusetts capped at 18%). Interest rate and monthly payments will be adjusted monthly, semi-annually, annually, etc. Work Opportunities There are two types of student employment opportunities available to students: Federal Work-Study and campus employment. Federal Work-Study (FWS) is a federally-subsidized employment program awarded to domestic students. Opportunities under the FWS program may be on- or off-campus, including community service positions. To be eligible for FWS, students must demonstrate federal financial need by submitting the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) for a given year, and be enrolled in a degree program at least half-time or greater. The amount indicated on your financial aid award is the maximum eligibility level, not a guarantee. Actual earnings depend on the hours worked and the pay rate of the position. Awards are based on students working 8–10 hours per week. Earnings made do not credit the student’s account, but rather are paid directly to the student in the form of a weekly paycheck. If you do not qualify for FWS or did not apply for financial aid, you can work under the campus employment program. Campus employment is a separate option allowing students to hold part-time jobs on campus to help meet educational expenses. In either employment program, students may not work more than 20 hours per week while school is in session. During the summer, students may work up to 40 hours per week as permitted. Preference is given to FWS-awarded students since they have demonstrated financial need. For information about available jobs, visit our Student Employment web page. More About Student Employment Outside Scholarships All students are encouraged to seek outside scholarships to help with the cost of their education. To ensure the outside scholarship will benefit the student as much as possible, it is our policy to first replace the loan and work study portion of the student’s BC financial aid package; however, total grant funding (including outside scholarships) cannot exceed the student’s total demonstrated institutional need. If the amount of outside scholarship received exceeds the amount of loan and work study, then the student’s BC grant funds are reduced to meet their demonstrated institutional need. Unearned funding such as state grants reduce BC grant funds dollar for dollar within the financial aid package. Sources for outside scholarships can include high schools, civic organizations, vocational rehabilitation programs, National Merit, etc. Students can also visit fastweb.com for additional outside scholarship application information. Reporting & Mailing Scholarships The federal government requires that students inform the Office of Student Services directly of any scholarships or other education benefits received from sources outside of BC. You should report this information on your financial aid application materials, as well as submit the outside scholarship award letter(s). Please ensure all outside scholarship information has the student's name and Eagle ID Number included. Please mail all outside scholarship award letters to: Boston College Financial Aid Processing Center PO Box 1482 Portsmouth, NH 03802 Please mail all outside scholarship check payments to: Boston College Office of Student Services Lyons Hall, Room 103 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Veterans' Education Benefits Boston College acts as a liaison with the Veterans Administration for students who may qualify to receive veterans' education benefits. Eligible students should apply through the United States Department of Veterans Affairs in order to obtain a Certificate of Eligibility. Applications can be completed online at benefits.va.gov/gibill or by calling the Department of Veterans Affairs at 1-888-GIBILL-1 (1-888-442-4551). Once the Certificate of Eligibility has been received, the student should contact Linda Malenfant, the VA Certifying Official in the Office of Student Services. The Certifying Official will then certify the student's enrollment information to the Regional Processing Office (RPO). The RPO will process payment of benefits directly to the student. For more information on life at Boston College, visit our Boston College Veterans website. BC Veterans Site bc.edu/veterans Boston College is proud to participate in the Post-9/11 GI Bill® Yellow Ribbon Program. This award is a supplement to Post-9/11 GI Bill benefits, and it signifies Boston College’s commitment to providing benefits to those who have served our nation so courageously. The Yellow Ribbon Program is a provision of the Post-9/11 Veterans Educational Assistance Act of 2008. The program allows institutions of higher learning (degree granting institutions) in the United States to voluntarily enter into an agreement with the Veterans Association to fund tuition expenses that exceed the highest public in-state undergraduate tuition rate. The institution can contribute up to 50% of those expenses, and the VA will match the same amount as the institution. Boston College has allocated 100 slots for Yellow Ribbon recipients. Any student in a degree program is eligible to apply. The Yellow Ribbon Program (YRP) scholarship, combined with Boston College Scholarships, federal aid, and other estimated financial assistance, cannot exceed the cost of attendance. YRP recipients must maintain good academic standing while receiving the scholarship. Recipients will be eligible to receive the award in subsequent years, provided that Boston College remains a YRP participant. Eligible veterans must meet one of the following criteria: Served an aggregate period of active duty after September 10, 2001 of at least 36 months Honorably discharged from active duty for a service connected disability and served 30 continuous days after September 10, 2001 Is a dependent eligible for Transfer of Entitlement under the Post-9/11 GI Bill based on a veteran’s service under the eligibility criteria listed above Students in all undergraduate schools, GA&S, GSOE, GSON, GSSW, and CASG will receive a $6,000 Yellow Ribbon scholarship from BC that is matched by the VA with an additional $6,000 for a total of $12,000. For the 2021–2022 academic year, Boston College is implementing a pilot program for Yellow Ribbon recipients for full-time MBA and Law School students in which Yellow Ribbon funding will meet the total tuition cost for these programs. Eligible veterans must first fill out a form with the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs, and then submit a Certificate of Eligibility to Student Services. For more information on the Yellow Ribbon Bill, including eligibility requirements, visit the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs website. Post-9/11 GI Bill® Yellow Ribbon Program GI Bill® is a registered trademark of the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). More information about education benefits offered by VA is available at the official U.S. government website at benefits.va.gov/gibill. Loan Default Rate 0.9% Class of 2018 Federal student loan default rate Boston College 7.3% FY 2018 National Federal student loan cohort default rate U.S. Department of Education Back To Top Back To Top Office of Student Services Lyons Hall 103 Phone: 617-552-3300 or 800-294-0294 studentservices@bc.edu Facebook Twitter Instagram 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College