Utah State University sites use cookies. By continuing to use this site you accept our privacy and cookie policy. I agree Skip to content Apply Visit Give Calendar A-Z Index Directory Libraries QUICK LINKS MyUSU SEARCH Division of Student Affairs Close search Search Utah State University: I want to search All USU sites People Search terms Submit search Division of Student AffairsOpen main menu Close Open search Administration Wellness Close Wellness Student Health & Wellness Counseling & Psychological Services (CAPS) Campus Recreation Student Conduct Wellness Ready Involvement Close Involvement Events and Activity Approval Student Involvement & Leadership Center Inclusion Center Center for Community Engagement Residence Life Fraternity & Sorority Life Veterans Resource Center Involvement Ready Support Close Support Emergency Hardship Fund Division Scholarships Other USU Student Services Report Concerns Close Report Concerns Report Student of Concern Report Sexual Misconduct or Discrimination Report Misconduct Student Fees News Quick Links Close Quick Links Apply Visit Give Calendar A-Z Index Directory Libraries MyUSU Wellness On This Page Mental and Emotional Health Counseling and Psycological Services Student Health and Wellness Center Sexual Assault and Anti-Violence Information Physical Well-Being Student Health and Wellness Center SNAC: Student Food Pantry USU Eastern Fitness Options Campus Recreation USU Locations Statewide COVID-19 If You Are Sick COVID CARE Team Your wellness is especially important these days, and we are ready to support you – even remotely! USU health and wellness services provide in-person and remote services for all students. Mental and Emotional Health Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS) CAPS embraces a holistic approach to student development by removing psychological, emotional, and behavioral barriers to learning and success through remote short-term therapy. Individual Counseling and Therapy USU’s Counseling and Psychological Services remote individual counseling and therapy provide support for students who experience: Stress & anxiety Depression Suicidal thoughts* Self-harm Relationship issues Behavioral problems Identity issues Minority stress Negative body image & disordered eating Loss & grief Trauma * Call 911 if you are experiencing a mental health emergency. For 24/7 free and confidential support for people in distress, or prevention and crisis resources, call the National Suicide Prevention Line at 1-800-273-8255. Discussing concerns with an objective professional can help you better resolve personal problems and develop strategies for better problem-solving. Schedule an Appointment Workshops Workshops ranging from one to two hours are open to students who might be interested in learning more about various topics related to mental health, including: Stress & anxiety Racing thoughts Sadness & depression Relationships Work/life balance Resilience & self-care Spring Workshops: Mindful Self-Compassion Thinking Straight - How to Manage Your THoughts for Maximum Mental Health Distress Tolerance Grief & Loss Racial Trauma and Healing Body Game Preventing Burnout Stress and Anxiety Breathing and Health Stress Response Cyle Mindfulness Join a Workshop Support Groups Group counseling allows you to explore feelings in a trusting and supportive environment. Groups can be especially helpful if you feel isolated or concerned about how you relate to others. As you hear others' experiences and share yours, you gain support and are able to help other people as well. Support groups can cover: Interpersonal difficulties Social anxiety Stress & general anxiety Sadness & depression Unhealthy coping strategies Difficulty managing emotions Fall Topics: Understanding Self and Others Women's Group Skills Training Support Groups: Faith Challenges LGBTQIA+ Learn More About Support Groups Self-Guided Resources When it comes to free online and at your own time and pace mental health support, you’re in luck. There are many resources available, including: CAPS Self-Guided Resource Library: Access videos and resources for topics including anxiety, depression, stress and time management, eating and body image, and many others. ACT Guide: An online self-help program designed by psychologists at USU to foster emotional well-being and help individuals cope with mental health issues. The program is free to USU students for the first six months. SafeUT App: The SafeUT Crisis Text and Tip Line app is free and provides 24/7 access to crisis counseling with trained therapists. Get help immediately from trained professionals (available on Apple and Android devices). National Suicide Prevention Line: Call 800-273-8255 for 24/7 free and confidential support for people in distress, prevention and crisis resources, and best practices for professionals. Black Mental Health Matters USU Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS) recognizes many of you are suffering from the painful effects of continuing violence against Black people and the systemic racism that pervades our society. Racial trauma and intergenerational trauma have profound effects on mental health and well-being. CAPS provides resources and support for any emotions you might be feeling from sadness and grief, hopelessness and fear, anger and rage, to hope and empowerment. Access Resources Student Wellness Portal Student Health and Wellness Center The Student Health and Wellness Center provides a variety of health and wellness services to students, including psychiatry. Psychiatry Services There are numerous causes to mental and emotional health challenges. In some cases, there could be a chemical imbalance. A psychiatrist can help identify the cause and provide medical treatment options to give you the support you need. Psychiatry in-person and remote services are available at USU’s Student Health and Wellness Center. Schedule an In-Person or Remote Appointment Student Health Services Sexual Assault and Anti-Violence Information Office (SAAVI) SAAVI is a confidential resource for individuals who experience, or know someone who has experienced, bullying, stalking, hazing, sexual assault or harassment, or relationship violence. Confidential Support SAAVI provides safe and confidential counseling for survivors of sexual assault and violence. Services are open to ALL USU students. A survivor's role is to heal from their experience, and a SAAVI advocate can help remove barriers to healing. Confidential Therapy SAAVI has one full-time and one part-time therapist who see primary and secondary survivors of sexual violence. To see a therapist, you must first complete an intake with an advocate, which you can set up by phone or email. SAAVI Office Physical Well-Being Student Health and Wellness Center The Student Health and Wellness Center provides a variety of health and wellness services to students, including general medical care, minor surgery, physical therapy, x-rays, and more. The center will continue to offer in-person and remote appointments and services to all students. Health Services Health General medical and urgent care (colds, sore throats, x-rays, etc.) Women’s and men’s health Physical exams Physical therapy Learn More and Schedule an Appointment Wellness Services Wellness Alcohol and drug education Alcohol and narcotics support groups Nutrition Services Nutrition Nutrition counseling Eating disorders Healthy eating and grocery shopping tips Weight management Student Health Services SNAC: Student Food Pantry Students in need of nutritious food can access USU’s food pantry once a week, no questions asked. Order online and pick up your order at the selected time slot in TSC 332. SNAC USU Eastern Health Services USU Eastern Student Health Services are provided in partnership with Eastern Utah Women's Health and are available to all USU Eastern students, all genders. USU Eastern Health Services Fitness Options Campus Recreation Campus Rec offers a variety of resources to maintain physical wellness through fitness classes, personal training, competitive sports, aquatics, and outdoor programs and trips. Remote Options Whether you wish to remain home or are unable to participate in-person, Campus Recreation provides students with access to at-home and remote fitness options, including: Fitness at Home Virtual Campus Rec programs (Fitness and Wellness, Outdoor Programs, Competitive Sports, and Aquatics) Logan Campus Some Campus Recreation facilities in Logan, including the ARC, are still open with safety procedures in place. To help you determine the best time to attend a rec facility: View live facility counts to see what areas are at capacity. Review the rec COVID-19 facilities and programs guidelines. View adjusted hours. Learn More About Fitness Facilities Campus Recreation USU Statewide Campuses Statewide Campuses Some Statewide Campuses provide fitness facilities with in-person access. Check to find a fitness facility at a USU location near you. USU Eastern Fitness facilities are available to USU Eastern students at the Bunnell-Dmitrich Athletic Center. USU Blanding USU Blanding students have access to the Blanding Wellness Center’s fitness and wellness services. COVID-19 If You are Sick Anyone with symptoms of COVID-19 should seek a test immediately to determine if they have COVID-19. When seeking a test, you should use the address where you are currently living. USU Logan COVID Testing The USU Logan COVID testing center will remain open and provide tests to students living in Logan. Testing Centers Across Utah Find a COVID-19 testing center in Utah near you. COVID CARE Team If you do need to quarantine or self-isolate, the COVID CARE Team will reach out to discuss needs and services, including academic accommodations, community resources available to those living off campus, and physical and mental health support. Division of Student Affairs CONTACT US 0175 Old Main Hill Logan, UT 84322 (435) 797-1712 NEWSLETTER Receive insights into the USU student experience through the Division of Student Affairs monthly newsletter. Subscribe to Student Affairs Newletter Subscribe EMPLOYEE RESOURCES Business Services Emergency Procedures Marketing and Communications Contact Us Assessment Student Fees Student Award Maps & Directions Search USU Campus Safety Jobs Contact Terms of Use Copyright Privacy Accessibility Non-Discrimination Admin Back to top of the page