× Please sign in You need to log in to use the bookmarking feature. Sign In Harvard Business School Sign in to Baker Library Baker Library | Bloomberg Center Search Find Services Ask Browse Databases Collections & Archives Guides Exhibits Find Books, Articles & More More Places HOLLIS Catalog Harvard Library Working Knowledge Service Type Research Curriculum Research Data Program See all... Service Audience Faculty Doctoral Students MBA Students Alumni Executive Education Staff Visiting Researchers Ask Us Ask a Question Fast Answers Policies Staff Directory How Do I... Request HBS Cases Plan A Visit Manage My Data Get Teaching Support Baker Library Databases Ask Us Special Collections Fast Answers All Services Hours Plan Your Visit Exhibits Hollis Working Knowledge HBS Home About Academic Programs Alumni Faculty & Research Baker Library Campaign Harvard Business Review Initiatives News Recruit Map / Directions Search Search Search Home Policies Baker Library Policies Baker Library Policies Baker Library asks that our community adhere to our operating policies and procedures. If you have questions, please ask. Bookmark This Baker Library Policies /policies/baker-library-policies Guide to policies at Baker Library. 53 46597 Baker Library Policies /policies/baker-library-policies Guide to policies at Baker Library. 53 46597 Add My Librarian Item In This Guide Who Can Use Baker Library? Borrowing HBS Partner Access Proxy Accounts Special Collections Policies Copyright and Licensing Restrictions Lending to Non-Harvard Libraries Baker Library Research Standards Who Can Use Baker Library? Baker Library serves the Harvard Business School community, as well as Harvard University, alumni, and researchers. Visitors may access the Stamps Reading Room on the third floor of Baker Library | Bloomberg Center Monday - Friday during Information Services hours. A fee may be required and can be paid by American Express, MasterCard, and Visa. Photo IDs used as part of the application process are valid if they are: government issued (including a valid date) include the name of an accredited, degree granting institution (academic affiliation will be confirmed by checking the applicant’s name in their school's online directory) Access to the Stamps Reading Room grants visiting researchers the use of many of our licensed databases; those available to Authorized Baker Visitors. Before visiting the Stamps Reading Room, please contact Information Services (617.495.6040). We want to ensure that any research trip involving significant time and expense is worthwhile. Baker Library Special Collections is open to all members of the Harvard University Community and to visiting researchers. For information about visiting, see Special Collections. Who Fee Borrowing Be sure to bring * HBS and HU faculty, staff and students Includes: HU Research Assistants Extension School degree candidates Free access Yes Valid Harvard ID HU Retirees Free access Yes Valid Harvard ID Partners of HBS MBA & doctoral students, and faculty Free access Yes Valid HBS ID or Documentation Cross Registered at HBS Free access Yes Valid HBS ID or Valid photo ID, Documentation from HBS registrar IvyPlus Partners (Borrow Direct) Free access Yes Valid Harvard ID HU Summer School students Free access Valid Harvard ID Harvard Business School Online participants Free access Valid photo ID + HBS Login verification Harvard University alumni Free access Valid photo ID Visiting doctoral students Free access Valid student photo ID + Letter from faculty advisor, or university directory entry verifying current status Visiting faculty Free access Valid faculty ID Visiting students $15/day or $60/month (30 days) Valid student photo ID Visiting researchers (including Harvard Library "Independent Researchers" category ***) $50/day or $200/month (30 days) Valid photo ID Visitors using Boston Public Library materials housed at Baker Free access to BPL material. $50/day or$200/month for use of any other Baker material. Valid photo ID + Referral letter from the Boston Public Library Visitors using National Endowment for the Humanities (NEH) materials Free access to NEH microfilm(as identified in HOLLIS). $50/day or $200/month for use of any other Baker material. Valid photo ID Reciprocal Institutional Agreements**** Free access Valid student photo ID* IDs other than Harvard must include a date to be valid. * IDs other than Harvard must include a date to be valid. ** Access varies based on participation in Harvard University’s COVID-19 testing. Please see Harvard Extension School COVID-19 Updates (https://extension.harvard.edu/about/news-press/covid-19-updates/) *** HCL Special Borrowers have onsite access only to materials from the Baker Library collections. **** Andover-Newton Theology School, Episcopal Divinity School, Fletcher School (Tufts), Sloan School (MIT), University of Tokyo, Weston Jesuit School of Theology Borrowing Baker Library's circulating items may be borrowed by HBS and HU faculty, staff and student holders of Harvard University ID cards, HBS Partner cards, and Harvard Library Research Assistant cards. Proxy borrowing on behalf of faculty is encouraged for HBS Faculty Support Specialists and HBS Research Assistants. Please note that many items in Baker's collections are not eligible for borrowing and are for in-library use only. Examples of non-circulating items include journals, microforms, reference items, and materials from our Special Collections. Loan Periods Baker Loan Periods Item Type Loan Period Books term* HBS Theses term* Audio/Visual Materials 14 days Reserve Items (In-library use only) 3 hours *Term due dates are early February and early September each year. Renewals To renew an item, go to HOLLIS and use the "My Account" feature. For assistance, please Ask Us. After five renewals, materials must be brought to the library to be checked out again in person. Recalls Material you have on loan might be recalled. If an item you have is recalled, a recall notice will be sent via email. All borrowers, regardless of category, who do not respond promptly to recalls will be fined and may be subject to suspension of library borrowing privileges. Fines Recall item fine: $3/day Lost book fees: $100 minimum (replacement and processing fee and recall fines may increase fine) HBS Partner Access MBA students and their partners should visit MBA Partner Services (2nd floor, Spangler) to register for partner IDs. Baker Library MBA Partner Benefits Consultations with a KLS librarian Partners can make an appointment with a Knowledge & Library Services (KLS) librarian by contacting us. Be sure to include key topics you would like to discuss and your availability. KLS librarians can assist with: Developing your target company list Researching companies Researching for interview prep Database Access On-site access to a variety of databases. Primary resources for job search include: Orbis (for creating target lists of companies), Factiva (for researching companies in depth), and American City Business Journals (for identifying the major industries and companies in Boston as well as other metropolitan areas). Check in at the Stamps Reading Room Service Desk for assistance (3rd Floor Baker Library). Borrowing Partners may check out items from Baker Library under the HBS student’s name if they are listed in the student’s MBA Classcard. Partners may check out items on hold for their HBS student that will be listed on the student’s library record. Partners may check out items that will be listed on their personal library record if they have set up access to other Harvard libraries (see below). Access to Other Harvard Libraries For tap access to other Harvard libraries and borrowing privileges, see information about Library Access Cards and visit the Harvard Library Access and Borrowing Office (Widener Library Room 130). Present HBS Partner ID and necessary documentation listed on the Harvard Library page for Library Access Cards in the section for Domestic Partners. After staff verifiy your affiliation, tap access to other Harvard libraries can be added to the HBS Partner ID card you have. A $5.00 fee is required. Partners may borrow items from libraries across Harvard. Items borrowed will be listed on your personal library record. Proxy Accounts HBS Research Assistants and Faculty Support Specialists may request two types of Proxy Accounts: a Baker Library proxy account (valid at Baker Library only), or a Harvard Library-wide Research Assistant and Proxies card for use across Harvard. Baker Library Proxy Form Harvard Library Research Associates and Proxies Special Collections Policies Baker Library Special Collections is open to all members of the Harvard University community and to visiting researchers who are conducting academic research. For more information, please see Special Collections - Visit Us. Copyright and Licensing Restrictions Copyright Restrictions: All users of Baker Library resources must respect the copyrights of works that are accessible through computers connected to the Harvard network. No copyrighted work may be copied, published, disseminated, displayed, performed or played without permission of the copyright holder except in accordance with fair use or licensed agreement. This includes music, movies and other copyrighted material. Harvard may terminate the network access of users who are found to have repeatedly infringed the copyright of others. Students with questions about copyright or this policy are invited to raise those questions with a Reference Librarian. Staff supervisors and members of the Faculty are welcome to call the University's Office of General Counsel. Licensing restrictions: Electronic resources listed on the Baker Library site are restricted by license agreement to members of the Harvard or Harvard Business School communities, and, in some cases, to on-site users of Baker Library for the purposes of research, teaching, and private study. Under Harvard's licenses for electronic resources, users generally may not: permit anyone other than authorized users to use the licensed materials systematically download documents from a database. modify or create a derivative work of the licensed materials without the permission of the licensor remove, obscure or modify any copyright or other notices included in the licensed materials use the licensed materials for commercial purposes, including but not limited to the sale of the licensed materials. Users are individually responsible for compliance with these terms. Vendors sell Harvard Business School access to their databases at rates that reflect a deep discount compared to what a commercial enterprise would pay. Information providers sell us this content on our contractual guarantee that we will use the data strictly for academic or research purposes. MBA students may use Baker's licensed databases for their own analysis in support of their academic work (including FGI, independent projects and summer internships*), but must follow these guidelines: In your written communication with colleagues, you may excerpt only insignificant portions of reports, articles, and other documents for distribution to company employees or anyone else (i.e., do not email data, entire documents, or reports to others at the company). Never allow others direct access to Baker Library resources (i.e., do not share your password with anyone). Always attribute accurately and completely all data and excerpts you include in your reports. For recommended guidelines, see the HBS Citation Guide. WRDS does not allow usage with outside organizations, and cut off MBA access to the database in the summer. * Some vendors specifically exclude internships in their click-through agreements. Where there is a click-through, please read carefully and refrain from using a resource if your use would violate the terms. See Also: Special Collections Copyright and Citations Lending to Non-Harvard Libraries Baker Library, as part of Harvard Library, loans materials or makes photocopies of materials for institutions worldwide. For more information and contacts, please see Harvard Library Interlibrary Loan policies for lending outside Harvard. Please note: the following items cannot be loaned outside of Harvard. Institutions are encouraged to check Harvard's HOLLIS catalog to determine if the item is eligible by noting its type/location. HBS Cases: Baker Library is prohibited from copying cases. Please contact Harvard Business School Publishing to order cases. In most instances, the cost to purchase a case is less than the cost of an average Interlibrary Loan transaction. Bound volumes or entire single issues of serials/periodicals. Items from our Special Collections (Archives, Baker Old Class, and other historical collections). Anything listed as "Non-Circulating" or "In-Library Use." Baker Library Research Standards Baker Library's research professionals are committed to the highest standard of excellence. Our professionals work with our community of users to identify, analyze, and present information and data to support the generation of knowledge and ideas. ACCOUNTABLE: Associate your identity with every product you create; you are responsible for the timeliness and accuracy of what you produce. ACCURATE: Use accurate and reliable sources and techniques when accessing and analyzing data; check for the introduction of errors when you are manipulating data. APPROPRIATE: Engage in dialog with the research requestor in order to ensure that the product you create will serve to further his/her expressed aims. ARCHIVED AND RECOVERABLE: Archive all data sets, documentation, programs, exhibits, etc. in a safe and conveniently accessed manner. CONFIDENTIAL: Assume confidentiality on all projects unless expressly told otherwise by the research requestor; this does not preclude requesting help from other internal research providers on sources or methodologies that will further the research requestor’s aims. ETHICALLY COLLECTED: Obtain permission for use of all licensed and primary source data; any restrictions on use must be observed; HU guidelines must be observed with respect to human subjects, as outlined in “Statement of Policies and Procedures Governing the use of Human Subjects in Research at Harvard University.” METHODOLOGICALLY SOUND AND VALID: Present your analysis clearly and completely cited, with sufficient discussion to support your inferences and conclusions. REPRODUCIBLE AND VERIFIABLE: Cite, label, document and preserve every research product you create, in order to assure the integrity of the research process, and to allow verification by other researchers. SOURCED AND DOCUMENTED: Keep careful records of all sources, transformations, mathematical operations, and analyses; provide these records to the research requestor when the product is delivered. TIMELY: Deliver all products within a reasonable time and on a predictable schedule based on a common understanding with the research requestor; set realistic expectations, and inform the research requestor of any unanticipated delays as soon as possible. TRANSPARENT: Ensure that all products will be clear and understandable to any reader, and particularly, to the research requestor; clearly define and label all data items, sources, units of measure, periodicities, and time frames so they are clear and unambiguous; provide clear explanations of all transformations of original data. Back to top Today's HoursAll Hours Connect with Baker Map & Contacts Know Before You Go Library Spaces Staff Directory About the Library B4B Product Catalog Books@Baker Annual Reports Harvard Business School Baker Library | Bloomberg Center Soldiers Field Boston, MA 02163 Phone: 1.617.495.6040 Email: infoservices@hbs.edu Maps and Directions Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram iTunes All Social Media Jobs Trademarks Site Map Harvard University Policies Digital Accessibility Copyright © 2022 President & Fellows of Harvard College.