COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW WSU News Courtesy Joshua Iron Wing is an adult learner who worked the past five years on a bachelor's in accounting. May 05, 2022Adult LearningW. Frank Barton School of BusinessGraduate ProfilesAccess and Affordability Meet a Shocker: Joshua Iron Wing By Abigail Klein, public relations advisor Joshua Iron Wing is an adult learner who will graduate in spring 2022. He says he chose Wichita State because of the reputation of the W. Frank Barton School of Business. Joshua is one of more than 2,400 students eligible for spring 2022 graduation. Learn more about his time at Wichita State and what is next for the grad. Hometown Wichita, Kansas Degree Bachelor of Business Administration in Accounting What made you want to attend Wichita State? Wichita State provides a great educational opportunity for an affordable cost. The Barton School of Business also has a great reputation. How are you feeling leading up to graduation? I am feeling great. I cannot believe that my journey is almost over. It has been bittersweet and one of the most challenging but rewarding things I have ever done. What has been your biggest challenge as a student and how dd you overcome it? Returning as an adult learner. Managing a full-time job, family needs and school requirements has been difficult. Time management has been a crucial part of my success. What has been your most helpful learning experience at Wichita State? Learning time management. I cannot stress enough that creating and keeping a set schedule will not only allow you to succeed, it will also boost your GPA, your mental health and overall chance at success. What are your plans after graduation? Luckily, I have already secured employment and will continue with it after school. I am very much looking forward to after graduation though since I will get a great pay raise due to my bachelor’s degree. How did the COVID-19 pandemic affect your time at Wichita State? It was unfortunate. Before starting school five years ago, I was very excited to participate with fellow students and teachers in person. I feel like I get more out of lectures when I attend live classes. When COVID hit, that all came to an end. In my opinion, I feel like I don’t retain as much from online learning as in person, but that did not stop me from excelling. What advice would you give other Wichita State students? While attending college, be as engaged in professional environments as possible. Get a job, do an internship, join a professional community, or donate your time to charity. Even though we are increasing our dependency on technology, the ability to communicate and participate in live situations will set you apart from other employees. Accounting at Wichita State The Bachelor of Business Administration in accounting from WSU's Barton School of Business combines its AACSB-accredited program with the unmatched opportunities for applied learning and internships found in Kansas' largest city. Learn more about accounting Read more stories like this Related Stories Talent Pipeline Beyond the Classroom: Anllir Ramirez-Tenorio Access and Affordability Beyond the Classroom: Keegan Staats WSU Foundation Woolseys give $1.3 million to fulfill vision for Wayne and Kay Woolsey Hall Graduates Meet a Shocker: Rola Khaleel 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©