Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Explore Brown University Search Global Navigation Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Hassenfeld Child Health Innovation Institute Home About Mission & History Partners People Executive Committee Core Research and Evaluation Unit Faculty Scholars Data Core Survey Research Team Administrative Staff In the Spotlight Initiative Teams Scientific Committees Advisory Council Financial Team List of Faculty Our Work Resources For Families Community of Learners Summer Scholars 2021 Summer Scholars 2020 Summer Scholars 2019 Summer Scholars 2018 Summer Scholars 2017 Summer Scholars 2016 Summer Scholars Research Scholars Events Get Involved Site Navigation Home For Participants About the Hassenfeld Study Hassenfeld Study: Leadership Hassenfeld Study: Research Assistants About Mission & History Partners People Executive Committee Core Research and Evaluation Unit Faculty Scholars Data Core Survey Research Team Administrative Staff In the Spotlight Initiative Teams Scientific Committees Advisory Council Financial Team List of Faculty Our Work Asthma ABC Study Project CARE RI AIR Hotspot Analysis Home Asthma Response Program Neighborhood Risk Autism Genetics PHOEBE Study Prospective Infant Behavioral Study Play and Autism RI-CART Healthy Weight Summer Weight Gain Pregnancy and Early Childhood Expanding Scope of Treatment Measuring Overweight and Obesity The Hassenfeld Study Postpartum Cohort Prenatal Cohort Injury and Poisoning Neighborhood Disparities in Lead Poisoning Lead & Prematurity Fall-related Injuries Liquor Stores & Teen ED Use Frequent ED Use ED Use & Insurance Coverage Traumatic Brain Injury Burns Resources For Families English Español Community of Learners Summer Scholars 2021 Summer Scholars 2020 Summer Scholars 2019 Summer Scholars 2018 Summer Scholars 2017 Summer Scholars 2016 Summer Scholars Research Scholars Events Hassenfeld Institute Child Health Seminar Series Past events and webinars Get Involved Give to the Institute Hassenfeld Child Health Innovation Awards 2017 Summer Scholars Jerson Cochancela Jerson Cochancela just completed the first year of his biostatistics ScM at Brown University's School of Public Health. He graduated with a BS in mathematics and an MS in statistics from Stony Brook University in 2016 where he served as an instructor in pure and applied mathematics. As a child, Jerson was diagnosed with asthma and hopes to make meaningful contributions to pediatric asthma research. As a Hassenfeld Scholar at the Childhood Asthma Research Program (CARP), Jerson will be working with geospatial data to examine whether neighborhood risk moderates the association between asthma and asthma related emergency room visits. James Dorroh James Dorroh is a rising senior at Brown University concentrating in health and human biology. Before starting his junior year, Jimmy worked for six years in the Wake County EMS System in Raleigh, NC, as an EMT and paramedic. He spent the majority of his EMS career serving in economically disadvantaged areas, and has a strong interest in analyzing the origins and impact of health disparities in urban communities, especially regarding the lasting effects of adverse health outcomes in children. As a Hassenfeld Scholar at the Institute's Asthma Research Program (CARP), Jimmy will be studying the effectiveness of home, school, and emergency department interventions to reduce healthcare utilization and disease burden among children with asthma. Jimmy holds an associate's degree in EMS from Lenoir Community College and is a paramedic supervisor with Brown EMS. Katie Magid Katie Magid is a rising fifth year student in the AB/MPH program at Brown University. During her time at Brown, she has developed an interest in a number of maternal and child health issues, including childhood obesity. As an undergraduate, she worked for three years as a student research assistant on Healthy Start/Comienzos Sanos, an early-childhood obesity intervention. This work solidified her desire to understand how the built environment can impact diet and physical activity. As a Hassenfeld Summer Scholars, she is excited to research weight status, nutrition, and physical activity in the context of studying summer weight gain among adolescents. Surya Manickam Surya Manickam is a rising second year at Brown Alpert Medical School, pursuing both his MD and Master of Science in population medicine. He grew up in southern Massachusetts and graduated from UC Berkeley in 2015, with a major in neurobiology and minor in global poverty and practice. At Berkeley, his research explored the relationship between sleep, anxiety, and gender. He then worked in San Francisco for a year at Joyable, a mental health/tech startup. His minor inspired him to pursue research that was action-oriented and could be leveraged in the long run to enact real change for underserved populations. Surya deeply enjoys working with children, especially in terms of patient population, impact, and parent partnership. As a Hassenfeld Scholar, he will be investigating neonatal emergency department utilization. Kaley O’Connor Kaley O’Connor is a public health concentrator and a rising junior at Brown University. She has a specific interest in investigating health disparities related to income level, especially among children. As a Hassenfeld Scholar, she will be working under the Healthy Weight, Nutrition, and Physical Fitness Initiative to assess summer weight gain in low-income children from three Rhode Island communities. Ultimately, she hopes to utilize the data collected on physical activity and diet to determine the risk factors for summer weight gain and to design a potential intervention to help children stay healthy during summer vacation. Jessica Simon Jessica Simon is a rising senior at Brown University studying applied-math biology. As a pre-med student, she has a strong interest in healthcare and plan to pursue a career as a doctor. Her strong interests in child psychiatry led her to start volunteering in Dr. Sheinkopf’s lab at the Brown Center for the Study of Children at Risk during her sophomore year. Dr. Sheinkopf’s research involves studying children with Autism Spectrum Disorder to observe how they respond differently to social and nonsocial stimuli compared to typically developing children. This summer as a Hassenfeld Scholar, Jessica will pursue an independent project that combines her applied math-biology background with her interest in psychology. She hopes to establish a mathematical tool to analyze the correspondence between physiology data and child behavior, a project that will help prepare her for her thesis project as well as provide a useful tool for the lab to use in future analyses. Adriana Trejo-Sheu Adriana Trejo-Sheu is a rising junior at Brown University concentrating in biomedical engineering. She is particularly interested in understanding the signs of Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD) and their relation to physiological outcomes, such as heart rate, galvanic response, etc. As a Hassenfeld Scholar, she will be based at the Center for Children and Families at Women and Infants Hospital, and will be analyzing prematurely born infants’ cries, coding social behavior, and developing a pilot for a continuous coding measurement to potentially correlate physiological arousal and behavioral outcomes. While ASD diagnosis is primarily rooted in social behavior, Adriana is exploring how physiological responses, such as heart rate or galvanic response, affect or are affected by such behavior. Through her research on ASD, she hopes to increase awareness of the physiological and social symptoms of ASD, and help improve diagnosis so that children can be helped at earlier developmental stages. Carolina Velasco Carolina Velasco is a senior at Brown University. She concentrates in public health and statistics. Her interest in working with vulnerable and marginalized populations was sparked by previous experiences conducting research with prisoners and being a development intern at Mali Health- an NGO that seeks to reduce maternal and child morbidity and mortality in Bamako. This summer, she will be a Hassenfeld Scholar interning at the Childhood Asthma Research Program (CARP) at the Bradley Hasbro Research Center. She looks forward to interacting with research participants and community stakeholders at home visits and the Asthma Summer Camp, as well as to gaining experience conducting data analysis and GIS mapping to inform CARP's research projects and interventions. Yokarla Veras Yokarla Veras is a first year medical student at Alpert Medical School pursuing a dual MD-ScM degree. Throughout her academic career, Yokarla has developed a strong interest in health disparities and its effect on overall health and healthcare delivery. At the Hassenfeld Child Health Innovation Institute and as her master's thesis, Yokarla will be studying how neighborhood or individual attributes in Rhode Island influence unintentional childhood injury visits to the emergency room. She hopes to elucidate factors that increase the risk of childhood injury for future prevention efforts. Jenna Zagoren Jenna Zagoren is extremely excited to be working in the Hassenfeld Scholar Program this summer. She is currently a rising senior at Brown University concentrating in Public Health. Her current research interests include HIV/AIDS and Hepatitis C in the United States, as well as child health inequalities (particularly in mental disorders) in the United States. She plans to pursue a masters degree in epidemiology. Community of Learners Summer Scholars 2021 Summer Scholars 2020 Summer Scholars 2019 Summer Scholars 2018 Summer Scholars 2017 Summer Scholars 2016 Summer Scholars Research Scholars Hassenfeld Child Health Innovation Institute Hassenfeld Child Health Innovation Institute Brown University Box G S 121-4 121 South Main Street, Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-3855 Email [email protected] Twitter Twitter Facebook Facebook Instagram Instagram Info for study participants Subscribe to our monthly newsletter Brown University Giving to Brown Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA 401-863-1000 Contact Us Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility All Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top