Skip to content Clemson University Clemson University Search Menu Close Sorry, your browser does not support inline SVG. Sorry, your browser does not support inline SVG. Apply Giving News Resources for Students Faculty & Staff Parents Alumni Clemson University Academics Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Academics Home Employment Opportunities Apply for Admission Colleges College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business College of Education College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences College of Science Graduate School Academic Resources Academic Calendar Registrar Division of Undergraduate Studies Center for Career and Professional Development Academic Success Center GRAD 360° Libraries Outside the Classroom PEER/WISE Call Me MISTER® Creative Inquiry and Undergraduate Research Cooperative Education University Professional Internship and Co-op Program (UPIC) Study Abroad Admissions Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Admissions Home Schedule a Tour Apply for Admission Applying to Clemson First-Year Undergraduate Transfer Undergraduate International Undergraduate Graduate Students Academic Opportunities Majors Graduate Programs Online Graduate Programs Scholar Programs Paths to Graduate School Honors College Experiential Learning Financial Aid Tuition and Fee Calculator Undergraduate Financial Aid Graduate Fellowships and Awards Residency Requirements Campus Life Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Campus Life Home Club Sports Brooks Center for the Performing Arts Join Your Clemson Family Finding Your Community Living-Learning Communities Student Veterans Multicultural Programs FIRST Army ROTC Air Force ROTC Services On Campus Housing & Dining Campus Recreation Parking and Transportation Student Health Services TigerOne Card Services Clemson Athletics Get Involved Clubs and Organizations Fraternity and Sorority Life Orientation Ambassadors Tiger Media Graduate Student Government Undergraduate Student Government Research Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Research Home Clemson University Research Foundation (CURF) Division of Research Research Opportunities Student Research at Clemson Creative Inquiry Research Facilities Postdoctoral Affairs Serving South Carolina Through Research School of Health Research Public Service and Agriculture Clemson Experimental Forest Clemson Extension Clemson Research and Education Centers Public Service and Agriculture Research Farm Services Innovation and Economic Development Corporate Partnerships and Strategic Initiatives Clemson University International Center for Automotive Research (CU-ICAR) Clemson University Restoration Institute (CURI) Clemson University Biomedical Engineering Innovation Campus (CUBEInC) Center for Human Genetics Innovation Campus and Technology Park About Clemson Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back About Clemson Home Clemson News Clemson Athletics For Tigers Applying to Clemson Working at Clemson Traditions Military Heritage Things To Do in Clemson Visit Clemson Campus Resources Employment Opportunities Home and Garden Information Center Brand Guidelines CCIT Academic Calendar Training ClemsonForward Campus Leadership Board of Trustees President Academic Affairs and Provost Inclusion and Equity Student Affairs Faculty Senate Staff Senate Search Resources for Current Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni ClemsonLIFE Volunteers & Mentors Student Life Student Employment Apply Giving News Sikes Hall Icon Main Menu Forward Arrow Icon Back Arrow Icon Back Clemson University Academics Academics Home Employment Opportunities Apply for Admission Colleges College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business College of Education College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences College of Science Graduate School Academic Resources Academic Calendar Registrar Division of Undergraduate Studies Center for Career and Professional Development Academic Success Center GRAD 360° Libraries Outside the Classroom PEER/WISE Call Me MISTER® Creative Inquiry and Undergraduate Research Cooperative Education University Professional Internship and Co-op Program (UPIC) Study Abroad Admissions Admissions Home Schedule a Tour Apply for Admission Applying to Clemson First-Year Undergraduate Transfer Undergraduate International Undergraduate Graduate Students Academic Opportunities Majors Graduate Programs Online Graduate Programs Scholar Programs Paths to Graduate School Honors College Experiential Learning Financial Aid Tuition and Fee Calculator Undergraduate Financial Aid Graduate Fellowships and Awards Residency Requirements Campus Life Campus Life Home Club Sports Brooks Center for the Performing Arts Join Your Clemson Family Finding Your Community Living-Learning Communities Student Veterans Multicultural Programs FIRST Army ROTC Air Force ROTC Services On Campus Housing & Dining Campus Recreation Parking and Transportation Student Health Services TigerOne Card Services Clemson Athletics Get Involved Clubs and Organizations Fraternity and Sorority Life Orientation Ambassadors Tiger Media Graduate Student Government Undergraduate Student Government Research Research Home Clemson University Research Foundation (CURF) Division of Research Research Opportunities Student Research at Clemson Creative Inquiry Research Facilities Postdoctoral Affairs Serving South Carolina Through Research School of Health Research Public Service and Agriculture Clemson Experimental Forest Clemson Extension Clemson Research and Education Centers Public Service and Agriculture Research Farm Services Innovation and Economic Development Corporate Partnerships and Strategic Initiatives Clemson University International Center for Automotive Research (CU-ICAR) Clemson University Restoration Institute (CURI) Clemson University Biomedical Engineering Innovation Campus (CUBEInC) Center for Human Genetics Innovation Campus and Technology Park About Clemson About Clemson Home Clemson News Clemson Athletics For Tigers Applying to Clemson Working at Clemson Traditions Military Heritage Things To Do in Clemson Visit Clemson Campus Resources Employment Opportunities Home and Garden Information Center Brand Guidelines CCIT Academic Calendar Training ClemsonForward Campus Leadership Board of Trustees President Academic Affairs and Provost Inclusion and Equity Student Affairs Faculty Senate Staff Senate Search close ClemsonLIFE Volunteers & Mentors Student Life Student Employment Clemson Home College of Education Programs Educational Programs Current: ClemsonLIFE ClemsonLIFE™ Welcome To ClemsonLIFE™ The ClemsonLIFE ™ program at Clemson University offers a collegiate experience that prepares young men and women with intellectual disabilities for competitive employment and independent living through a combination of academic coursework and career exploration. The program is designed for students who desire a post-secondary experience on a college campus. Our program incorporates functional academics, independent living, employment and social/leisure skills in a public university setting with the goal of producing self-sufficient young adults. Payment Portal ClemsonLIFE T-shirts ClemsonLIFE Traditional ClemsonLIFE Traditional Application for Admission About the Program The ClemsonLIFE Program offers a two-year Basic Program that incorporates functional academics, independent living, employment, social/leisure skills, and health/wellness skills in a public university setting with the goal of producing self-sufficient young adults. Additionally, the ClemsonLIFE Program offers a two-year Advanced Program for students that have demonstrated the ability to safely live independently, sustain employment, and socially integrate during the Basic Program. The Advanced Program progresses with an emphasis on workplace experience, community integration, and independent living with transitionally reduced supports. Students who successfully complete the Basic and/or Advanced program will receive a corresponding certificate of post-secondary education. We Believe Young adults go through a similar development process that requires certain activities, experience and support. Young adults must develop skills and an understanding about themselves and the world around them in order to fully participate in society and to become successful, contributing adults. Higher education is a vehicle for self-empowerment and access to social networks, employment, and independence. Group membership provides essential motivation and support for learning and participation in community life. ClemsonLIFE Courses Functional Mathematics, Banking and Budgeting Functional Literacy Independent Living Skills Social Skills Self Advocacy and Safety Health and Wellness Employment Skills Supervised Job Placement/Internship Independent Living Students live in four bedroom apartments on campus Supervision is provided by an on-site Independent Living Assistant (ILA) in each student apartment Independent living skills are taught in class, at the apartments, and then reinforced by ILAs Students are taught how to utilize public transportation Time management, prioritizing, and scheduling Counseling Counselors assist students and resident assistants with independent living skills Weekly group counseling sessions with students Individual counseling session available, upon student request Employment Job placements (on and off campus) with on-site supervision Weekly jobsite performance evaluations Classroom instruction on employment skills Employment Resources Provided Each student will be given an electronic copy of the following upon graduation: resume, reference list, and other resources (i.e. tips for an interview, how to deposit a paper check, common employment accommodations) Socialization/Leisure Enrollment in Clemson University leisure skills course Involvement in various campus student organizations Community involvement Interaction with Clemson University students from all across campus Mentor Program Health and Wellness Nutrition and cooking classes Personal fitness training Personal and universal hygiene practices Characteristics of healthy relationships Applications and Admissions Documentation of an intellectual disability, with significant limitations in intellectual functioning and in adaptive behavior, as defined by the American Association on Intellectual and Developmental Disabilities (AAIDD). “Intellectual disability is a disability characterized by significant limitations both in intellectual functioning and in adaptive behavior as expressed in conceptual, social, and practical adaptive skills. This disability originates before the age of 18” (AAIDD) Primary disability must be cognitive, not behavioral or emotional Was eligible for IDEA services while in school; has an IEP Has the ability to independently self-administer and manage medication, specialized dietary, and/or medical needs. Note: ClemsonLIFE personnel are not available to manage/administer medication and take no responsibility for specialized diets or medical needs Reading ability is on at least a third-grade level Has basic mathematics understanding; can use a calculator Can utilize technology (cell phone, laptop, etc.) on a basic level Age is between 18-26 years old upon admission to the program Demonstrates independence, motivation, and stability Can function independently for a sustained period of time Likes to be around people; sociable Able to handle changes in routine; can be flexible in fluctuating circumstances Not defiant toward authority; can take direction Demonstrates the ability to accept personal responsibility for actions and maintains respect for self and others Likes to learn Has the potential to be successful in competitive employment situations. We highly recommend employment, or at least volunteer, experience before entering the program. Has the desire and motivation to participate in a college experience Has parents who will support his/her independence Application Process We recommend prospective students and families attend a program open house. This one-day program will allow students and families to determine if the ClemsonLIFE program will be a good fit. Complete and submit the 2023-2024 ClemsonLIFE Application for Admission and required documentation by December 1. Select payment portal tab and pay application fee. Eligible applicants may be invited to attend an on-campus interview. Open House Open House dates: October 8, 2022 and March 4, 2023 The registration link for Fall will be posted September 1, 2022 The registration link for Spring will be posted February 1, 2023 Daily Schedule Monday and Wednesday 9:00 a.m. – LIFE: Applied Math/Applied Literature 12:00 p.m. – Lunch 1:00 p.m. – Social Skills/Internship 3:00 p.m. – Fitness Workout at Fike 4:00 p.m. – Tutoring 5:00 p.m. – Dinner Tuesday and Thursday 9:00 a.m. – LIFE: Self-Advocacy 11:00 a.m. – Leisure Skill Class 12:15 p.m. – Lunch 1:30 p.m. – Life Skills/Employment 4:00 p.m. – Walking Club 5:00 p.m. – Dinner Friday 9:00 a.m. – Computers & Technology/Critical Thinking 12:00 p.m. – Lunch 1:00 p.m. – Explore Clemson/Internship 3:30 p.m. – Fitness Workout at Fike Friday Afternoon – Sunday Evening Activities, Social, Leisure, and Recreation Events/Outings Planned by Independent Living Assistants. Grocery Shopping at Local Grocery Stores *This is a sample schedule that is subject to change. Social Leisure/Recreational Opportunities All students attend a Clemson University leisure skills class one to two days per week. They attend a specialized fitness class at Fike Recreation center once a week. Mentors also meet with students on a weekly basis to support and encourage LIFE students. The 650+ volunteers will be available for a plethora of activities with our students. Tailgates and football games on Saturdays Soccer, basketball, baseball, volleyball and other sporting events Students are buddies to young children with disabilities at TOP Soccerand Challenger Baseball. Students have the opportunity to participate on the Tiger Sharks Swim Team, Equine Therapy, and intramural sports. Campus-wide activities such as movies, bowling, concerts, shows, First Friday parade, homecoming events, etc. Students join and attend university clubs and student organizations functions. Calendar The ClemsonLIFE Program follows the University academic calendar, except for University exam weeks. Fall 2022 August 9- Hospitality Certificate Program Orientation August 18- Advanced Program Move In August 19- Advanced Program Orientation August 21- Basic Program Move In August 22-Basic Program Orientation August 24- Fall Classes Begin September 10- Home Football Game (vs. Furman) September 17- Home Football Game (vs. LA Tech) October 1- Home Football Game (vs. NC State) October 8- Open House October 22- Home Football Game (vs. Syracuse) November 7-8- Fall Break November 12- Home Football Game (vs. Louisville) November 19- Home Football Game (vs. Miami) November 23-25- Thanksgiving Break November 26- Home Football Game (vs. USofC) December 9- Last Day of Classes December 12-January 10- Holiday Break Spring 2023 January 11- Spring Classes Begin January 16- MLK Holiday- University Closed (no classes) March 4- Open House March 20-24- Spring Break April 28- Last Day of Classes April 29- Move Out Day and ClemsonLIFE Commencement Ceremony Frequently Asked Questions What is the mission of the ClemsonLIFE program? ClemsonLIFE (Learning is for Everyone) offers a collegiate experience that prepares young men and women with intellectual disabilities for competitive employment and independent living through a combination of academic coursework and career exploration. How does the ClemsonLIFE Program differ from other post-secondary opportunities? ClemsonLIFE core principles support the concept that enhancing academic, social, employment, and life skills will better prepare students with disabilities to lead full and productive lives. It is a comprehensive residential college experience designed to raise the expectations and skill levels of the students admitted to the program. Who will be teaching the coursework? Traditional college courses are taught by Clemson faculty, while functional academics are taught by staff with teacher certification in the area of special education. What are admission criteria? An applicant must be between the ages of 18 and 26 years old upon admission to the program and have an intellectual disability characterized by significant limitations both in intellectual functioning and in adaptive behavior as expressed in conceptual, social, and practical adaptive skills. Applicants must have a strong desire to become an independent adult and possess sufficient emotional stability and maturity to successfully participate in the program. How many applicants are offered admission each year? Twelve full time students will be admitted each year for fall semester. Is this a residential or commuter program? ClemsonLIFE is a residential program providing instruction and practical experience in independent living skills. All students enrolled in the Basic Program live in on-campus apartments under the supervision on an Independent Living Assistant (ILA). Students in the Advanced Program live in apartments off-campus, and are closely monitored by Transition Specialists who assist them with independent living skills. What is the length of the program? The Basic Program is designed to be completed in two years. Admittance into the Advanced Program is by invite-only, and provides two additional years of transition support to help facilitate independent living. What kind of certificate do students get? Students successfully completing the program will receive a certificate of post-secondary education (not an accredited college degree). Will there be student mentors? Each ClemsonLIFE student is provided an individual peer student mentor drawn from throughout the campus. Mentors assist ClemsonLIFE students both academically and socially, as well as helping them fully integrate into the college community. Are there opportunities for scholarships or grants? There are a variety of different funding opportunities including FAFSA, Pell grants, South Carolina Commission on Higher Education grants, Vocational Rehabilitation tuition stipends, ClemsonLIFE grant-in-aids, and other private scholarships. How do I schedule a campus tour? All interested applicants should attend one of our open houses that are held each semester. Sessions are typically offered in March and October. To reserve a space at an open house session, please register online. To schedule a campus tour, please visit the University campus tours page and fill out the registration form. Costs ClemsonLIFE is dedicated to providing a structured, high-quality, well-supervised program focused on vocational and independent living for young adults with disabilities. The cost per-semester is listed below for the 2022/2023 school year. The below fees are invoiced directly from the ClemsonLIFE program: ClemsonLIFE Fees (Basic Program) Program Fees Covers costs associated with the ClemsonLIFE program (i.e. Operation Costs and Staff/Instructor Salaries) - $12,000 Student Budget Fees Covers apartment groceries, laundry, attendance at sporting or theater events, field trips, etc. - $1,550 University Fees The below fees are paid directly to Clemson University and are included on the University bill: Housing Covers rent, utilities, cable and Internet. All students currently live in Douthit Hills apartments on campus. - $4,789 Academic Fee Covers tuition fees. All students are required to enroll in a one credit hour Clemson University leisure skills class. $633/credit hour for SC Residents $1,633/credit hour for Non-Residents Meal Plan (Required) The ClemsonLIFE meal plan is designed specifically for the ClemsonLIFE students for dining hall access. $1,463 per semester (100 meals + 250 paw points) Additional Fees Total cost, $460 per semester Health Fee, $182 per semester *All fees reflect the cost for Fall 2023 and are subject to change. ClemsonLIFE Fees (Advanced Program) The below fees are invoiced directly from the ClemsonLIFE program: Program Fees Covers costs associated with the ClemsonLIFE program (i.e. Operation Costs and Staff/Instructor Salaries) - $7,500 Student Budget Fees Covers apartment groceries, laundry, attendance at sporting or theater events, field trips, etc. - Not applicable *Students work in the Clemson Community and with ClemsonLIFE staff to define a budget that reflects the student's monthly income. University Fees The below fees are paid directly to Clemson University and are included on the University bill: Academic Fee Covers tuition fees. All students are required to enroll in a one credit hour Clemson University leisure skills class. $633/credit hour for SC Residents $1,633/credit hour for Non-Residents Meal Plan (Optional) The ClemsonLIFE meal plan is designed specifically for the ClemsonLIFE students for dining hall access. $1,463 per semester (100 meals + 250 paw points) Additional Fees Total cost, $460 per semester Health Fee, $182 per semester *All fees reflect the cost for Fall 2023 and are subject to change. Financial Aid Financial aid is available for students with intellectual disabilities attending post-secondary programs. The following are resources to explore: Federal Student Aid: Students may be eligible for Federal Pell Grants receiving up to $6,495 per year. Here are resources on the steps to filling out the FAFSA form and things you need to know before filling out the FAFSA form. South Carolina Commission on Higher Education- Transition Program Scholarship: If you are a South Carolina resident we encourage you to complete your FAFSA so you will receive the CTP scholarship from the South Carolina Commission on Higher Education. This scholarship is NOT need based. The requirements to receive funds from the CTP Scholarship are 1) they must be a US citizen or legal permanent resident, 2) a legal SC resident, and 3) be enrolled in a College Transition Program South Carolina Vocational Rehabilitation Department: Students may be eligible for sponsorships. Some independent organizations and groups have offered scholarship money to select students. Ruby's Rainbow: Our goal at Ruby's Rainbow is to grant scholarships to adults with Down Syndrome seeking post-secondary education, enrichment or vocational classes who feel that higher education is the right choice for them. O’Neill Tabani Enrichment Fund: The mission of the O’Neill Tabani Enrichment Fund is to offer financial assistance to young adults with Down Syndrome – 18 and older – who are continuing to enrich their lives by taking classes or enrolling in post-secondary educational programs. CSS Profile: The CSS form is not mandatory, but if you would like to be considered by ClemsonLIFE for Grant-in-aids you will have to fill out the form. Clemson University’s School Code is 5111. Cost for the CSS Profile is $25 for the initial application and one college or program report. Each additional college report is $16. More information can be found on the College Board website. Financial Aid Financial aid is available for students with intellectual disabilities attending post-secondary programs. The following are resources to explore: Federal Student Aid: Students may be eligible for Federal Pell Grants receiving up to $6,495 per year. Here are resources on the steps to filling out the FAFSA form and things you need to know before filling out the FAFSA form. South Carolina Commission on Higher Education- Transition Program Scholarship: If you are a South Carolina resident we encourage you to complete your FAFSA so you will receive the CTP scholarship from the South Carolina Commission on Higher Education. This scholarship is NOT need based. The requirements to receive funds from the CTP Scholarship are 1) they must be a US citizen or legal permanent resident, 2) a legal SC resident, and 3) be enrolled in a College Transition Program South Carolina Vocational Rehabilitation Department: Students may be eligible for sponsorships. Some independent organizations and groups have offered scholarship money to select students. Ruby's Rainbow: Our goal at Ruby's Rainbow is to grant scholarships to adults with Down Syndrome seeking post-secondary education, enrichment or vocational classes who feel that higher education is the right choice for them. O’Neill Tabani Enrichment Fund: The mission of the O’Neill Tabani Enrichment Fund is to offer financial assistance to young adults with Down Syndrome – 18 and older – who are continuing to enrich their lives by taking classes or enrolling in post-secondary educational programs. CSS Profile: The CSS form is not mandatory, but if you would like to be considered by ClemsonLIFE for Grant-in-aids you will have to fill out the form. Clemson University’s School Code is 5111. Cost for the CSS Profile is $25 for the initial application and one college or program report. Each additional college report is $16. More information can be found on the College Board website. Resources College is not for everyone. However, many students desire a college experience, including students with intellectual disabilities. It is for this reason that many colleges and universities now offer Comprehensive Postsecondary Transition Programs, like ClemsonLIFE. These programs offer inclusive social activities; participation in college courses; along with instruction on independent living skills, employment skills, and social skills with the goal of independent living and gainful employment to the greatest extent possible for each student. Think College is a great resource for families of students with intellectual disabilities considering college. For a searchable database of Available Comprehensive Postsecondary Transition Programs, see ThinkCollege Database. Online Resources Clemson University Student Disability Services Clemson University College of Education South Carolina Vocational Rehabilitation Department South Carolina Commission for the Blind ED.gov – Federal Pell Grant Program ED.gov – Federal Supplemental Educational Opportunity Grant (FSEOG) Program National Down Syndrome Society Other Online Resources Porter, S. & Freeman, L. (2000). Transition Planning for Adolescents with Special Health Care Needs and Disabilities: Information for Families and Teens. Newman, L. (2006). Family Expectations and Involvement for Youth with Disabilities. NLTS2 Data Brief. 4(2). Menlo Park, CA: SRI International. Available at Newman, L. (2005). Family Involvement in the Educational Development of Youth with Disabilities. A Special Topic Report of Findings from the National Longitudinal Transition Study-2 (NLTS2). Menlo Park, CA: SRI International. National Center on Secondary Education and Transition.(2002). Age of Majority. Parent Brief. Promoting Effective Parent Involvement in Secondary Education and Transition. Post-secondary Students with Disabilities: Becoming the mentor, advocate, and guide your young adult needs. Parent Brief. Promoting Effective Parent Involvement in Secondary Education and Transition. March 2002. Fialka, J.(2003). Opening New Doors: Transition from High School to College For a Student with a Moderate Disability. National Center on Secondary Education and Transition.(2002). Postsecondary Education Supports & Accommodations. Southern Methodist University (nd). The Parents’ Role: Learning Differences at College. Publications Collins, J. C., Ryan, J.B., Katsiyannis, A., Barrett, D. & Yell, M. (2014). Use of portable electronic assistive technology to improve independent job performance of young adults with an intellectual disability. Journal of Special Education Technology, 29(3), 15-30. Hawkins, B.L., Stegall, J.B., Weber, M. & Ryan J.B. (2012). The Influence of a Yoga Exercise Program for Young Adults with Intellectual Disabilities. International Journal of Yoga, 5, 151-156. Hughes, E., Green, J. & Ryan, J.B. (2011). The use of assistive technology to improve time management skills of a young adult with an intellectual disability. Journal of Special Education Technology, 26(3), 13-20. ClemsonLIFE Research Recent ClemsonLIFE Research *Randall, K. N., Ryan, J. B., Hirsch, S., Allen, A. (in press). Effects of Self-Monitoring on the Self-Determination of Individuals with Intellectual and Developmental Disability in a Post-Secondary Educational Setting. Focus on Autism and Other Developmental Disabilities. *Walters, S., *Stierle, J., *Stockwell, D., *Carlson, A., & Ryan, J.B., (2021). Efficacy of video prompting using mobile technology to teach employment tasks to individuals with intellectual disability. Journal of Inclusive Postsecondary Education. 3(1), 1-21. *Randall, K. N., Ryan, J. B., *Stierle, J. N. *Walters (2021). Meal planner application efficacy for increasing meal planning independence in individuals with intellectual disability. Education and Training in Autism and Developmental Disabilities. 56(2), 225- 239. *Randall, K. N., Ryan, J. B., *Stierle, J. N. *Walters, & S. Bridges, W. (2021). Evaluating and Enhancing Driving Skills for Individuals with Intellectual Disabilities through Simulator Training. Focus on Autism and Other Developmental Disabilities, 36(4), 191-200. *Randall, K. N., *Johnson, F., *Adams, S. E., *Kiss, C. W., & Ryan, J. B. (2020). Use of iPhone task analysis application to increase employment related chores for individuals with intellectual disabilities. Journal of Special Education Technology, 35(1), 26-36. Ryan, J. B., *Randall, K.N., *Walters, E., & *Morash-MacNeil, V. (2019). Employment and independent living outcomes of a mixed model post-secondary education program for young adults with intellectual disabilities. Journal of Vocational Rehabilitation, 50, 61-72. *Morash-MacNeil, V., *Johnson, F., & Ryan, J. B. (2018). Effectiveness of assistive technology for individuals with intellectual disability in the workplace: A meta-analysis. Journal of Special Education Technology, 33(1), 15-26. Collins, J. C., Ryan, J.B., Katsiyannis, A., Barrett, D. & Yell, M. (2014). Use of portable electronic assistive technology to improve independent job performance of young adults with an intellectual disability. Journal of Special Education Technology, 29(3), 15-30. Hawkins, B.L., Stegall, J.B., Weber, M. & Ryan J.B. (2012). The Influence of a Yoga Exercise Program for Young Adults with Intellectual Disabilities. International Journal of Yoga, 5, 151-156. Hughes, E., Green, J. & Ryan, J.B. (2011). The use of assistive technology to improve time management skills of a young adult with an intellectual disability. Journal of Special Education Technology, 26(3), 13-20. *Co-author was a student at time of preparation General Information ClemsonLIFE | 101 Gantt Circle | Suite G-01 | Clemson University | Clemson, SC 29634 | 864-656-0501 | clemsonlife@g.clemson.edu ClemsonLIFE Hospitality Certificate Program Hospitality Certificate Program Application for Admission About the Program ClemsonLIFE also offers an employment based program, the Hospitality Certificate Program (HCP). HCP students will receive a combination of classroom and employment experiences to prepare for employment in the Hospitality Industry. This two year program provides graduates with a ClemsonLIFE Hospitality Certificate while having the opportunity to receive other training/certifications (e.g., CPR/AED, Hazmat, Customer Service). We Believe Young adults go through a similar development process that requires certain activities, experience and support. Young adults must develop skills and an understanding about themselves and the world around them in order to fully participate in society and to become successful, contributing adults. Higher education is a vehicle for self-empowerment and access to social networks, employment, and independence. Group membership provides essential motivation and support for learning and participation in community life. Courses ClemsonLIFE HCP Academic Support PRTM 1980 - Employment and Hotel Operation Skills 1 PRTM 2980 - Employment and Food Service Skills PRTM 3980 - Employment and Hotel Operation Skills 2 PRTM 4980 - Professional Development in Tourism and Hospitality Work-Based Skills Lab Work-Based Paid Internship Employment Job placements (on and off campus) with on-site supervision Weekly jobsite performance evaluations Classroom instruction on employment skills Socialization/Leisure Involvement in various campus student organizations Community involvement Interaction with Clemson University students from all across campus Mentor Program Employment Resources Provided Each student will be given an electronic copy of the following upon graduation: resume, reference list, and other resources (i.e. tips for an interview, how to deposit a paper check, common employment accommodations) Counseling and Wellness Weekly group counseling sessions with students Individual counseling sessions available, upon student request Personal and universal hygiene practices Characteristics of healthy relationships Access to FIKE gym membership Applications and Admissions Applicants must be between the ages of 18-30 upon acceptance. The applicant must have a mild cognitive and/or developmental disability that interferes with their academic performance according to the American Association on Intellectual and and Developmental Disabilities (AAIDD). The applicant must have sufficient emotional and independent stability to participate in all aspects of ClemsonLIFE HCP. The applicant should be able to safely function independently for at least 4-5 hour blocks of time including Academic Coursework, Extracurricular Activities, Employability/Work Internships, etc. The applicant must demonstrate the ability to accept responsibility for his/her actions and maintain respect for him/her and others and have no history of disruptive or aggressive behaviors. Note: ClemsonLIFE HCP does not have the personnel necessary to manage behavioral issues or independent living concerns. The applicant must be able to get to and from campus and worksites on his/her own while providing his/her own means of transportation (i.e. bike, bus, scooter, Uber, etc). The applicant must be independent in handling his/her own medication, specialized dietary and/or medical needs, as well as maintaining personal hygiene. Note: There is no personnel available to manage/administer medication. The ClemsonLIFE HCP staff takes no responsibility for specialized diets or medical needs. The applicant must demonstrate the desire to attend ClemsonLIFE Hospitality Certificate Program and adhere to the ClemsonLIFE policies regarding attendance and participation in the ClemsonLIFE Hospitality Certificate Program coursework and traditional Clemson University classes. The applicant must have the potential to successfully achieve his/her goals within the context of the ClemsonLIFE Hospitality Certificate program’s content and setting. Application Process Attend a group informational session in the beginning of August 2022. This will allow students and families to determine if the ClemsonLIFE Hospitality Certificate program will be a good fit. Complete and submit the 2023-2024 ClemsonLIFE HCP Application for Admission and required documentation by September 15, 2022. Select payment portal tab and pay application fee. Eligible applicants may be invited to attend an on-campus interview in Fall 2022. Open House Open House dates: October 8, 2022 and March 4, 2023 The registration link for Fall will be posted September 1, 2022 The registration link for Spring will be posted February 1, 2023 Daily Schedule Monday and Wednesday: 8:30 a.m. - Advising 9:00 a.m. - PRTM academic class 12:00 p.m. - Lunch 1:15 p.m. - Work-Based skills lab Tuesday and Thursday: 8:30 a.m. - Advising 9:00 a.m. - ClemsonLIFE Academic Support 12:00 p.m. - Lunch 1:00 p.m. - Internship Friday 9:00 a.m. - Internship 12:00 p.m. - Lunch 1:00 p.m. - Advising/Counseling/Academic Support *Internship hours increase during Year Two. *This is a sample schedule that is subject to change. Social/Leisure/Recreation Opportunities Mentors also meet with students on a weekly basis to support and encourage ClemsonLIFE HCP students. The 650+ Volunteers will be available for a plethora of activities with our students. Tailgates and athletic games on Saturdays Soccer, basketball, baseball, volleyball and other sporting events Students are buddies to young children with disabilities at TOP Soccer and Challenger Baseball. Students have the opportunity to participate on the Tiger Sharks Swim Team, Equine Therapy, and Intramural Sports. Campus-wide activities such as movies, bowling, concerts, shows, First Friday parade, homecoming events, etc. Students join and attend university clubs and student organizations functions. Calendar The ClemsonLIFE Program follows the University academic calendar, except for University exam weeks. Fall 2022 August 9- Hospitality Certificate Program Orientation August 18- Advanced Program Move In August 19- Advanced Program Orientation August 21- Basic Program Move In August 22-Basic Program Orientation August 24- Fall Classes Begin September 10- Home Football Game (vs. Furman) September 17- Home Football Game (vs. LA Tech) October 1- Home Football Game (vs. NC State) October 8- Open House October 22- Home Football Game (vs. Syracuse) November 7-8- Fall Break November 12- Home Football Game (vs. Louisville) November 19- Home Football Game (vs. Miami) November 23-25- Thanksgiving Break November 26- Home Football Game (vs. USofC) December 14- Last Day of Classes December 15-January 10- Holiday Break Spring 2023 January 11- Spring Classes Begin January 16- MLK Holiday- University Closed (no classes) March 4- Open House March 20-24- Spring Break April 28- Last Day of Classes April 29- Move Out Day and ClemsonLIFE Commencement Ceremony Frequently Asked Questions What is the Hospitality Certificate Program? Hospitality Certificate Program provides young adults with cognitive disabilities the skills and competencies that will lead to a successful and fulfilling career in the Hospitality Industry. HCP students will receive a combination of classroom and employment experiences to prepare them for employment in the Hospitality Industry. What are the specific jobs that students will be trained for in this program (both restaurant and hotel jobs)? Hotel front of house - public area cleaner, receptionist; Hotel back of house - Housekeeper and houseperson; Restaurant front of house - greeter, food runner, busser, waiter/waitress; Restaurant back of house - steward/dishwasher. The jobs will continue to build depending on each individual student and their abilities during their second year. Can students have a job outside of the program? Yes! Students can work after 3 pm during the week or on the weekends at a job that they find themselves. Costs The cost per-semester is listed below for the 2022/2023 school year. The below fees are invoiced directly from the ClemsonLIFE program: ClemsonLIFE Fees (Hospitality Certificate Program) Program Fees Covers costs associated with the ClemsonLIFE program (i.e. Operation Costs and Staff/Instructor Salaries) - $7,500 Student Budget Fees Covers apartment groceries, laundry, attendance at sporting or theater events, field trips, etc. - Varies per student University Fees The below fees are paid directly to Clemson University and are included on the University bill: Academic Fee Covers tuition fees. All students are required to enroll in a three hour credit hour Clemson University PRTM class outlined by the HCP program.. $633/credit hour for SC Residents - $1,899 per semester for SC Residents $1,633/credit hour for Non-Residents - $4,899 per semester for Non-Residents Meal Plan (Optional for HCP) The ClemsonLIFE meal plan is designed specifically for the ClemsonLIFE students for dining hall access. $1,463 per semester (100 meals + 250 paw points) Additional Fees Total cost, $460 per semester Health Fee, $182 per semester *All fees reflect the cost for Fall 2023 and are subject to change. Financial Aid Financial aid is available for students with intellectual disabilities attending post-secondary programs. The following are resources to explore: Federal Student Aid: Students may be eligible for Federal Pell Grants receiving up to $6,495 per year. Here are resources on the steps to filling out the FAFSA form and things you need to know before filling out the FAFSA form. South Carolina Commission on Higher Education- Transition Program Scholarship: If you are a South Carolina resident we encourage you to complete your FAFSA so you will receive the CTP scholarship from the South Carolina Commission on Higher Education. This scholarship is NOT need based. The requirements to receive funds from the CTP Scholarship are 1) they must be a US citizen or legal permanent resident, 2) a legal SC resident, and 3) be enrolled in a College Transition Program South Carolina Vocational Rehabilitation Department: Students may be eligible for sponsorships. Some independent organizations and groups have offered scholarship money to select students. Ruby's Rainbow: Our goal at Ruby's Rainbow is to grant scholarships to adults with Down Syndrome seeking post-secondary education, enrichment or vocational classes who feel that higher education is the right choice for them. O’Neill Tabani Enrichment Fund: The mission of the O’Neill Tabani Enrichment Fund is to offer financial assistance to young adults with Down Syndrome – 18 and older – who are continuing to enrich their lives by taking classes or enrolling in post-secondary educational programs. CSS Profile: The CSS form is not mandatory, but if you would like to be considered by ClemsonLIFE for Grant-in-aids you will have to fill out the form. Clemson University’s School Code is 5111. Cost for the CSS Profile is $25 for the initial application and one college or program report. Each additional college report is $16. More information can be found on the College Board website. Resources sCollege is not for everyone. However, many students desire a college experience, including students with intellectual disabilities. It is for this reason that many colleges and universities now offer Comprehensive Postsecondary Transition Programs, like ClemsonLIFE. These programs offer inclusive social activities; participation in college courses; along with instruction on independent living skills, employment skills, and social skills with the goal of independent living and gainful employment to the greatest extent possible for each student. Think College is a great resource for families of students with intellectual disabilities considering college. For a searchable database of Available Comprehensive Postsecondary Transition Programs, see ThinkCollege Database. Online Resources Clemson University Student Disability Services Clemson University College of Education South Carolina Vocational Rehabilitation Department South Carolina Commission for the Blind Federal Pell Grant Program Federal Supplemental Educational Opportunity Grant (FSEOG) Program National Down Syndrome Society Other Online Resources Porter, S. & Freeman, L. (2000). Transition Planning for Adolescents with Special Health Care Needs and Disabilities: Information for Families and Teens. Newman, L. (2006). Family Expectations and Involvement for Youth with Disabilities. NLTS2 Data Brief. 4(2). Menlo Park, CA: SRI International. Available at Newman, L. (2005). Family Involvement in the Educational Development of Youth with Disabilities. A Special Topic Report of Findings from the National Longitudinal Transition Study-2 (NLTS2). Menlo Park, CA: SRI International. National Center on Secondary Education and Transition.(2002). Age of Majority. Parent Brief.Promoting Effective Parent Involvement in Secondary Education and Transition. Post-secondary Students with Disabilities: Becoming the mentor, advocate, and guide your young adult needs. Parent Brief. Promoting Effective Parent Involvement in Secondary Education and Transition. March 2002. Fialka, J.(2003). Opening New Doors: Transition from High School to College For a Student with a Moderate Disability. National Center on Secondary Education and Transition.(2002). Postsecondary Education Supports & Accommodations. Southern Methodist University (nd). The Parents’ Role: Learning Differences at Colleges Publications Collins, J. C., Ryan, J.B., Katsiyannis, A., Barrett, D. & Yell, M. (2014). Use of portable electronic assistive technology to improve independent job performance of young adults with an intellectual disability. Journal of Special Education Technology, 29(3),15-30. Hawkins, B.L., Stegall, J.B., Weber, M. & Ryan J.B. (2012). The Influence of a Yoga Exercise Program for Young Adults with Intellectual Disabilities. International Journal of Yoga, 5, 151-156. Hughes, E., Green, J. & Ryan, J.B. (2011). The use of assistive technology to improve time management skills of a young adult with an intellectual disability. Journal of Special Education Technology, 26(3), 13-20. ClemsonLIFE Research Recent ClemsonLIFE Research *Randall, K. N., Ryan, J. B., Hirsch, S., Allen, A. (in press). Effects of Self-Monitoring on the Self-Determination of Individuals with Intellectual and Developmental Disability in a Post-Secondary Educational Setting. Focus on Autism and Other Developmental Disabilities. *Walters, S., *Stierle, J., *Stockwell, D., *Carlson, A., & Ryan, J.B., (2021). Efficacy of video prompting using mobile technology to teach employment tasks to individuals with intellectual disability. Journal of Inclusive Postsecondary Education. 3(1), 1-21. *Randall, K. N., Ryan, J. B., *Stierle, J. N. *Walters (2021). Meal planner application efficacy for increasing meal planning independence in individuals with intellectual disability. Education and Training in Autism and Developmental Disabilities. 56(2), 225- 239. *Randall, K. N., Ryan, J. B., *Stierle, J. N. *Walters, & S. Bridges, W. (2021). Evaluating and Enhancing Driving Skills for Individuals with Intellectual Disabilities through Simulator Training. Focus on Autism and Other Developmental Disabilities, 36(4), 191-200. *Randall, K. N., *Johnson, F., *Adams, S. E., *Kiss, C. W., & Ryan, J. B. (2020). Use of iPhone task analysis application to increase employment related chores for individuals with intellectual disabilities. Journal of Special Education Technology, 35(1), 26-36. Ryan, J. B., *Randall, K.N., *Walters, E., & *Morash-MacNeil, V. (2019). Employment and independent living outcomes of a mixed model post-secondary education program for young adults with intellectual disabilities. Journal of Vocational Rehabilitation, 50, 61-72. *Morash-MacNeil, V., *Johnson, F., & Ryan, J. B. (2018). Effectiveness of assistive technology for individuals with intellectual disability in the workplace: A meta-analysis. Journal of Special Education Technology, 33(1), 15-26. Collins, J. C., Ryan, J.B., Katsiyannis, A., Barrett, D. & Yell, M. (2014). Use of portable electronic assistive technology to improve independent job performance of young adults with an intellectual disability. Journal of Special Education Technology, 29(3), 15-30. Hawkins, B.L., Stegall, J.B., Weber, M. & Ryan J.B. (2012). The Influence of a Yoga Exercise Program for Young Adults with Intellectual Disabilities. International Journal of Yoga, 5, 151-156. Hughes, E., Green, J. & Ryan, J.B. (2011). The use of assistive technology to improve time management skills of a young adult with an intellectual disability. Journal of Special Education Technology, 26(3), 13-20. *Co-author was a student at time of preparation General Information ClemsonLIFE | 101 Gantt Circle | Suite G-01 | Clemson University | Clemson, SC 29634 | 864-656-0501 | clemsonlife@g.clemson.edu ClemsonLIFE Faculty and Staff Dr. Joe Ryan | Program Director Sue Stanzione Distinguished Professorship for ClemsonLIFE jbryan@clemson.edu Erica Walters | Program Manager escheff@g.clemson.edu Kirri Nelson | Administrative Coordinator kanelso@g.clemson.edu Courtney Dukes | Freshmen Instructor cmdukes@g.clemson.edu Misty Swiney | Sophomore Instructor mswiney@g.clemson.edu Hunter Gossett | Junior Instructor hgosset@g.clemson.edu Kim Kempf | Senior Instructor kzogran@g.clemson.edu Katie Dobson | Basic Program Employment Instructor kcooley@g.clemson.edu Sarah McAlpine | Advanced Program Employment Instructor skudevi@g.clemson.edu Kelli Cooley | Hospitality Certificate Program Employment Instructor kellic@g.clemson.edu Lisa Wilson | Teaching Assistant lnwilso@g.clemson.edu Alex Carlson | Ph.D. Student – Special Education acarls2@g.clemson.edu Derek Gathercole | Independent Living Assistant dgather@g.clemson.edu Angelina Pesce | Independent Living Assistant anpesce@g.clemson.edu ClemsonLIFE Students Advanced Program Frankie Antonelli Josh Brown Patrick Devitt Chris Garcia Ellie George Graham Bitzer Blakeley Kress Ashley McCormick Kendall Montgomery Emily Parkey Ferguson Mary Catherine Price Tanner Smith Tyler Trout Kalim Wigfall Noah Wynne Basic Program Amanda Altemus Grace Clements Nataleigh Deal Taylor Freeman Ross Hicks Hunter Hopkins Bryson Marsh Lauren Peterson Emily Terzich Jon Wesley Barber Katie Beck Davian Dean Madi Dolby Alex Eveland Nicolas Geoffroy Jessica Giddens Katherine Jones Zachary Kroeger Kevin Mackey Anne McGuire Ryan Mosley Leah Shelton Alana Spencer Check Out The Fun ClemsonLIFE Visits Clemson Football ClemsonLIFE Goes Greek ClemsonLIFE Experiences ClemsonLIFE Move-In Day College of Education "Best In Class" Copyright © Clemson University College of Education "Best In Class" | 101 Gantt Circle 864-656-7656 | Email Us | Website Updates intro-arrow Engage With Us Through Facebook Twitter Instagram Clemson University Facebook Instagram Twitter Linkedin Youtube Tiktok Policy/Terms of Use Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Copyright © 2022 Clemson University • Clemson, South Carolina 29634 Clemson University Facebook Instagram Twitter Linkedin Youtube Tiktok Resources A-Z Index Campus Map CU Safety Directory Webcams Apply to Clemson