Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Search BC.edu Links BC Summer Menu Main Nav BC Summer Session BC Summer Back Back Close Close Directory A to Z Listing Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Summer may be the coolest time at Boston College. You can explore new interests, accelerate your progress or stay on track for graduation—all during the season when Boston’s at its best. With small class sizes that offer more faculty interaction, Summer Session is an ideal opportunity to advance on your path while developing your interests. And our summertime offerings can satisfy many college and university course requirements. The Boston College Summer Term is open to non-BC students and BC students currently enrolled in the Morrissey College of Arts & Sciences, Carroll School of Management, Lynch School of Education and Human Development, Connell School of Nursing, and Woods College of Advancing Studies. Our 100% online courses are open to international students. Boston College Summer Session 2022 Undergraduate Date Summer 1 May 18–June 29, 2022 Summer 2 June 30–August 12, 2022 Graduate Date Summer 1 May 18–July 1, 2022 Summer 2 July 6–August 19, 2022 For BC Students Course Information & Schedule (Authenticated User) Course Information & Schedule (Public Version) For Non-BC Students Request Form Meet BC's 'Third Term' Summer at Boston College offers a full variety of courses for undergraduates. Find out more about the expanded Boston College Summer Session. BC Summer in the News BC Experience for High School Students Test-drive university-level academics from home this summer through the most popular Boston College Experience topics such as: psychology, business leadership, sports management, and creative writing. About BC Experience Back To Top Back To Top BC Summer Session St. Mary's Hall South, Ground Floor 617-552-3800 summersession@bc.edu 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College