Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Health Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Our Services Appointments Health Topics Events Forms and Guidelines Our Organization News See All Services What's Open Now Patient Resources Quarantine and Isolation Support Coping Tools Immunization Compliance Top Services Birth Control Education Individual Counseling Primary Care Register with Disability Services Sexual Assault: Get Support STI Testing Support Groups Travel Medicine Urgent Medical Concerns Workshops and Trainings Cost of Service Overview Make an Appointment Same Day Service Emergency and After-hours Support Alcohol Body Image Concerns Marijuana Disabilities Other Drugs HIV Insurance Men's Health Mental Health and Well-Being Anxiety Depression Stress Nutrition Physical Activity Relationships Overview Academic Relationships Friendships Roommates Sexual and Reproductive Health Sleep Transgender and Gender Expansive Health Violence Prevention Prevention Consent What Is Sexual Assault? Supporting a Survivor What Is Relationship Abuse? Stalking What Is Sexual Harassment? Bystander Intervention-Step UP! Women's Health See All Events Sexual Assault Awareness Month Columbia Health Flu Season Information Virtual Naloxone Training About Columbia Health Who We Are Who We Serve Confidentiality, Patient Rights, & Patient Responsibilities Operating Philosophy Video Library Your Feedback Staff Directory Health Units Alice! Health Promotion Counseling and Psychological Services Disability Services Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) Insurance Office Medical Services Sexual Violence Response Columbia Health You are here: Home Health Topics Transgender and Gender Expansive Health Care Services Transgender and Gender Expansive Health Care Services Columbia Health offers a number of services for transgender and gender expansive students. Explore the links below for more information, including how to access each service. Read our Statement Response to Recent Bias, Violence Against Trans & Gender Expansive Individuals Services Sexual and Gender Identity Issues Hormone Therapy LGBTQ Support and Sexual Health Peer Counseling Gender-affirming Surgery Consultation Manage your name in use on SSOL Students can enter their name-in-use directly in SSOL. This information is fed directly to the Columbia Health Patient Portal. Please note that data is not synced automatically and may take a few days to render in our system. You can find more information about Columbia's preferred name policy on the Registrar's website. Manage your pronouns-in-use on the Patient Portal Students can enter their name-in-use and pronouns-in use directly in the Columbia Health Patient Portal. There are fields in one’s user profile where students can identify and edit their name-in-use (if not already entered on SSOL), pronouns, and gender identity. Learn more. Tell your provider to use your legal name for prescriptions Official documents such as prescriptions for medication require individuals to use their legal name in order to be processed. If you are receiving a prescription, please remind your provider to use the legal name listed on your student profile, if it is different from your chosen name. Transgender and Gender Expansive Team The Transgender and Gender Expansive Team (TGET) is a group of interested Columbia Health administrators and clinicians from a number of different departments that meets regularly to coordinate and improve services for transgender and non-binary students. Expand all Collapse all Kori Bennett, Psy.D., Clinical Psychologist, TGET Leader Pronouns: they/them/theirs Role: Transgender and Gender Expansive Team Leader, Staff Psychologist (CPS) About: Dr. Kori Bennett enjoys working in collaboration with their fellow TGET Team members/Columbia Health colleagues in supporting students who are exploring gender and/or considering options for affirming care. As a clinician, Kori works from an identities-affirming, trauma-informed framework that values each person’s unique self-understanding and self-determination, creativity, resiliency, and definition of community. Self-care: Kori enjoys hanging with friends/family (of choice & origin), reading/writing, creating, running outside, and indulging in extremely low budget movies from the 80s/90s. Daniel B. Chiarilli, Ph.D., Director, GHAP Pronouns: he/him/his Role: Transgender and Gender Expansive Team Medical Coordinator, Associate Director, GHAP, Tobacco Cessation Counselor About: Daniel Chiarilli meets with students interested in learning about or starting gender-affirming hormone therapy at Columbia Health. He has worked closely with students around sexual health and sexuality at GHAP and has appreciated the opportunities offered by the TGET to expand the scope of his work to include gender diversity. Self-care: Daniel likes to spend time with his boyfriend, read novels, watch movies and appointment tv, listen to and play music, and go running on weekends (although he hated gym class in high school and got a “D” the final quarter of his senior year). Kwame S. Akowuah, M.D., Psychiatrist Pronouns: he/him/his Role: Staff psychiatrist (CPS) About: Dr. Kwame Akowuah is pleased to be a member of the Transgender and Gender Expansive Team. He believes that mental health treatment works best when the approach is one of collaboration built on trust and understanding. His approach is not to focus solely on the concerns that led the other person to come and see him, but instead to try understand their lives, community, concerns, and strengths in a whole and nuanced way. This makes it more likely that he will be able to provide advice and recommendations that can be of the most help to the other person, while also aligning with their values and priorities. However, since it is also true that it can be very hard or even scary to open up to someone you have just met, he believes in moving at whatever pace makes the other person most comfortable. As part of his medical training, Kwame pursued a fellowship in Psychiatry and the Law. One of the many things that he carried away from that experience was a deeper historical understanding of how the right to self-determination regarding one’s physical and mental health care was something that was hard won over many years of struggle, and must be treated with respect at all times. Self-care: Kwame is an avid soccer fan and enjoys watching it immensely, especially Liverpool FC and the US Women’s National Team. He also enjoys science fiction, listening to and playing music. He listens to a lot of podcasts and audiobooks. Renee Gibbs, PhD., Clinical Psychologist Pronouns: she/her/hers Role: Staff Psychologist (CPS)/Eating Disorders Team Member About: Dr. Renee Gibbs joined the TGET team in 2020 after nine years of transgender advocacy and transgender care development in the Dept. of Veterans Affairs. She enjoys working with multi-disciplinary teams to provide wrap-around care for individuals in any stage of gender identity development and gender affirmation. Her goal in working with clients has been as an advocate to reduce barriers in healthcare disparities for obtaining high quality care. Dr. Gibbs additionally specializes in the treatment of eating disorders and body image concerns and has experience in addressing these concerns in trans and LGBQ clients. Self-care: Dr. Gibbs devotes her time outside of work to her toddler and partner and enjoys physically active hobbies such as running, argentine tango, and globetrotting as much as possible. Wardeh Hattab, LCSW, Clinical Social Worker Pronouns: she/her/hers, they/them/theirs Role: Clinical Social Worker (CPS) About: Wardeh is a clinical social worker at CPS who works from a trauma-informed approach. Wardeh is dedicated to providing affirmative care from a cross-cultural perspective for gender expansive folks. Wardeh combines spirituality, existentialism, and attachment-based theories in working with students struggling to integrate their different identities. Self-care: Wardeh enjoys solving jigsaw puzzles (500 pieces or less) before two beloved house cats knock them off the table. When it is not too hot out, Wardeh prefers running half-marathon races in major cities (followed by enjoying the best knafeh in those destinations). Wardeh also likes to watch movies in theaters (especially horror films). Motoni F. Hodges, Ph.D., Senior Clinical Psychologist Pronouns: she/her/hers Role: Staff Psychologist (CPS) About: Dr. Motoni Fong Hodgers is a staff psychologist dedicated to providing clinical care and support that is affirmative and culturally sensitive. She is also a member on the Trauma Team at CPS and is committed to ensuring that individuals receive care in a safe, non-judgmental, and empowering setting. Trained as a psychoanalyst, Motoni is comfortable providing both short- and longer-term psychotherapy, as well as serving as an advocate on behalf of students. Students have often described Motoni's style as "calming, warm, and sensitive." Self-care: Camping, exploring new beaches, enjoying a good cup of coffee, dog sitting (and spoiling them) for friends Regina A. Lara, M.D., Psychiatrist Pronouns: she/her/hers/Her Highness Role: Staff Psychiatrist (CPS) Dr. Regina Lara believes in collaborative care, and expects you to be an active member of your treatment team. While she believes medications can be helpful and sometimes necessary, she also emphasizes the importance of lifestyle practices in promoting well-being. Trained as a child and adolescent psychiatrist, Regina draws frequently on attachment theory and the need for good-enough relationships. She proudly identifies as a Filipina-New Yorker and after 25 years in this city cannot conceive of a better place to call home. Self-care: Regina actively denies the existence of horror movies and avoids them at all costs. She is an indulgent and permissive dog owner, whose favorite self-care routine is daily morning meditation with her French Bulldog, Ludwig, snoring and drooling on her lap. Tonia Lesesne, Coordinator Pronouns: She/Her/Hers/Tee-Rocka Role: Health Services Coordinator (Medical Services) About: Tonia Lesesne has been committed to everything Columbia Health since 1991. Self-care: Napping. Tonia’s happy place is listening to rap music. Believe it or not it keeps her centered and soothes her soul. Myriam Marques, MPH, MSN, BSN Pronouns: she/her/hers Role: Assistant Nurse Manager About: Myriam Marques is a primary care nurse with a strong background in community health care and Public Health. She has enjoyed a decades-long passion for working with LGBTQ+ health as a nurse and educator. Myriam started working with the queer community in the 90’s in her native Brazil. After moving to New York City, she was part of the team that started the first Transgender Care program in town. As she likes to point out, providing care for transgender patients has been a beautiful, soul-enriching journey, the best part of which is learning from her patients on their experiences and culture. In her past experiences, she had created many classes and works shops on TG general care including on self-care, medications, surgeries. As a nurse, her focus is to ensure that each patient is heard, respected and well-informed in every decision about their healthcare. In her work as a human rights activist with a special interest in sexual and reproductive rights, Myriam participates in several media and educational projects. She is a proud member of the Reclaim Pride Coalition in New York and is very happy to work for Columbia students as a member of TGET. Self-care: Myriam loves walking, biking, hiking, gardening, dancing, playing capoeira, hanging out with friends and also quiet activities, such as meditation and praying. Dawn Mcallister, M.D., Physician Pronouns: she/her/hers Role: Family Physician (Medical Services) About: Dr. Dawn McAllister is a dedicated family physician who strives to attend to the wholeness of each of the students she sees. In particular, she provides hormone therapy for gender expansive patients. She worked as an Assistant Professor for years at the Columbia University Irving Medical Center, caring for patients and teaching medical students and residents. As someone who has identified as androgynous since her early teens, she feels that transgender and gender expansive ways of understanding all people are liberating for all of us. She is happy to have the honor of participating in the medical care of people who choose this gender-expansive path. She is a cis-woman who is a lesbian and was married for 24 years. She has three sons who are now 19, 17 and 13 years old. She had her oldest son by birth and her younger two sons by adoption from Ethiopia. Dr. McAllister comes from a working class family in Ohio and hopes that her background and compassion help to make her a medical provider who is accessible, competent and kind. Self-care: Dr. McAllister often goes trail running with her dog, a Labradoodle named Rosie, off-leash in the woods near her home in Hastings-on-Hudson. She loves the city and also, the peace of outdoors. She enjoys fixing things, cooking, hiking and her three sons. She typically meditates sporadically but has been doing it nearly every day for two weeks now. Let’s see if that continues. Taking care of yourself if not always easy. Richard O'Keefe, M.D., Physician Pronouns: he/him/his Role: Physician (Medical Services) About: Dr. Rick O’Keefe is a family physician who has been working with the queer and gender expansive community in NYC since 1987. Rick works with students interested in hormone replacement therapy and gender-affirming surgeries. He brings a patient-centered and holistic approach to his work with students, proposing that wellness is the integration of mind, body, spirit, community, and emotion. Rick believes in partnering and learning with patients to provide resources and care that best suit their needs. Along with his TGET role, Rick is Medical Advisor for the Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP). He also co-founded the Health Outreach To Teens (HOTT) program with the Callen-Lourde Community Health Center, providing mobile medical services to youth in street settings. Self-care: Rick enjoys journaling, long walks, meditation, and spending time at his farm with his husband. Addette L. Williams, Ph.D., Senior Clinical Psychologist Pronouns: she/her/her Role: Senior Staff Psychologist (CPS) About: Dr. Addette Williams works with the Transgender and Gender Expansive Team to support students in exploring options and accessing gender-affirming care. As she is also a member of the Trauma Team, Dr. Williams is attuned to the myriad ways that folks with marginalized identities may experience trauma, and she has a particular interest in the mental health of people of color. Self-care: Addette enjoys sweating in hot yoga or a sauna, meditation, searching for colorful vegetables at farmers' markets, reading, and knitting socks. Need help with weekend or late night distress? Check out our Coping Tools page for various digital services, mobile apps, and online resources outside our regular hours of operation. Our limited podcast series, Invisible and On Stage, provides an open conversation around racism-related stress, identity, and community, and the way they impact mental health. Listen now! The entire Columbia Health team, photographed in Lerner Hall. Click the image to see a larger version. Columbia Health Alice! Health Promotion Disability Services Counseling and Psychological Services Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) Insurance Office Immunization Compliance Office Medical Services Sexual Violence Response All Columbia Health offices are closed on University Holidays. Annual Report Columbia Health Annual Report Stay Connected Receive important news and event info from Columbia Health Columbia Health Events Join us for workshops, panel discussions, skill-building opportunities, and other events! Accessibility Accommodations Columbia Health makes every effort to accommodate individuals with disabilities. If you require disability accommodations to attend an event sponsored by Columbia Health, or by the University, contact Disability Services at 212-854-2388 at least 10 days in advance of the event. 212-854-2284 [email protected] Columbia Health Administration Wallach Hall, Suite 125, Mail Code 4202, 1116 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-2284 Contact Us [email protected] Internal Use Only Login to Access Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close