Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Honors College University Scholars Menu About Us About UNSC UNSC Faculty and Staff UNSC Faculty Mentors Profiles Honors College Leadership Calendar FAQs Prospective Students Why UNSC? Individualized Curriculum Undergraduate Research Post Baccalaureate Goals Engaging Community How to Apply Scholarships Honors Housing Visit UNSC UNSC Next Steps FAQs Current Students Thursday Tea Time Major Requirements Advisement UNSC Advisement Concentrations Declare or Change Your Concentration Secondary Majors & Minors Secondary Majors and Minors Examples Exit Interview Step 1. Compiling the Reading List Step 2. Studying for the Interview Step 3. Scheduling the Interview Step 4. Completing the Interview Guidelines for the Independent Reading List List of Approved Texts for the Independent Reading List Independent Reading List Template Exit Interview Appointment Request Form How to Achieve Success in the Exit Interview Information for External Faculty Independent Reading List Thesis Thesis Resources from the Honors Program Library Contacts Thesis Abstracts BEARdocsSubmission Wilson Thesis Awards Honors Contracts and Alternative Honors Credit UNSC Application for Current Students Scholarships for Current Students Fellowships, Awards, & Research Opportunities Phi Beta Kappa Membership Study Abroad Opportunities Career and Professional Development Resources Incoming Students- 2022 Contact Us Apply Now University Scholars Building Bridges to Your Future The University Scholars major allows high-ability students to chart their personalized educational journey in close consultation with faculty advisers and mentors. The UNSC major fosters a love of interdisciplinary discourse in the Liberal Arts and Sciences that affirms the student’s unlimited potential in the rich academic and co-curricular offerings of Baylor University. Explore Engaging Community Balance the academic demands of college with a desire for caring community and lasting friendships. Engaging Community Individualized Curriculum Craft a unique degree plan, developing academic interests and skills across a wide range of disciplines. Individualized Curriculum Undergraduate Research Delve into undergraduate research according to discipline-specific interests and post-baccalaureate goals. Undergraduate Research Post-Baccalaureate Goals Develop intellectual skills and habits essential to critical inquiry, high-level analysis, and careers across the spectrum. Post-Baccalaureate Goals Faculty & Staff See More Faculty and Staff Charmaine Dull, M.A. UNSC Program Coordinator Jeff Hunt, Ph.D. UNSC Director Senior Lecturer in Classics Scott Moore, Ph.D. UNSC Assistant Director Associate Professor of Philosophy and Great Texts Profiles Read More Profiles Natalie Widdows "The flexibility of the University Scholars program allows me to work with advisors and professors to craft a schedule that is tailored towards my interests in Theology, Great Texts, and Spanish." Gage Hallbauer "I love this program because it has empowered me to dive deep into what I love and inspired me to pursue excellence in all that I do." Krupa George "I am so grateful for the opportunity University Scholars has given me to pursue my interests outside the sciences and am excited to carry them with me through medical school and my career as a physician." Events See More Events May 16 2022 Minimester session (ends 06/02/2022) Jun 3 2022 Summer Session I (ends 07/08/2022) Jun 20 2022 Juneteenth - University Holiday Jul 4 2022 Independence Day - University Holiday University Scholars 232 Morrison Hall One Bear Place #97293 Waco, TX 76798-7293 (254) 710-3744 University_Scholars@baylor.edu ApplyVisitMake a GiftHonors CollegeHonors Residential College General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 About Us About UNSC UNSC Faculty and Staff UNSC Faculty Mentors Profiles Honors College Leadership Calendar FAQs Prospective Students Why UNSC? Individualized Curriculum Undergraduate Research Post Baccalaureate Goals Engaging Community How to Apply Scholarships Honors Housing Visit UNSC UNSC Next Steps FAQs Current Students Thursday Tea Time Major Requirements Advisement UNSC Advisement Concentrations Declare or Change Your Concentration Secondary Majors & Minors Secondary Majors and Minors Examples Exit Interview Step 1. Compiling the Reading List Step 2. Studying for the Interview Step 3. Scheduling the Interview Step 4. Completing the Interview Guidelines for the Independent Reading List List of Approved Texts for the Independent Reading List Independent Reading List Template Exit Interview Appointment Request Form How to Achieve Success in the Exit Interview Information for External Faculty Independent Reading List Thesis Thesis Resources from the Honors Program Library Contacts Thesis Abstracts BEARdocsSubmission Wilson Thesis Awards Honors Contracts and Alternative Honors Credit UNSC Application for Current Students Scholarships for Current Students Fellowships, Awards, & Research Opportunities Phi Beta Kappa Membership Study Abroad Opportunities Career and Professional Development Resources Incoming Students- 2022 Contact Us Apply Now