Skip to main content Where Ideas Go to Work Home About The Works Vision Site History Resources Tours The Community Introduction Innovators Existing and Available Spaces Pennovation Center About the Center Events and Programs Membership Event Rentals News News in The Works Galleries Social Media 3401 Grays Ferry Ave Philadelphia, PA 19146 View Map Leasing Inquiries 215-573-6845 Commercialization Information 215-898-9591 About The Works Vision Site History Resources Tours The Community Introduction Innovators Existing and Available Spaces Pennovation Center About the Center Events and Programs Membership Event Rentals News News in The Works Galleries Social Media The 12th annual Philly Tech Week highlighted technology and innovation happening throughout the Greater Philadelphia region. The Pennovation Center and JPOD @ Philadelphia recently welcomed 35 students and their mentors from the West Philadelphia school system for an introduction to a career in life sciences through the Bridge to Employment Program. Meet the Innovator - Mike Siedlik, Ph.D., Senior Scientist at Infini Fluidics, a company working to optimize the manufacturing of high value therapeutics, drugs, cosmetics, and specialty chemicals through technological advancements in highly-scalable on-chip production. Penn Today marks the anniversary of Pennovation Works, the University’s business incubator and laboratory space, with a look at the evolution of the site, its research and commercialization achievements, and a glimpse into the future. Read more. The Chamber of Commerce for Greater Philadelphia recently held a dynamic, in-person and virtual event, at the Pennovation Center which included an update on the real estate developments impacting our region’s life sciences market. Want to know What’s In The Works? Be the first to hear about all the innovative ideas, research and exciting discoveries by subscribing to the Pennovation Works enewsletter. Interius BioTherapeutics has signed a 17,743 SF lease at the Pennovation Lab, for their work advancing cell and gene therapy research. Read the press release. Pennovation Lab now open for leasing. Customizable wet or dry lab or office space available. Learn how your company can join the Pennovation community. The Mentor-in-Residence Program at the Pennovation Center pairs startup companies with accomplished entrepreneurs and industry leaders who serve as informal advisors What's in The Works? The Pennovation Works is a distinctive blend of offices, labs, and production space developed by The University of Pennsylvania to link the intellectual and entrepreneurial initiatives necessary for advancing knowledge and generating economic development. Read More Aerial view of Pennovation Works site “The community at The Pennovation Works will translate new ideas and research into products, into ventures, into services that will change the world. Innovation will be the key.” Amy Gutmann Penn President Pennovation at The Center Officially opened in September 2016, The Pennovation Center is a 58,000sf business incubator and laboratory that aligns and integrates researchers, innovators, and entrepreneurs for the commercialization of research discoveries. Read More 3rd Floor – Penn Engineering Research & Collaboration Hub (PERCH) Share Back To Top Resources Leasing inquiries, commercialization information, maps & directions Learn More FAQs Want to learn more about us? Read More News in The Works Sign up for Pennovation News Click Here Visit the Pennovation Lab website Download: full Marketing Kit (PDF 5MB) Contact Us: pennovationworks@upenn.edu Renderings by: HWKN and Land Collective All architectural photos: Michael Moran/OTTO © 2020 University of Pennsylvania | www.upenn.edu | Report accessibility issues and get help