Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site OVPRS Websites Research and Scholarship Home Research Development and Evaluation Research Capacity and Operations Research Administration Regulatory Affairs and Assessment Research Navigator Research Lifecycle 1. Get Started 2. Identify Funding Opportunities 3. Write Proposal 4. Submit Proposal 5. Conduct Research 6. Commercialize Work Learners Key Partners About Vice Provost for Research and Scholarship Leadership Administrative Areas Centers and Institutes Core Facilities and Shared Resources Sign up for a Listserv Events Calendar Contact Us Research Lifecycle Learners Key Partners About Site Feedback Search Research Integrity Conflicts of Interest Complion Data Broker Services Embryonic Stem Cell Research Oversight Committee (ESCRO) Contacts eProst (IRB System) Export Control Compliance Foreign Influence & Engagement The Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee (IACUC) Institutional Biosafety Committee (IBC) Research Misconduct Research Compliance and Quality Assurance (RCQA) UDisclose Research Lifecycle 1. Get Started 2. Identify Funding Opportunities 3. Write Proposal 4. Submit Proposal 5. Conduct Research 6. Commercialize Work Learners Key Partners About Vice Provost for Research and Scholarship Leadership Administrative Areas Centers and Institutes Core Facilities and Shared Resources Sign up for a Listserv Events Calendar Contact Us Site Feedback OVPRS Websites Research and Scholarship Home Research Development and Evaluation Research Capacity and Operations Research Administration Regulatory Affairs and Assessment Research Navigator Research Integrity Conflicts of Interest Complion Data Broker Services Embryonic Stem Cell Research Oversight Committee (ESCRO) Contacts eProst (IRB System) Export Control Compliance Foreign Influence & Engagement The Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee (IACUC) Institutional Biosafety Committee (IBC) Research Misconduct Research Compliance and Quality Assurance (RCQA) UDisclose RELATED LINKS Interdisciplinary Stem Cell Institute (ISCI) Institutional Animal Care &amp; Use Committee (IACUC) Institutional Biosafety Committee (IBC) Technology Transfer $sLabel Home About Research and Scholarship Administrative Areas RAA Embryonic Stem Cell Research Oversight Committee (ESCRO) AAA Embryonic Stem Cell Research Oversight Committee (ESCRO) Research Integrity Conflicts of Interest Complion Data Broker Services Embryonic Stem Cell Research Oversight Committee (ESCRO) Contacts eProst (IRB System) Export Control Compliance Foreign Influence & Engagement The Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee (IACUC) Institutional Biosafety Committee (IBC) Research Misconduct Research Compliance and Quality Assurance (RCQA) UDisclose RELATED LINKS Interdisciplinary Stem Cell Institute (ISCI) Institutional Animal Care & Use Committee (IACUC) Institutional Biosafety Committee (IBC) Technology Transfer The University of Miami Embryonic Stem Cell Research Oversight Committee (ESCRO) provides ongoing oversight of research activities to ensure that faculty and staff comply with federal and state guidelines concerning the use of human embryonic stem cells (hESCs) and human somatic cell nuclear transfer (hSCNT). ESCRO Committee Objectives Provide oversight over all issues related to the derivation and use of hESCs and hSCNT, including establishing and modifying policies and procedures. Ensure all research involving hESCs and hSCNT conducted at the University (or by University investigators) is compliant with all relevant regulations and within the guidelines presented in the National Academy of Sciences (NAS) / Institute of Medicine (IOM) report Guidelines for Human Embryonic Stem Cell Research (2005 and subsequent updates). Maintain registries of hESC and hSCNT research conducted at the University and hESCs derived or imported by University investigators. Review and approve the scientific merit of hESC and hSCNT research protocols. Coordinate with other University regulatory and oversight committees, e.g. the Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee (IACUC), Institutional Review Boards (IRB), and the Institutional Biosafety Committee (IBC). Ensure that University investigators and trainees are educated regarding the responsible conduct of hESC and hSCNT research, including University, state, and federal regulations. The ESCRO Committee meets monthly to review protocols and includes members from all University campuses, as well as members who are unaffiliated with the University and represent the community. Forms, Policies & Training ESCRO Form (DOC) ESCRO Policies and Procedures Material Transfer Agreement (MTA) Requirements Approved hESC Lines Stem Cell Research Guidelines Association of American Medical Colleges (AAMC) National Academy of Sciences (NAS) ESCRO Committee Advice Stem Cell News Removing Barriers to Responsible Scientific Research Involving Human Stem Cells (Executive Order) Miller School Experts Discuss Lifting of Stem Cell Ban University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 305-284-2211 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices