Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Explore Brown University Search Global Navigation Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Chemistry at Brown: Facilities & Services Home About Facilities & Services NMR Facility Mass Spectrometry Facility Machine Shop Electronics Shop Stockroom Room Reservations Connect your Computer Outreach & Inclusion Visitor & Contact Information Brown Chemistry Department Employment Opportunities & Internship Postings Geo-Chem MacMillan Safety Resources Research Academics People News Seminars & Events Site Navigation Home About Facilities & Services NMR Facility Mass Spectrometry Facility Machine Shop Electronics Shop Stockroom Room Reservations Connect your Computer Outreach & Inclusion Diversity & Inclusion Action Committee Outreach Activities Chemistry Anonymous Climate Form Visitor & Contact Information Travel Policies for Guests Brown Chemistry Department Employment Opportunities & Internship Postings Geo-Chem MacMillan Safety Resources Research Chemical Biology Inorganic Chemistry Nano and Materials Chemistry Organic Chemistry Physical & Theoretical Chemistry Chemical Education Publications Academics Undergraduate Research Opportunities Chemistry Placement & Introductory Courses CHEM - Web Tutorial Transfer Credit Honors & Awards ChemDUG REUs & Funding Graduate Financial Support and Funding Opportunities Awards Graduate Leadership Courses Resources People Faculty Staff Department Directory News Archive Seminars & Events Endowed Lectures DIAC-Hosted Events Alumni Speaker Series Mass Spectrometry Facility The Mass Spectrometry Facility in the Chemistry Department provides support for the analysis of a wide range of molecules using mass spectrometry based techniques, including a suite of modern instrumentation. The facility maintains two GC-MS, three LC-MS, MALDI-MS, and a standalone HPLC system. The mass spectrometers offer electron impact (EI), electrospray (ESI), atmospheric chemical ionization (APCI), and matrix assisted laser desorption ionization (MALDI) ionization modes that cover a variety of analytes of interest. Available software resources include instrument control and data analysis programs Xcalibur, MassHunter, ChemStation, SpectrumMill, Bioworks/Sequest. Routine mass spectrometric measurements performed in the facility include HRMS molecular formula confirmation, structural elucidation by MSn tandem mass spectrometry, qualitative as well as quantitative analysis of small molecules: synthetic intermediates, natural products, metabolites, and organometallics. For macromolecules, we offer mass analysis of synthetic polymers, peptides and purified intact recombinant proteins and synthetic oligonucleotides. Instrumentation Agilent 5973N GC-MS The 5973N series GC/MSD system has a single quadrupole mass analyzer, 6890 GC and 7683 autosampler and 100 vials sample tray. This system equipped with standard EI source, unit mass resolution, mass range 1.6 – 800 u, SIM (30 ion x 50 groups), split/splitless injection, GC/MSD is controlled by Agilent MSD ChemStation software. NIST 2008 EI spectra library is installed with the Chemstation for spectral confirmation. This instrument is used mainly for analysis of volatile organic compounds and synthetic reaction mixtures. Trained users select from a menu of standard methods to analyze their samples. The default capillary GC column on this instrument is 0.25 mm i.d., 30 m Agilent HP-5MS. Mass spec facility also offer HP-1, DB-/WAX, and chiral GC columns for different applications. Agilent 5977A GC-MS The 5977A series GC/MSD system has a single quadrupole mass analyzer, 7890B GC and 150 vials 7693 autosampler and sample tray. This GC-MS provide high level of performance and productivity with standard electron EI source, mass range 1.6 – 1050 u, synchronous SIM/scan operation, RTL ready that allow creation of permanent and universal methods, GC/MSD data acquisition and analysis with both MassHunter and ChemStation. This instrument has superior sensitivity, particularly for nature products and metabolites analysis. Agilent 6530 LC-MS Agilent 6530 is a quadrupole time-of-flight (Q-TOF) accurate mass LC-MS system, equipped with both ESI and APCI ionization sources. The mass spectrometer is a high accuracy (< 2 ppm in the MS mode and < 5 ppm in the MS/MS mode with internal calibration), high resolution (20,000 FWHM mass resolving power). Mass range m/z 50 – 3200 for high resolution mode and m/z 100 – 20,000 for extended mass range. The frond-end of this LC-MS system is Agilent 1260 Infinity Binary LC, with a flow range from 0.05 – 5 mL/min at pressure up to 600 bar suitable for narrow bore 2.1 mm ID HPLC columns, matching the requirements for LC-MS operation. The 1260 LC also consisted of a high performance autosampler for 0.1 – 100 uL injection volume, thermostatted (up to 100° C) column compartment, and a variable UV wavelength detector. This instrument is mainly used for small molecule accurate mass analysis, intact molecular weight measurement for proteins and oligos, and simple protein digest analysis. Thermo LCQ Deca XP Max LC-MS The LCQ Deca XP Max is equipped with ESI and APCI ionization sources, operate in both positive and negative modes. It is capable of mass analysis of a broad range of molecules that are relatively polar, nonvolatile and thermally labile. This instrument is used for routine molecular weight determination of compounds from organic reaction products, inorganics, natural products, small proteins and peptides. The LCQ Deca XP Max features MSn which significantly increase the performance of LC-MS. This instrument may be operated in direct flow injection analysis or reversed phase C4 or C18 LC-MS. The front-end of LCQ Deca XP Max is a Shimadzu HPLC system equipped with a single wavelength UV detector. Thermo LXQ linear ion trap LC-MS The LXQ has capabilities similar to the conventional 3D ion trap such as LCQ Deca. It is based on linear ion trap technology that has faster cycle time. It is capable of data-dependent LC-MSn analysis. This system is equipped with Finnigan MicroAS Autosampler, Surveyor MS pump, and Ion Max ESI source. Mass spectrometer is controlled by XCalibur data system. The LXQ has BioWorks software, a suite of software for protein identification. The main engine of the BioWorks is SEQUEST protein identification algorithm which automatically comparing tandem mass spectral data (MS/MS) to predicted spectra from DNA databases. The LXQ is used primarily for natural products and proteins analysis. Bruker autoflex MALDI-TOF mass spectrometer The Bruker autoflex is a linear time-of-flight (TOF) mass spectrometer equipped with a matrix-assisted laser desorption ionization (MALDI) ion source. It uses a 355 nm Nd:YAG SmartBeam laser. Among of the main advantages of MALDI-TOF are the "soft ionization" characteristic of MALDI and ease of use. This instrument is routinely used for analysis of organic molecules, natural products, and macromolecules, including recombinant proteins, oligonucleotides, polysaccharides and synthetic polymers. The mass spec facility provides common MALDI matrices including HCCA, sinapinic acid, DHB, HPA. Agilent 1260 Infinite LC The 1260 HPLC is used primarily for analytical and semi-prep scale HPLC separation and purification of components in chemical mixtures. This system consisted a quaternary pump, autosampler, thermostatted column compartment, diode array detector (190 – 950 nm), and fraction collector Operation The Mass Spectrometry facility is available to all faculty, post-doc researchers, graduate and undergraduate students. Most facility instruments are available in an open-access manner to trained users. For research projects that required extensive mass spectrometric analysis, please schedule time with our Mass Spectrometer Specialist to discuss specific mass spec needs, instrument capabilities, and receive training for the most effective use of the mass spec facility. Assistance will be provided with data interpretation, sample preparation, experimental designs, and methods development. Users may submit samples for mass analysis using the Mass Spectrometry Request Form or in GeoChem 408 for sample submission. Contact information: Tun-Li Shen, Ph.D. Mass Spectrometer Specialist Facilities & Services NMR Facility Mass Spectrometry Facility Machine Shop Electronics Shop Stockroom Room Reservations Connect your Computer Department of Chemistry Department of Chemistry Brown University Box H 324 Brook Street Thayer Street at MacMillan Lawn Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-2321 Email [email protected] Twitter Twitter Facebook Facebook Instagram Instagram Brown University Giving to Brown Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA 401-863-1000 Contact Us Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility All Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top