Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Neuroscience Certificate (Graduate) You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Neuroscience Certificate (Graduate) Apply Request More Info Neuroscience Certificate (Graduate) Admissions Required Courses Graduate Certificate in Neuroscience Gain a thorough introduction to an interdisciplinary field addressing neural and brain function at multiple levels with the Graduate Certificate in Neuroscience in Temple University’s College of Liberal Arts. This 15-credit graduate certificate is tailored to provide current doctoral students in programs outside of the Psychology and Neuroscience Department with core experience in specific areas of neuroscience, including behavioral, cellular, molecular and systems neuroscience. Students also gain an understanding of biological, clinical and psychological approaches to understanding the nervous system. The Neuroscience Certificate (Graduate) is intended for any Temple students interested in adding highly specialized training and research in the field of neuroscience to their professional résumé. PhD Specialization in Neuroscience vs. Graduate Certificate in Neuroscience For current doctoral students in the Psychology and Neuroscience Department, completion of the Neuroscience Graduate Certificate coursework results in a specialization in neuroscience, and the resulting transcript will reflect a PhD in Psychology and Neuroscience. Any doctoral student outside of Psychology (and also Biology, Physical Therapy and Pharmacology), who completes the Neuroscience Certificate (Graduate) coursework will receive a PhD in their own discipline, along with the certificate. Program Requirements In order to complete the Neuroscience Certificate (Graduate), students will fulfill the following requirements. Meet all obligations of their participating department. Include one member of the certificate program on their dissertation committees. Enroll in the Readings in Neuroscience course, which requires attending and participating in the seminars and journal clubs of the Neuroscience program, for three academic terms of one credit each. Enroll in two courses in each of the following Neuroscience specialization areas. Behavioral/cognitive/systems neuroscience Cellular/molecular neuroscience Program Format & Curriculum The Graduate Certificate in Neuroscience is only available on a full-time basis. Courses completed as part of the Neuroscience Certificate (Graduate) curriculum include the following. Behavioral Neuroscience, in which students learn topics in systems and behavioral neuroscience. Neurochemistry, in which students explore the major areas of cellular and molecular neurobiology, including cellular and subcellular components of the nervous system, neuronal excitability and molecular properties of ion channels, biochemistry of synaptic transmission, intracellular signaling, neurochemistry of learning and memory, cell injury and inflammation, and psychiatric/neurodegenerative disorders. Systems and Behavioral Neuroscience, in which students investigate topics in systems and behavioral neuroscience. Learn more about Neuroscience Certificate (Graduate) courses. Careers A research background in neuroscience provides opportunities for career paths in multiple fields including education, engineering, law, medicine, psychology and public policy. Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Graduate Certificate offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $966.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,329.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Program Contact For questions regarding the Neuroscience Certificate (Graduate), contact the following staff member. Rebecca Brotschul is the academic advisor and program contact for the Neuroscience Graduate Certificate program. Phone: 215-204-3441 Email: rebecca.brotschul@temple.edu The following staff members lead the Psychology and Neuroscience Department. Debra Bangasser is the director of the Department of Psychology and Neuroscience. Phone: 215-204-1015 Email: debra.bangasser@temple.edu Lisa Briand is the associate director of the Department of Psychology and Neuroscience. Phone: 215-204-7311 Email: lbriand@temple.edu Accreditation Temple University’s departments and programs are accredited by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education. LA-NSCI-GRAD Additional Program Information Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Neuroscience Certificate (Graduate) Admissions Required Courses Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info