Skip to site alert. Skip to content Irving Institute for Clinical and Translational Research Newsletter News Events Videos People Search About Us About Us Resources and Cores Message from the Director History Initiatives and Committees News Events Videos Contact Cite the Grant Subscribe to our Mailing List Initiatives and Committees Implementation Science COVID-19 Research Initiative Diversity, Equity and Inclusion (DEI) Committee Opioid Crisis Response Learning Health System Initiative Services and Programs Our Impact Our Impact A Model for Collaboration Testimonials Publications People Impact Stories Narratives of Discovery People Irving Scholars Mentor of the Year Award Pilot Awardees Scholars, Trainees, and Fellows Join a Study Join a Study What is Health Research? Research Registries and Studies Community Health Resources A Model for Collaboration Testimonials Publications People Impact Stories Narratives of Discovery Our Impact Advancing discoveries, knowledge, and innovation to improve human health. A Model for Collaboration Learn how the Irving Institute develops, demonstrates, and disseminates innovations. View Our Model View Our Model 2016-2020 Statistics 4407 Total usage of overall services, pilot awards, and trainings 3300 Overall consultations for 2,500 individuals and teams 4000000 Total dollar amount of funding for 123 pilots 1824 Number of allied research personnel who received training 2000 Approximate number of participants in training programs 2395 Total percentage growth in RecruitMe registry 48 Number of Community Based Organizations participating in our programs 1678 Number of multisite clinical trials at CUIMC Narratives of Discovery View interviews with today’s top scientists by Rita Charon, MD, PhD. View News Items View News Items Testimonials Stavroula Kousteni, PhD Professor of Physiology and Cellular Biophysics at Columbia Stavroula Kousteni, PhD Matthew Baldwin, MD, MS Matthew Baldwin, MD, is studying frailty and palliative care needs in older adult survivors of acute respiratory failure. Matthew Baldwin, MD, MS Jeffrey Bruce, MD, FACS Neurosurgeon Jeffrey Bruce, MD, FACS, has devoted his research career to to finding new and better treatments for patients with brain tumors. Jeffrey Bruce, MD, FACS Lauren Chernick, MD, MSc Since 2008, Lauren Chernick, MD, has been researching teen pregnancy among the emergency department (ED) population. Lauren Chernick, MD, MSc View All Testimonials Impact Stories View stories about the impact of the Irving Institute. View Our Stories View Our Stories Publications Publications that have cited the Irving Institute's main CTSA Program grant (UL1), K scholar grant (KL2) or T training grant (TL1). Publications People Awardees, Scholars, and Trainees The Irving Institute is dedicated to supporting researchers across Columbia University. People Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian ColumbiaDoctors About Us Services and Programs Our Impact Join a Study Contact Columbia University 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us YouTube LinkedIn Twitter Facebook Back to top