Skip to main content Skip to main content My Account My Account Give Give Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content SMU Libraries Find & Borrow Research & Teaching Locations & Collections Visit SMU Libraries About Get Help Find & Borrow Find Books Journals & Newspapers Articles Films Music Scores & Recordings Borrow & Request Checkout & Renew Interlibrary Loan Request a Purchase Guest Services Alumni Services Research Card Research & Teaching Scholarship & Publishing GIS@SMU SMU Scholar Research Data Digital Scholarship Scholarly Impact & Publishing Copyright Teaching Support Library Materials for Courses Classroom Instruction Assignment Design Online Guides & Tutorials Locations & Collections Libraries Bridwell Library Business Library DeGolyer Library Fondren Library Hamon Arts Library Underwood Law Library Fort Burgwin Library Exhibits & Digital Collections Campus Exhibits Online Exhibits Digital Collections Special Collections & Archives Visit Visit Hours Maps & Parking Technology & Printing Policies Accessibility Spaces Places to Study Graduate Student Spaces Lockers Class & Event Spaces About About Us Staff Directory Dean's Office Equity, Diversity, Inclusion & Accessibility Faculty & Student Awards Join Us Staff & Student Employment Internships Student Advisory Board Friends of SMU Libraries Connect with Us News Events Social Media Contact Us Get Help Ask Us (email, chat, text, call) Research Guides by Discipline How Do I . . . ? Guides Find Your Librarian Attend Workshops Writing Support ☰ Libraries Find Find Articles Find Articles Find Articles by Title Start by searching for the title in Library Search. If the title is generic, you may need to add the author or publication title. If the article does not show up, search for the journal. Sometimes individual articles won’t show up in Library Search, but the journal will. The record will tell you what dates we have available, and you will be able to view it online or find it on the shelf. If we do not have access to the article or journal, you can request it through Interlibrary Loan. Learn how to submit an Interlibrary Loan request. Find Articles by Topic You can search for articles by topic in Library Search or in databases. Library Search is a good place to start searching if you don’t know the relevant discipline or if your topic is interdisciplinary. Enter your keywords in the search bar. Look for the filters for articles and subjects on the left side of your results screen. Learn more about searching for articles in Library Search. If your topic relates to a specific discipline, databases are the best places to start searching. Research guides by discipline list librarian-recommended databases and research strategies. All SMU Libraries databases by subject Learn more about database searching Learn more about searching for historical articles in Magazines and Popular Journals Locate Articles Online In Library Search, look for the Read Article, Download PDF, or Available Online link. In database records, look for a link to the Full Text, a PDF, or HTML. If a database does not have full text, select “Other SMU Options” to see if we have it in another database or in a print journal. If we don’t, sign in to your account and click “Request from Another Institution” to borrow it through Interlibrary Loan. You can search by DOI or PMID in the Find Full Text box on this page. Locate Articles on the Shelf Articles may be in print journals or on microfilm. Find the library and shelf location in the Library Search record under “Get It.” Journals are usually arranged alphabetically. Pay attention to the years listed in the record to ensure it is for the year you need. SMU Libraries Building Maps Some journals are only available to use in the library and can’t be checked out. The record will note that it is “limited access” or “non-circulating”. You may need to ask at the holding library’s desk. Special Collections often require an appointment to see materials. Find Find Books Find Journals & Newspapers Find Articles Find Films Find Music Find Full Text Enter DOI or PMID FAQ view all Related Interlibrary Loan Place a Hold Curbside Pickup Request a Purchase Maps & Directions | Contact Us | Feedback Accessibility | Legal Disclosures © SMU Libraries, PO Box 750135, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share