Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Brown University Robert J. & Nancy D.Carney Institute for Brain Science Search Brown University Home Research Research Projects Where Brain Science Happens BRAINSTORM Program Centers & Core Facilities Center for Alzheimer's Disease Research Center for Computational Brain Science COBRE Center for Neuromodulation Center for the Neurobiology of Cells and Circuits Center for Translational Neuroscience Center for Vision Research COBRE Center for Central Nervous System Function Research Projects Research Cores Behavior and Neuroimaging Core Design and Analysis Core MRI Research Facility Carney Human Testing Space The Bioluminescence Hub COVID-19 Resuming Research Plan Training Undergraduate Students Concentrations Graduate Study Postdocs Executive Committee Carney Summer Scholars Training Programs ICoN - Interdisciplinary Training Interdisciplinary Vision Training Program TPCP - Training Program People Institute Team Executive Committee Affiliated Faculty Community Spotlights Center Directors Scientific Advisory Board News & Events News Upcoming Events Past Events BrainExPo Seminar Series Carney Conversations Methods Meetups Resources Funding Opportunities Research Toolbox Brain Facts Education & Outreach Research & Educational Resources About Our Impact Affiliated Units Where Brain Science Happens FAQ Partner With Us Give To Carney Give To Carney Home Research Training People News & Events Resources Funding Opportunities Research Toolbox Brain Facts Education & Outreach Research & Educational Resources About Partner With Us Search Carney Institute for Brain Science Education & Outreach The Robert J. and Nancy D. Carney Institute for Brain Science is committed to facilitating and sponsoring outreach events for all educational levels and backgrounds. Browse through these resources to discover the wealth of brain science in Rhode Island, as well as STEM outreach and education resources available through Brown University. Digital Research & Educational Resources The purpose of this document is to facilitate remote research for members of the Brown brain science community. This document includes research and educational resources, and it will be updated regularly. Read More Brain Week RI Brain Week RI is a week-long series of events held annually in March during Brain Awareness Week, a global campaign to increase public awareness of the progress and benefits of brain research and to bring scientists, educators and artists together with the community to discover the vast wonders of the brain. The Carney Institute is a sponsor of Brain Week RI, and organizes educational visits to local schools and other brain science-centered events, such as Brown University’s annual Brain Fair. Read More Brown Brain Bee The Brown University Brain Bee is a competition designed to introduce high school students to the field of neuroscience. During the competition, students are tested on their knowledge of various aspects of the brain, such as learning and memory, sleep, addiction, movement, and neurological disorders. Read More Communicating Science Through Animation Communicating Science Through Animation, a class offered jointly by professors at Brown University and RISD, explores and develops the pedagogy of using visual media to convey scientific concepts. Browse a growing library of videos created by students. Read More STEM Outreach Resource (SOURCE) Database Brown University's STEM Outreach Resource (SOURCE) database provides a comprehensive list of STEM-related programs and resources, including cognitive science, neuroscience, computer science, and engineering. Read More The Bioluminescence Hub Our NeuroNex Technology Bioluminescence Hub provides education at many levels and is an example of how a unifying concept can be used to bridge disciplinary boundaries, while illustrating core ideas in STEM content and practice. Read More Resources Funding Opportunities Research Toolbox Brain Facts Education & Outreach Research & Educational Resources Robert J. & Nancy D. Carney Institute for Brain Science Robert J. & Nancy D. Carney Institute for Brain Science Brown University Box 1901 164 Angell St., 4th Floor Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-7421 Email [email protected] Brown University Giving to Brown Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA 401-863-1000 Contact Us Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility All Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top