COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW College of Engineering Section Menu Dean's Office Departments Undergraduate Majors and Degrees Graduate Majors and Degrees Research Engineering Student Success Center Engineering Advising Engineering+ Engineering Technical Support Engineering Open House Kansas BEST GoBabyGo! Koch Innovation Challenge Project Innovation Hub Shocker Engineering Academy Control Systems Laboratory Engineering Support Partnerships and Outreach Engineering Experience Stop Video Get personalized info about the College of Engineering.Request info Since 1928, Wichita State's College of Engineering has built a reputation for equipping engineering and computing students with the most complete education possible. From hands-on research using the latest technology to our location in Kansas' center of industry—with its virtually unlimited jobs, applied learning and professional connections—Shocker engineering students have everything they need to make their dream careers a reality. Apply now Our Innovative Approach Start your career while still in school On and off campus, Shocker engineering and computing students have access to the largest engineering co-op and internship program in the state. This puts real-world experience, college credit, a paycheck—and dream careers—with employers such as Airbus, Spirit AeroSystems, Koch Industries, Textron Aviation, Boeing, NASA, SpaceX, NASCAR and the U.S. Military all within reach. Applied learning at WSU Choose your path. Claim your future. Whether your goal is graduate school, or your first engineering or computing job, it all starts with any of our quality, accredited degree programs. See all College of Engineering degrees First-rate facilities and laboratories WSU's new John Bardo Center features 25 hands-on learning labs—from aerospace structures and vehicle design to astronautics and biomechanics—and access to the tools and equipment to develop new products and bring them to market. An R&D Powerhouse WSU's reputation for research and development is second to none. The National Science Foundation ranks Wichita State University No. 1 in the U.S. in industry-funded aerospace R&D with more than $100 million in overall engineering R&D expenditures. WSU's renowned National Insitute for Aviation Research, combined with on-campus partnerships with names like Airbus, Dassault, NetApp and Spirit AeroSystems, give you the opportunity to live and learn on the cutting edge of design. WSU ranks in top 100 engineering grad schools, top 50 in engineering research dollars WSU Engineering doubles graduates within a decade Unmatched support When you enroll at Wichita State, you'll join a caring community where faculty, staff and students work together to help you pursue your degree and career goals. Our Support Initiatives Engineering Living Learning Community First-Year Peer Mentoring GEEKS Tutoring Academic Success Center Student Organizations Advising Academic Advising at Wichita State University is a personalized way to explore options and make good decisions that help you attain your educational and career goals . Scholarships and Financial Aid WSU annually awards nearly $3 million in scholarships to engineering and computing students. The College of Engineering annually awards $28,000 Wallace Scholarships for new incoming freshmen. Departments Aerospace Biomedical Computing Electrical and Computer Industrial, Systems and Manufacturing Mechanical Engineering Technology College of Engineering News All Engineering News Beyond the Classroom: Anllir Ramirez-Tenorio Wichita State team will help Kansas communities deal with natural disasters Student-created parking app concept wins 2022 Koch Innovation Challenge Meet a Shocker: Cameron McGinley More about the College of Engineering Engineering Faculty Positions Student resources Call us at 316-978-3400 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©