Skip to main content Visit Harvard.edu Covid-19 Information COVID-19 Vaccine & Booster Information Verify Your Vaccination & Booster Keep Harvard Healthy Campus Access For Students For Faculty, Staff, and Researchers For Visitors School & Program Information Event Guidance Health & Wellbeing Testing & Tracing Results Dashboard Weekly Test History Understanding Test Results Exposure, Quarantine, & Isolation Travel Guidance Post-Travel COVID Testing Policy Vaccine Information Verify Your Vaccination & Booster Updates & Messages FAQs Keep Harvard Healthy Campus Access For Students For Faculty, Staff, and Researchers For Visitors School & Program Information Event Guidance Health & Wellbeing Testing & Tracing Results Dashboard Weekly Test History Understanding Test Results Exposure, Quarantine, & Isolation Travel Guidance Post-Travel COVID Testing Policy Vaccine Information Verify Your Vaccination & Booster Updates & Messages FAQs The University is requiring COVID-19 vaccinations for all Harvard community members and COVID-19 boosters for all eligible community members. This includes students, faculty, staff, and researchers. Vaccines and boosters must be FDA- or WHO-authorized. The deadline to receive and verify your COVID-19 booster is January 31. See the step-by-step guidance to verify your booster through the HUHS Patient Portal. If you’re not yet eligible to receive your booster, your deadline to receive and verify your booster will be 30 days after you become eligible. If you received your primary vaccine series outside the United States, you should seek a booster with any WHO-approved vaccine that is available to you (mixing of brands is acceptable). If you’re unable to get a booster before you return to campus, you will not be barred from entering campus. You will, however, be expected to arrange for the booster as soon as possible. HUHS is planning booster clinics in the coming weeks. See the scheduling options. If you have an approved exemption for the vaccine, you don’t need to submit additional documentation for a booster exemption. Federal Vaccination Mandate Consistent with federal guidance, all Harvard employees, including those who are on 100% remote work status, must be fully vaccinated unless they have an approved exemption. Employees do not have the option to opt for additional testing instead of vaccination. How to submit your verification Employees and students who received their vaccination and/or booster through HUHS If you received your vaccination and/or booster through HUHS, you do not need to submit any information, as HUHS already has your information on file. Employees and students who received their vaccination and/or booster through external sites If you received a booster since originally submitting your vaccine card, you can update your record in the HUHS patient portal. Log in to the portal to upload an image of the card containing the booster information, select your immunization manufacturer from the drop-down menu, and enter the date you received it. Submit your verification by uploading a photo of your vaccination card in the HUHS Patient Portal. You do not need to be a patient of HUHS to do this. If your vaccine is not WHO-approved, please still submit the information with the manufacturer left blank, and attach a copy of any documentation. If it is in another language, please attach an additional note in English. Steps to upload your vaccine and booster card: Go to the HUHS Patient Portal. Log in with your HarvardKey. Enter your birthdate, and then click “Proceed”. On the homepage, click on the button to “Enter My COVID-19 Vaccination Information”. Under COVID-19 Vaccination Card Upload, click “Upload”. Select the photo of your vaccination card. Once the image preview loads, select “Looks Good”. Under “Covid-19 Vaccine History”, click “Add Immunization” to enter the date(s) and manufacturer(s) of vaccine and/or booster that you received. If you don’t see the manufacturer listed in the dropdown, you should still submit your documentation. Click “Save” and then click “Done”. Details of Covid Vaccine should be changed to “Awaiting Review.” Status will still show as “Not Compliant”. Once HUHS has reviewed and confirmed your vaccination and/or booster, the status will be updated to “Compliant”. Employees and students seeking exemption If you have an approved exemption for the vaccine, you do not need to request an exemption for the booster requirement. Students seeking a medical or religious exemption for the vaccine should complete the Student Vaccine Exemption Form and provide the required documentation. Employees who have not already claimed a medical or religious exemption, but who wish to do so, can email mrecords@huhs.harvard.edu. Unvaccinated individuals who are approved for a medical or religious exemption will have more frequent COVID-19 testing requirements and may be subject to additional public health measures. Have questions about Harvard’s COVID-19 vaccine and booster requirements? Read the HUHS Vaccine and Booster Requirement FAQs Security & Brand Report Copyright Infringement Report Security Issue Trademark Notice Website Accessibility Digital Accessibility Privacy Statement Get In Touch Contact Harvard Maps & Directions Jobs © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube