Skip to main content Restrict my search to Office of the Provost Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Office of the Provost About Provost Paula Myrick Short Initiatives Deans of Colleges and Libraries Provost's Cabinet: Vice and Associate Provosts Office of the Provost Staff Presentations by Provost Paula Myrick Short Faculty Current Faculty Faculty Resources Underrepresented Women of Color Coalition Faculty Engagement and Development Faculty Awards Cougar Chairs Leadership Academy Grants Faculty Grievance Non-Tenure Track Faculty New Faculty Prospective Faculty Presidential Frontiers Faculty Faculty/Staff Administrators Student Success Undergraduate Academic Advising Current Students Undergraduate Student Success Center Provost Prizes for Prose & Poetry New Coogs UHin4: Four Year Graduation Plan Cub Camp: Student-Run, Student Led Provost Summer Read Program Peer Assistants Global Students Learning Abroad International Students Graduate Students University Success SACSCOC University Accreditation UH Global Global Initiatives Global Citizens Credential Peace Corps Prep Program Center for ADVANCING UH Faculty Success Cougar Initiative to Engage (CITE) Houston Guided Pathways to Success About People Memorandum of Understanding Foundations of Excellence About Year 1: Foundational Dimensions Year 2: Themes Success Indicators Dashboard Postdoctoral Fellows at UH Academic Program Planning Committee on Academic Centers and Institutes Planning and Budgeting Policies and Resources Academic Honesty Policy Frequently Asked Questions Student Policies and Resources Student Resources Faculty Policies, Programs, and Resources Policies Programs Resources University Policies and Resources FERPA Resources Senate Bill 4 Frequently Asked Questions Honorary Degrees COVID-19 Updates and Resources News News Travels With Shasta Cougar Milestones UH Office of the Provost Marketing and Communications UH Home Office of the Provost University Success UH Global UH Global International Student and Scholar Services Learning Abroad Global Initiatives Global Citizens Credential Peace Corps Prep Program Events Contact Information UH Global University of Houston 101 E.W. Cullen Building Houston, TX 77204 Email: uhglobal@uh.edu UH Global Overview University Collaborations Faculty Awards & Funding Fulbright Awards Overview UH Global promotes international collaborations, faculty and student exchange, research collaborations, learning abroad, global learning programs, and strategic partnerships to internationalize the campus and increase the global knowledge, skills, and engagement of the UH community. For general inquiries, please contact uhglobal@uh.edu University Collaborations Any formal collaboration such as a Memorandum of Understanding, an Articulation Agreement, or a Contract between UH and a foreign institution requires the endorsement of UH Global, the Office of the Provost and, if necessary, the Office of the General Counsel before it can be implemented. The Process for Establishing International Affiliations assists UH faculty and administrators through the required steps in establishing formal collaborations. Click here to view the UH MOU template. Faculty Awards and Funding Global Faculty Award The Global Faculty Award, sponsored by the Office of the Provost, is given to tenured or tenure-track faculty who have demonstrated excellence in the promotion of globalization of teaching, research, and/or service. For nomination processes and more information about the Global Faculty award, please click the link above. Global Faculty Development Fund The Global Faculty Development Fund (GFDF) was established to further faculty involvement in the globalization process of the university. This Provost initiative will increase both the assortment and quality of UH’s global programs by helping faculty to defray the costs of engaging in innovative global activities. For more information about the GFDF guidelines and the proposal, please click the link above. Fulbright Awards Fulbright Scholar Program: Faculty who are U.S. citizens and would like to participate in teaching, research, or a combination of teaching and research with an institution abroad should consider applying for a Fulbright Scholar Award. Program length ranges from 2-12 months and applications are due in September each year. For more information about the application process, please visit the Fulbright Scholar website. To learn more about the Fulbright Scholar program and application process, click here to watch a webinar recording: the Fall 2020 UH Fulbright Scholar Info Session or the Spring 2021 UH Fulbright Scholar Info Session. Fulbright Specialist Program: Faculty who are U.S. citizens and would like to participate in short-term academic projects abroad should consider applying for either a Fulbright Specialist award. Program length ranges from 2-6 weeks and applications are due on a rolling basis (every two months). For more information about the application process, please visit the Fulbright Specialist website. To learn more about the Fulbright Specialist program and application process, click here to watch a webinar recording: Spring 2021 UH Fulbright Specialist Info Session (Password: Fulbright2021) or the Spring 2022 UH Fulbright Specialist Info Session. Fulbright Visiting Scholar Program: Faculty and departments who would like to host an international scholar at the University of Houston can encourage potential visitors to apply for the Fulbright Visiting Scholar Program through their home country's Fulbright commission or the public affairs section of the U.S. Embassy in their home country. Faculty should contact ISSSO for support with the Fulbright sponsored J1 process and sample invitation letter. ISSSO is the main contact on campus for visiting international scholars. Click here to view the list of UH Faculty who have received a Fulbright Award. These faculty are a great resource for anyone looking to apply for a Fulbright Award. University of Houston Ezekiel W. Cullen Bldg., Room 203 Houston, TX 77204 832-842-0550 About the Office of the Provost Travels With Shasta Cougar Milestones Office of the Provost Staff Faculty Awards Student Success Undergraduate Academic Advising UHin4: Four Year Graduation Plan Provost Summer Read Program Cub Camp: Student-Run, Student Led University Success Policies and Resources SACSCOC University Accreditation ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies