Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Moody Prospective Students Prospective Students Degrees Offered Graduate Admissions Guide Application Deadlines Graduate School Resources International Applicants Diversity Visit SMU Current Students Current Students Forms and Policies Graduation Graduate Writing Center Graduate Student Lounge Career Development Graduate Student Organizations Student Services Events Events Events Calendar Research and Innovation Week Orientation Professional Development Three Minute Thesis Student Life Funding Funding Meet our Ph.D. Fellows Ph.D. Health Insurance Graduate Student Travel Grant Dedman Graduate Student Assembly About About Mission and History Moody Foundation Gift Charter Administrative Handbook Dean's Office Messages from the Dean Graduate Council Graduate Student Advisory Board Contact Us Admissions Contacts Blog ☰ The Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Funding Ph.D. Health Insurance Ph.D. Health Insurance At SMU, we believe that Ph.D. students greatly contribute to the mission of the university through their research and their work as research and teaching assistants. For this reason, we provide funding to cover the cost of premiums for the Student Health Insurance Plan to Ph.D. students with the goal of improving their quality of life and removing a significant financial burden from them. Full-time enrolled Ph.D. students are automatically eligible for this coverage, if they are fully supported by an SMU fellowship or assistantship which provides them with compensation of at least $17,500 for the year or $9,000 for the semester, are within five years of their term of matriculation in their Ph.D. program, and are making satisfactory progress in their program. Coverage is provided for the full academic year or on a semester-by-semester basis, depending on the nature of the student’s assistantship or fellowship. Coverage may also be provided to Ph.D. students who do not meet these criteria, particularly if they are supported by an external fellowship or internship that does not provide health insurance coverage. Ph.D. students who are not automatically eligible may, with the support of their program and school, petition the Graduate Office for health insurance coverage. Petitions must be received before the Student Health Insurance Plan enrollment deadline. Full-time Ph.D. students who do not receive health insurance coverage may still enroll in the Student Health Insurance Plan and pay the premiums themselves. Ph.D. students who are eligible for health insurance coverage receive a message notifying them of their eligibility before the beginning of each fall and spring term and must then enroll in the Student Health Insurance Plan to take advantage of the coverage. More information about the Student Health Insurance Plan, including instructions for enrolling in the plan and deadlines for enrollment, can be found on the Dr. Bob Smith Health Center website: Student Health Insurance Plan. Funding Meet our Ph.D. Fellows Ph.D. Health Insurance Graduate Student Travel Grant Dedman Graduate Student Assembly Apply Visit School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share