Skip to main content Search form Search Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers Contact Give About Search Menu Public Health Now News Events Publications Topics Student Voices Celebrating the Centennial Our Work to Address COVID-19 Columbia Public Health Magazine Academics Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy & Procedures Office of Education Research Featured Research Global Health Centers Programs Grants & Awards Corporate Partnerships People Our Faculty Current Students Friends and Supporters Partners Alumni Become a Student Meet Our Faculty Life & Community Degree Finder How to Apply Career Services More Information Master of Public Health Degree Programs Certificate Program Core Curriculum Search You are here Home Become a Student Career Services Students CareerLink Winter Storm Update/Impacts to Campus and Services Last Updated 12:50pm Fri May 6 See Coronavirus Updates for information on campus protocols. CareerLink Careers in Public Health Career Day Events Networking Resources CareerLink Careers in Public Health Career Day Events Networking Resources CareerLink Mailman CareerLink is an exclusive resource for Mailman School students, alumni, and employers. Please note, by using this system, students an alumni must agree to the Career Services Honor Code (below). Using this career management system, you can: Search and apply for jobs and internships, sign up to have new job listings emailed to you, and search a directory of employers Upload resumes and cover letters, and publish resumes online for employers to view Download relevant career handouts, workshop materials, and videos Schedule appointments with OCP staff RSVP for career fairs and other events How to Log into Mailman CareerLink CURRENT MAILMAN STUDENTS AND ALUMNI Click here to log into your student or alumni account; click on Mailman Students & Alums--Single Sign On. You will use your Columbia University UNI and password to log in. If you can't recall your UNI or password, please visit UNI support. If you have any other trouble logging in to CareerLink, please email us at msphocs@cumc.columbia.edu and we will assist you. Helpful tips on using Mailman CareerLink UPDATE YOUR PROFILE When you first log in to CareerLink, you will be prompted to fill out basic contact and academic information. After this, you can update your information by clicking "My Account" on the left navigation bar. While you are not required to complete the entire profile, providing more information may help connect you with more opportunities. UPLOAD YOUR RESUME/COVER LETTER Under the "Documents” link on the left, click “My Documents." Then click the “Add New” button on the top of the page. Give your document a name you can use to remember which document it is and select the document type (Resume, Cover Letter, Writing Sample etc.). Choose your file, then click the Submit button. Be sure you review our tips on resume writing first, or make an appointment with a career services staff member for help with writing your resume or CV. UPLOAD RESUME IN RESUME BOOKS To publish your resume in resume books, click on "My Account" (on the bottom left), then click Privacy. Click "Yes" next to "Include in Resume Books." Your resume will then be searchable by employers. If you do not log in to CareerLink for more than a few months, your resume will eventually expire from the resume books. Simply log in again to reactivate it. SEARCH FOR JOBS AND INTERNSHIPS Click on “Jobs & Internships” in the left-hand navigation bar, then Search. You can search by keywords, Position Type (internship, full-time job etc.), Industry, Job Function, Location, etc. and click the “Search” button to filter the list of positions. Please NOTE! The more details you fill out, the FEWER jobs you wil see. Click on the job title to read the job description and see how to apply; typically you can click the Apply button. In some cases, you may be able to apply directly through the system by clicking using your resume or cover letter (uploaded in the “My Profile” section of the site) and then submitting the “Apply” button. You can also save jobs for later by clicking the star on the top right-hand side of the screen. SET UP A JOB SEARCH ALERT After you have created a job search, simply click on the + Create Job Alert button. You can then click on the Job Alerts link, and decide if you would like to receive new job postings which match your search criteria daily, weekly, or monthly. SIGN UP FOR WORKSHOPS AND CAREER EVENTS Click on the “Events” link on the left-hand side of the screen. You can filter by the type of event by clicking "More Filters" and view Workshops (conducted by Career Services staff, or other career events which are not linked to a specific organization), Information Sessions/Employer Events , or Career Fairs. Click on the name of the event you would like to RSVP for. You can RSVP and also add the event to your Calendar by clicking "Add to Calendar." For career fairs, you may also view the registered employers by clicking on the event name. SEARCH THE EMPLOYER DIRECTORY Search for employer records and information for employers who have granted students access to view their information, by clicking the Employers link on the left hand side of the screen. You can search by keyword or other filters. MAKE AN APPOINTMENT WITH CAREER ADVISORS/STAFF Click on “Appointments” link on the left-hand side of the page. Then click on Request New Appointment. Scroll down and click on "Check Availability" to see open appointment times. On the next screen, click on the particular time slot you like, can add any notes for the advisor. Then click "Submit Request." Your appointment will now be scheduled and you will receive a confirmation and a reminder email. Please note—current students and recent graduates (within 12 months of graduation) can make up to 2 appointments per month. Alumni can make 2 appointments per semester during the school year and up to 2/month in the summer. To cancel an appointment you have made, please cancel at least 24 hours before the appointment. Click on Appointments, then look at your Approved Appointments. Click the 3 vertical dots, then click Cancel, then click Submit. ACCESS THE RESOURCE LIBRARY Click on “Resources” on the left-hand side of the page to view various different resources and handouts. In addition, please be sure to download and read the Mailman School Career Handbook, downloadable from our Courseworks page, which has hundreds of additional resources, videos, and materials. If you have any questions, please email us. Career Services Honor Code & Terms of Use By using the CareerLink system and Career Services, you agree to abide by the Career Services Honor Code and Terms of Use below. The terms that follow apply to your search for employment as conducted through Mailman School Career Services. By adhering to these terms, you will project a positive image of yourself, your class and the School. By using the Mailman CareerLink website and/or any other of the Mailman School’s Career Services, you agree to adhere to these terms as detailed below. Students who violate this code, or otherwise behave, in writing, online, or in person, in a manner that jeopardizes the Mailman School's reputation with employers, may lose CareerLink access until the situation is addressed, and in some circumstances will be reported as a disciplinary violation. CareerLink Site: Mailman CareerLink is ONLY for Mailman School students and alumni, and approved reciprocity students. Students are prohibited from sharing their accounts with anyone. It is the responsibility of students to ensure that their profile information is accurate, up to date, and secure. Job & Internship Postings: Mailman School Career Services does not guarantee or prescreen all the postings on CareerLink. If you encounter any problems or concerns regarding an employer you contacted via CareerLink, or if you have questions about Mailman CareerLink, please contact career services. It is the responsibility of students to check with their respective departments to ensure that an internship they applied for meets the academic requirements for their practicum experience. Resumes/Applications: Present your qualifications and interests accurately and honestly. Falsifying data, such as GPA, date of graduation, degrees obtained, institutions attended, prior work experience, and/or eligibility to work in the United States is unethical and is grounds for immediate dismissal by most employing organizations. Interviewing: Learn about the employers and their positions Employers expect their candidates will make an effort to learn about their organizations. Conduct research on organizations prior to your interview; contact Career Services for help with the process and to schedule a practice interview. Interview only when genuinely interested in the advertised position(s). Do not interview for practice; this will cause the recruiter to feel his/her time is being wasted and takes away valuable time from fellow students or alumni who may have a sincere interest in the organization. When signing up to attend an employer-sponsored event/information session or Career Services event it is expected that you will be on time and remain until the conclusion of the event. Participate in the interview. Employers take the interview process seriously and expect students to honor their agreement to arrive on time and participate in the interview. No-showing or canceling late (defined as canceling less than 24 hours before an interview, or 72 hours if the interview is scheduled on a Monday) reflects poorly on the candidate and the Mailman School. Students who no-show for an on-campus interview may be blocked from CareerLink until they send a formal letter of apology to the organization. In addition, we ask students to wear appropriate attire for interviews and keep their cell phones off during the meeting. Students should send a thank-you email to interviewers within 24 hours. Handle rejection professionally. Employers are not obligated to interview or hire any particular candidate. Students should expect to encounter rejection during their job search and utilize support provided by career services. Students are advised to continue applying for opportunities until they accept a position. Honoring Your Commitments/Accepting or Rejecting Offers: Notify organizations of your acceptance or rejection of offers as soon as your decision is made and no later than the deadline prescribed by the employer. Candidates should expect offers to be confirmed in writing, and likewise, should notify the company of accepted or rejected offers by telephone first, and follow up with a letter or email. Requests for extensions of decision deadlines should be made as early as possible. Upon accepting a position, students must withdraw from interviewing at other sites. Continuing to interview after accepting an offer, or reneging on an accepted offer, is unethical, and very detrimental to your own reputation and that of the Mailman School; and can lead employers to decide never to recruit from the Mailman School in the future, thus damaging opportunities for your classmates. Students who renege on a job offer will have their CareerLink access frozen and may be reported for a disciplinary violation. Career Services Appointments & Cancellation Policy In order to be fair to other students and alumni who may have to wait in order to obtain appointments with Career Services, and to best respect staff time, we ask students to provide a minimum of 24-hour notice if they must cancel or reschedule an appointment with Career Services staff. CURRENT STUDENTS AND RECENT GRADUATES: During the academic year, currently enrolled students and recent graduates (within one year of graduation) can make up to 2 appointments per month. During the summer, there is no restriction on appointments. Exceptions may be made in certain situations. ALUMNI: Alumni who are more than 1 year past graduation are encouraged to make appointments with career services during the summer. During the school year (Sept.-May), alumni may make up to 2 appointments with career services staff per semester (with special exceptions being possible for alumni who are experiencing challenges to finding employment). Alumni also have free, lifetime access to use CareerLink and attend workshops and career events. NO-SHOW POLICY: Individuals who no-show on 3 appointments will be blocked from making another career services appointment for one month. More to Explore Friday 03June COVID-19: From Causes to ConsequencesMay 27 2022 Gun Violence Prevention Experts Respond to Mass Shootings May 27 2022 Our Experts Help Explain the Monkeypox OutbreakMay 26 2022 A Q&A With Prof. Merlin ChowkwanyunMay 24 2022 Sign up for Transmission Columnbia Mailman Connect with Us Public Health Now News Events Publications Topics Student Voices Academics Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy & Procedures Office of Education Research Featured Research Global Health Centers Programs Grants & Awards Corporate Partnerships People Our Faculty Current Students Friends and Supporters Partners Alumni Become a Student Meet Our Faculty Life & Community Degree Finder How to Apply Career Services More Information Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health | 722 West 168th St. NY, NY 10032 Site Map Privacy Columbia University Irving Medical Center Copyright © Columbia University 2019 Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers