Skip to content Columbia University Irving Medical Center Find People Events Faculty and Staff Resources Give Now Search About Us About Us Facts and Figures Explore CUIMC Events Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion at CUIMC Community Development and Alumni Explore CUIMC Leadership and Administration A-Z Listing Affiliated Hospitals Campus Map and Directions Campus Resources Contact CUIMC Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion At CUIMC, we are committed to continuous improvement in providing culturally inclusive medical education and clinical care. Learn About Our Commitment Education Education Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Mailman School of Public Health School of Nursing College of Dental Medicine VP&S Columbia Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons is dedicated to developing the next generation of leaders in medicine Learn About Our Academic Programs Research Research The Louisa Gross Horwitz Prize Columbia Technology Ventures Research Administration Columbia Clinical Innovation Lab Patient Care Patient Care ColumbiaDoctors Children's Health Columbia Primary Care Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Digital Health Services at Columbia Find a Doctor Search for a provider by specialty, expertise, location and insurance. Schedule an appointment online. Find a Doctor News News For the Media Share Your News CUIMC Update CUIMC Celebrates Columbia Medicine Read the latest news stories about CUIMC faculty, research, and events Explore Our News COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Information for Patients COVID-19 Campus Safety for Employees and Students COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students COVID-19 Information and Resources for Clinical Staff COVID-19 Vaccine Information Learn about COVID-19 vaccine availability and requirements for employees and students at CUIMC Get the Latest Information Surgery Topics Campus News Research Medical School Public Health Cancer Mental Health Infectious Diseases Neurology Neuroscience Education Heart Health Pediatrics View All Topics Search All News Keywords News Subtopics: Transplantation Top Stories Hiroo Takayama Appointed Chief of Adult Cardiac Surgery Internationally renowned “surgeon’s surgeon” is known for his skill in highly complex cases. Topic Campus News Treating Generations of Families with Colorectal Cancer Having a rapport with kids is a critical part of the job for James Church and other Columbia colorectal surgeons who treat people with hereditary colon cancer. Topic Colon Cancer Cured of a Challenging Tumor When Bisant Labib needed surgery to remove a large tumor growing in her spinal cord, all the doctors she consulted recommended the same neurosurgeon—Paul McCormick. Gastric Bypass Is Best Weight Loss Option for Diabetes Patients, Study Finds A study of weight loss methods suggests that gastric bypass surgery is the best strategy for patients with type 2 diabetes and severe obesity, regardless of the severity of a patient’s diabetes. Topic Diabetes Latest News Common Virus May Cause Serious Disease in Transplant Patients February 9, 2022 A common virus that causes no harm in most people may be a danger to organ transplant recipients and other immunocompromised people, Columbia University researchers have found. Topic Transplantation Thriving After Spinal Surgery: Chuck's Story February 7, 2022 Back pain is often blamed on a pulled muscle, pinched nerve, or herniated disk. But when the cause is a tumor on the spine, a delicate, multistep operation is required. Bariatric Surgery and the Complicated Reality of Weight Loss By Elisabeth Geier January 19, 2022 Bariatric surgery is not the easy way out, but the only long-term, proven weight loss treatment we have, says Columbia surgeon Marc Bessler. 8 Tips to Avoid Holiday Weight Gain December 17, 2021 It's possible to get through the holiday season without gaining weight or depriving yourself, says Columbia bariatric surgeon Jayne A. Lieb, MD. Inside the Successful Separation Surgery of Conjoined Twins December 10, 2021 Alusine and Isatu Jalloh traveled 4,300 miles to give their girls a chance for a better life. At Morgan Stanley Children's Hospital, a team of Columbia surgeons successfully separated the twins. Topic Pediatrics An Amazing Comeback from COVID: Dr. Tomoaki Kato’s Story November 22, 2021 After nearly dying from COVID-19 last year, the world-renowned transplant surgeon reflects on his recovery and completing his eighth New York City Marathon. Topic Campus News Cardiothoracic Anesthesiologist, Pulmonary Researcher Joins Columbia Anesthesiology November 15, 2021 Marcos Vidal Melo, an internationally renowned cardiopulmonary scientist and anesthesiologist, has joined Columbia as chief of the Division of Cardiothoracic Anesthesiology. Topic Campus News Pancreatic Cancer: More Patients May Benefit From Surgery November 12, 2021 Recent observations suggest that surgery is possible for some pancreatic cancer patients who are initially deemed inoperable. Topic Cancer After Breast Cancer Twice in One Year, Early Detection and New Radiation Therapy Made All the Difference October 15, 2021 Columbia breast cancer patient Karin Diamond credits regular mammograms for catching her cancer early and her surgeon's use of intraoperative radiation for keeping her cancer-free. Topic Breast Cancer Lung Maintains Long-Term Memory of COVID Infection October 7, 2021 After infection with the COVID virus, where does the immune system store the memory? A new study finds memory cells take up residence in the lung to protect against reinfection. Topic COVID-19 Pages 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 … next last Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian About Us Careers News Education Patient Care Research Resources at CUIMC Columbia University Irving Medical Center 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Back to top