Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Occupational Therapy (Transitional Program) OTD You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Occupational Therapy (Transitional Program) OTD Apply Request More Info Occupational Therapy (Transitional Program) OTD Accreditation Admissions Clinical Education Curriculum Departmental Research Scholarships & Financial Aid Clinical Doctorate in Occupational Therapy (OTD) Balance coursework with rigorous research demands to develop advanced clinical expertise in interdisciplinary areas such as community practice and entrepreneurial innovation with the Clinical Doctorate in Occupational Therapy (OTD) in Temple’s College of Public Health. This 21-credit doctoral program—offered fully online and synchronously—is intended for any recent Master of Occupational Therapy (MOT) program graduate, as well as licensed occupational therapists already working in the field and seeking to enhance their careers and advance to leadership positions in clinical and academic environments. The Occupational Therapy (Transitional Program) OTD is structured so that students can transition naturally from an MOT program to the doctoral program. All classes are offered fully online to accommodate student needs. Students in the Occupational Therapy (Transitional Program) OTD develop advanced clinical expertise in interdisciplinary areas. As a graduate, you will be prepared to advance occupational therapy’s role in promoting a person’s participation in society, in consideration of societal needs, policies and trends; bring relevant and fresh perspectives to clinical situations you encounter; enact individual action and social reform to foster productive and meaningful living; and use, promote and advance client-centered and evidence-based practices. Many OTD graduates use their degrees and experience to move into leadership and higher education teaching positions. Other graduates advance in the field to become clinical educators, clinical specialists and program developers. Program Format & Curriculum The Occupational Therapy (Transitional Program) OTD is a 21-credit program. All classes are online and synchronous. Students may take up to three years to complete the program. Sample classes you will take as part of the Occupational Therapy (Transitional Program) OTD program include the following. Clinical Education and Fieldwork Supervision Current and Emerging Issues in Public Health and Health Professions Leadership in the Health Professions: The Art and Science of Influence Studies in Outcome Measures and Analysis Learn more about the curriculum comprising the Occupational Therapy (Transitional Program) OTD program. Tuition & Fees The Occupational Therapy (Transitional Program) OTD program offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full or part time) and more. Learn more about our tuition and fees. These tuition costs apply to the 2020–2021 academic year. Online: $975 per credit Our Advisors The College of Public Health offers personalized advising services to students in each department. OTD students are assigned an OT faculty academic advisor for academic and professional guidance. Student Organizations You can engage with peers and find leadership opportunities in student-led clubs and organizations in the College of Public Health. Learn more about student clubs and organizations. HP-OTTP-OTD Additional Program Information Available online. Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Occupational Therapy (Transitional Program) OTD Accreditation Admissions Clinical Education Curriculum Departmental Research Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info