Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links University Catalog Menu Main Nav University Catalog University Catalog Back Back Close Undergraduate Programs Overview Carroll School of Management Accounting Business Analytics Business Law and Society Finance General Management Information Systems Management and Organization Marketing Connell School of Nursing Lynch School of Education and Human Development Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences African and African Diaspora Studies Art, Art History, and Film Biochemistry Biology Chemistry Classical Studies Communication Computer Science Earth and Environmental Sciences Eastern, Slavic, and German Studies Economics Engineering English Environmental Studies History Interdisciplinary Programs and Minors (MCAS) International Studies Islamic Civilization and Societies Mathematics Music Philosophy Physics Political Science Psychology and Neuroscience Romance Languages and Literatures Sociology Theatre Theology University Courses Schiller Institute for Integrated Science and Society Woods College of Advancing Studies Summer Session Graduate Programs Overview Boston College Law School Boston College School of Social Work Carroll School of Management Connell School of Nursing Lynch School of Education and Human Development Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences Biology Chemistry Classical Studies Earth and Environmental Sciences Economics English History Islamic Civilization and Societies Mathematics Philosophy Physics Political Science Psychology and Neuroscience Romance Languages and Literatures Sociology Theology School of Theology and Ministry Woods College of Advancing Studies Courses Overview Boston College Law School Boston College School of Social Work Carroll School of Management Accounting Courses Business Analytics Courses Business Law and Society Courses Business Writing and Communication Courses Finance Courses Information Systems Courses Management and Organization Courses Management Elective Courses Management Required Courses Marketing Courses Portico Courses Undergraduate Management Courses Connell School of Nursing Nursing Courses Forensics Courses Palliative Care Courses Lynch School of Education and Human Development Counseling, Developmental, and Educational Psychology Courses Educational Leadership and Higher Education Courses Experience, Reflection, Action Courses Learning Engineering Courses Measurement, Evaluation, Statistics, and Assessment Courses Teacher Education and Curriculum and Instruction Courses Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences African and African Diaspora Studies Courses Art History Courses Biology Courses Capstone Courses Chemistry Courses Classical Studies Courses Communication Courses Computer Science Courses Cornerstone Courses Earth and Environmental Sciences Courses East Asian Languages and Civilizations Courses Economics Courses Engineering Courses English Courses Environmental Studies Courses Film Courses French Courses German Studies Courses Hispanic Studies Courses History Courses Italian Courses International Studies Courses Islamic Civilization and Societies Courses Jesuit Studies Courses Journalism Courses Linguistics Courses Mathematics Courses Music Academic Courses Music Performance Courses Near Eastern Languages and Civilizations Courses Philosophy Courses Physics Courses Political Science Courses Psychology and Neuroscience Courses Romance Languages and Literatures Courses Slavic Studies Courses Sociology Courses Studio Art Courses Theatre Courses Theology Courses University Courses Schiller Institute for Integrated Science and Society School of Theology and Ministry Christian Ethics Courses Course Area Unspecified Courses History of Christianity Courses New Testament Courses Old Testament Courses Pastoral Studies Courses Practical Theology Courses Religious Education Courses Systematic and Historical Theology Courses Woods College of Advancing Studies Accounting Courses Administrative Studies Courses Biology Courses Business Management Courses Communication Courses Corporate Systems Courses Criminal Justice Courses Cybersecurity Courses Economics Courses Education Courses English Courses Examined Life Courses Film Courses Finance Courses Fine Arts Courses Geology Courses Healthcare Administration Courses History Courses Information Technology Courses Journalism Courses Law Courses Leadership Studies Courses Marketing Courses Mathematics Courses Philosophy Courses Political Science Courses Psychology Courses Romance Languages Courses Sociology Courses Spanish Courses Sports Administration Courses Sustainability Courses Theology Courses Policies and Procedures Catalog Archive Close Directory A to Z Listing Search University Catalog Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Home Graduate Programs Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences Physics Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences Biology Chemistry Classical Studies Earth and Environmental Sciences Economics English History Islamic Civilization and Societies Mathematics Philosophy Physics Political Science Psychology and Neuroscience Romance Languages and Literatures Sociology Theology Physics The Department offers comprehensive programs of study and research leading to the degrees of Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.), with an interim Master of Science. Students may also obtain a Master of Science in Teaching (M.S.T.) in conjunction with the Lynch School of Education and Human Development. Courses emphasize a strong foundation in the basic principles of physics, preparing the student to undertake advanced research under the supervision of a faculty advisor. Graduate students are encouraged not only to collaborate closely with their research advisor, but also to draw upon the experience of the entire faculty and other graduate students. Our students are trained primarily to carry out independent research at the Ph.D. level, and our graduates have gone on to successful careers in many areas. Physics Courses Physics Faculty Physics Website Print Open All Close All Doctoral Program Doctoral Program A student enters the doctoral program upon faculty recommendation after passing the Doctoral Comprehensive Examination and the Research Proposal Examination (RPE). Upon the student's passing performance of the RPE, the student and their advisor, in consultation with the Chairperson, shall establish a doctoral thesis committee consisting of the student’s advisor who will chair the committee and at least three additional tenure-track or tenured faculty members, with at least two from the physics department. Requirements Twelve courses are required for the doctorate degree. These include seven courses that cover the fundamental areas of classical and quantum physics, a graduate seminar, plus four additional distributional courses in distinct areas chosen from the graduate electives of the department or from other graduate departments with the approval of the chairperson. Two courses in condensed matter physics are strongly recommended as two of these four elective courses. Some teaching or equivalent educational experience is required. This requirement may be satisfied by at least one year of service as a teaching assistant or by suitable teaching duties. Arrangements are made with each student for a teaching program best suited to their overall program of studies. Comprehensive Examination The comprehensive examination is a written exam that covers all of physics that a physics graduate student can be expected to know at the end of one year of formal course work in the curriculum; however, it will stress classical mechanics, electromagnetism, quantum mechanics, and statistical physics. The examination is prepared and administered by a faculty committee, appointed by the Chairperson, and the examination is evaluated by this committee with approval of the faculty of the department. The examination is offered twice a year, the week before the beginning of each semester. The student must pass one of two possible attempts in order to continue in the graduate program before the end of their second year. A student who fails the first attempt must make their second attempt the next time the exam is offered. The first attempt would typically be a fall exam taken a week before the beginning of the student’s second fall semester. If unsuccessful, the second try would be a spring exam, one week before the beginning of their second spring semester. Exceptionally well-prepared and qualified students can make the FIRST attempt of the exam either by arriving one week early to take a fall exam or taking a spring exam during their first year. A student choosing to do this who does not pass their first attempt must take the comprehensive examination before the next semester begins. Research Proposal Examination Within one year of passing the comprehensive examination, a student shall take the Research Proposal Exam (RPE). The purpose of this oral examination is for the student to assimilate work done in an area of research and to define a research project that addresses one or more open important questions in this area. The RPE will be a 40-minute, public presentation followed by 20 minutes of questions by the exam committee in private. The proposal should include a detailed explanation for how it proposes to address the open questions and preferably include preliminary results. The topic of the RPE will be chosen by the graduate student’s research advisor and will not necessarily be the student’s ultimate thesis topic. The questions will not be restricted to the RPE topic but will also require the student to demonstrate some breadth. The examination will be evaluated by a committee prepared by the student’s doctoral thesis advisor and will consist of at least two additional department faculty. The student will have at most two opportunities to pass this exam. Those who do not pass the RPE on the first try must make a second attempt within six months of this time. Students will not advance to Ph.D. candidacy without passing the RPE, and after two unsuccessful attempts will not receive additional TA support from the department. Thesis Defense Upon the student's passing performance of the RPE, the student and their advisor, in consultation with the Chairperson, shall establish a doctoral thesis committee consisting of the student’s advisor who will chair the committee and at least three additional tenure-track or tenured faculty members, with at least two of these from the physics department. The committee will read and evaluate the completed thesis and conduct an open meeting at which the thesis is defended in an oral examination. The thesis is accepted when endorsed on the official title page by the Doctoral Thesis Committee after the oral examination. Admission Information Admissions Information Financial support for qualified students is available in the form of teaching assistantships. Research assistantships are also available during the summer and academic year, depending on research area and the extent of current funding. Please see our website regarding requirements related to the GRE Aptitude Test and Advanced Test. Students whose native language is not English must provide evidence of English proficiency. General Information General Information Waivers of departmental requirements, if not in violation of graduate school requirements, may be granted by recommendation of the Graduate Affairs Committee with approval of the Chairperson. Research Information Research Information The Physics Department is strongly research oriented with faculty involved in both experimental and theoretical areas. The department is one of the strongest in materials and optics research, of both fundamental and applied topics using cutting-edge facilities. Some areas of current interest are in the condensed matter physics areas of superconductivity, photovoltaics, thermoelectrics, nanomaterials, plasmonics, plasmas, topological states, 2D atomic crystals, and other strongly correlated electron systems. Cutting-edge research facilities are available to our graduate students including: Scanning Tunneling Microscopy (STM); thin film growth; Angle Resolved PhotoEmission Spectroscopy (ARPES); Raman and Infrared microscopy; low temperature and high magnetic field Seebeck; thermal and electrical conductivity; Near-Field Scanning Optical Microscopy (NSOM/A-NSOM); x-ray; NMR; materials/nano-materials; (Clean Room) preparation laboratories; graduate and undergraduate computational facilities; and access to the University computing system. The Department of Physics is constantly enhancing and supplementing these facilities. In addition, the Department has developed strong ties to many outside facilities, including Los Alamos National Laboratory, Argonne National Laboratory, the Institute for Complex Adaptive Matter (ICAM), Brookhaven National Laboratory, the Naval Research Laboratory, and the National High Magnetic Field Laboratory. Boston College’s participation in the Boston Area Graduate School Consortium enables students to cross-register for graduate courses at Boston University, Brandeis University, and Tufts University. Students wishing more detailed information can write to the Physics Department or visit bc.edu/physics. Back To Top Back To Top Managed By University Catalog Office of Student Services Lyons Hall 103 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College