Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Working at the U Benefits and Wellness About HR Careers Health Care Positions UM employees - internal applicants (non-students) Staff positions - external applicants Faculty positions - external applicants Temporary/Per Diem Staff Positions FAQs Working at the U Benefits and Wellness About HR Careers Search Working at the U Benefits and Wellness About HR Careers Health Care Positions UM employees - internal applicants (non-students) Staff positions - external applicants Faculty positions - external applicants Temporary/Per Diem Staff Positions FAQs Learn More Learn More Read More COVID-19 HR Updates Latest information on HR Policies, FAQs, and guidelines. Learn More > The Work Number Automated and secure employment and income verification at your fingertips. Learn More > Working from Home Learn how to maintain your well-being while working from home. Learn More > Instant Gratitude Show your appreciation by sending a note of gratitude to a UM employee. Send a Card > Feeling sick? Convenient access to UHealth medical services minutes from your desk. Get Well > Diversity and Inclusion The University of Miami is committed to a culture of belonging. Diversity and Inclusion The University of Miami is committed to a culture of belonging. FIND WHAT YOU NEED The UM Experience What is it like to work at The U? Explore Life@theU to see how our employees are experiencing life as a 'Cane. Workday Make changes to your benefits, review your sick and vacation time, and more - all in one, convenient place. Calendars and Schedules Don't miss a single date—view holiday, pay, and academic calendars. Forms Whether you're enrolling for long-term care or requesting special accommodations, access a variety of helpful forms. EVENTS U MIAMI ON: University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 Human Resources Coral Gables, FL 33124 Gables/RSMAS: 305-284-3798 Gables/RSMAS: 305-284-3798 Miller School: 305-243-6482 Miller School: 305-243-6482 Benefits and Payroll (Total Rewards) Representative: 305-284-3004 Benefits and Payroll (Total Rewards) Representative: 305-284-3004 Fax: 305-284-8035 Tools & Resources About UM Workday myUM Kronos Performance Management UM Culture Business Development Program EO/Employment Laws Equal Opportunity/ADA UM Network Division of Business and Finance UHealth Hurricane Sports 'Cane Watch Title IX & Gender Equity Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect with Life@theU social-facebook social-twitter social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices