Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu School of Public Health About Programs Apply Students Research News & Events Faculty & Staff Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Are you ready to impact countless lives? Explore our programs to find the one that matches your career goals Are you ready to help your community be healthier? Take the next step and apply today Are you ready to find solutions to today's biggest challenges? Conduct research alongside top faculty in the public health field Are you ready to become a leader in the health industry? Discover our health administration graduate programs Are you ready to use data to solve real world problems? Then our MS in Biostatistics is for you. Learn more > PreviousNext Home School of Public Health You were born ready. Ready to create change. Ready to help your community. From emerging diseases to climate change and health disparities, public health is on the front line of addressing some of today's biggest challenges. With growing demands in the public health and health administration fields, the UofM School of Public Health will prepare you for a rewarding career doing what you love most: helping others. Request Information >Apply> Explore Our Programs > Explore Our Programs View Academic Programs News and Events > News and Events Celebrate SHP students, faculty, staff and alumni news Connect with fellow change agents at an upcoming event Support Tomorrow's Public Health Leaders > Support Tomorrow's Public Health Leaders Make a gift or volunteer School of Public Health Highlights Accredited SPH is accredited by the Council on Education for Public Health (CEPH). The Master of Health Administration program has been continuously accredited since 1995 by the Commission on Accreditation of Healthcare Management Education (CAHME). Accessible Don't let your busy schedule or geographical location stand in the way of achieving your goals. Explore our online and face-to-face course options. Research-Driven Our faculty are highly engaged researchers who are respected by investigators, clinicians and health specialists globally. Undergraduate and graduate students have the opportunity to engage in research alongside them and serve the community while earning a degree. No GRE Required* Limited-Time Graduate School Offers: Earning a public health graduate degree is now more convenient than ever. We are waiving the requirement for the GRE admissions test for Spring 2022 enrollment for all School of Public Health master's programs. New Concentration: Urban Health Every community deserves to be its healthiest self, but not all are. We're here to change that. Urban areas have additional challenges including pollution, crime, lack of access to healthy food, diverse populations and more. Our MPH: Urban Health concentration will prepare students to develop and evaluate culturally-appropriate programs and conduct community needs assessments to improve the health of diverse urban populations. Learn More > News and Events Public Health Open House March 16, 11am-2pm Learn more about degree programs, research opportunities and how you can improve health in Memphis in beyond. View All Events > SPH Re-Accredited by CEPH CEPH-accredited schools undergo a rigorous accreditation process ensuring that students receive a high-quality, competency-based education. Learn More > Prospective Students The college search process can be overwehlming. We put together some resources to help! Hear from current students about why they chose UofM SPH, and find out what living in Memphis is like. Learn More > Current Students See updates. learn how you can get involved and access key resources. Access Resources > # 33 U.S. News and World Report MHA - Health Care Management - Graduate View All Rankings Contact Us 232 Robison Hall sphadmin@memphis.edu 901.678.1706 Contact Us Follow SPH Online Facebooktwitter Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 2/21/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.