Your browser does not support iframes. Skip to main content Menu Scheller College of Business Request More Information Attend an Info Session Contact Us Directory Apply Now Search Why Scheller? Programs Executive Education Academics Centers & Initiatives News & Events Overview & History Dean's Message and Report Meet Ernest Scheller Jr. Advisory Board Accreditation Strategic Plan Business at Tech Graduates Get Hired Return on Investment Faculty and Advisors Global Perspective A Good Fit Corporate Engagement Trading Floor Georgia Tech Community Student Life Making Connections and Learning Opportunities Diversity Diversity News Career and Recruiter Services Career Services for Students Hire Our Students Giving to the College Meeting the Challenge Priorities and Needs Faculty Support Student Support Program Enrichment Unrestricted Endowment The Impact of Your Gift How to Make a Gift FAQs Scheller MBA Annual Fund Alumni Network Alumni News Alumni Resources Update Contact Information Visit Campus Tech Square and Atlanta Full-time MBA Admissions Curriculum Career Development Leadership Development Student Organizations Student & Alumni Profiles Meet an MBA Ambassador FAQsEvening MBA Admissions Curriculum Career Advancement Leadership Development Student Organizations Student & Alumni Profiles Meet an MBA Ambassador FAQs Executive MBA Admissions Curriculum Career Development Student & Alumni Profiles FAQsMBA Programs Which Georgia Tech MBA is Right for Me? Commitment to Diversity, Inclusion, and Equity Dual Degree Options Experiential Learning For Engineers For Military Community MD/MBA Option MBA Early Admission for Undergrads Rankings The Intersection Podcast Earn Your MBA in Atlanta Graduate Certificate Business Analytics Certificate Undergraduate Admissions Curriculum Career Services Student Services Student Life Scholarships & Awards Rankings & Stats Connect With Us The Intersection Podcast, Undergrad PhD Concentrations Program Milestones Faculty and Staff Funding Admissions FAQs Recruiting Events Student Bios Program News Request Program Information Interdisciplinary M.S. M.S. in Quantitative & Computational Finance (QCF) Master of Science in Analytics at Georgia Tech Lean Six Sigma Certification Lean Six Sigma Green Belt Certification Lean Six Sigma Black Belt Certification FAQs Custom Programs FAQs Accounting Finance Information Technology Management Law & Ethics Marketing Operations Management Organizational Behavior Strategy & Innovation Student Certificates Engineering Entrepreneurship Entrepreneurship International Management Management of Technology Technology Innovation: Generating Economic Results Academic Speaker Series Guest Speakers in Accounting Guest Speakers in Finance Guest Speakers in Marketing Current Faculty Opportunities Business Analytics Center Engage with Us Executive Council News Research Education People Cecil B. Day Program for Business Ethics About Cecil B. Day The Cecil B. Day Prize Speakers and Events Faculty Support Net Impact Center for International Business Education and Research Projects Research Events Books People at CIBER Inside CIBER News and Events Archives International Management Certificate Sign Up for Future CIBER News Financial Analysis Lab Subscribe to Reports Institute for Leadership and Social Impact About Us Programs News Impact Speaker Series Leadership for Social Good Study Abroad Program Social Impact Fellows Ideas to Serve (I2S) Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Servant Leadership Programs Minor in Leadership Studies Excel Alumni Other ILSI Programs Partnerships Program for Engineering Entrepreneurship Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business About Us Sustainable Business Insights Research Briefs Sustainable Business Events Sustainable Business News Blog Research & Thought Leadership Empowering Students Industry Engagement Newsletter Participating in the Drawdown Georgia Compact Drawdown Georgia Business Compact Meet the Team Alumni Steven A. Denning Technology & Management Program Director's Message About Steven A. Denning T&M Curriculum Program Faculty & Staff Admissions T&M Corporate Affiliates Denning T&M Program News TI:GER® and CDL-Atlanta Program Network TI:GER MBA & PhD FAQs News Apply Inquire Resources in Technology Innovation and Entrepreneurship Scheller News Event Calendar The Intersection Podcast Media Inquiry Marketing Innovation Conference @ Scheller Custom Programs FAQs Home » Executive Education » Custom Programs » FAQs Menu Custom Programs FAQs Custom Program Information What is a custom program? A Georgia Tech custom executive education program is a joint venture created in collaboration with your organization. Our programs are tailored to empower your team to solve unique business challenges. We develop a results-based curriculum built around your goals, so you can see immediate impact. How does a custom program get developed? Custom programs are designed jointly between the faculty and staff at Georgia Tech and your organizational leaders. While our programs are tailored completely to meet your specific needs, there is a well-defined approach that helps us deliver results. How long does it take to develop a custom program? The length of time it takes to develop a custom program will depend upon the needs of your organization. The Georgia Tech team will work closely with your organization to ensure that we thoroughly understand your learning objectives and, together, we will identify a timeframe for designing and delivering the program. How much does it cost to deliver a custom program? The investment that your organization makes in a custom program will depend upon a variety of factors, including program length and the level of customization needed. We work with clients at a variety of price points. Can I earn credits or a certificate through a custom program? Program participants will earn Continuing Education Units (CEUs). Depending on the length of the program, participants may also be eligible for an official Georgia Tech certificate. Our team will work with you to determine eligibility. Who do I contact to find out more? Our experienced Client Relationship Manager is available to answer inquiries and provide detailed information. Contact Lindsay Cain at 404.385.5244 or lindsay.cain@scheller.gatech.edu How many participants can be accommodated in a custom program? Class sizes vary by program. We recommend cohorts of 15 – 40, however there are opportunities to host more than one cohort concurrently. Our on-site executive classrooms will hold comfortably up to 50 participants each. Where will GT custom executive education classes be held? Classes may be held at your company location, Georgia Tech’s Huang Executive Education Center, or delivered online. The state-of-the-art Huang Executive Education Center is conveniently located at Technology Square, 5th and Spring Streets in Atlanta. It offers a fully-staffed, supported learning environment, with comfortable and flexible classrooms, integrated technology, small-group breakout rooms, food service, and social spaces. We are easily accessible and just fifteen minutes via light rail from the world’s business airport, Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport. Positioned directly across the street from the Georgia Tech Hotel and Conference Center, the center is a short walk from a variety of restaurants, recreational facilities, and a range of other lodging options. Who can attend a custom program? Our faculty and staff are available to advise sponsoring organizations on selection processes and criteria. We collaborate with executive sponsors and project managers on developing cohorts, who will engage, relate, work well together, and arrive for their programs ready to learn new concepts and embrace new ideas. Are there minimum educational requirements for the participants? It is at the discretion of the corporate sponsor to select their participants regardless of educational background. Content may be most easily understood and applied by participants who are managers or technical experts with relevant college degrees and/or workplace experience. Who teaches in the custom programs? It is Georgia Tech’s philosophy to place the most progressive thought-leaders and experienced executive educators in classrooms with custom program clients. Often, these are distinguished Scheller College of Business faculty, or faculty from other colleges at the Georgia Institute of Technology. Qualified consultants, instructors from other institutions, and subject matter experts from within the sponsoring organization are frequently included. Can I bring in my own instructor? Since we view development of custom programs as a collaborative process , we are open to incorporating into program designs instruction by educators, subject matter experts, and consultants with whom our clients have established relationships. Scheller College of Business Home Why Scheller? Overview & History Business at Tech Georgia Tech Community Career and Recruiter Services Giving to the College Alumni Network Visit Campus Tech Square and Atlanta Programs MBA Undergraduate PhD Interdisciplinary M.S. Executive Education Lean Six Sigma Certification Custom Programs Academics Accounting Finance Information Technology Management Law & Ethics Marketing Operations Management Organizational Behavior Strategy & Innovation Student Certificates Academic Speaker Series Current Faculty Opportunities Centers & Initiatives Business Analytics Center Cecil B. Day Program for Business Ethics Center for International Business Education and Research Financial Analysis Lab Institute for Leadership and Social Impact Program for Engineering Entrepreneurship Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business Steven A. Denning Technology & Management Program TI:GER® and CDL-Atlanta News & Events Scheller News Event Calendar The Intersection Podcast Media Inquiry Marketing Innovation Conference @ Scheller LinkedIn Instagram Facebook Twitter Youtube Flickr Georgia Institute of Technology Scheller College of Business 800 W. Peachtree St. NW Atlanta, GA 30308 404.894.2600 © 2021 Georgia Institute of Technology Intranet Emergency Information Contact the College Privacy & Legal Notice Accountability Web Accessibility Resources for People with Disabilities Plugins Youtube Usage Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures