By continuing to use this site, you agree to the use of cookies in accordance with our privacy policy. Dismiss Stay Safe The official source of public health information for Syracuse University. Skip to Content Open menu About Admissions Academics Life Athletics More Search the University Open search Popular searches Close menu Home About Toggle dropdown Leadership Vision & Mission Consumer Information Facts & Figures Plan Your Visit Campus Map History News Partnerships Work at Syracuse Social Media Bookstore Brand Help & Contacts Admissions Toggle dropdown Undergraduate Graduate Online Part-Time Cost & Aid Request Information Visit & Tour Apply Academics Toggle dropdown Schools & Colleges Undergraduate Majors & Minors Graduate Degrees Online Programs Syracuse University Global Study Abroad Opportunities & Support Calendars Departments Research Centers & Institutes Libraries, Collections & Galleries Academic Administration Life Toggle dropdown Accessibility & Diversity Campus Highlights Events Calendar Services & Support Meals & Dining Housing Groups & Activities Recreation & Facilities For Students For Veterans & Military For Faculty & Staff For Parents & Families A-Z Index Sitemap Login Athletics Men’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Football Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Track and Field Women’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Field Hockey Ice Hockey Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Softball Tennis Track and Field Volleyball Athletics Dept. Toggle dropdown Facilities Staff Directory Academic Honors Community Service Spirit Program Varsity Club Sports Medicine Championships Fan Zone Toggle dropdown Dome Schedule Seating Information Orange All Access Otto’s Kids Club Game Photos Promotions Orange Club Schedules News Alumni About Toggle dropdown Notable Alumni Alumni Association Awards News Events and Clubs Toggle dropdown Orange Central Northeast Midwest South West World/Affinity Regions Toggle dropdown Atlanta Boston Chicago Los Angeles Middle East New York San Francisco Washington, DC Services Toggle dropdown Career Network Generation Orange Directory Profile Class Notes Giving Contact Contact Visit Apply Coronavirus Updates Forever Orange Home Life Accessibility & Diversity Diversity & Inclusion Commitments In this Section Messages to the Community #NotAgainSU Student Concerns International Student Concerns Jewish Student Concerns Indigenous Students Concerns Special Committee Independent Advisory Panel Department of Public Safety Review Student Activism Engagement Team Creating an Inclusive, Welcoming and Safe Campus Community Campus Commitments to Diversity and Inclusion Syracuse University is fully committed to fostering a diverse, inclusive and respectful campus community, not only in vision but in practice. Our commitment to diversity and inclusion is rooted in the belief that multiple points of view, life experiences, ethnicities, cultures and belief systems are essential to academic excellence. Progress of Student Concerns and Recommendations Concerns of #NotAgainSU Students Find the concerns and recommendations presented by the #NotAgainSU students, primarily led by Black students, peacefully protesting and signed by Chancellor Kent Syverud on Nov. 21, 2019, and the University’s response to concern addendums and expansions that were addressed in February and March 2020. View Progress Concerns of International Students Find the concerns and recommendations presented by International students and signed by Chancellor Syverud on Nov. 21, 2019. View Progress Concerns of Jewish Students Find the concerns and recommendations presented by Jewish students and signed by Chancellor Syverud on Nov. 21, 2019. View Progress Concerns of Indigenous Students Find the concerns and recommendations presented by Indigenous students. View Progress Recent Messages to the Community May 4, 2022 Mary Grace A. Almandrez Named Vice President for Diversity and Inclusion November 15, 2021 Deadline Extended to Dec. 3: DEIA Draft Strategic Plan Review and Survey October 28, 2021 Review the Diversity, Equity, Inclusion and Accessibility Draft Strategic Plan August 19, 2021 Interim Leadership Team Named to Advance University’s DEIA Priorities, Strategic Plan August 11, 2021 August 2021: Progress on Campus Commitments June 30, 2021 June 2021: Progress on Campus Commitments June 2, 2021 Observing Juneteenth as One Community April 30, 2021 April 2021: Progress on Campus Commitments April 26, 2021 Board of Trustees Names Members of New Advisory Committee on University Climate, Diversity, Equity, Inclusion and Accessibility April 20, 2021 Message from Chancellor Kent Syverud April 6, 2021 DEIA Strategic Planning Process Next Steps April 2, 2021 DPS Community Review Board Application Period Extended to Friday, April 9 March 29, 2021 March 2021: Progress on Campus Commitments Message from Damon Williams March 24, 2021 Task Force Begins Work to Create EDAI Strategic Plan March 19, 2021 Community Review Board Application and Selection Process March 17, 2021 Message From Chancellor Kent Syverud View All Messages Board of Trustees Special Committee on University Climate, Diversity and Inclusion A Special Committee on University Climate, Diversity and Inclusion was established by the Board of Trustees to develop recommendations on programs, policies and initiatives to foster and strengthen diversity and inclusion at Syracuse. Committee Members Independent Advisory Panel An Independent Advisory Panel, comprised of four experts unaffiliated with the University, is responsible for engaging with the campus community and providing advice to the Special Committee in developing recommendations to build a stronger institutional framework. Advisory Panel Members Independent Review of the Department of Public Safety The Honorable Loretta E. Lynch of the law firm Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison LLP conducted an independent review of the Department of Public Safety, beginning in February, 2020. The University cooperated fully with the review, accepts the recommendations put forward by Ms. Lynch and her team and will move forward with their implementation. Read the DPS Review Community Review Board Membership Application Student Activism Engagement Team The Student Activism Engagement Team is a collective of community stakeholders appointed by the senior leadership at Syracuse University. It assists students by expressing student concerns related to student activism, provides resource and guidance and connects students with areas and individuals that make decisions. Engagement Team Members Creating an Inclusive, Welcoming and Safe Campus Community Over the past four years, Syracuse University has taken action and made significant investments to foster an inclusive, welcoming and safe community. These include: Academic enhancements; Faculty and staff training and hiring for diversity; Regular updates to the community; A top to bottom review of Greek Life; Enhancements to Health and Wellness services; Student financial support and student employment services; And many other actions. See a comprehensive list of actions and investments. View All Actions Related Pages STOP BIAS Reporting Tool Use the STOP BIAS online reporting tool to notify the University if you experience a bias-related incident. The reporting tool allows you to report anonymously or share your contact information for follow up. “Silent Witness” Anonymous Reporting System Use the Silent Witness Program if you know of a crime that has occurred or is occurring on campus and you want to report it anonymously. Syracuse University Office of Diversity and Inclusion Syracuse University is home to a number of offices, services, events, and programs which address diversity and inclusion on campus and in the community. Popular Toggle dropdown Academic Calendar Campus Map Careers Libraries Majors and Minors Visit and Tour A-Z Toggle dropdown Academic Departments Schools and Colleges Sitemap Search Contact Toggle dropdown Admissions Financial Aid Emergency Contacts Human Resources Make a Gift Login Toggle dropdown MySlice Blackboard SUMail Syracuse University 900 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, NY 13244 Phone: +1.315.443.1870 Follow S.U. on Instagram Like S.U. on Facebook Follow S.U. on Twitter Follow S.U. on LinkedIn Follow S.U. on Tiktok Subscribe to S.U. on YouTube © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy