By continuing to use this site, you agree to the use of cookies in accordance with our privacy policy. Dismiss Stay Safe The official source of public health information for Syracuse University. Skip to Content Open menu About Admissions Academics Life Athletics More Search the University Open search Popular searches Close menu Home About Toggle dropdown Leadership Vision & Mission Consumer Information Facts & Figures Plan Your Visit Campus Map History News Partnerships Work at Syracuse Social Media Bookstore Brand Help & Contacts Admissions Toggle dropdown Undergraduate Graduate Online Part-Time Cost & Aid Request Information Visit & Tour Apply Academics Toggle dropdown Schools & Colleges Undergraduate Majors & Minors Graduate Degrees Online Programs Syracuse University Global Study Abroad Opportunities & Support Calendars Departments Research Centers & Institutes Libraries, Collections & Galleries Academic Administration Life Toggle dropdown Accessibility & Diversity Campus Highlights Events Calendar Services & Support Meals & Dining Housing Groups & Activities Recreation & Facilities For Students For Veterans & Military For Faculty & Staff For Parents & Families A-Z Index Sitemap Login Athletics Men’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Football Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Track and Field Women’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Field Hockey Ice Hockey Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Softball Tennis Track and Field Volleyball Athletics Dept. Toggle dropdown Facilities Staff Directory Academic Honors Community Service Spirit Program Varsity Club Sports Medicine Championships Fan Zone Toggle dropdown Dome Schedule Seating Information Orange All Access Otto’s Kids Club Game Photos Promotions Orange Club Schedules News Alumni About Toggle dropdown Notable Alumni Alumni Association Awards News Events and Clubs Toggle dropdown Orange Central Northeast Midwest South West World/Affinity Regions Toggle dropdown Atlanta Boston Chicago Los Angeles Middle East New York San Francisco Washington, DC Services Toggle dropdown Career Network Generation Orange Directory Profile Class Notes Giving Contact Contact Visit Apply Coronavirus Updates Forever Orange Home Admissions Undergraduate Admitted Expenses, Billing, & Payment More from this Section Syracuse Bound Deferral Request Veterans Syracuse Pathway Program HEOP & SSS Visit Opportunities FAQ Checklist Housing Living Learning Communities Health and Wellness Requirements Dining & Meal Plans Things to Consider Technology International Students Important Dates Discovery Program SummerStart Expenses, Billing and Payment At Syracuse University, we offer different options to make paying for college more flexible. Speak with a financial aid counselor Next Steps If you have been admitted and recently received a notice of your undergraduate financial aid, follow these steps: 1. View your financial aid on MySlice, your secure virtual gateway to life at Syracuse Link On MySlice you can: learn details of your financial aid print your award letter learn the estimated costs to attend Syracuse University use the Shopping Sheet to help you compare college costs and aid view your personal Financial Aid To Do List 2. Review this website in detail Link Understand your financial aid award, determine if your aid will renew in future years, learn about support, opportunities, and important policies. 3. Complete items on your MySlice Financial Aid To Do List Link This will finalize your aid and ensure it appears on your bill. 4. Share access to view your aid and to do list with your parents/spouse/guardian Link This can be done via “Share My Access” on MySlice. Estimated Expenses The Cost of Attendance is the estimated total amount of an academic year’s expenses to attend Syracuse University. Charges for tuition, housing, meals, and fees increase annually and it's important for students and families to plan for annual cost increases and their financial obligations. The University is committed to assuring that cost increases are reasonable. Students selected to receive a merit-based scholarship will be notified approximately two weeks after receiving an admission decision. Students who applied for financial aid will receive an email Award Notification when their financial aid is posted to their MySlice account. Please refer to the Office of Financial Aid and Scholarship Programs for application requirements and deadlines , as well as other important information. If you have any questions, please contact the Office of Financial Aid and Scholarship Programs at 315.443.1513. Charges and Payments Before the beginning of each semester, you will receive a statement of charges less anticipated financial aid, if applicable, that lists what you must pay for one semester for tuition, housing, meals, and mandatory fees. Your statement will also show credit for the $500 advance tuition payment and the $450 advance housing payment that you paid in the spring. The statement for the fall will be made available via MySlice in June and in early November for the spring. Each semester you must pay the balance owed on your bill by the due date listed on the billing statement in order to confirm your class schedule. If you have not made satisfactory payment arrangements with the Bursar’s Office, the University may not let you register or may cancel your pre-registration schedule. Please contact the Bursar’s Office with any questions or concerns via email to bursar@syr.edu or by phone at 315.443.2444. Syracuse University Prepaid Tuition Plan If you wish to pay four years of undergraduate tuition in advance, you may participate in the Prepaid Tuition Plan. This plan allows you to lock in the rate of tuition in effect at the inception of the plan and avoid future tuition increases. Participation is limited to full-time Main Campus undergraduate students who are not receiving institutional scholarships or grants in excess of $8,000 per academic year. This plan does not cover fees, housing and meal costs, books, and other University charges, which will be billed and payable in accordance with University policies. This agreement covers the fall and spring terms only. Summer study such as Maymester and Summer Sessions I and II, as well as any Winterlude courses, are not included in this plan. If you are interested, it is recommended that you consult your financial planner/tax advisor. For details or a copy of the Syracuse University Prepaid Tuition Plan Agreement, please contact Steven Kelly, Associate Treasurer, at 315.443.3411 or stkelly@syr.edu . Monthly Payment Option Many families use the University’s Monthly Payment Plan Option because it allows them to pay their balance over the course of the semester. There is an annual non-refundable application fee of $75 to participate in this option, which will be calculated into your monthly payments. Students who want to use the Monthly Payment Plan Option are encouraged to sign up as soon as possible, to realize the maximum number of months over which to pay the balance due. A new Monthly Payment Plan application must be completed each year. Continued participation in the Monthly Payment Plan Option is contingent upon a satisfactory payment history. Your $500 advance tuition payment and $450 advance housing payment as well as any anticipated financial aid, if applicable, will be credited against the spring charges on your plan. Work-study grants are not credited to your Bursar’s account. To apply, complete the Monthly Payment Plan Option application . Complete the section on financial aid only if you have filed the CSS/Financial Aid PROFILE and the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) by the deadline. The form must be signed by the person who is financially responsible. Related Pages Cost of Attendance Here you’ll find cost breakdowns for undergraduate, graduate, and international students. Types of Financial Aid There are a variety of loans, grants, scholarships, and programs to assist in paying for your education at Syracuse University. Office of Financial Literacy Access one-on-one coaching, learn essential skills, and attend an event to hone your money management strategy. Popular Toggle dropdown Academic Calendar Campus Map Careers Libraries Majors and Minors Visit and Tour A-Z Toggle dropdown Academic Departments Schools and Colleges Sitemap Search Contact Toggle dropdown Admissions Financial Aid Emergency Contacts Human Resources Make a Gift Login Toggle dropdown MySlice Blackboard SUMail Syracuse University 900 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, NY 13244 Phone: +1.315.443.1870 Follow S.U. on Instagram Like S.U. on Facebook Follow S.U. on Twitter Follow S.U. on LinkedIn Follow S.U. on Tiktok Subscribe to S.U. on YouTube © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy