Skip to main content Penn Mail Services continues its normal operations schedule. As many departments resume on-campus services and operations, please contact us to resume deliveries at your designated location(s). Close Business Services Campus Maps Student Mail Secondary Menu Contact Us About Us Missing or Lost Mail Group Created with Sketch. Group Created with Sketch. search Group Created with Sketch. More Drawer Menu Main Header Menu Interoffice Mail Interoffice Mail Supplies Large Interoffice Mail External Mail Mailing Guidelines First Class Mail Permit & Large Mailing Business and Courtesy Reply Mail Express Shipping Export Compliance Hazardous and Regulated Shipping Express Shipping eShip@Penn PersonalShip Forms & Resources Change of Address Form Mail Authorization Card Find Drop Boxes Print Shop Services Policies Addressing Mail to Penn Missing Your Mail Suspicious Package Protocol at Penn Sustainability Drawer Menu Main Header Menu Interoffice Mail Explore Back to main menu Interoffice Mail Interoffice Mail Supplies Large Interoffice Mail External Mail Explore Back to main menu External Mail Mailing Guidelines First Class Mail Permit & Large Mailing Business and Courtesy Reply Mail Express Shipping Export Compliance Hazardous and Regulated Shipping Express Shipping Explore Back to main menu Express Shipping eShip@Penn PersonalShip Forms & Resources Explore Back to main menu Forms & Resources Change of Address Form Mail Authorization Card Find Drop Boxes Print Shop Services Policies Explore Back to main menu Policies Addressing Mail to Penn Missing Your Mail Suspicious Package Protocol at Penn Sustainability Search Group Created with Sketch. University Mail and Shipping Services Our reliable and professional services support the University's mission of teaching, research, and public service. Learn More Student Mail Our Mail Services Penn Mail Services is responsible for processing all intramural mail and outgoing correspondence for the University. Off-Campus Mail Outgoing U.S. Mail for the entire campus is metered through Pen Mail Services (approximately 15,000 pieces per day). Read More Interoffice Mail Intramural Mail is a service provided to University faculty and staff for the transmission of messages relating to organizational business across Penn's Schools and Centers. Read more PersonalShip at Penn The University’s PersonalShip program, allows Penn students, faculty, and staff to ship their personal express mail packages via UPS and DHL at Penn’s discounted rates, resulting in significant savings on shipping costs. Learn More Left Bank Commons Suite 500/6280 Phone: 215-898-Mail (6245) Fax: mailservices@upenn.edu Contact Us Privacy Policy Disclaimer Provide Feedback Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help ©2021 University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA 19104