Search | Directories | Reference Tools UW Home > Discover UW > Student Guide UW Bothell Course Descriptions UW Tacoma Course Descriptions Glossary COLLEGE OF ARTS & SCIENCES ART, ART HISTORY, AND DESIGN DESIGN Detailed course offerings (Time Schedule) are available for Spring Quarter 2022 Summer Quarter 2022 Autumn Quarter 2022 DESIGN 150 What is Design: Practices, Principles, and Perspectives (3) VLPA Explores design activities and perspectives that affect the relationship between people, technology, and the world. Areas of research and practice, approaches, and principles provide an overview of how Design is represented in the field. View course details in MyPlan: DESIGN 150 DESIGN 165 Introduction to Industrial Design (5) VLPA Provides a general introduction to industrial design. Develops students' knowledge through lectures, readings, and studio projects that focus on the history of the discipline and the processes of brainstorming, ideation, skill building, problem solving, and professional presentation used in the creation of design. Includes participation by guest designers. View course details in MyPlan: DESIGN 165 DESIGN 166 Design Foundations (5) VLPA Examines the rudiments of visual structure and problem solving in two and three-dimensional design. Emphasizes design methodology and design processes with emphasis on the formal principles of composition and organization. View course details in MyPlan: DESIGN 166 DESIGN 206 Design Methods (5) VLPA Explores fundamental methods and design process in industrial design, interaction design, and visual communication design, including contextual research, participatory design, problem finding, ideation, conceptual design, design variations, design selection, detail design, and design communication. View course details in MyPlan: DESIGN 206 DESIGN 207 Design Drawing (5) VLPA Concentrates on developing skills used to communicate ideas that exist in the imagination. Focuses on study of design drawing history and development of basic skills necessary for ideation, exploration, communication, explanation. Prepares students to visualize and discuss ideas rapidly and professionally. For design majors only. Prerequisite: DESIGN 166 View course details in MyPlan: DESIGN 207 DESIGN 208 Survey of Design History (5) VLPA Surveys the ideas, events, and individuals that determined the design of information, objects, culture, and commerce across societies. Examines the social, political, economic, and cultural contexts that shape design and the ideologies ad relationships of similar movements in art and architecture. Includes late nineteenth century through contemporary issues. View course details in MyPlan: DESIGN 208 DESIGN 209 Fundamentals of Typography (5) VLPA Develops understanding of and sensibility to typographic details used to create effective communication. Focus moves from understanding letter forms that make up words to the complexities of developing phrases, sentences, and short paragraphs with multiple levels of hierarchical meaning. Prerequisite: DESIGN 207. View course details in MyPlan: DESIGN 209 DESIGN 210 Collaboration and Improvisation (5) VLPA Introduces key factors in the theory and practice of creating and participating in collaborative projects. Focuses on creating and participating in effective teams, understanding strengths and roles within teams, working through team issues, developing techniques for interdisciplinary problem solving. Prerequisite: DESIGN 166. View course details in MyPlan: DESIGN 210 DESIGN 211 3-D Foundation (5) VLPA Introduction to aesthetic fundamentals of 3-dimensional form. Explores the articulation of form and space in both abstract and applied scenarios. Prepares design students for subsequent work in interaction design, design studies, industrial design, and visual communication design. View course details in MyPlan: DESIGN 211 DESIGN 213 Prototyping for Designers (5) VLPA Teaches skills related to the use of physical prototyping for ideation, testing, and presentation of designs. View course details in MyPlan: DESIGN 213 DESIGN 214 Marks and Symbols (5) VLPA Investigates the formal and conceptual problems associated with mark and symbol design. Students work individually and collaboratively (in small groups) to research and develop a series of marks and symbols for specific communication goals/purposes. Prerequisite: DESIGN 209. View course details in MyPlan: DESIGN 214 DESIGN 215 Visual Storytelling (5) VLPA Introduces students to visual storytelling - a powerful technique used in design to engage audiences, convey meaning, and communicate design intent. Develops this skill using print publication, web design, experience prototypes, and concept videos. Prerequisite: DESIGN 209 View course details in MyPlan: DESIGN 215 DESIGN 250 Visualizing Ideas (3) VLPA Annabelle Gould Principles inherent in the discipline of visual communication design, including fundamentals of composition, typography, semiotics, color theory, storytelling, and image-making. Students engage in creative thinking, seeing, and making to create more professional work, including resumes, posters, and digital presentations. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: DESIGN 250 DESIGN 265 Topics in Design (5, max. 20) VLPA Revolving topics class that addresses the thinking, skills, and creative motivations that drive the practice of design. View course details in MyPlan: DESIGN 265 DESIGN 266 Design Concepts and Practice (5, max. 20) VLPA Revolving topics class that addresses foundational issues and contemporary practice in the field of design. View course details in MyPlan: DESIGN 266 DESIGN 300 Design and Thinking (5, max. 10) VLPA Ozubko Develops an approach to conceptual problem solving while exploring their fundamental principles of visual communication. Cultivate critical, analytical, and verbal skills through liberal learning experiences and design methodologies. Offered: S. View course details in MyPlan: DESIGN 300 DESIGN 301 Current Issues in Design (2/5, max. 10) VLPA Current project and research in Visual Communication Design, Industrial Design, and/or Interaction Design. Thematic topics and credits vary. View course details in MyPlan: DESIGN 301 DESIGN 316 Introduction to Industrial Design (5) VLPA Introduces the fundamentals of 3-D design with emphasis on analytical and intuitive approaches to problem solving, technical skills, and form development. Prerequisite: DESIGN 207; DESIGN 211. View course details in MyPlan: DESIGN 316 DESIGN 317 Intermediate ID Studio 1 (5) VLPA Introduces theories, methods, and design development focused on design principles involving form, function, usability, and product development. Prerequisite: DESIGN 316. View course details in MyPlan: DESIGN 317 DESIGN 318 Intermediate ID Studio 2 (5) VLPA Includes studio experiences that expand upon and combine intellectual and manual skills for the practice of industrial design. Emphasizes the ideation process with form development. Prerequisite: DESIGN 317. View course details in MyPlan: DESIGN 318 DESIGN 319 Advanced Design Drawing (5) VLPA Advanced visualization and drawing using traditional and computer-aided approaches. Prerequisite: DESIGN 207 AND 211. View course details in MyPlan: DESIGN 319 DESIGN 320 Industrial Design Special Projects (5, max. 15) VLPA Progressive industrial design methodology and criticism introduced through independent or group work on projects to expand students' visual research, drawing, model making, presentation, and literacy skills. Includes contemporary manufacturing and information technologies. View course details in MyPlan: DESIGN 320 DESIGN 322 Presentation for Industrial Design I (5) VLPA Introduction to presentation skills, from quick sketching of design concepts to refined representation of the finished design in a two-dimensional format. Emphasis on accuracy and development of an individual style. Prerequisite: DESIGN 316 and DESIGN 319. View course details in MyPlan: DESIGN 322 DESIGN 323 Presentation for Industrial Design (5) VLPA View course details in MyPlan: DESIGN 323 DESIGN 324 Materials and Manufacturing (3) VLPA Two primary strategic directions: First, through lecture, explores the various materials and manufacturing processes available to designers. Second, through field visits to factories, sees how these materials and processes are used in real world production. View course details in MyPlan: DESIGN 324 DESIGN 325 Physical Computing (5) VLPA Explores non-screen interactions (tangible interactions, or physical computing). Surveys the state of the art in the field, and teaches students techniques for devising their own physically mediated interactions. Pairs of students create working prototypes of furniture which senses and responds to human interaction. View course details in MyPlan: DESIGN 325 DESIGN 326 Digital Fabrication (5) VLPA Covers topics pertaining to the use of digital prototyping (3D printing, CNC) coupled with virtual modeling tools techniques like computer aided design (CAD). View course details in MyPlan: DESIGN 326 DESIGN 365 Developing Solutions in Design (5, max. 20) VLPA Revolving topics class that concentrates on learning in specific areas where design can be used to resolve contemporary issues. View course details in MyPlan: DESIGN 365 DESIGN 366 Editorial Visualizations (5) VLPA Expands focus on design process through a broad variety of image production techniques. Emphasizes concept development and the power of the image for storytelling. Design of stand-alone compositions is expanded into the development of a series of themed works. Prerequisite: DESIGN 209; DESIGN 210. View course details in MyPlan: DESIGN 366 DESIGN 367 Design for Mobile Experiences (5) VLPA Investigation of strategies and graphic interpretations to develop a critical perspective on design for mobile interaction. Emphasizes development of core methodologies, vocabulary, case studies, best practices, application prototypes. Prerequisite: DESIGN 366; DESIGN 376. View course details in MyPlan: DESIGN 367 DESIGN 368 Case Studies in Corporate Identity (5) VLPA Research and analysis of visual identity systems for complex institutional and corporate entities. Focuses on issues that concern how design programs function across divers application and media and how they engage various audiences. Prerequisite: DESIGN 376. View course details in MyPlan: DESIGN 368 DESIGN 369 Visual Systems (5) Investigates organizational strategies and graphic interpretations using typography, images and diverse applications of design, with the objective of creating a related network of dynamic solutions. View course details in MyPlan: DESIGN 369 DESIGN 370 Introduction to Motion Design (5) VLPA Introductions to the theories and fundamentals of motion design and planning. Explores narrative, storyboarding, composition, time and sound. Includes lectures, case studies, and demonstrations of the techniques and applications of motion graphics in broadcast media. View course details in MyPlan: DESIGN 370 DESIGN 371 Interface Design 1 (5) VLPA Introduces students to the fundamental building blocks of interface design including mental models, dynamic information displays, affordances, feedback, user flows, control systems, and interactive narratives. Students use these principles to design visual interfaces and prototypes that are both inventive and functional. View course details in MyPlan: DESIGN 371 DESIGN 372 Interface Design 2 (5) VLPA Introduces students to advanced topics in interface design, including complex information architectures, dynamic information design, multimodal interaction, cross-platform interface design, and tangible interface design. Takes on a hand-on approach to designing, prototyping, and evaluating interfaces across a range of devices and applications, including news services, lifestyle applications, medical devices, and games. View course details in MyPlan: DESIGN 372 DESIGN 373 Case Studies in Design (5) Explores techniques which allow designers to make type, teapots, and telephones to improve the design of services and organizations. Students use mapping techniques to understand human-object systems and identify examples of useful patterns of organization of behavior in existing organizations. View course details in MyPlan: DESIGN 373 DESIGN 374 Interactive Media Design (5) VLPA Introduces students to computer programming, with special emphasis on interactive data visualization - the art of creating responsive, visual representations that inform and engage. Students learn fundamental interactive media design principles, and gain practical experience creating interactive visualizations with Processing, a programming language developed specifically for artists and designers. View course details in MyPlan: DESIGN 374 DESIGN 376 Typography (5) VLPA Explores how meaning, hierarchy, and legibility are affected by typographic contrast, organization, and composition. Prepares students to create dynamic compositions with type, understand how type is used as an image/conceptual visualization, understand the nuances/techniques involved in a professional typesetting, and develop vocabulary. Prerequisite: DESIGN 209. View course details in MyPlan: DESIGN 376 DESIGN 377 Marks and Symbols (5) VLPA Investigates formal and conceptual problems associated with mark and symbol design. Students individually/collaboratively research and develop a series of marks and symbols for specific organizations. Helps develop the ability to recognize effective marks/symbols that identify/communicate an identity or idea, identify specific types of marks and symbols, and determine the most suitable types for a specific communication problem. Prerequisite: DESIGN 366, DESIGN 376. View course details in MyPlan: DESIGN 377 DESIGN 378 Information Architecture and Web Design (5) VLPA Fundamental issues in web design, including site planning, information architecture, navigation, visual hierarchy, and interactivity. Emphasis on understanding the unique functional limitations of designing for the web while building an awareness of contemporary design practice. Design a simple site and produce a working a prototype. View course details in MyPlan: DESIGN 378 DESIGN 381 Design Case Studies: Interaction Design Technology and Production (5) VLPA History, theory, and practice of ways design functions in society and culture. Emphasis on developing broad understanding of design production while working collaboratively and individually on a quarter-long research project concerned with producing a comprehensive conceptual map of the design discipline. Prerequisite: DESIGN 211; DESIGN 212. View course details in MyPlan: DESIGN 381 DESIGN 383 Foundations of Interaction Design (5) VLPA Focus on human-to-product interaction and ways we perceive, understand, and experience the world in regard to objects, environments, or on-screen controls/information. Prerequisite: DESIGN 215. View course details in MyPlan: DESIGN 383 DESIGN 384 Information Visualization for Interaction Designers (5) VLPA Surveys information visualization approaches, techniques, and concepts for the design of interaction information systems, interactive instructions, and animated information graphics. View course details in MyPlan: DESIGN 384 DESIGN 385 Design Innovation and Society (5) VLPA Surveys the role of interaction design and impact of new information technologies and interactive product/systems of everyday life, expert domains, the formation of values and knowledge, and the production of adaptation to innovations. View course details in MyPlan: DESIGN 385 DESIGN 386 Visual Storytelling (5) VLPA Investigates the form and role of visual narratives from design development in the interaction design process. Introduces planning and production of storyboards, photography, video, editing for storytelling, character development, and design concept visualization as they apply to design presentation, communication, and evaluation of interactive design sequences. Prerequisite: DESIGN 384; DESIGN 385. View course details in MyPlan: DESIGN 386 DESIGN 387 Physical Interaction Design (5) VLPA Surveys approaches, concepts, and techniques for the design of interaction systems that are situated in physical environments. Prerequisite: DESIGN 384; DESIGN 385. View course details in MyPlan: DESIGN 387 DESIGN 400 Design Entrepreneurship (5) VLPA Focuses on the design of products, services, and new business models as a simultaneous exercise. Bridges the skills of design and business planning by combining proven fundamentals of product design with a newly emerging paradigm for business planning and development. View course details in MyPlan: DESIGN 400 DESIGN 443 Materials and Manufacture in Industrial Engineering (5) VLPA Analyzes materials used in mass-produced products, focusing on how these materials impact product design and on finishing quality of products. Emphasizes materials research and manufacturing processes. Team-based research with multi-media report-out at end of quarter. Prerequisite: DESIGN 211; DESIGN 212. View course details in MyPlan: DESIGN 443 DESIGN 444 Prototype Project Development (5) VLPA Learn to apply traditional hand tools and digital prototyping machines to the creative process of industrial design. View course details in MyPlan: DESIGN 444 DESIGN 445 Advanced Industrial Design (5) VLPA Emphasizes solving problems through the manipulation of design theory, application of human factors, appropriate combination of materials and manufacturing techniques, and presentation of concepts. Prerequisite: DESIGN 318. View course details in MyPlan: DESIGN 445 DESIGN 446 Advanced Industrial Design: Professional Practice (5) VLPA Collaboration project with the professional design industry. Students learn how industrial designers brainstorm, develop, and refine initial design concepts to final product solutions. Prerequisite: DESIGN 445. View course details in MyPlan: DESIGN 446 DESIGN 447 Senior Projects in Industrial Design (5) VLPA Industrial design project of the student's own choosing, with consent of instructor, to refine problem solving and design ability in preparation for graduate exhibition. Prerequisite: DESIGN 446. View course details in MyPlan: DESIGN 447 DESIGN 466 Publication Design (5) VLPA Stresses the research, development, organization, design, and presentation of a complex printed document, such as a journal, annual report, or large publication. Addresses all aspects of design, content, image creation, and production through a quarter-long project. Prerequisite: DESIGN 368; DESIGN 378. View course details in MyPlan: DESIGN 466 DESIGN 467 Exhibition and Installation Design (5) VLPA Explores how to communicate powerful messages and stories in three-dimensional space, bringing together typography, imagery, and innovative use of materials and structures. Emphasizes sustainable processes and materials. View course details in MyPlan: DESIGN 467 DESIGN 477 Type Design (3-5) VLPA Exploration of contemporary type design. View course details in MyPlan: DESIGN 477 DESIGN 478 Information Design (5) VLPA Exploration of strategies for enhancing and visually presenting complex statistics and data. Various information subjects are selected and formed into charts, diagrams, graphs, tables, directories and maps. Identify, through personal investigations, the principles which provide the most successful means for presentation of information. Prerequisite: DESIGN 466. View course details in MyPlan: DESIGN 478 DESIGN 479 Interaction Design (5) VLPA Exploration of design issues unique to user-centered interaction in digital media. Explore a range of formal and conceptual issues including user interface, organization, narrative, motion, time, and sound. Prerequisite: DESIGN 478. View course details in MyPlan: DESIGN 479 DESIGN 480 Senior Projects in Visual Communication Design (5) VLPA Presents an opportunity for advanced, individualized design research and study. Complete a unique capstone project based on individual design interests and prior experiences in the VCD program. Public exhibition of this project is required in the BFA Graduation Exhibition. View course details in MyPlan: DESIGN 480 DESIGN 481 Field Studies: Design Research Techniques (5) VLPA Students develop an understanding of significant theoretical models related to design through a series of readings, lectures, discussions, and assignments. Prerequisite: DESIGN 383. View course details in MyPlan: DESIGN 481 DESIGN 483 Advanced Interaction Design (5) VLPA Explores the role of visual interface design and interaction flows in technology-driven work settings. Introduces techniques for knowledge elicitation and design of interactive systems in expert domains or special use contexts to develop interface that are useful, understandable, and usable. Prerequisite: DESIGN 383. View course details in MyPlan: DESIGN 483 DESIGN 484 Senior Projects in Interaction Design (5) VLPA Explores the design of interactive products and user experience in everyday settings. Students apply interaction design and research techniques in a multi-disciplinary studio for a quarter-long interaction design project requiring collaboration between students from a variety of backgrounds including design, engineering, and computer science. Prerequisite: DESIGN 383; DESIGN 483. View course details in MyPlan: DESIGN 484 DESIGN 485 Design Capstone (5) VLPA For all senior undergraduate design majors. Offered spring of senior year, ID, VCd, and IxD majors frame and develop a project based on broad themes chosen by faculty. Projects may be individual or collaborative Cross-disciplinary projects are strongly encouraged. View course details in MyPlan: DESIGN 485 DESIGN 486 Design Exhibition (1-3) Offered every spring, seniors work collaboratively to create a public exhibition, representing the culmination of their work in the program. ID, VCD and IxD seniors work in teams to develop a graphic identity, promotional materials, website, and juried exhibition. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: DESIGN 486 DESIGN 488 Professional Practices (3) VLPA Focuses on developing the tools to create a successful transition between academia and professional practice as a working designer. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: DESIGN 488 DESIGN 495 Design Internship (1-5, max. 10) Internships for undergraduates in conjunction with design faculty and business partners in the design community. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: DESIGN 495 DESIGN 496 Directed Research in Interaction Design (2, max. 12) VLPA Axel Roesler, Audrey Desjardins Working in teams under supervision of faculty members, students review relevant literature, pose research questions, design and conduct studies, and present the results in papers prepared either for submission to a professional journal or for presentation at a professional conference. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: DESIGN 496 DESIGN 499 Individual Projects-Design (2-5, max. 15) Independent projects in design. View course details in MyPlan: DESIGN 499 DESIGN 501 Graduate Student Teaching Mentorship (2-5, max. 15) Independent study for graduate students to work under the direction of a faculty member as they prepare for and teach an undergraduate class. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: DESIGN 501 DESIGN 581 Graduate Seminar in Design (5, max. 30) Addresses critical issues in design through research, writing, presentations, and discussion. View course details in MyPlan: DESIGN 581 DESIGN 582 Design Graduate Studio (5, max. 40) Explores a range of ideas and influences in the context of applied design. View course details in MyPlan: DESIGN 582 DESIGN 590 Current Issues in Design (2/5, max. 10) Current trends and professional issues in the field of design for graduate students Prerequisite: graduate standing in Design, or other graduate students by permission of instructor. View course details in MyPlan: DESIGN 590 DESIGN 596 Directed Research in Interaction Design (2, max. 12) Audrey Desjardins, Axel Roesler Working in teams under supervision of faculty members, students review and critically assess relevant literature; articulate research questions; design, detail, and conduct studies; and present the results in papers prepared either for submission to a professional journal or for presentation at a professional conference. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: DESIGN 596 DESIGN 600 Independent Study or Research (*) View course details in MyPlan: DESIGN 600 DESIGN 700 Master's Thesis (*) View course details in MyPlan: DESIGN 700 Office of the University Registrar registrar@uw.edu Modified: May 30, 2022