Skip to main content MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links Events UWAA Members Join or renew Reasons to be a member Class of 2022 offer Member benefits Member account Get the app UW Impact Travel COVID-19 Updates Upcoming Tours Traveling with us Traveler Testimonials Tour Operators Resources & FAQs Travel insurance Communities U.S. Huskies International Huskies UW campuses, colleges & schools Common Ground Always Learning Multicultural Alumni Partnership Reunions UW Husky Landing Future Alumni Dinners with the Pack Huskies@Work Student Alumni Ambassadors Student Career Trek Services Career UW NetID Email & online tools Transcripts BECU GEICO Update your information Future Alumni Home Alumni Welcome Students Huskies@Work Huskies@Work Close Menu Home Welcome Students Dinners with the Pack Huskies@Work Student Alumni Ambassadors Student Career Trek “Huskies@Work broadened my interests and shared the massive community I have at the UW” — Huskies@Work participant Build a Husky career connection More than ever, students need connections to help them explore what their career paths could look like after graduation. That’s where our incredible network of UW alumni come in! Huskies@Work is a program run and supported by the UWAA that matches students with alumni volunteers based on their fields, interests and experience. Connect online, in person or by phone — whatever works. Applications for spring 2022 are now closed. If you have applied, details on your match will be emailed to in early May. If you missed this opportunity to apply, the fall session applications will open in early September. In the meantime, please check out UW Husky Landing for career-oriented connections for alumni and students. Students: Talk one-on-one to learn more about potential careers and paths to consider to reach your goals. “…opened my eyes to many new possibilities.” — UW Student Info for Students Alumni: Connect with a student and share your knowledge and experience. “It is so rewarding to talk with very bright students that are starting out their journey. Gives me hope for the future.” — UW alum Info for Alumni Home Welcome Students Dinners with the Pack Huskies@Work Student Alumni Ambassadors Student Career Trek UW Alumni Facebook UW Alumni Twitter UW Alumni Instagram UW Alumni LinkedIn CONTACT UWAA: 206-543-0540 uwalumni@uw.edu About UWAA Join University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA