Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Leadership About Programs Faculty\Staff Students Center for Higher Ed News Contact Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Leadership Programs EdD in Higher and Adult Ed EdD in Leadership and Policy Studies MS in Educational Leadership and Policy Studies MS in Student Affairs Administration Graduate Certificates Take Action Apply Now Need Help? Contact Us! Follow Us Online FacebookYoutube Home Department of Leadership programs EdD in HIAD Doctorate of Education in Higher and Adult Education Program Overview The Doctorate of Education in Higher and Adult Education program at the University of Memphis includes Adult Education Doctorate programs that offer concentrations in Adult Education or Higher Education. Our EdD program can be completed fully online with no on-campus requirement. All our programs are taught by student-centered faculty who bring a wide variety of experience and expertise to their classrooms. One of the most exciting facets of the HIAD Program is its suitability for candidates from diverse professional and educational backgrounds. Students currently enrolled in the program have academic and professional backgrounds in the fields of Business, Education, Health, Law, Counseling, and Liberal Studies. Please note: The Higher and Adult Education EdD program only admits students for fall semesters. Admission decisions are made in April of each year. Degree Concentrations Higher Education Concentration This online degree is designed for individuals seeking graduate-level preparation primarily for mid-level and senior-level administrative positions in higher education institutions, or higher education-related agencies, boards, and commissions. Adult Education Concentration Designed for individuals seeking leadership positions in education, health services, business, and in community and non-profit organizations. The Adult Education Concentration prepares professionals to teach and facilitate the development of adult learners and promote lifelong learning. Required Courses Graduate Catalog Program Requirements and Course Listing Application Process NO GRE SCORES REQUIRED. The HIAD EdD program accepts applications for fall admittance only. Please have your application materials submitted to the graduate school no later than April 1 in order to be considered. Please note: The Higher and Adult Education EdD program only admits students for fall semesters. Admission decisions are made in April of each year. Apply Now > Each applicant must submit a completed application packet to the Graduate School that includes: A completed admissions application (Graduate School Application) (Graduate School Readmit Application) Official transcripts for all prior undergraduate and graduate courses In addition, each applicant must submit the following as part of your graduate application: Letter of application that addresses the following items: Why you want this degree Why you want this degree from the UofM What you hope the degree will help you do post-graduation Professional resume Three letters of professional recommendation on letterhead The admission committee may request a personal interview. The admission decision will be based on a holistic profile that includes, but is not limited to, information contained in the completed application packet described above. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 1/13/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.