Skip to Content CU Boulder Jobs Main menu Home Living Here Benefits Perks Search Jobs Search Search Enter the terms you wish to search for. Other ways to search: Events Calendar Campus Map Close CU Boulder Jobs CU Boulder Jobs Menu Main menu Home Living Here Benefits Perks Search Jobs Secondary Menu Search for CU Anschutz, Denver, Colorado Springs or System Jobs FAQ Return to Human Resources Mobile menu Home Living Here Benefits Perks Search Jobs Search for CU Anschutz, Denver, Colorado Springs or System Jobs FAQ Return to Human Resources Search for Faculty, Research, and Staff Jobs Home Be here. Our 31,000+ students learn, live, work and play on campus. In many ways, the CU Boulder campus is a city of its own. Our positions meet the academic, research, student-life and administrative needs of our campus and community. We're Hiring Tenure/Tenure Track Faculty Research Faculty Lecturers Instructors Staff Already a CU Boulder Employee? Apply through the internal job board in the MyCUinfo Portal. Recruiter Tips Rediscovering Meaning at Work CU Boulder Benefits How to Write an Effective Cover Letter Career Growth Opportunities The STAR Interview Method Pages 1 2 3 next › last » Our Community Includes: 2,150 Academic Faculty 2,055 Research Faculty 4,000 Staff Members CU Boulder Jobs Submit a Request for Help Frequently Asked Questions For Technical Support: 303-735-4357 (5-HELP) The University of Colorado does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, national origin, sex, age, pregnancy, disability, creed, religion, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, veteran status, political affiliation, or political philosophy. All qualified individuals are encouraged to apply. You may view the list of ADA and Title IX coordinators and review the Regent policy. This organization participates in E-Verify. We will provide the Social Security Administration and, if necessary, the Department of Homeland Security, with information from each employee's I-9 form to confirm work authorization. Reasonable Accommodations for Applicants with Disabilities CU Boulder is committed to making information and resources that are available via the web accessible for all users. If you are a job seeker and need accessibility assistance or an accommodation in order to apply for one of our open positions, please submit an accessibility request or call 303-735-4357 (5-HELP) to submit a request for assistance. Download the Clery Act Annual Security & Fire safety report, or request a paper copy from the CU Boulder Police Department. Administrative and Research Center, East Campus • 3100 Marine St.• Boulder, CO 80309-0565 University of Colorado Boulder © Regents of the University of Colorado Privacy • Legal & Trademarks • Campus Map Return to the top of the page Help? If you have technical difficulties submitting application information or a job related inquiry, please complete the form below for assistance. You may also find an answer to your question on our Frequently Asked Questions page. First Name * Last Name * Email * Phone Job Title Requisition Number Type of Question * Access System Functionality (Attachments, Buttons, Features) System Performance (Browser Issues, Responsiveness, Outages) Application Status Position Inquiry General HR Inquiry What is your question or comment? * Leave this field blank