Skip To Top Navigation Skip To Main Content Skip To Footer search Loading... Careers Ask-HR Current Employees Search Menu Clemson Main Site Index Events Calendar Campus Map CU Safety Phonebook Careers AskHR Current Employees HR Self Service Kronos Login COVID-19 Resources Employee Assistance Program Benefits and Well-being Tigers at Work Payroll Training and Development Performance Management Staff and Faculty Relations Transition and Separation International Employment Talent Acquisition Employment Verification HR Resource Library HR Policies and Procedures HR Service Teams Clemson Main Site Index Events Calendar Campus Map CU Safety Phonebook Clemson Home page HR Home Transition and Separation Transition and Separation Transferring within Clemson University Preparing for Retirement Ending Employment Schedule an Exit Interview Forms and Information Transition and Separation Whether transitioning to a new area, pursuing an exciting new career opportunity, or retiring the Office of Human Resources would like to assist you in the process. If you are leaving employment with Clemson University, the Office of Human Resources would like to work with you to ensure a smooth transition for you, your department and the continuation of any benefits you may be entitled to and want. The following information is provided to assist individuals separating from employment with Clemson University. Transferring within Clemson University The following information is intended to assist individuals transferring to a different department at Clemson University. Preparing for Retirement Are you thinking about retiring? Please review the following information for guidance on the process. Ending Employment The following information is provided to assist individuals separating from employment with Clemson University. Transition and Separation Transferring within Clemson University Preparing for Retirement Ending Employment Schedule an Exit Interview Forms and Information CLEMSON HR Administrative Services Building 108 Perimeter Road Clemson, SC 29634-5337 864.656.2000 RESOURCES Careers Benefits Forms Training Security and Safety Report Quick Links Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Line Privacy Policy Site Information Contact HR Clemson, SC Ask-HR Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram Copyright © Clemson University. All rights reserved. Clemson University is an AA/EEO employer. Scroll To Top