Skip to main content Skip to main navigation School of Education Menu About At a Glance Contact the School Office of the Dean Dean's Biography Dean's Office Directory Dean's Office Directory Centennial Events Featured Profiles Impact Living-Learning Center Mission of the School of Education Outcomes Consumer Information Why Baylor School of Education Learning Spaces Marrs McLean Science Learning Resources Center (LRC) Media Lab Mathematics Education Lab Impact Living-Learning Center Academics Dept. of Curriculum & Instruction Dept. of Educational Leadership Dept. of Educational Psychology Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs MA in Teaching (MAT) MAT Admission Information MAT Degree Requirements / Coursework Certification Information (OPP) MAT Joint Programs Global Programs Undergraduate Study Abroad Graduate Study Abroad Explore our Programs Apply Tk20 Info Tk20 Login for Student/Faculty For Students For Cooperating Teachers For Faculty Outreach & Applied Research Partnerships Professional Development Schools The Co-Teach Model Partner School Districts Greater Waco Area Superintendents Impact Living-Learning Center Centers Baylor Center for School Leadership Center for Gifted Education and Talent Development Baylor Center for Developmental Disabilities Clinic for Assessment, Research and Education (CARE) Baylor Autism Resource Clinic Grants & Initiatives Research Stories Professional Development for Educators Summer Literacy Institute Fall GT Conference Mathematics Teacher Academy Social Studies Academy Mathematics for Teachers of Early Learners (MTEL) Academies & Institutes of BCSL (Baylor Center for School Leadership) Baylor Beginning Teacher Institute Summer Superintendents Institute Christian Higher Education Leadership Seminar Faculty Meet the Faculty Faculty Positions Assistant Professor in Curriculum & Instruction Clinical Assistant Professor of ELementary Education Professor and Department Chair of Educational Leadership Clinical Assistant or Clinical Associate Professor of School Psychology (Dallas campus) Assistant or Associate Professor of School Psychology (Waco campus) Grants & Initiatives Centers Students Prospective Undergraduates Why a BSEd at Baylor? Degree Planners & Certification Areas FAQs Visit the School of Education SOE Glossary Student Spotlights Transfer Students Impact Living-Learning Center Meet Dr. Neil Shanks Meet Your Major Podcast Prospective Graduate Students Advising and Degree Programs Schedule an Advising Appointment Meet the Advisors Degree Planners & Certification Areas Apply to Graduate Advising FAQs Equivalent Courses Tool for Baylor Baylor Undergraduate Catalog Give Feedback Certification Information Complaint Policy Office of Professional Practice (OPP) Certification Information Baylor University Technology Practices in Teaching and Learning Complaint Process Action Research Schedule A Visit Visits: Prospective Undergraduate Students Visits: Prospective Graduate Students Scholarships for Undergraduates Student Profiles Student Services Advising Learning Resources Center (LRC) Student Wellness Services Professional Meeting Support for Undergraduates Kappa Delta Pi Action Research Student Advisory Council Professional Licensure Information MEET the SOE podcast Alumni Alumni Awards Keep in Touch Alumni Profiles Update Your Information Impact Newsletter Online Homecoming Centennial News News and Announcements News Blog: Instant Impact Impact Newsletter Online SOE in the News SOE Social Media Information for Media SOE Coronavirus Updates SOE Coronavirus FAQ Make a Gift Baylor>School of Education>News>SOE in the News SOE in the News Recent news coverage of School of Education faculty, students, alumni and programs: Baylor Lariat Baylor Professor Assumes Presidency of Association of Teacher Educators March 2, 2022 By Jenna Fitzgerald Photo by Camryn Duffy Featured: Dr. Rachelle Rogers, Clinical Associate Professor of Mathematics Education Excerpt: After 16 years of membership in the Association of Teacher Educators (ATE), clinical associate professor and Baylor alumna Dr. Rachelle Rogers has taken the gavel and assumed her new role as the organization’s president. . . . “I would say the overall purpose and mission is to recruit, develop, support and sustain teachers and to speak against the inequities that we see in education and to advocate that everyone should have equal opportunity for high-quality education,” Rogers said. Baylor Lariat Free Job Skills Training Opens Doors for Those with Intellectual, Developmental Disabilities Feb. 21, 2022 By Jenna Fitzgerald Illustration by Grace Everett Featured: Dr. Tonya Davis, Professor of Educational Psychology Mackenzie Wicker, doctoral student Julie Hrabal, doctoral student Excerpt: “[Wicker and Hrabal] were really interested in the adult population, particularly preparing adults to get jobs and preparing adults to live independently,” Davis said. “Both outcomes are really poor for adults with autism and other intellectual and developmental disabilities. Very few are getting competitive employment positions, and very few are able to live completely independently. Obviously, those are goals we want for all individuals: to be able to work and to live with autonomy.” . . . When getting plugged in with the program, each participant meets one-on-one with a therapist for an initial interview and a preference assessment. Then, they spend their sessions working on skill development — something lasting varying amounts of time, depending on each individual’s skill acquisition rate. Baylor Lariat Education Concentrations Offer alternate Pathway to Career in Secondary Education Feb. 17, 2022 By Jenna Fitzgerald Featured: Dr. Madelon McCall, Clinical Assistant Professor and Coordinator of Secondary Education Dr. Suzanne Nesmith, Associate Dean for Undergraduate Education Dr. Jenifer Johnson, Director of Recruitment and First-Year Experience Excerpt: No matter what leads students to choose a concentration over a major, McCall said those who are on the path to becoming teachers are united in their desire to serve. “Baylor students are very mission-minded, so they want to serve, and they find out that the best way to serve is to be a teacher,” McCall said. “There are really no other career opportunities where you get to touch a student’s life every day of the week. Even pastors and youth ministers do not see folks in their flock as often as teachers do.” KXXV, Channel 25 News Potential Teacher Certification Requirement Faces Pushback from Texas Teaching Organizations Feb. 14, 2022 By Andrew Lamparski Featured: Dr. Suzanne Nesmith, Associate Dean for Undergraduate Education Baylor Lariat Baylor Professor Teaches Educators to Prioritize Self-care Feb. 2, 2022 By Jenna Fitzgerald Featured: Associate Professor Dr. Bradley Carpenter Excerpt: In the age of COVID-19, no one is a stranger to Zoom calls. However, for a group of educators led by Dr. Bradley Carpenter — an associate professor of educational leadership — a click of the “join meeting” button is followed not by a lecture or a conference, but by meditation and discussion on self-care. “The mantra that kind of surfaced in my mind was, ‘Why do we have to choose between leadership and well-being? Why is that a dichotomy? To be a leader today, do you have to sacrifice your well-being?’” Carpenter said. “That’s what I’m focused on now at Baylor: figuring out, what are the interventions for chronic stress, and what can we do to think about self-care, and how do we educate flourishing education leaders so that it’s not an either-or binary choice?” Baylor Proud Baylor Prof (& Alum) Ascends to National Leadership Role Serving Teachers Feb. 9, 2022 Featured: Dr. Rachelle Rogers, Clinical Associate Professor of Mathematics Education Excerpt: The Association of Teacher Educators (ATE) is a national organization focused on the improvement of the teacher education process, dedicating attention to preparing teacher candidates and promoting quality teacher education. It’s the only organization of its kind — and it’s now led by a Baylor faculty member and alumna. Dr. Rachelle Meyer Rogers (Ed.D. 2005), a clinical associate professor in Baylor’s School of Education, assumes the role of ATE president this month after serving as vice president last year. She was elected to the role in the Fall of 2020, chosen by her peers to lead an organization that she calls the “protector” of the teaching profession. Baylor Lariat Baylor Sophomore Uses Experience with Dyslexia to Change Law Nov. 9, 2021 By Matt Kyle Featured: Sophomore Jenna Benedict Excerpt: “I was diagnosed through the state testing, but that is very, very hard to get; I felt so bad for all the people around me who weren’t able to get adequate testing,” Benedict said. “Normally, to get tested for dyslexia and ADHD, it is thousands of dollars out of parents’ pockets. For people who have less money and are struggling, [dyslexia testing] is not going to be on their minds. So now that it is mandatory for every student, it’ll make it more accessible and easier for students to figure out the severity of their dyslexia.” Benedict said she wants to become a teacher to prevent what happened to her from happening to any future students. “I want to become a teacher to help support students in those situations and to prove to them that no matter what, you can do whatever you set your mind to,” Benedict said. Baylor Lariat Students Pursue Teaching Careers despite virtual Learning Nov. 9, 2021 By Lauren Combs Featured: Dr. Suzanne Nesmith, Associate Dean Dr. Jenifer Johnson, Recruitment Director Sophomore Lana Brady Excerpt: Austin sophomore Lana Brady is one of the students who transitioned from being a student to a teacher during COVID-19. She said she chose to pursue education during her junior year of high school and had some hesitations when the pandemic hit. “It is daunting, I’m not going to lie,” Brady said. “It’s daunting to know all of the tasks that are going to be asked of me and just the ability to teach online and in-classroom. Now that I’m in education and I see the depth and the intricacies of what it means to be a teacher — meeting the needs of every single student in your classroom, trying to know them each personally, doing that online or in a world where we’re all still in masks — it’s hard. It’s scary.” Baylor Lariat Former Midway Middle School Principal Joins Baylor Staff Oct. 21, 2021 Featured: Dr. Herb Cox, Clinical Assistant Professor Dept. of Educational Leadership Excerpt Dr. Herb Cox, clinical assistant professor, began teaching at Baylor this fall after working in public education for 29 years — the last nine as the principal of Midway Middle School. “Looking back on my career, the times that I had the most fun was working with middle school kids because they’re just, it is what it is, they are a different beast,” Cox said. “I would walk into a building every day with 1,325 12-, 13- or 14-year-olds and 145 adults, and there were high-fives, fist bumps, and everybody was friendly and everybody for the most part got along.” . . . “I hope [my students] can see me lead that example for them — to lead like Jesus,” Cox said. “To be the kind of administrator that loves the Lord first and foremost, but secondly, being an administrator that focuses on loving your kids, and then thirdly, being an administrator that focuses on loving your teachers. If they can walk out of here with those three things in their pocket, I will have done my job.” Baylor Lariat 'Social Studies Teachers Are Fighting for our Democracy right now," Educator Says about House Bill 3979 Oct. 7, 2021 By Lauren Combs Featured: Dr. Karon LeCompte, Associate Professor Junior Sara Easley Doctoral Candidate Nate Scholten Excerpt: The bill states that teachers do not have to talk about current events or controversial topics in the classroom. Additionally, teachers cannot assign or grade work that is associated with, communicates with or tries to persuade members of the legislative or executive branches at the local, state or federal level. “This is changing the way that teachers teach,” LeCompte said. “What teachers are going to have to do is still integrate social studies, particularly history, with English language arts … but you can’t write a letter to your legislature or your city councilperson now.” . . . Grapeland junior Sara Easley, a teacher’s associate at Castleman Creek Elementary School, said the bill is a step backward from sharing every side of history. . . . “When we ask them, ‘What does it mean to be a good citizen,’ they still give answers like picking up trash or being nice to your neighbor or obeying laws or voting,” Scholten said. “All those things are great. We need people to be nice to each other. We need people to pick up trash. We need people to vote. But we would love for them to say it means being engaged in your community, volunteering. It means examining your community and being aware of problems in your community and trying to fix them.” Baylor Lariat ‘It’s definitely no Daycare:’ Student Teachers Discuss a Day in their Life Sept. 20, 2021 By Lauren Combs Featured: Senior Hannah Lemanski Senior Rosendo Montoya Excerpt: Grosse Point Park, Mich., senior Hannah Lemanski said she typically begins each day at 5 a.m. “I get two hours at home, in the Bible and in prayer,” Lemanski said. “I get time to be with the Lord, and then it takes me five minutes to get ready. I make lunch and then by 7:15 a.m. I’m out the door.” Lemanski is an intern and teaches a class of second graders, through the School of Education, Monday through Thursday at Bell’s Hill Elementary School. Lemanski said interns are expected to be there at 7:30 a.m. and the students arrive at 7:45 a.m. Robinson senior Rosendo Montoya, who teaches fourth grade, said there is a stigma surrounding student teachers that is incorrect. “It’s definitely no daycare,” Montoya said. “We’re teaching to a standard. We’re not just making up stuff to have fun and paint and color. It’s nothing like that at all. My responsibilities for my students is to teach them,” Montoya said. “To make sure they are understanding the concept I just introduced to them, and not only to have them learn it, but apply it to their daily work and to their lives.” Act Locally Blog First-year teachers — How did 2020 Baylor Education grads do? July 27, 2021 Featured: 2020 graduates Emily Holland, Augie Strauch, Sahira Kodra, and Cami Cox First-person reflections on their first year as teachers Waco’s popular Act Locally blog shared the annual “First Year of Teaching” reflections from our SOE graduates, originally posted in the School of Education news blog, Instant Impact. Our 2020 grads had a challenging year, having to adjust to online and hybrid teaching due to the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic. They said Baylor prepared them with a range of skills that helped them be adaptable, creative, and focused on the needs of their students. Fox 44 News Baylor Researchers Using Mechanical Horse to Help Children with Autism July 23, 2021 (Video at link) Story by Cameron Stuart Featured: Dr. Julie Ivey, Associate Professor Dept. of Educational Psychology “Baylor University researchers are in the midst of a two-year long study of using a mechanical horse to help children with autism improve their motor and social skills. . . . Associate Psychology Professor Dr. Julie Ivey and her team are looking for children with autism between the ages of six and twelve to participate in the treatments. One of the major goals is to show these children some self-soothing techniques. ‘The mechanical horse allows them to have that sensation of riding a horse that can help with calmness,’ Ivey said. ‘It can help with balance. It’ll help to relax them. We do a lot of activities on the horse, as well.’” Lake Cities Sun Lake Dallas ISD Names Mike Rockwood as Lone Finalist for Superintendent June 29, 2021 Featured: Dr. Mike Rockwood 2020 EdD graduate, K-12 Educational Leadership Dept. of Educational Leadership “The Lake Dallas ISD Board of Trustees has unanimously voted to name Mike Rockwood as the lone finalist for the school district’s superintendent position, bringing an enthusiastic leader focused on a strong community to the Falcon family. Rockwood comes to Lake Dallas ISD from Lamar Consolidated ISD, where he currently serves as deputy superintendent of administrative services and leadership development. State law mandates the district name a lone finalist for the superintendent position; this action begins a required 21-day waiting period before the hiring can become finalized.” TEDx Talk Build a Thick Institution (YouTube) April 21, 2021 Featured: Dr. Hunter A. Taylor Baylor EdD Graduate (2017) in Curriculum & Instruction Assistant Professor, University of Mississippi School of Education Dr. Hunter Taylor joins Coach Chris Cutcliffe of Oxford High School to explain how building a “thick” institution took a high school football team to a state championship in just two years. Listen to the end (only 16 minutes) for the key takeaway on how institutions should function for success. In addition to his role as assistant professor, Taylor also is a recruiter for the Mississippi Teacher Corps and faculty affiliate in the Center for the Study of Southern Culture. He spent 10 years as a men's basketball coach before making the leap into academia. Baylor Lariat Baylor Professors Comment on Confirmation of new Secretary of Education Miguel Cardona March 2, 2021 By Anne Walker Featured: Dr. John Wilson, Clinical Professor, EdD in K12 Leadership Dr. Jon Eckert, Lynda and Robert Copple Endowed Chair for Christians in School Leadership Baylor education experts weighed in on the new Secretary of Education. Excerpt: Dr. John E. Wilson, program director for Baylor’s Doctor of Education in K-12 Educational Leadership, highlighted the value of Cardona’s experiences as a teacher and principal. “I’m impressed that that person has experience as a principal and as an assistant superintendent and then all the way up through being the commissioner of education for the state of Connecticut,” Wilson said. “With that experience, the person is in a position to understand what teachers deal with, what principals face, what system superintendents and districts are facing.” Dr. Jon Eckert, Baylor’s Lynda and Robert Copple Endowed Chair for Christians in School Leadership, also emphasized Cardona’s background in education. He portrayed Cardona’s nomination as an opportunity to move away from “top-down solutions” and towards empowering educators to address the unique needs of students. Ethical Schools Podcast Antiracist School Leadership: Courage and Commitment Feb. 17, 2021 Featured: Dr. Bradley Carpenter, Associate Professor, EdD in K12 Leadership What does antiracist school leadership look like? Dr. Bradley Carpenter joined the “Ethical Schools” podcast to discuss this important issue, including how universities prepare teachers for the classroom. Excerpt: “If I was consulting with any superintendent or any principal in the United States, I would say, if you’re going to do this work, you’ve got to embed that work for at least a year. And it doesn’t mean that every professional development session has to be around these issues, but it does mean that all of your teachers are going to have access and be expected to participate in those ideas throughout an entire year.” Edutopia 5 Ways to Take Some of the Distance Out of Distance Learning Jan. 6, 2021 By Jon Eckert and Eric L. Johnson Featured: Dr. Jon Eckert, Copple Professor in Christian School Leadership Excerpt: Every member of the class should expect to speak in every class, and the norm should be that everyone contributes. Our classes are richest when all perspectives are included. Cold calling is controversial, but it’s possible to take the sting out of cold calling and transform the downsides into a warm invitation to share thoughts. A wise teacher knows when to bring each student into a conversation through round robin questions that elicit a response from everyone or rapid questioning that allows many students to participate in a limited time frame. There are many ways to ask questions that help students feel safe, such as using a tool like Mentimeter to make participation anonymous while ensuring that every student gives feedback. Keep engaging students and let them feel the warmth of participation, and make sure the classroom is a place where it’s OK to be wrong because we come together to learn. Wacoan Making Civics Civil Again January 2021 By Megan Willome Featured: Dr. Brooke Blevins, associate professor Strickland Endowed Chair Dept. of Curriculum & Instruction The practice of democracy is not passed down through the gene pool. It must be taught and learned anew by each generation of citizens.” — Former Supreme Court Justice Sandra Day O’Connor. . . . Wacoan writer Megan Willome spoke with Blevins by phone about her passion for social studies, how she defines civics education and what children think about the polarization they witness in American adults. Dallas Morning News Small Colleges Will Need Radical Change to Survive Jan. 24, 2021 Opinion column by Dr. Mary Darden Featured: Dr. Mary Darden, MEd ’91, EdD ’06 Dept. of Educational Leadership President of Higher Education Innovation (HEI) Excerpt: “Most colleges and universities will need to radically change, reimagine, innovate, entrepreneur and take large and bold risks to survive. They must become educationally relevant to the new job markets. They must create multiple legs on the financial stool that supports the institution: 10 or more legs, rather than the traditional two legs of tuition and donor gifts. In fact, they need to be ready to give up the tuition leg completely, as more colleges and universities offer tuition-free education. I expect that this will eventually become the rule, rather than the exception.” Wacoan Higher Education Feature January 2021 By Robert Darden Featured: Dr. Mary Darden, MEd ’91, EdD ’06 Dept. of Educational Leadership President of Higher Education Innovation (HEI) The January issue of the Wacoan features a Q&A with SOE graduate Dr. Mary Landon Darden, who is president of Higher Education Innovation LLC. Find out what she thinks is on the horizon for higher education and how her work in this arena was inspired by Baylor SOE professor Dr. Robert Cloud, and ho to find her new book! KWBU Baylor Connections Dec. 18, 2020 Featured: Dr. Perry Glanzer Professor of Higher Education Dept. of Educational Leadership What does it mean to help college students discover meaning and build a moral foundation? On KWBU's Baylor Connections, Dr. Perry Glanzer shared research on higher education and examined the role of a Christian university. Or listen here: http://bit.ly/GlanzerKWBU Baylor Magazine Follow the Data: Baylor Researchers are Impacting Autism Treatment Fall 2020 Issue By Derek Smith, MA ’05 Featured: Dr. Tonya Davis, associate professor Dr. Stephanie Gerow, assistant professor Dept. of Educational Psychology Excerpt: The Baylor Center for Developmental Disabilities (BCDD) is a partnership between Baylor University and Baylor Scott & White McLane’s Children’s Hospital, located within Waco’s Hillcrest MacArthur Clinic. . . . Davis and Gerow are among seven Baylor faculty at BCDD. Both are experts in applied behavior analysis, a learning practice based on the science of behavior that guides practitioners to uncover the causes of problem behaviors and helps children develop skills. Much of their efforts are focused on improving social, emotional, behavioral and educational trajectories for students with autism. Gerow is assistant professor of special education in Baylor’s educational psychology department. She is lead researcher and supervisor in the BCDD Clinic for Assessment, Research, and Education (CARE). “What we find is that kids with developmental disabilities are more likely to engage in problem behavior,” Gerow says. “Those kids are at a higher risk for having lifelong delays and deficits without interventions that can ameliorate those problem behaviors.” . . . Gerow and Davis focus much of their research on providing parents, teachers and caregivers with evidence-based interventions to address those behaviors. Davis is professor of educational psychology and special education program director at Baylor. She is also the Baylor CARE Director, the ABA clinic housed in the BCDD. Education Week “How Parents and Schools Can Work Together to Keep Math Learning on Track” “The Problem with Giving Math Tests Online and How Teachers are Solving It” Dec. 8, 2020 Featured as expert: Dr. Trena Wilkerson Professor, Dept. of Curriculum & Instruction President, NCTM, National Council of Teachers of Mathematics Two stories in a special issue package feature Dr. Wilkerson as an expert in math education. Excerpt from Online Test story: “I think we’ve been seeing this shift [in assessments] in the last few years,” said Trena Wilkerson, the president of the National Council of Teachers of Mathematics. “[The transition to remote instruction] has helped continue the momentum. … I think teachers are thinking creatively and out-of-the-box in how to assess student understanding and student thinking and then how to use that to support instructional decisions.” Direct Line Podcast Christian Scholars Review “The Demise of Gentleness’ Oct. 30, 2020 Blog post on journal Featured: Dr. Perry Glanzer Professor of Higher Education Dept. of Educational Leadership The 74 “Twelfth-Grade NAEP Scores Offer More Bad News for Reading, Stagnation in Math” Oct. 28, 2020 National story on math education Featured as expert: Dr. Trena Wilkerson Professor, Dept. of Curriculum & Instruction President, NCTM, National Council of Teachers of Mathematics Excerpt: “For students who are leaving high school when our democracy, economy, and personal safety all require more ability to understand, use, and apply math, holding steady is not success.” — Dr. Trena Wilkerson NBC NEWS “A Day in the Life of a Teacher” Sept. 28, 2020 National Network Story on Teaching in the Pandemic (In the cover graphic, Katelyn is on the bottom left) Featured: Katelyn Hamilton, BSEd ’17, MSED ’18 ESL Teacher Bells Hill Elementary, Waco ISD, a PDS campus of Baylor SOE Excerpt: “I have a work-life balance problem,” Katelyn admits. Yesterday, she prepped her coursework until 10:30 p.m. “I could probably work all the way up until I go to school, and I still probably wouldn’t feel prepared,” she says. Her job requires double the effort now as she teaches in-person and virtually, and technological malfunctions just complicate matters. On Thursday, Zoom had glitches because so many people joined the network all at once. The internet slowed, her video lagged and she couldn’t see her students. “I never feel prepared to work with 8- and 9-year-olds, because they are unpredictable by nature,” she says. “Now, with, you know, everything going on, it’s even worse.” KWBU NPR Baylor Connections: SOE Dean Dr. Shanna Hagan-Burke Oct. 2, 2020 Audio and transcript at the link or click audio file below Interviewed by Derek Smith Featured: Dr. Shanna Hagan-Burke Get to know Dr. Shanna Hagan-Burke, the new Dean of Baylor’s School of Education. She came to Baylor this summer after serving at Texas A&M University, the University of Oregon and University of Georgia, and taught children with behavioral challenges for many years prior in her native Florida. In this Baylor Connections, Dr. Hagan-Burke tells about a unique parental introduction to Baylor that helped draw her to the University, shares experiences that shape her approach to higher education leadership, examines the School of Education’s contributions to Tier 1 research and more. Education Week Principals Need Help Building Anti-Racist Schools Sept. 23, 2020 Featured: Dr. Bradley Carpenter, Associate Professor Dept. of Educational Administration Excerpt: One reason is that most university-based preparation programs have not explicitly prioritized anti-racist school leadership. While prep programs may offer a course or two on equity, schools and communities, or culturally responsive leadership, they're often near the end of the program, giving the impression that they're optional or not as important as the rest of the syllabus, said Bradley Carpenter, an associate professor of educational leadership at Baylor University, who has worked on explicitly anti-racist programs at the University of Louisville and the University of Houston. Baylor Lariat School of Education Moves forward with Student Teaching Program Sept. 10, 2020 Featured: Dr. Suzanne Nesmith, Associate Dean for Undergraduate Education Brittany Bryant, SOE senior Excerpt: The School of Education and local ISDs have worked together to plan student teaching experiences in the time of COVID-19. “Because we have great partnerships with our districts, we have been flexible, and they are equally as flexible. We can create an experience, although different, equally as valuable, equally as valid and equally as rigorous,” Associate Dean of Undergraduate Education Suzanne Nesmith said. KWTX-TV Area Students Learning Remotely May Need to Get out of the House to Learn, too Sept. 10, 2020 By Rosemond Crown Featured: Dr. Brooke Blevins, Assoc. Professor and Chair, Dept. of Curriculum & Instruction Dr. Brooke Blevins shared her expertise with KWYX for a story on learning “farms” that are popping up during the time of online schooling. Excerpt: For families who cannot afford that, Blevins said there are ways parents can provide their children with hands on learning at home. “Teach them about fractions by baking, have them go outside and garden and learn about botany and learn about biology by looking at plants and various animals that may be outside,” Blevins said. She also suggests teaching history lessons by taking students to visit historical markers and monuments around their community. EdSurge ‘If I Could Handle This, I Can Handle Anything’: First-Year Teachers Reflect on the Pandemic Aug. 11, 2020 By Emily Tate Featured: Jamie Wong Baesa, BSEd ’18, MSEd ’19 EdSurge interviewed nine first-year teachers, including Baylor grad Jamie Wong Baesa, about how they handled teaching during COVID this spring. Jamie’s year was going great until spring break, but then…… Don't miss the podcast: Excerpt: “One of the challenges was that I'd never taught this stuff before to a live audience, and now I had to figure out how to teach it to a remote audience. So that was definitely difficult—wrestling with how to make this accessible on technology in a way that [students] can understand. Because you miss the facial expressions, the ways they can instantaneously ask questions in real life.” Beeville Bee-Picayune New ‘Fan’ in Town Aug. 11, 2020, by Kevin Keller Fanning is BISD’s new Leader July 23, 2020, by Jason Collins Board Names lone Finalist for Superintendent of Schools July 3, 2020 Featured: Travis Fanning, Doctoral Student EdD in K-12 Educational Leadership Dept. of Educational Leadership Travis Fanning took over as superintendent of the Beeville Independent School District this summer and went to work quickly. Fanning came to Beeville after spending eight years at Cypress-Fairbanks ISD, including the past five as an assistant superintendent overseeing secondary schools and leadership development. Excerpt: Being a new superintendent comes with many challenges and this year, those are significantly greater as the Beeville school district faces so much uncertainty. Travis Fanning was unanimously hired Thursday evening, July 16, to fill the position left vacant when Dr. Marc Puig left for South San Antonio ISD earlier this year. “I think the biggest challenge is going to be how to make sure that we keep our students, our teachers and all of our employees safe,” Fanning said after the board meeting. “Our biggest concern right now is making sure that safety is a priority for us. “And we want to make sure that we’re providing quality education here in Beeville ISD.” Washington Post Liberty University Faces Questions about Faith, Power, Accountability Aug. 29 Featured: Dr. Perry Glanzer, Professor of Higher Education, Department of Educational Leadership Dr. Glanzer, an expert on Christian higher education, is quoted regarding the status of Liberty University in the educational landscape as it faces controversy over the resignation of its leader. Excerpt: Perry Glanzer, a Baylor University education professor, said one of the big trends of this era is the rise of conservative, charismatic or fundamentalist schools that had been started by a pastor or personality and turned into something much bigger. Liberty is in this group, Glanzer wrote in an email, along with Oral Roberts University and Regent University. Many of their graduates have gone on to careers in the U.S. Capitol, on Wall Street or in the entertainment industry. Christianity Today Even in Times of Crisis, Learning is Never a Waste of Time Aug. 25 Featured: Dr. Perry Glanzer, Professor of Higher Education, Department of Educational Leadership Dr. Glanzer offers wisdom in this new article he wrote for Christianity Today. Drawing on a personal health struggle, he encourages us to learn — and lean on God — during COVID-19. Excerpt: "Crises always raise questions about who we are and what God has called us to do. I hope to remind us of the reasons for our calling to learn—and to address the barriers and distractions that crises tend to throw in our way." . . . "To learn well during a pandemic, we have to establish new structures and rhythms that keep the pressures of the moment from overwhelming us. While remaining committed to the God-ordained tasks at hand, we might need to experiment with unorthodox means of completing them." PARADE Magazine What Does Hybrid Learning Mean Exactly? Aug. 13 Featured: Dr. Brooke Blevins, Assoc. Professor and Chair, Dept. of Curriculum & Instruction Dr. Brooke Blevins shared her expertise with "Parade Magazine" for the national publication's "Parent vs. Pandemic" series. For parents needing to know what "hybrid" learning actually means, Blevins had the answers! Excerpt: If you have a student who will be doing hybrid learning in the fall, Blevins recommends reading all of the materials your school has offered on their approach and asking questions of administrators so that you and your family can be prepared. Overall, though, she says hybrid learning can be a great thing for schools right now. “Parents should be hopeful, because districts are working very diligently to get this off the ground,” Blevins says. “It is certainly a change in the American educational system, but it has the potential to be really positive. Teachers are rising to the challenge, as they always do.” EDUTOPIA Why Ages 2-7 Matter so much for Brain Development: Rich experiences — from play to the arts and relationships — fundamentally shape a young child’s development. June 24 Featured: Dr. Rishi Sriram, Associate Professor, Dept. of Educational Leadership Article excerpt, penned by Dr. Sriram: This first critical period of brain development begins around age 2 and concludes around age 7. It provides a prime opportunity to lay the foundation for a holistic education for children. Four ways to maximize this critical period include encouraging a love of learning, focusing on breadth instead of depth, paying attention to emotional intelligence, and not treating young children’s education as merely a precursor to “real” learning. KWTX-TV Waco Students Spend Juneteenth at Lemonade Stand to Support NAACP June 19, 2020 By Rissa Shaw, KWTX Featured: Dr. Tiffany Hogue, Clinical Professor of Higher Education Leadership and Policy, Dept. of Educational Leadership Hillcrest PDS students Students from Baylor SOE partner campus Hillcrest PDS spent Juneteenth running a "Lemonade for Love" stand to raise funds for Waco NAACP in support of the Black Lives Matter movement. Baylor SOE faculty member Tiffany Hogue was on hand with her kids, who are HPDS students. Subsequent news stories on KWTX News 10 reported the students raised $3,300+ in their efforts! More news stories from KWTX: bit.ly/kwtx-2 and bit.ly/kwtx-3. San Antonio News Outlets Featured: Trevor Taylor, BSEd '17 High School English Teacher, Wagner High School, San Antonio Spectrum News: San Antonio Teacher Helps Lead Push for Social Justice June 10 By Chris Grisby San Antonio Express News: San Antonio Marches on, Leaders Reiterate Goals During Fifth Day of Protests June 3 By Silvia Foster-Frau , Jacob Beltran , Madalyn Mendoza , Taylor Pettaway and Bruce Selcraig Photo, above, by William Luther KSTX-NPR: “It Could Have Been Me”: San Antonians Continue to Protest the Death of George Floyd June 3 By Joey Palacios and Jonene Almendarez Excerpt: “This is what a peaceful protest looks like,” Trevor Taylor said, addressing a crowd of about 300 people at San Antonio Public Safety Headquarters early Wednesday evening. Education Week Teacher Coronavirus Reveals How Math Instruction Must Change, Math Groups Say June 16, 2020 Featured: Dr. Trena Wilkerson, Professor and President of NCTM Excerpt: "Even as schools face a lot of uncertainty about the blend of online and in-person instruction that will be possible in the fall, they must start planning—now—to make sure that the coronavirus pandemic doesn't 'exacerbate structural inequities and widen differences in what groups of students experience and learn,' NCTM President Trena Wilkerson and NCSM President Mona Toncheff said in a statement released with the report." HOUSTON CHRONICLE Brenham Superintendent the Finalist for La Porte ISD's Top Administrative Post May 13, 2020 Featured: Dr. Walter Jackson, EdD ’06 "La Porte ISD trustees selected Jackson on May 12 after months of candidate reviews and interviews and community focus groups.... By law, the board must wait 21 days — until June 3 — before voting to hire Jackson." Dr. Walter Jackson has served as superintendent of Brenham ISD for five years and was Region VI Superintendent of the Year in 2019. The La Porte ISD Board of Trustees unanimously approved his hiring on June 3. From KAGS-TV: “Dr. Jackson’s tenure came at a turning point for Brenham ISD," said Natalie Lange, the Brenham ISD Board president. "His visionary leadership and high expectations have moved our district to a higher level of performance, and we are grateful for his commitment to our students and staff. His significant impact in our community will be missed, but I am confident that the district, campus, and classroom leadership will continue the important work and growth to build a legacy of excellence.” EDUTOPIA The Neuroscience Behind Productive Struggle April 13, 2020 Featured: Dr. Rishi Sriram, Associate Professor, Department of Educational Leadership Challenging tasks spur the production of myelin in the brain, a substance that increases the strength of brain signals. Dr. Rishi Sriram's article explores how that happens and provides four strategies to incorporate productive struggle into your lessons. Excerpt: "We sometimes treat learning like a switch that is turned on or off—either students learn something or they don’t. But learning is a spectrum, with surface learning and a lack of skill on one side and deep learning and mastery on the other. To better understand learning, we need to know what happens in students’ brains when they move from surface learning to deep learning." NCTM Website: National Council of Teachers of Mathematics (NCTM.org) Welcome, NCTM New President Trena Wilkerson April 9, 2020 Featured: Dr. Trena Wilkerson, Professor, Department of Curriculum & Instruction, President, NCTM (National Council of Teachers of Mathematics) The National Council of Teachers of Mathematics (NCTM), an international mathematics organization with more than 30,000 members, welcomes Baylor SOE professor Dr. Trena Wilkerson as new president. She was installed on April 3 in a virtual board meeting and will serve until 2022. EDUCATION WEEK Flood of Online Learning Resources Overwhelms Teachers April 8, 2020 Featured: Dr. Trena Wilkerson, Professor, Department of Curriculum & Instruction, President, NCTM (National Council of Teachers of Mathematics) Dr. Trena Wilkerson was quoted in this national publication in a story about the shift to online learning and the challenges faced by teachers of all subject matter. Wilkerson notes that schools might need to pare back expectations in the short term at least for the end of this academic year. Waco Tribune-Herald Handful of Remaining Students, Staff Adjust to Life on Deserted Baylor Campus April 6, 2020 Featured: Dr. Mona Choucair, Senior Lecturer, Curriculum & Instruction, Faculty-in-Residence, Impact Living-Learning Center Excerpt: “There is a void there,” Choucair said. “Those of us who are faculty-in-residence do this because, obviously, to move one’s family and one’s life to campus takes serious consideration. I think you’ll find that we do that because we love the opportunity Visions of Education Podcast Episode 132: Feminist Economics in Social Studies, with Dr. Neil Shanks Jan. 5, 2020 Featured: Dr. Neil Shanks, Clinical Assistant Professor of Curriculum & Instruction Dr. Shanks' areas of research interest include Social Studies Education, Teacher Education, and Economics Education. Specifically, his work focuses on the way that economics exists as a subdiscipline of Social Studies with an emphasis on aligning critical purposes for teaching economics with critical purposes for teaching Social Studies, addressing both traditional economic paradigms and new economic paradigms. In this podcast, he discusses his new publication in Theory & Research in Social Education titled, “Against ‘economic man’: A feminist challenge to prevailing neoclassical norms in K-12 economics education.” Listen here: Trident Magazine (Tri Delta) Kappa Delta Pi ATE Lauren Hornbeak: Gen Z, National Student Teacher of the Year (cover and page 31) Fall 2019 Featured: Lauren Hornbeak, BSEd ’19 Baylor SOE graduate Lauren Hornbeak, the 2019 National Student Teacher of the Year, was featured on the cover of Trident, the national magazine of Tri Delta, as a Gen Z graduate who is making a difference. She received the accolade from Kappa Delta Pi, the national honor society in education, and ATE, the Association of Teacher Educators. She is also featured on their websites as the national honoree. Only one honoree is named each year. See the news on KDPi and ATE websites. KWTX - TV KC Coach's Assistant is BU (School of Education) Graduate Jan. 28, 2020 Featured: Porter Ellett, MSEd ’16, in Sport Management When the Super Bowl kicks off this Sunday between the Kansas City Chiefs and San Francisco 49ers in Miami, Baylor University graduate Porter Ellett, 30, will be front and center or maybe a little behind the center of the action as head coach Andy Reid's assistant. The 2016 graduate of Baylor SOE's MSEd in Sport Management program said he found Baylor by searching for "the best college for a master’s degree program in education sports management." TASA NEWS TASA (Texas Association of School Administrators) Names Recipients of 2020 Johnny L Veselka Scholarship Dec. 11, 2019 Featured: Mike Rockwood, Baylor SOE doctoral candidate in EdD in K12 Educational Leadership Excerpt: "Mike Rockwood, chief of staff for Lamar CISD, is working toward his doctorate in educational leadership from Baylor University. 'I aspire to be a superintendent because I strongly believe in the power of public education to change lives and I am passionate about shaping our future,' he wrote. 'I believe a superintendent should remove obstacles, connect people, and protect students. . . .'" Texas School Business: Annual "Bragging Rights" Issue Midway Middle School Keeps in Touch over Summer Break 2019-2020 issue, published December 2019 13th Annual Special "Bragging Rights" Issue of Texas School Business Magazine, honoring 12 Texas public school districts and their innovative programs Featured: April Harris, Baylor SOE doctoral candidate in EdD in K12 Educational Leadership by Dacia Rivers Excerpt: "April Harris, an assistant principal at Midway Middle School, came up with the idea for MMS Community and Beyond — a summer program that helps the school keep in touch with its new and returning students before the school year begins." KWBU NPR Baylor Connections: Dr. Jon Eckert Nov. 22, 2019 Interview by Derek Smith Featured: Dr. Jon Eckert, Copple Professor Jon Eckert joined the Baylor faculty in 2019 as the Lynda and Robert Copple Endowed Chair in Christian School Leadership. In this Baylor Connections, he examines the ways Baylor can help Christians in education, both in faith-based and non-faith-based school contexts. A longtime teacher and professor who served in the U.S. Department of Education during the Bush and Obama administrations, Eckert shares foundational values in education and casts a vision for future growth in the Center for Christians in Education. Listen online at the story link above. Baylor Lariat TV News Baylor Senior Gives Insight on typical Day as a Student-teacher Nov. 7, 2019 Featured: Jae Moore, Baylor SOE senior student-teaching intern Tamara Holey, mentor teacher Hillcrest Professional Development School Video by Grace Smith, LTVN reporter Holdsworth Center Building Culture Comes First Nov. 5, 2019 Featured: Natasha Epps Harris, K12 EdD Student / Cohort 2 More about SOE EdD students in the Holdsworth program HERE. Special video feature intro: When Natasha Harris was named principal of Hale Elementary in Arlington ISD the week before school started, she knew that the year ahead would be challenging, yet exciting. Raised in small-town Texas, Natasha’s struggles growing up mirrored the lives of her students today. Driven to serve them to the best of her ability, Natasha set about creating a culture where staff are motivated, trusted, and empowered to do what’s best for students and support each other – especially when life throws curveballs. Watch the video: Baylor Lariat BU School of Education stands out with early-on student field experience Oct. 17, 2019 by Sophie Acebo Featured: Dr. Sandra Talbert, clinical assistant professor Katy Stockton, Dallas senior and elementary education major Excerpt: “I usually get up at 6:30 a.m. to get to school by 7:30 a.m. depending on the day,” Stockton said. “I’m always teaching at least one subject every day, but some days I might be teaching everything.” Stockton spends mornings setting up the classroom, getting the children together to head to class and beginning the lessons that have been planned. They complete a multitude of activities that help the class learn to read, write and conceptualize stories, complete math problems and much more. Waco Tribune-Herald Baylor School of Education Presents Centennial Awards Oct. 31, 2019 Featured: Dr. Robert Duron, EdD ’00 Ashley Minton, BSEd ’07, MSEd ’08 Excerpt: The Baylor University School of Education honored two alumni with awards in conjunction with the school’s yearlong centennial celebration during 2019. Baylor graduate and Waco native Robert Duron received the School of Education’s Centennial Outstanding Alumni Award, and Ashley Minton received the Centennial Outstanding Young Alumni Award. Current and former students, faculty, staff and School of Education partners submitted nominations for the Centennial Outstanding Alumni and Outstanding Young Alumni Awards. The honorees were recognized Sept. 27 at a banquet. Duron has 32 years of public education experience and has held significant leadership roles. He is currently the associate executive director of governance services for the Texas Association of School Boards. Baylor Lariat School of Education Expo welcomes, informs prospective students Oct. 7, 2019 by Matthew Muir Featured: Dr. Jenifer Johnson, associate director of recruitment and first year experience Dr. Barbara Purdum-Cassidy Excerpt: Prospective Baylor students previewed the School of Education (SOE) at Monday’s first-ever SOE expo.The expo, aimed at high school seniors in the process of applying to Baylor, gave the prospective pupils a peek at what Baylor’s School of Education has to offer. . . . “The goal of this particular session is to provide an overview of the four years as a student at Baylor—what does that look like in the School of Education?” Purdum-Cassidy said. “Then let them ask any questions that they want to and provide a little bit of an overview of what the degree looks like… what kind of experiences can they have?” Bear Tracks: Baylor Graduate School Blog Soft Science Vs. Hard Science — What is the Difference? Sept. 16, 2019 by Rachel Renbarger Featured: Rachel Renbarger, doctoral candidate in Educational Psychology, president of Baylor Graduate Council Excerpt: ". . . . I enrolled in graduate school in 2015 into the department of educational psychology. Ed psych was called a “soft science,” but why was that? Referring back to my childhood ideas of science, education did not have people in lab coats but psychology did. Was that why it was “soft,” because it was a mixed breed of fields? Someone told me early on that “soft” science dealt with how people function in the world; it was “soft” because human relationships and the thoughts in the brain- two things that are pliable and difficult to measure- were central to what we studied. Other students, who tended to scoff when I complained about the difficulty of my field, told me that only those in the “hard” science knew pain because their work was undoubtedly more difficult." BYU Magazine Left-Hand Man Spring 2019 Issue Featured: Porter Ellett, MSEd ’16, Sport Management Profile story and video from BYU, where Ellett earned his undergraduate degree Excerpt: When Porter J. Ellett interviewed for a senior assistant position with the Kansas City Chiefs’ Andy W. Reid, the coach listed the various job responsibilities, then summed things up: “Basically you need to be me when I’m not here. Or when I am here, you need to be my right-hand man and keep me going in the right direction.” No problem, Ellett eagerly replied, “as long as you would be okay with your right-hand man not having a right hand.” The coach laughed. “All right,” he said, “then you’ll be my left-hand man.” Ellett got the job, and the nickname stuck. For the past two seasons, Ellett has been Reid’s shadow, single-handedly managing game plans, scheduling, and other tasks for the veteran coach. Hotty Toddy News OHS Football Partners with University for Leadership Program July 31, 2019 Featured: Dr. Hunter Taylor, EdD ’17 Hunter Taylor, EdD 2017, clinical assistant professor of teacher education at the University of Mississippi, was featured in a news story on Ole Miss fan site Hotty Toddy News, about a new high school leadership program Taylor has developed. Taylor partnered with a local high school football coach, Chris Cutcliffe of Oxford High School, to start a leadership program for the school’s football team beginning in fall 2019. Photo by Ole Miss Imaging Services Waco Tribune-Herald Rep. Flores Touts newly expanded Math for Early Learners Academy at Baylor July 3, 2019 By Brooke Crum, Photos by Jerry Larson Featured: MELA (Math for Early Learners Academy) Dr. Sandi Cooper, professor of mathematics education Excerpts: “Programs like this are really, really important for the future of the economy and to each and every one of these individuals,” Flores said. “These students who are here today, their foundations they’re building in math are going to be hugely important to them for the rest of their lives.” . . . . “We’re really focusing on number sense, and research shows that this age group really needs more exposure to what we consider math but really the focus is numeracy,” said Cooper, a professor of mathematics in the Baylor School of Education’s Department of Curriculum & Instruction. “The research shows that math is a better predictor of success later than even literacy — not that literacy is not important but math is a better predictor of success.” KXXV-TV, Channel 25 Representative Bill Flores visits Math Students at the Mayborn Museum July 2, 2019 By Molly Atchison Featured: MELA (Math for Early Learners Academy) Dr. Sandi Cooper, professor of mathematics education Excerpt: Rep. Flores visited with students and teachers to learn more about how this program which works with young children can impact their entire future. "These students that are here today, their fundamentals, their foundation that they're building in math are going to be hugely important for them for the rest of their life and careers, and for their families," Flores said. KWTX-TV Waco: Teachers Encourage Parents to Read with Children over Summer July 2, 2019 By Christy Soto Featured: Baylor Freedom Schools Dr. Lakia Scott, assistant professor Excerpt: “Students can actually lose three to nine months of learning if they are not involved in quality resources and programming during the summer,” Dr. Scott said. “Freedom schools fills that void by providing students with access to literature as well as with interventions that help them propel their reading abilities throughout the summer." Baylor Magazine Q&A / Baylor Connections on KWBU radio Martha Lou Scott (Baylor Magazine) Martha Lou Scott (Baylor Connections on KWBU) Summer 2019 issue Featured: Dr. Martha Lou Scott, 1971 education graduate, EdD ’84 Excerpt: This spring, Martha Lou Scott, BS ’71, EdD ’84, retired from her role as associate vice president for student life after nearly 49 years of service to the University. What do you hope students will take away from being in contact with you? SCOTT: I would hope that they would know in whatever we did together that I had a genuine care for them, that I wanted what was best for them, that I do want to help, and that I do want the experiences that we have together to take them to a better place. Every college student faces challenges at some point. If you’re a college student and haven’t struggled, you’re not working hard at this. It takes a lot of work. Waco Tribune-Herald Midway Names Principal as new assistant Superintendent May 7, 2019 By Brooke Crum Featured: Aaron Peña, BSEd ’97 Excerpt: “Dr. Aaron Peña is diligent in his practice and committed to the profession,” Midway Superintendent George Kazanas said in the press release. “What stands out most is his work ethic and passion for students and teachers.” Peña’s 20 years of teaching and leadership experience include “an impressive track record of service at the elementary and secondary levels in both urban and suburban school settings,” the press release states. Waco Tribune-Herald Baylor Virtual Reality Project Puts Viewers in Victorian Poets' Living Room April 11, 2019 By Carl Hoover Featured: Amanda Gardner, doctoral student Excerpt: Baylor graduate student Amanda Gardner always treated English and literature as immersive subjects for her high school students to plunge into and find shared experiences that could be transformative. Her latest educational project also immerses participants, but in a virtual way: a short virtual reality film that puts viewers in the living room of British poet Robert Browning, where Browning, his son Pen, their friends and family recall the life and poetry of Browning’s wife Elizabeth Barrett Browning. Waco Tribune-Herald Riesel Principal, Graduate Named Lone Finalist for Superintendent April 4, 2019 By Brooke Crum Featured: Brandon Cope, BA ’04, MSEd ’12 Excerpt: “My biggest goal is I always want kids to achieve their maximum potential,” Cope said. “We need to be able to give kids opportunities to reach their full potential in whatever they want to do. Kids need to be able to give their best at something and learn that mindset of hard work and doing what it takes to be successful. I want kids to be prepared for whatever life decision they make when they leave us.” Baylor Line Magazine Hall of Fame Awards March 2019 Page 9 Featured: Jill Harvey McCall, BSEd ’75, Abner V. McCall Humanitarian Award Alfred Anderson, BSEd ’98, Abner V. McCall Humanitarian Award Ann March Stricklin, BA Education ’58, First Families Award Perrin Worrell, BSEd Health ’00, First Families Award Allison Stricklin, BSEd ’14, First Families Award Several School of Education alumni were honored at the Baylor Line Foundation's Hall of Fame Awards banquet and ceremony and featured with profiles in the Baylor Line magazine. Both Jill McCall and Alfred Anderson received the McCall Humanitarian Award. McCall is the founder and executive director of Compassion Ministries, a Waco-based organization that provides transitional housing and support services for homeless families with children. Anderson was honored for his community involvement in the Arlington area. He is a superintendent for York Builders Inc., an alumnus of the NFL, and a popular motivational speaker on the importance of education. Members of the Yelvington/March/Stricklin family were honored for their dedication to Baylor through five generations of graduates. Waco Tribune-Herald Expert: Bilingual Students more likely to Succeed in School, Go to College Feb. 19, 2019 Featured: Dr. Maria Franquiz, Centennial Lecture Presenter Excerpt: "Being bilingual or even multilingual should be seen as an asset and resource to schools and communities, rather than a deficit that needs to be remedied, said Maria Franquiz, a bilingual education expert and University of Utah professor who spoke at Baylor University on Tuesday. Franquiz spent time before her lecture touring schools in the Waco area and speaking with educators about bilingual education." (Photo at right: Maria Franquiz, a bilingual education expert and University of Utah professor, talks with students at Cedar Ridge Elementary School early this week before speaking at Baylor University on Tuesday.) Dallas Morning News The heart of a school is its teachers Feb. 10, 2019 Featured: Dr. Wesley Null Education historians Dr. Wesley Null, Baylor SOE professor and Baylor vice provost, Diane Ravitch, research professor of education at New York University, provides background on Texas public school funding as the 86th Texas Legislature considers public-school finance system. Wallet Hub Most and Least Educated States Featured: Dr. Tony L. Talbert, Professor and Associate Dean for Strategic Initiatives Dr. Tony Talbert was featured as a scholar in education policy at the national economic climate and advice website Wallet Hub. Dr. Talbert offered insights nd guidance regarding the impact of quality education policies and practices on the economic well being of communities and the nation at large. Baylor Magazine News Briefs National Award for Baylor Education Faculty, Waco ISD Spring 2019 Featured: Dr. Sandi Cooper, Professor of Mathematics Education Dr. Suzanne Nesmith, Associate Dean and Associate Professor of Science Education Collaborators from the Baylor School of Education and Waco ISD received the national Award for Excellence in Integrating Science and Mathematics at the School Science and Mathematics Association (SSMA) convention in October. KXXV "Central Texas Living" with Ann Harder Interview about SSMA National Award for Faculty Featured: Dr. Sandi Cooper, Professor of Mathematics Education Dr. Suzanne Nesmith, Associate Dean and Associate Professor of Science Education Faculty members in the School of Education led a multi-year professional development workshop series for teachers and student teachers (Baylor SOE students) at two of our Professional Development Schools. The workshops focused on how to integrate STEM topics into the elementary curriculum, featuring exercises in the engineering design process. Baylor Connections - KWBU (NPR), Oct. 19, 2018 Dr. Lakia Scott, Assistant Professor, Oct. 19, 2018 Featured: Dr. Lakia Scott, Assistant Professor, Curriculum & Instruction In the Baylor School of Education, groundbreaking research and immersive experiences prepare students for the future of education. Dr. Lakia Scott, assistant professor in the Department of Curriculum and Instruction, has founded numerous programs designed to help students succeed. She shares how these experiences equip future educators to better serve their students and communities after college. University of Texas Permian Basin News Dr. Mary Darden Honored as Distinguished Alumna Oct. 16, 2018 Featured: Mary Landon Darden, MSEd ’91 (HPER), EdD ’06 (Educational Administration) President, Higher Education Innovation LLC Distinguished Alumni Award 2018 University of Texas Permian Basin Dr. Darden is pictured during a ceremony honoring Distinguished Alumni at halftime of a football game at the University of Texas Permian Basin. KWTX-TV Central Texas Couple Celebrates 80th Anniversary Oct. 11, 2018 Featured: Loree Motley Brown, BA ’74 Loree Motley Brown, a Baylor English graduate with a minor in education, was featured on KWTX with her husband, William, when they celebrated their 80th Anniversary. Loree went back to school to earn her degree after she was already a grandmother and then taught for 20 years in Bynum, Malone and Hillsboro. KWTX-TV Waco Area Students Tackle Tough Issues Aug. 3, 2018 Featured: iEngage Summer Civics Institute, founded and directed by Dr. Brooke Blevins and Dr. Karon LeCompte iEngage Campers Maggie Parmer and Ryland Plegger Excerpt: “(The camp is) teaching us how to be active in our community,” Robinson seventh grader Ryland Plegger said, such as “(how to) make a difference and how to change the things and problems that have been going on.” One of the topics students discussed is how to stop school shootings. Incoming McGregor High School Freshman Maggie Parmer said her group found a direct correlation to counselors and school shooting incidents. “We want to incorporate more counselors in schools,” Parmer said. KWKT-Fox 44 Educators Get Field-Based Experience at Lake Waco Wetlands July 30, 2018 Featured: Dr. Suzanne Nesmith, Associate Professor, Associate Dean Excerpt: Central Texas teachers, along with Baylor University scientists, are studying water at the Lake Waco Wetlands. The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) is funding this workshop with a $91,000 grant. KWTX-TV Summer Finale for Freedom Schools July 27, 2018 Featured: Dr. Lakia Scott Assistant Professor, Director and Found of Baylor Freedom School Erica Fleming Assistant Site Coordinator, Freedom School / Baylor Teacher Education Student KSAT-12-ABC News Somerset Teacher Gets an A+ for Service to Community July 20, 2018 Featured: Beatrice Villarreal, BSEd ’87, Math Teacher at Somerset ISD Excerpt: “B. Villarreal is without a doubt a Bull Dog Nation institution,” said Maury Vasquez, public information officer for the Somerset Independent School District. “She is embedded so deeply inside of the community, having her hand in every piece of the pie.” Because of that, Villarreal has proven to be a very special part of their community. “In Somerset, we believe that we are a small town with a big heart, and she has got one of the biggest,” Vasquez said. Waco Tribune-Herald Midway's Kazanas Named Region 12 Superintendent of Year July 19, 2018 Featured: Dr. George Kazanas, BBA ’90, MSEd ’94 Superintendent of SOE partner Midway ISD WCCC-TV (Waco City Cable Channel) Mayor Speaking at Literacy & Empowerment Program July 15, 2018 Featured: Ashley Ramos, Baylor Student & Freedom School Leader Dr. Lakia Scott, assistant professor and director of Baylor Freedom School Waco Tribune-Herald ENABLING YOUNG LEADERS: Waco's Freedom School Grows, Shows Progress July 11, 2018 By Lauren Dodd Featured: Dr. Lakia Scott, assistant professor and director of Baylor Freedom School Waco Mayor Kyle Deaver (pictured as the "guest reader") Excerpt: “On average, students lose between two and sixth months of learning during the two months of summer,” [Dr. Lakia] Scott said. It seems the program is already paying off in preventing that loss, she said. Comparing students’ reading abilities before and after Freedom School, she can already prove the impact the program has had on the children, Scott said. KCBD-TV - Lubbock Dr. Kenneth Border Named 2018 Region 17 Superintendent of the Year July 5, 2018 Featured: Dr. Kenneth Border, EdD ’04 Excerpt: Dr. Border stated, "I am extremely humbled by this award. It is truly a reflection of the hard work of the students, teachers, parents and community members of Shallowater ISD more than it is a reflection of me. Shallowater ISD is an amazing school district, and I am simply honored to serve as its superintendent." Baylor Connections - KWBU (NPR) Dr. Terrill Saxon, Interim Dean, June 8, 2018 Featured: Dr. Terrill Saxon, Interim Dean and Professor As the Baylor School of Education approaches its centennial anniversary in 2019, it continues to build on a legacy of immersive classroom experience, dynamic research and local partnerships. Dr. Terrill Saxon, Interim Dean of the School of Education and Professor of Educational Psychology, shares insights on award-winning partnerships with Central Texas schools, initiatives that enhance opportunities for low-income students and more. KWTX-TV Baylor Grad Embraces Handicap to Reach Dream May 11, 2018 By Rhyan Henson Featured: Rebekah Tate, BSEd '18 Excerpt: Graduation is a special ceremony for seniors across the country but one Baylor Bear will have an extra pep in her step as she crosses the stage on Friday. Rebekah Tate has had to overcome a lot of obstacles to get where she is today. Cancer forced doctors to amputate her leg as an infant. Like any other child, Rebekah spent an extensive amount of time in school but that’s where she learned many hard lessons, many of which can’t be found in a textbook. “I would say that the classroom isn't just for the subject you're teaching; it's for life,” Tate said. Baylor Lariat School of Education Wins Back-to-Back National Honors April 4, 2018 By Brooke Hill Waco Tribune-Herald PREPARING FUTURE TEACHERS: Baylor, Waco ISD Teaching Partnership Earns National Accolade News story featuring the NAPDS partnership award won by Baylor SOE and Waco ISD for 2018. Baylor is the first university to win the award back to back, after being recognized last year for its partnership with Midway ISD. March 25, 2018 By Shelly Conlon Photos by Rod Aydelotte Featured: Interim Dean Dr. Terrill Saxon Senior Gabby Salazar Hillcrest PDS HPDS teacher Emily Draper, BSEd '12, pictured Yolanda Williams, Waco ISD liaison KWTX-TV BU Students Help At-Risk High School Students Prepare for College Feb. 27, 2018 By Rhyan Henson Featured: EnAbled for College Program, funded by AT&T Foundation Dr. Tamara Hodges Graduate Student Mentors KWKT-TV Researchers: Tablet Time is Causing Toddler Speech Delay Feb. 1, 2018 By Leslie Rangel Featured: Dr. Tracey Sulak, Educational Psychology Excerpt: For many parents, tablets and iPads are lifelines. They serve as a chance to keep children occupied while they get things done. Researchers now suggest tablet time could be unsafe for your child. Baylor University researchers say you might want to think twice about your child's development before handing them the electronic device. Baylor Lariat Baylor Professors Take Action against Human Trafficking Feb. 28, 2018 By Christina Soto Featured: Dr. Lakia Scott, assistant professor, Curriculum & Instruction Dr. Christina Crenshaw, Baylor senior lecturer in English, PhD ’13 Watch the video interview: KWTX-News 10, Waco BU Students Help at-risk High School Students Prepare for College Feb. 27, 2018 Story by Rhyan Henson Featured: Dr. Tamara Hodges, senior lecturer, Dept. of Educational Psychology EnAbled for College Program, funded by AT&T Foundation Baylor Magazine Success After Service Spring Issue - 2018 By Larry Little / Photos by Larsen&Talbert Featured: Dr. Janet Bagby, founder of the Baylor VETS program Mandy Hinshaw, student veteran and elementary education major (left) Excerpt: At Baylor, Hinshaw found a welcoming community of fellow veterans with whom she could commiserate about the trials of new responsibilities and newfound freedoms. Founded by Dr. Janet Bagby, senior lecturer in educational psychology, Baylor VETS (Veteran Educational and Transition Service) promotes the academic success of veterans at Baylor University. All Baylor students who are military veterans are eligible for the free benefits offered through the VETS program. “Baylor is like family to me now, and I think a large part of that is because of the VETS program,” Hinshaw says. “I would like to think I would’ve made it, but it would’ve taken a lot more out of me, and I don’t think I would love and appreciate Baylor the way I do without the VETS program.” Waco Tribune-Herald River Valley 5th-graders start charity for Family Abuse Center Featured: iEngage Summer Civics Institute Excerpt: Chloe Greenmum and Maddie Jackson, both 10, and Kaylie Stone, 11, came up with Pillowcases of Hope with other students after attending a civics camp at Baylor University this summer. As of this week, the girls are in the middle of their second donation drive for the center, which is expected to last through Saturday. At the iEngage Summer Civics Institute, the girls learned ways to make a difference in their communities and were tasked with coming up with a service-learning project at the end of the five-day camp to show off what they learned. They did not stop at making a presentation about the idea. The girls wanted it to become a reality, they said. They pleaded with their parents to make it happen, and once Chloe’s father, Peter Greenmum, reached out to Maddie’s mother, Amy Jackson, the idea started to take shape. Waco Tribune-Herald Baylor aims for new bilingual education program Featured: Dr. Larry Browning, Chair, Dept. of Curriculum & Instruction Dr. Brooke Blevins, Associate Chair, Dept. of Curriculum & Instruction Excerpt: Baylor University is considering a new undergraduate and graduate program for training bilingual educators in an effort to fill an increasing need in McLennan County, School of Education officials said. The Department of Curriculum and Instruction is in the midst of a search for a senior-level faculty member to get the program off the ground and hopes to have it up and running by next fall, department chairman Larry Browning said. “It’s something we’ve been wanting to do for a while, so there has been some talk in the past of what we were going to do,” Browning said. TAMU News Distinguished Educator, Former Student To Be Honored At ALI Nov. 2, 2017 Featured: Dr. Karen Rue, Clinical Professor in K-12 Leadership, Dept. of Educational Leadership A distinguished Texas A&M graduate was honored with one of the most coveted awards amongst Texas educators at the 2017 Dr. John R. Hoyle Memorial Administrative Leadership Institute (ALI). Dr. Karen Rue '02, clinical professor at Baylor University’s School of Education, received the Golden Deeds For Education Award on Thursday, Nov. 30, for her years of educational service. The Golden Deeds Award is given to an educator who has been a consistently positive force for Texas students and teachers. A nominating committee consisting of statewide superintendents selects recipients. Midway ISD Video: Midway Middle School P.E. Partners Sept. 19, 2017 Featured: Elena Leon, BSEd '17, Midway Middle School teacher Dr. Herb Cox, BSEd ’79, EdD ’08, Midway Middle School Principal This video showcases the new P.E. Partners Program at Midway Middle School, a Professional Development School campus of Baylor School of Education. The program build empathy through inclusion practices in physical education classes. The program was also covered by the Waco Tribune-Herald in a story by Shelly Conlon: New special-education PE program teaches Midway students about inclusion The Texas Tribune The Q&A: John E. Wilson Sept. 14, 2017 By Emma Platoff Featured: Dr. John Wilson, Clinical Professor and Program Director of the Ed.D. in K-12 Educational Leadership Excerpt: "In the public arena, we serve all children and all families, whether they’re rich or poor, or whatever their ethnicity is, whatever their socioeconomic status is, whatever religious belief they come from, whatever walk of life they come from, whatever status they enter the system in. Part of our challenge, and role, is to be able to start with children where they are." Waco Tribune-Herald Baylor Outreach Grant Saves Summer Program for Low-income Students July 28 Story by Shelly Conlon Featured: Dr. Susan Johnsen, professor, Educational Psychology Dr. Michael McLendon, interim provost, Baylor University Excerpt: "Baylor University is offering a community outreach grant to pull a summer program for low-income Waco ISD students back from the brink of closure as the city of Waco prepares to finalize its decision to pull funding, Baylor interim Provost Michael McLendon announced Friday. The new recurring grant will replace the $37,000 in federal Community Development Block Grant money the city plans to stop giving Project Promise, Baylor spokeswoman Lori Fogleman said. The news comes after 20 people spoke July 18 against a proposal by city officials to scale back on the number of organizations receiving money from Waco’s shrinking pool of the block grant money starting in the next budget cycle." KWTX – News Channel 10 Project Promise (part of University for Young People) on KWTX June 30, 2017 Featured: Dr. Susan Johnsen, professor, Educational Psychology Corina Kaul, doctoral student, Educational Psychology Rachel Vaughn, BSEd ’17, Project Promise mentor KWTX reporter Rhyan Henson covered the Project Promise program, which provides a three-week day enrichment program for low-income students in Waco ISD who are identified as gifted and talented. Previous grant funding for the program is at risk of non-renewal. Watch on KWTX site Waco Tribune-Herald History Teachers Get Lesson in Student Engagement with Cemetery Scavenger Hunt June 28, 2017 Story by Shelly Conlon Featured: Dr. Tony Talbert, professor, Curriculum & Instruction Chris Lemley, doctoral student, Curriculum & Instruction Excerpt: “More than 30 teachers from 11 school districts are spending Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday listening to presentations by other social studies teachers and exploring historical sites in Waco.” Waco Tribune-Herald Livingstone Picks Education Dean as Interim Baylor Provost June 27, 2017 Featured: Dr. Michael McLendon, dean, Baylor School of Education Excerpt: “We are blessed to have such a noted higher education scholar on the Baylor campus who can immediately step in and serve the university as interim provost during this important time of transition,” Livingstone said in a statement. “Dr. McLendon fully understands the role of the provost, as his scholarly work has focused extensively on postsecondary governance, finance and policy. His knowledge of and familiarity with Baylor, as an undergraduate and dean, are certainly an added benefit.” Waco Tribune-Herald STAYING SHARP IN SUMMER: Baylor Starts Freedom School Focused on Avoiding Summer Learning Loss June 26, 2017 Story by Shelly Conlon Featured: Dr. Lakia Scott, assistant professor, Curriculum & Instruction Branda Greening, BSEd ’17 Excerpt: “It’s been fun. We’ve been learning new stuff, like reading different kinds of books and doing fun activities,” sixth-grader Julian Santacruz said. “Freedom School is fun, but you’ve got to do a lot of stuff to make you better and smarter to get to the next grade. I want other people to come so they know how I felt in Freedom School. I didn’t really like to read before until I read these good books.” KWTX - News Channel 10 Freedom Schools on KWTX June 15, 2017 Featured: Dr. Lakia Scott, assistant professor, Curriculum & Instruction KWTX covered the launch of Baylor School of Education's Freedom School at Cesar Chavez Middle School, running through July 28. Freedom Schools is a seven-week summer literacy enrichment program founded by Children's Defense Fund. Social action, character building, and STEAM activities are built into the program so children engage in an interactive, meaningful curriculum. Waco Tribune-Herald Christian Higher Ed Seminar Attracts Administrators, Past Baylor Leaders May 19, 2017 Featured: Dr. Rishi Sriram, associate professor of educational leadership; Dr. Dub Oliver, BSEd ’87, president of Union University Excerpt: "Higher education has a lot of opportunities to try to develop leaders, but there are much fewer opportunities that really focus on what it means to lead institutions that are faith-based Christian higher education institutions," said Rishi Sriram, Baylor associate professor of higher education and student affairs. Baylor Magazine Baylor VETS Program Aids Student Veterans in Transition Spring 2017 Featured: Dr. Janet Bagby, senior lecturer, Educational Psychology, founder of the Baylor VETS program, based on her research into the education challenges for student veterans in higher education. Excerpt: Baylor was named a 2017 “Military Friendly School” by MilitaryFriendly.com, and the services VETS provide were the driving force behind the honor. VETS resources include a Veterans Transition Class, a Salutes to Sic ’ems mentor program that connects students with Baylor faculty and staff members who also served, academic support, a Veterans of Baylor student organization and more. Equipped for Global Impact Spring 2017 Featured: Don and Janette Carpenter, donors of the Carpenter Embedded Global Classroom Dr. Michael McLendon, dean Excerpt: Don Carpenter said, "Through experiences in global classrooms, Baylor students can develop understanding and empathy to help them as they teach and influence students of their own throughout their careers.” Baylor Education Students Receive State Recognitions Spring 2017 Featured: Stephanie Wright, BSEd ’16, Texas Student Teacher of the Year Dr. Krys Goree, director of the SOE's Office of Professional Practice and director of field experiences for Baylor students. Kaitlyn Welsh, BSEd ’16 Dr. Sheila Gloer, senior lecturer, Curriculum & Instruction Baylor Line Magazine In Praise of Great Teaching (highlighting 10 outstanding professors) Winter 2017 Issue Featured: Dr. Mona Choucair, senior lecturer, Curriculum & Instruction, Faculty-in-Residence, Education Living-Learning Center Dr. Laine Scales, Professor of Higher Education, Educational Leadership and Associate Dean, Baylor Graduate School. Excerpts: Dr. Choucair says, "Literature is a vehicle for me to speak with students. Many things in literature resonate with our lives. Literature and fiction mimic our lives; that's why we read it. we grow from it." Story by Cameron Bocanega Dr. Scales says, "All of us are in a community together, all around this subject we are trying to learn. This is much better than trying to have students compete against each other or compete for grades or try to outshine each other." Story by Courtney Marco Waco Tribune-Herald • Book Based on Baylor Mission Trip to Support School in Ghana Dec. 21, 2016 Featured: Curriculum & Instruction faculty member Dr. Lakia Scott and senior education major Branda Greening, who co-authored a book about their experiences on a Baylor mission trip to a Ghana school. Proceeds from book sales will buy supplies for the school, which Scott and Greening will deliver during a return trip in 2017. Story by Philip Ericksen Waco Tribune-Herald • Midway High Associate Principal Gets State Honor Dec. 18, 2016 Featured: Doctoral candidate in Curriculum & Instruction Becky Odajima, associate principal of Midway High School, who was named the Texas Assistant Principal of the Year by the Texas Association of Secondary School Principals (TASSP). Midway ISD is a partner district of the Baylor School of Education, and Midway High School in a Professional Development School campus of the School, where Baylor teacher candidates gain valuable field experience. Photo by Midway ISD "Public Health Minute" by Lehman University NPR • Student Veterans Transition to Higher Education Dec. 1, 2016 Featured: Faculty member Dr. Janet Bagby about her research study on the transition of military veterans to higher education. Interview by William Latimer Waco Tribune-Herald: • Free Farmers Market at Baylor program was organized and inspired by the research of an SOE doctoral student and faculty member. Nov. 3, 2016 Featured: faculty member Dr. Nathan Alleman, Educational Leadership, higher-ed doctoral student Cara Allen (pictured) Story by Kristin Hoppa Photo by Rod Aydelotte Waco Tribune-Herald: • Veterans of Baylor program, founded by SOE professor through research on veterans in higher education Sept. 2, 2016 Featured: faculty member Dr. Janet Bagby, Educational Psychology Story by Phillip Erickson Temple Daily Telegram: • SOE Alumna Finalist for Statewide Superintendent of the Year Aug. 30, 2016 Featured: Baylor School of Education graduate Dr. Robin Battershell, EDD '93, named Region12 Superintendent of the Year and one of five state finalists Story by Crystal Dominguez Waco Tribune-Herald: • Community Support Helps South Waco Elementary’s Academic Turnaround Aug. 26, 2016 Featured: Baylor School of Education graduate Julie Moore Carter, BSEd ’76, and Baylor graduate Mary Ila Colvin, BA ’48. A retired teacher, Carter launched a mentoring program at South Waco Elementary, headquartered at Seventh & James Baptist Church, and Colvin is a mentor in the program. NPR's Texas Standard (KWBU-FM): • iEngage Camp 2016 Aug. 9, 2016 Featured: faculty member Dr. Brooke Blevins, Curriculum & Instruction Interview by Carlos Morales Waco Tribune-Herald: • iEngage Camp 2016 Aug. 6, 2016 Featured: faculty members Dr. Brook Blevins and Dr. Karon LeCompte, Curriculum & Instruction iEngage camper Hannah Okafor (pictured) Story by Shelly Conlon Photo by Rod Aydelotte Excerpt: "In the past year, at age 13, Okafor has broken even more boundaries by getting elected to her student council and petitioning Rapoport Academy to create a football team for her peers and her to play on, now that she’s about to be too old for her current football program, she said. Her efforts wouldn’t have been possible had she not attended Baylor University’s iEngage Summer Civics Institute the past four years and worked up the courage to get involved in her school, Okafor said." Waco Tribune-Herald: • Math for Early Learners Academy (MELA) July 26, 2016 Featured: faculty member Dr. Sandi Cooper, Curriculum & Instruction SOE graduate and Brook Ave Elementary principal Sarah Pedrotti Story by Shelly Conlon Excerpt: "The concept for the program came together in the fall, and Cooper launched the first Math for Early Learners Academy this month with the support of Baylor’s School of Education, Waco Independent School District, college students and parents. The four-week camp, which ends Thursday at Baylor’s Mayborn Museum, provides 4- and 5-year-olds with a basic number sense before they start kindergarten." News News and Announcements News Blog: Instant Impact Impact Newsletter Online SOE in the News SOE Social Media Information for Media SOE Coronavirus Updates SOE Coronavirus FAQ Apply Now Make a Gift Contact Us Visit Campus Show More General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students School of Education Facebook Twitter Instagram Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 About At a Glance Contact the School Office of the Dean Dean's Biography Dean's Office Directory Dean's Office Directory Centennial Events Featured Profiles Impact Living-Learning Center Mission of the School of Education Outcomes Consumer Information Why Baylor School of Education Learning Spaces Marrs McLean Science Learning Resources Center (LRC) Location and Hours Check-Out Procedures Media Lab Mathematics Education Lab Impact Living-Learning Center Academics Dept. of Curriculum & Instruction Dept. of Educational Leadership Dept. of Educational Psychology Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs MA in Teaching (MAT) MAT Admission Information MAT Degree Requirements / Coursework Certification Information (OPP) MAT Joint Programs Global Programs Undergraduate Study Abroad Carpenter Embedded Global Classroom Baylor Education in Costa Rica Graduate Study Abroad Explore our Programs Apply Tk20 Info Tk20 Login for Student/Faculty For Students For Cooperating Teachers For Faculty Outreach & Applied Research Partnerships Professional Development Schools What is a PDS? The Co-Teach Model Partner School Districts Greater Waco Area Superintendents Impact Living-Learning Center Centers Baylor Center for School Leadership Center for Gifted Education and Talent Development University for Young People (UYP) UYP 2020 Fall GT Conference Super Saturdays Baylor Center for Developmental Disabilities Clinic for Assessment, Research and Education (CARE) Contact CARE Donate to CARE CARE Mission and Goals CARE Community Programs Skill Building Program Problem Behavior Support Clinic Feeding Support Program Baylor Autism Resource Clinic Grants & Initiatives Research Stories Professional Development for Educators Summer Literacy Institute Fall GT Conference Mathematics Teacher Academy 2019 MTA Facebook Album 2018 MTA Facebook Album 2017 MTA Facebook Album Social Studies Academy 2019 Social Studies Summer Summit Mathematics for Teachers of Early Learners (MTEL) Map Academies & Institutes of BCSL (Baylor Center for School Leadership) Baylor Beginning Teacher Institute Summer Superintendents Institute Christian Higher Education Leadership Seminar Faculty Meet the Faculty Faculty Positions Assistant Professor in Curriculum & Instruction Clinical Assistant Professor of ELementary Education Professor and Department Chair of Educational Leadership Clinical Assistant or Clinical Associate Professor of School Psychology (Dallas campus) Assistant or Associate Professor of School Psychology (Waco campus) Grants & Initiatives Centers Students Prospective Undergraduates Why a BSEd at Baylor? Degree Planners & Certification Areas FAQs Visit the School of Education SOE Glossary Student Spotlights Transfer Students Impact Living-Learning Center Meet Dr. Neil Shanks Meet Your Major Podcast Prospective Graduate Students Advising and Degree Programs Schedule an Advising Appointment Meet the Advisors Degree Planners & Certification Areas Degree Planners 2019 - beyond Degree Planners - 2018 Apply to Graduate Advising FAQs Equivalent Courses Tool for Baylor Baylor Undergraduate Catalog Give Feedback Certification Information Complaint Policy Office of Professional Practice (OPP) Certification Information Testing for Certification (all programs) Criminal History Evaluations Texas Requirements & Process for Certification Baylor Process for Admittance to Teacher Education Program (undergraduate & MAT) Baylor Process for Admittance to Superintendent Certification Program (EdD in K-12) Baylor Process for Admittance to Principal Certification Program (MA in School Leadership) Benefits and Waivers for Military Service Members Baylor University Technology Practices in Teaching and Learning Complaint Process Action Research 2022 Action Research Symposium 2021 Action Research Program 2019 Action Research Monograph Schedule A Visit Visits: Prospective Undergraduate Students Visits: Prospective Graduate Students Scholarships for Undergraduates Student Profiles Student Services Advising Learning Resources Center (LRC) Student Wellness Services Professional Meeting Support for Undergraduates Kappa Delta Pi Action Research Student Advisory Council Professional Licensure Information MEET the SOE podcast Alumni Alumni Awards Keep in Touch Alumni Profiles Update Your Information Impact Newsletter Online Homecoming Centennial News News and Announcements News Blog: Instant Impact Impact Newsletter Online SOE in the News SOE Social Media Information for Media SOE Coronavirus Updates SOE Coronavirus FAQ Make a Gift