Skip navigation Find: A to Z Index People Directory Learn More: About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Theatre Arts and Performance Studies Site Navigation Home About People Undergraduate Graduate Doctoral Program MFA in Playwriting MFA in Acting and Directing Graduate Colloquium Series FAQ Performances & Events Print this Page Share this Page Brown University Box 1897 83 Waterman Street Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401.863.3283 Fax 401.863.7529 [email protected] Brown About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory m.Brown.edu News Events Visit Campus Life Map Directory Brown Apps Safety About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Theatre Arts and Performance Studies Graduate Graduate Brown University’s Department of Theatre Arts and Performance Studies is home to three Graduate Programs: Doctoral Program in Theatre and Performance Studies Masters of Fine Arts in Playwriting Brown/Trinity MFA in Acting and Directing, housed at Trinity Repertory Company in downtown Providence. As of 2019, the GRE is no longer required in order to apply to any of the graduate programs in the Department of Theatre Arts and Performance Studies at Brown The Doctoral Program in Theatre Arts and Performance Studies stresses research and scholarship in theatre history, theory and criticism, and performance studies. Faculty members encourage rigorous and creative thought that engage performance modes and methodologies from the humanities and social sciences. Faculty and graduate student research includes work on theatre, performance in everyday life, festival, film, dance, new media and animation. As a top-ranking program in Theatre Arts and Performance Studies, our doctoral students have a 100 percent placement rate in postdoctoral and/or faculty positions. Accepting applications for Fall 2022 The application deadline for the Doctoral Program in Theatre Arts and Performance Studies is January 2, 2022. For more information about the Doctoral Program in Theatre Arts and Performance Studies click here. Brown's MFA in Playwriting is a three-year funded program. We are looking for students who define themselves as writers, and whose writing resists definition—but involves a keen, tireless attention to live performance. This program is a place to study what writing for theater has been, while honing a creative practice that also feeds voraciously on the nontheatrical: all kinds of literature, art, rebellion, and thought. Above all it is a place—and time—to write like you've never written before. Accepting applications for Fall 2022 The application deadline for the MFA Playwriting Program is January 4, 2022. For more information about the MFA program in Playwriting click here. Committed to creating whole artists, the MFA Program in Acting and Directing, housed at Trinity Repertory Company in downtown Providence, offers actors and directors interdisciplinary artistic training. Graduates of the program continue to earn their way onto well-known stages, into avant-garde collaborations and film. The application deadline for the Brown/Trinity MFA Acting Program is January 4, 2022. Brown/Trinity's next application cycle for Directing will open in September 2022 for admission in Fall 2023. For more information about the MFA Program in Acting and Directing click here. The program is unique in its equal commitment to creative practice and theory. MFA and PhD students collaborate on performance projects formally and informally throughout their graduate careers, on projects such as Writing is Live. MFA playwrights and directors attend courses on the Brown campus and join in critical theoretical discussions about theatre and performance on a regular basis. Application Process: For questions about the application process (including TOEFL submission, LORs, transcripts, and other technical questions), please contact the Graduate School directly at [email protected]. Applications to the Ph.D. and MFA programs are submitted to, and managed through the Graduate School. Please do not email the department with technical questions or requests to troubleshoot your online application submission. You can find detailed instructions about the application process and components here. The application FAQ can be found here. Transcripts and letters of recommendation should be uploaded directly in the system. Sending application materials directly to TAPS will delay the processing of your application. For more information, The Graduate School Handbook for Admitted Students can be found here. The TAPS departmental handbook for grad students can be found here. Please note pertinent University web resources should be regarded as the primary references for degree requirements and options. Also in Theatre Arts and Performance Studies Site Navigation Home About People Undergraduate Graduate Doctoral Program MFA in Playwriting MFA in Acting and Directing Graduate Colloquium Series FAQ Performances & Events Print this Page Share this Page Brown University Box 1897 83 Waterman Street Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401.863.3283 Fax 401.863.7529 [email protected] Performance Calendar Get Tickets Calendar There are no upcoming events. Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory Social Media TAPS Facebook TAPS Instagram TAPS YouTube Partnerships Brown Arts Initiative Rites & Reason Theatre Sock & Buskin TAPS Library Guide Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U Google+ LinkedIn RSS Futurity