Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Licensing Licensing right arrow down arrow I'm On Campus right arrow down arrow Internal Requests Sponsorships Fundraising Internal Consumption Policy NIL Requests I'm Off Campus right arrow down arrow University Sponsorship Policy Crafter's Program Licensees right arrow down arrow Code of Conduct Artwork Do's and Don'ts Policies FAQs Find Bearcats Gear right arrow down arrow Look for the Label Home » About UC » Licensing » I'm On Campus » Internal Requests Set Navigation title in component Internal Requests Sponsorships Fundraising Internal Consumption Policy NIL Requests Internal Requests Are you in a University of Cincinnati department or student organization? Do you want to produce a product using the University's brand for your department or organization? If so, you're in the right place! Learn about how to request approval below. Internal Request Form Internal Request Process Start the planning and request process early. We recommend at least 30 days before your event. Select an approved internal vendor to produce the products. Design artwork for the product. The internal vendors can help you design the artwork if needed. Check out the Artwork Do's and Don'ts for artwork guidelines. Complete the Internal Request Form (linked above). You will need to upload the final artwork and quote from the vendor into this form. Please fill out this form with as much information as possible. We will review your request. It typically takes between 1-3 days to process each request. After your request has been reviewed, we will notify you and the vendor of the status of the request. Note: Approval to use the University's brand (i.e. on a t-shirt) does not constitute approval to use the brand again, including on reorders, without seeking additional approval. University of Cincinnati Trademarks & Licensing 51 Goodman St. 320 University Hall Cincinnati, OH 45221-0089 513-558-1063 licensing@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati Trademarks & Licensing 51 Goodman St. 320 University Hall Cincinnati, OH 45221-0089 513-558-1063 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top