Skip to Content Menu Audiences Clemson Home Science Home Resources A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps Phonebook Apply Now Make a Gift Academics Research People News & Events Outreach About Us Graduate Program Overview The Universe is united around a set of fundamental laws and basic forces of nature. These laws govern phenomena from the smallest subatomic particles to the largest galaxies, thus the study of physics is the foundation upon which all science and technology is built. At Clemson, theorists and experimentalists explore, test, and discover phenomena that provide evidence for novel and unified theories based on these physical laws. Clemson’s Department of Physics and Astronomy is internationally recognized for its experimental, computational, and theoretical work in astronomical, atmospheric, biological, condensed matter, and fundamental physics. Graduate students in the Department of Physics and Astronomy are engaged at the forefront of research, conducted under the mentorship of our world-class faculty, and gain valuable teaching experience as well. While earning their degrees, graduate students receive fully funded research or teaching assistantships, including full tuition waivers; Ph.D. candidates making adequate progress toward their degree are guaranteed five years of support, and M.S. students are guaranteed two years of support, while funding remains available. Our students come from around the United States and the world, making sharing with other cultures an important part of the graduate experience. Wherever they are from, our students enjoy Clemson’s especially pleasant surroundings, year-round mild climate, and low cost-of-living. Our graduates take many career paths. Some join the faculty at research universities and teaching colleges around the country. Some take research positions at national laboratories and government agencies, including NASA and the Department of Energy. Others work for private companies in research and development or management. For more information regarding specific research opportunities, the details of our graduate program, and the application process, please follow the links in the side bar. Academics Home Graduate Program Prospective Students Application Accepted Students Current Students Graduate Courses and Schedules Medical Biophysics Undergraduate Program Undergraduate Research Student Awards Summer Courses Copyright © 2019 Clemson University Department of Physics & Astronomy | 118 Kinard Laboratory, Clemson, S.C. 29634-0978 864-656-3416 | Email Us