Skip to main site navigation Skip to main content Open the search panel Open the main menu Search Go Close the search panel Information for… Incoming J.D. Current Students Faculty Staff Media Employers News Events Alumni Giving About Library Login Open the Search panel Admissions Admissions Why Columbia J.D. Admissions Graduate Admissions Academics Academics J.D. Program and Curriculum LL.M. Program and Curriculum Executive LL.M. Program and Curriculum J.S.D. Program and Curriculum Dual and Joint Degrees International Programs Public Interest and Public Service Experiential Learning Courses Registration Services Academic Calendar Executive Education Areas of Study Areas of Study Constitutional Law, Regulation, and Public Policy Corporate, Business, and Transactional Law Criminal Justice Data Analytics Environment and Energy Family, Gender, and Sexuality Intellectual Property and Technology International and Comparative Law Law of the Workplace Leadership Legal History Litigation and Dispute Resolution National Security and Privacy Social Justice and Human Rights Faculty & Scholarship Faculty & Scholarship Faculty Directory Research Centers and Programs Scholarship Archive Workshops, Lectures, and Colloquia Careers Careers Private Sector Careers Public Interest and Public Service Careers Academic Careers Judicial Clerkships Employment Statistics Employment Policies Community Life Community Life Visit Campus Dean’s Welcome Your Campus, Your City Student Life Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Strategic Initiatives Community Life More in this Section Explore Community Life: Visit Campus Dean’s Welcome Your Campus, Your City Student Life Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Strategic Initiatives At Columbia Law School, you have the tools and opportunities to forge your own path. But you won’t do it alone: Our remarkable community of students, faculty, staff, and alumni will support you every step of the way. Related Links Leadership and Administration Dean’s Welcome Meet Dean Gillian Lester, a nationally recognized expert in employment law and policy, who is working to achieve a bold vision for Columbia Law School. Learn More Your Campus, Your City Explore life on Columbia’s beautiful campus and the city you’ll call home and visit Columbia. Learn More Student Life See how our student community is bound together by a fierce sense of camaraderie and fortified by countless activities on and off campus. Learn More Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion The Law School is dedicated to cultivating a community where students from all backgrounds learn to serve as lawyers, leaders, and public servants. Learn More Our History Since 1858, Columbia Law School has been a world leader in legal education. Learn more about our history-defining moments and the people who have helped shape the law. Learn More Strategic Initiatives Discover how the Law School is building upon its legacy to guide the future of legal education. Learn More Graduation J.D., LL.M., J.S.D., and Executive LL.M. students celebrate graduation, with Antony J. Blinken ’88, U.S. Secretary of State, delivering the keynote address during the online graduation ceremony on April 29, 2021. Graduation 2021: Highlights of a Special Day Join the Conversation Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube Related News and Stories Read All Stories More in The Press Students Video Inside 1L Year With the Class of 2024 Making friends, handling the workload, navigating career paths and the subway: Four members of the Class of 2024 talk about their first-year experience so far. Alumni News In Memoriam: Morton L. Janklow ’53, Preeminent Literary Agent In The Press Who Should Regulate? A Review of “The Chevron Doctrine” Thomas W. Merrill | New York Review of Books In The Press Is Musk Getting Cold Feet About Acquiring Twitter? Eric Talley | Bloomberg Law Podcast Related Events View All Events May 31 2022 Deadline - June 6th - Moot Court Student Editor/LPW Teaching Fellow Tue, 6:00 p.m. - 8:00 p.m. William and June Warren Hall, 1125 Amsterdam Ave., New York, NY 10027 Jun 1 2022 Revolution 12/13 | Abolition Feminism with Sarah Haley Wed, 6:00 p.m. - 8:00 p.m. The People's Forum, 320 W. 37th St., New York, NY 10018 Jun 2 2022 Annual Staff Appreciation & Recognition Luncheon Thu, 12:00 p.m. - 2:00 p.m. Faculty House, 64 Morningside Dr., New York, NY 10027 Presidential Ballroom View All Events Admissions Why Columbia Visit 435 West 116th Street New York, NY 10027 212-854-2640 Contact Us Social Media (Administrative Title) Twitter LinkedIn Facebook Instagram Admissions Academics Areas of Study Faculty & Scholarship Careers Community Life Information for… Incoming J.D. Current Students Faculty Staff Media Employers Login News Events Alumni Giving About Library Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Donate © Copyright 2022 The Trustees of Columbia University in the City of New York.