COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Biomedical Engineering, Major MajorBiomedical Engineering All Programs College of Engineering Biomedical Engineering Wichita State's ABET-accredited dual / accelerated BS-to-MS biomedical engineering program lets you complete an advanced degree, faster, by allowing you to take graduate-level courses while completing your bachelor's degree—putting you closer to a high-paying career designing the medical technology that improves our quality of life. Learn how biomedical engineering is the right fit for you. Request Info Start Your Application Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the program Undergraduate students apply for the accelerated bachelor's to master's program through the WSU Graduate School application and admission process. For admission consideration, students must: Complete at least 90 credit hours in the BME program; Have a cumulative undergraduate GPA of at least 3.0; and Submit a letter of recommendation from a member of the BME faculty who will serve as the student's advisor in the accelerated program. Admission requirements Inside the Program Students and faculty create smart skin biomed sensor Student and faculty researchers at Wichita State are creating a smart skin biomedical sensor that could someday be used by NASA. If the sensor does what they expect, it would be able to measure multiple physiological parameters that NASA is interested in, including blood flow, intercranial pressure, blood health, blood gas levels and muscle degeneration. Curriculum Biomedical engineering students gain a strong foundation in general education, math, science, general and biomedical engineering coursework. The program offers three concentrations: bio devices and instrumentation, bio energy and lifespan engineering. View the curriculum Careers Fueled in large part by our aging society, the demand for biomedical engineers is increasing. Many graduates with a bachelor of science degree go on to graduate studies, medical or professional schools. They work for pharmaceutical companies, biomedical device manufacturers, hospitals and rehabilitation centers, and biomedical and bioengineering research institutes. Learn more about careers in this field Similar Programs Biological Sciences with Biological / Biomedical Emphasis Engineering Technology - Mechatronics Technology Pre-Medicine 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©