Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Sexual Harassment Policies Get Help Get Help Medical care Confidential help Academic and campus help Help for faculty and staff How faculty and staff can help students Report Report Report to police Report to SMU Report anonymously Report retaliation Protective orders Learn More Learn More SMU Title IX Sexual Harassment Policy Sexual assault and consent Definitions and examples Campus security Message from President Turner SMU Task Force Get involved Get involved Education and prevention Awareness tips Request a presentation Resources ☰ Sexual Harassment Learn More Sexual assault and consent Sexual assault is a violation of SMU policy and a crime SMU strictly prohibits sexual harassment, including sexual assault, and is committed to maintaining a campus where sexual assault does not occur. However, studies have shown that sexual assault is an underreported crime nationwide and that sexual assaults reported on college campuses often involve students who know one another. SMU seeks to provide a supportive environment for students to come forward to report any violations and to obtain help. All campus community members should be aware that sexual assault can happen to anyone and that sexual assault is not the victim’s fault. SMU defines sexual assault as an offense classified as a forcible or non-forcible sex offense under the uniform crime reporting system of the Federal Bureau of Investigation. See "Definitions and Examples” for more information. In addition to violating SMU policy and federal law, sexual assault is a crime punishable under Texas law by imprisonment from two to 20 years plus a fine up to $10,000. A person convicted of sexual assault must register as a sex offender for the remainder of his or her life. For the definition of sexual assault under Texas’ Penal Code, see www.statutes.legis.state.tx.us/Docs/PE/htm/PE.22.htm#22.011. Students reporting a sexual assault can choose to pursue criminal charges, an internal grievance process under SMU’s Title IX Sexual Harassment Policy or both of these processes. See "Options for Reporting" for more information. What it means to give consent Consent means voluntary, clear, continuous, mutually understandable permission, given by words or actions, regarding one’s willingness to engage in sexual activity. A sexual interaction is considered consensual when individuals willingly and knowingly engage in the interaction. Someone who is incapacitated (by alcohol, drug use, unconsciousness, disability, or other forms of helplessness) cannot consent. Consent cannot be procured by the use of physical force, compulsion, threats, intimidating behavior or coercion. Consent to one form of sexual activity does not imply consent to other forms of sexual activity. Previous relationships or previous consent for sexual activity is not consent to sexual activity on a different occasion. Consent to engage in sexual activity with one person does not imply consent to engage in sexual activity with another person. Silence or absence of resistance is not consent. Consent can be withdrawn at any time. Previous consent does not mean ongoing consent. For example, consent to certain acts does not mean consent to the same acts later in the same evening. Learn More SMU Title IX Sexual Harassment Policy Sexual assault and consent Definitions and examples Campus security Message from President Turner SMU Task Force Resources In case of emergency or for criminal reporting, please call SMU Police, 214-768-3333, or pick up a blue-light phone on campus. Confidential Resources SMU Counseling Services 214-768-2277 SMU Chaplain’s Office 214-768-4502 Additional SMU resources SMU Title IX Coordinator (for internal grievance information and reporting) 214-768-3601 Office of Student Advocacy & Support 214-768-4512 Anonymous reporting 214-768-2TIP (2847) Community resources Dallas Area Rape Crisis Center (DARCC) 972-641-7273 Texas Health Presbyterian Hospital Sexual Assault Nurse Examiner (SANE) Program 214-345-6203 Learn more about resources. Apply Visit School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share