COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Acting for Digital Arts, Major MajorActing for Digital Arts All Programs College of Fine Arts School of Digital Arts Wichita State’s Bachelor of Applied Arts (BAA) in Media Arts combines your creativity with the skills needed for your dream career in the video game, film or recording industry. You’ll have access to professional training in state-of-the-art labs equipped with the latest technology—and opportunities for applied learning in Kansas’ largest city. Learn how Acting for Digital Arts is the right fit for you. Request Info Start Your Application Acting for Digital Arts students gain highly focused training for on-screen work, in addition to traditional techniques used in stage acting. Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the program To be admitted into the College of Fine Arts, you must first be admitted to Wichita State. For WSU’s admission requirements, and to apply, click the link below. Admission requirements Inside the Program Professional media arts facility is a game changer WSU is home to a brand new, state-of-the-art professional production space – Shocker Studios. Located in the Harry Street Mall, Shocker Studios is home to the Bachelor of Applied Arts in Media Arts, one of only a handful of degrees in the United States that focuses on acting for the digital arts, animation, audio production, collaborative design, game design and filmmaking. The 35,000-square-foot Shocker Studios includes recording studios, a virtual reality studio, film studios, a motion capture studio, computer labs, design studios and general classrooms. Curriculum To complete the BAA in Media Arts degree, you’ll take 120 credit hours comprised of general education requirements, electives and core courses in one of the following areas: Acting for Digital Arts Animation Audio production Collaborative Design Filmmaking Game Design View the curriculum Careers Thanks to WSU’s extensive network of employer connections, students in every major have opportunities to gain real-world experience—helping them build a resume, make professional connections and land their dream jobs. Learn more about careers in this field Similar Programs Art Community & Social Practices (Studio Art) Photo Media (Studio Art) Design and Technical Theatre Theatre 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©