Skip to main content Submit Close Give to UH Search About Academics Admissions Campus Life Research Athletics Locations Sugar Land Katy UH Technology Bridge News & Events Giving UH Home Academics Academic Forms Academics Majors & Minors Graduate & Professional Programs UH Faculty Colleges & Departments Libraries & Learning Resources Courses & Enrollment Online and Special Programs Academic Forms Academic Forms State law requires that you be informed of the following: (1) with few exceptions, you are entitled on request to be informed about the information the university collects about you by use of this form; (2) under sections 552.021 and 552.023 of the Government Code, you are entitled to receive and review the information; and (3) under section 559.004 of the Government Code, you are entitled to have the university correct information about you that is incorrect. To view the files downloaded from this site, the Adobe Acrobat Reader must be installed on your system. If you would like to download the Adobe Acrobat Reader, please click on the Get Acrobat Reader image for information. Interim Grading Form Authorization to Release Educational Records Change of Address Email Alias Change of Major Change of Name and/or Social Security Number Diplomas Undergraduate General Petition Graduate/ProfessionalStudent Petition Inter-Institutional Course Registration Form Request to Withhold or Release Public Information Residency Questionnaire School of Nursing Records Authorization Term Withdrawal Requests Undergraduate Transfer Credit Petition Verification of Enrollment and Degree Veterans' Forms Authorization to Release Educational Records The Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (a.k.a. FERPA or the Buckley Amendment) protects a student’s right to privacy concerning their academic records and information. The University of Houston will not disclose any information without the written consent from the student, with some exceptions as stated by FERPA. Further information regarding FERPA for parents and family members can be found on our Cougar Parents webpage. Beginning November 2013, students who wish to grant a third party access to their educational records, may complete the following steps: Download and complete the Authorization to Release Educational Records (i.e. Info Release/FERPA Form). Scan the completed document and save in PDF format. Upload/Attach scanned PDF document into myUH account. To complete this action, students should navigate to the Optional-Info Release Form To-Do List item in their myUH Student Center and click on the “details” link. Instructions for uploading/attaching the FERPA form can be found here. Students may contact the Office of the University Registrar at (713) 743-1010, option 7, for further assistance. Download the Authorization to Release Educational Records Change of Address Current and former students may submit a change of address by either: updating your contact information listed in your Student Center within your myUH account, or calling the Office of the University Registrar and speaking with a service representative. (Identity will be verified before changes processed.) Please Note: Students and alumni enrolled before 2000 may not be able to access their records in myUH and should call the Office of the University Registrar. Newly admitted students whom have not yet enrolled should contact the Office of Admissions to have address information updated. Students who fail to report updated contact information will not be excused from penalties on the grounds that communications sent by the University of Houston were not received. Email Alias The University of Houston uses email as the official medium for communication to students. You are assigned an email alias at the time of admission. It is your responsibility as a student to ensure the UH email alias points to a working email address at all times. You may update your email address information by logging on to myUH. Students and alumni enrolled before 2000 may not be able to access their records in myUH and should call the Office of the University Registrar. Change of Major A change of major is a formal procedure requiring official approval and documentation. You need to submit an Undergraduate General Petition form requesting a change of major and file this form in the department in which you wish to major. Approval the department is required. Consult an advisor in the department of your intended major for more information. The university offers vocational and academic counseling and planning assistance to students having difficulty choosing a major. University Testing Services and University Career Services provide resources and support to students seeking career goals. For assistance with academic plans, students may meet with college advisers in the various departments and colleges. Download the Undergraduate General Petition form Change of Name and/or Social Security Number University records of a name are based upon applications for admission. Subsequent name changes, along with copies of documentation, should be promptly reported to the Office of the University Registrar, 128 Welcome Center. Download the Change of Name and/or Social Security Form. Diploma It takes approximately 6 to 8 weeks from the close of the term for colleges to review graduation applications and submit their decisions to the registrar’s office for processing. Diplomas are ordered once a student has been approved and a degree officially conferred and posted. Diplomas are mailed directly to students at the most current address provided through their myUH student account. The diploma printing company also will send email notifications to diploma recipients indicating when diplomas have been mailed. It’s important to keep contact information updated in myUH to avoid shipment delays. Get help with additional questions about your diploma order Please note: Effective Sept. 1, 2009, there is a $25 fee for each additional diploma ordered (postmarked by or after this date). This fee does not apply to the initial diploma mailed upon graduation, but will apply to additional quantities as requested via the diploma order form.* *The fee is applicable to diplomas requested as a result of a diploma name change. Diploma names must be provided at the time of completing the online graduation application. Failure to do so may result in a $25 diploma order fee for subsequent name changes. Download the Diploma Order Form Note: The names and signatures of the Board of Regents Chair, Dean, and/or President may differ based on your graduation date. Duplicate Diplomas will be reproduced with the name and signatures of the current Board of Regents Chair, Dean, and President. The Office of the University Registrar cannot print diplomas with former/past Board of Regents Chairs, Deans, and Presidents. Undergraduate General Petition This form has multiple uses, including: Change of admission status Change of classification Course overload Change in degree objective (B.A. to B.S.) Degree requirement exception Change of major Writing proficiency requirement exemption Special problem course request Other (Request or petitions not covered by any other form) Download the General Petition Form Graduate/Professional Student Petition Form This form has multiple uses, including: Change or add degree/certificate objective Degree requirement exception of course substitution Leave of Absense request Request graduate/professional transfer credit Reinstatement to a program Download the Graduate General Petition Form Inter-Institutional Course Registration Form Download the Inter-Institutional Course Registration Form Request to Withhold or Release Public Information Download the Request to Withhold or Release Public Information Form Residency Questionnaire Download the Residency Questionnaire Form Term Withdrawal Requests Please note: Term withdrawal means the student is dropping all courses in all sessions of the term and withdrawing from the university for the current term only. The general processing time for all Term Withdrawal Requests is 3-5 business days, however, the official term withdrawal date for the student will be the date that the request has been received by the Office of the University Registrar. Students who choose to fax the Term Withdrawal Request Form to the Office of the University Registrar are strongly encouraged to retain a copy of the fax confirmation page as a means of validating the submission date. Any refund due to the student will be based on the date that the Term Withdrawal Request Form was submitted to the Office of the University Registrar. Beginning Summer 2016 - New/Additional Request Submission Options Undergraduate Students Undergraduate Students may request a term withdrawal through the last day to drop or withdraw with a 'W', as posted in the Undergraduate Catalog Academic Calendar. Exceptions: Military withdrawal situations use a different process and deadline. Please consult with UH Veteran Services for more information. Medical and personal emergency situations use a different process and deadline. Please consult with Undergraduate Academic Affairs for more information. Domestic Students - two ways to submit a request MyUH To initiate the term withdrawal process, the student must log on to their MyUH account and select the Academic Records tile for the Request Term Withdrawal link. Fax or In-Person Required document(s) the pdf version of the Term Withdrawal Form Fax number: (713) 743-8342 Drop-off location: Office of the University Registrar in the UH Welcome Center International Students - one way to submit a request All International Students must meet with a representative of the Office of International Student and Scholar Services (OISSS). MyUH Due to strict visa requirements, all international students ARE NOT able to initiate the withdrawal process via MyUH. Fax or In-Person Required document(s) the pdf version of the Term Withdrawal Form Reduce Course Load form (required for Fall or Spring term) Early Withdraw form (for OISSS) Fax number: (713) 743-8342 Drop-off location is the Office of the University Registrar in the UH Welcome Center Graduate/Professional Studies Students Graduate/Professional Studies Students may request a term withdrawal through the last day to drop or withdraw with a 'W', as posted in the Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar. Exceptions: Military withdrawal situations use a different process and deadline. Please consult with UH Veteran Services for more information. Medical and personal emergency situations use a different process and deadline. Please consult with the Graduate School for more information. Domestic Students Prior to ORD - two ways to submit a request My UH May submit a request through MyUH prior to the official reporting day (ORD) for the term To initiate the term withdrawal process, the student must log on to their MyUH account and select the Academic Records tile for the Request Term Withdrawal link. Fax or In-Person Required document(s) the pdf version of the Term Withdrawal Form Fax number: (713) 743-8342 Drop-off location is the Office of the University Registrar in the UH Welcome Center After ORD- one way to submit a request Fax or In-Person Required document(s) the pdf version of the Term Withdrawal Form a Student-Initiated Drop Form for every class that includes all required signatures. Fax number: (713) 743-8342 Drop-off location: Office of the University Registrar in the UH Welcome Center International Students - one way to submit a request All International Students must meet with a representative of the Office of International Student and Scholar Services (OISSS). MyUH Due to strict Visa requirements, all international students ARE NOT able to initiate the withdrawal process via MyUH. Fax or In-Person Required document(s) the pdf version of the Term Withdrawal Form Reduce Course Load form (required for Fall or Spring term) Early Withdraw form (for OISSS) Fax number: (713) 743-8342 Drop-off location: Office of the University Registrar in the UH Welcome Center Undergraduate Transfer Credit Petition This petition is used to request the acceptance of a transfer course as an equivalent of a UH course or the designation of core Download the Undergraduate Transfer Credit Petition Verification of Enrollment and Degree The University of Houston has authorized the National Student Clearinghouse to provide degree and enrollment verification. You may request enrollment verification by logging on to myUH and following the "Click here for free enrollment verification" link. National Student Clearinghouse may be contacted at: Web: www.studentclearinghouse.org or www.degreeverify.com Fax: 703-742-4239 Email: service@studentclearinghouse.org Mail: National Student Clearinghouse 13454 Sunrise Valley Drive, Suite 300 Herndon, VA 20171 Veterans' Forms Veteran Education Benefits Eligibility for veteran educational benefits is determined by the US Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). The Veteran Certification Team in the Office of the University Registrar can help you complete forms and certify your enrollment to the VA so that you can receive your educational benefits. A student must be admitted to the university and registered for courses in a degree-seeking program in order to be certified for veterans educational benefits. Each semester after registration, students eligible for benefits must complete a Request for Enrollment Certification and submit it to the Office of the University Registrar located in the Welcome Center. A student will be certified during a semester only after he or she completes a Request for Enrollment Certification. If you are considering changing to the Post-9/11 GI Bill for fall 2009, you must first complete VA form 22-1990 to apply for this benefit. The application for the new chapter will be available May 1, 2009. Once you have completed this application, please print a copy for our files before you complete a Request for Enrollment Certification for fall 2009. Students enrolled in a graduate program must also provide a letter from the graduate adviser confirming how their courses satisfy degree requirements. Generally, it takes the Veteran Certification section up to two weeks to submit a certification to the Department of Veterans Affairs. Eligible veterans and service members on active duty or in the reserves who have never received VA education benefits must complete an Application for VA Education Benefits, VA form 22-1990, and be prepared to provide a copy of his or her DD214/member 4 or Notice of Basic Eligibility form. Transfer students who have received VA education benefits at other institutions must complete a VA form 22-1995, Request for Change of Program or Place of Training. Eligible dependents of veterans who have never received education benefits must complete an Application for Survivors' and Dependents' Educational Assistance, VA form 22-5490. Transfer students who have received dependent education benefits at other institutions must complete VA form 22-5495, Request for Change of Program or Place of Training Survivors' and Dependents' Educational Assistance. You may obtain these forms online below or from the Office of the University Registrar in the Welcome Center. Hazlewood exemption Students who qualify under the Hazlewood Act are exempted from paying tuition and required fees provided the student is enrolled in a state-funded program. Exemption forms and guidelines are available on the College for Texans website. A DD214 is required to initiate the benefit and a request for exemption under Hazlewood must be submitted to Student Financial Services yearly. Requests must be submitted before the 12th class day in a fall or spring semester, or by the fourth class day during the summer semester. Those dates are available in the academic calendar. Download the Request for Enrollment Certification to Veterans' Administration for Educational Benefits Download the Advisor Verification of Veteran Enrollment for Certification Important Links Transcripts Academic Calendar Payment Information Undergraduate Academic Advisors Graduate Academic Advising Get Help University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies