Skip to main content Navigation Academics Admissions Research Locations Student Life Alumni & Giving Athletics Apply Now Materials Science and Engineering (MSMS) Request Info Program at a Glance Program Master College(s) College of Engineering and Computer Science Department(s) Materials Sci & Engineering In State Tuition Out of State Tuition $369.65 per credit hour $1,194.05 per credit hour Learn more about program tuition and fees. The Master of Science in Materials Science and Engineering program is primarily for students with bachelor's degrees in Materials Science and Engineering or a closely related discipline. Fields of emphasis and research for materials science and engineering include crystal growth, high temperature materials and coatings, multicomponent interdiffusion, material stability and degradation, shape memory alloys, mechanical behavior, magnetic and optical and electronic materials, thin films, solar cells, sensors, ceramics, powder metallurgy, non-equilibrium processing of materials, nano synthesis and consolidation, nanomaterials including quantum dots nanowires and nanocomposites, biomaterials, and electrochemically active materials. The Materials Science and Engineering MSMSE program offers both thesis and nonthesis options with each requiring a minimum of 30 credit hours beyond the bachelor's degree. In general, the program includes 12-15 credit hours of required courses with the remaining courses being electives except for at least six credit hours of thesis work for students in the thesis option. Total Credit Hours Required: 30 Credit Hours Minimum beyond the Bachelor's Degree This program has potential ties to professional licensure or certification in the field. For more information on how this program may prepare you in that regard, please visit https://apq.ucf.edu/files/Licensure-Disclosure-CECS-Materials-Science-Engineering-MS.pdf. Please note: Materials Science and Engineering (MSMSE) may be completed fully online, although not all elective options or program prerequisites may be offered online. Newly admitted students choosing to complete this program exclusively via UCF online classes may enroll with a reduction in campus-based fees. International students (F or J visa) are required to enroll in a full-time course load of 9 credit hours during the fall and spring semesters. Only 3 of the 9 credit hours may be taken in a completely online format. For a detailed listing of enrollment requirements for international students, please visit http://global.ucf.edu/. If you have questions, please consult UCF Global at (407) 823-2337. UCF is not authorized to provide online courses or instruction to students in some states. Refer to State Restrictions for current information. Request Information View Full Description Program Tracks/Options Materials Science and Engineering (MSMSE) - Accelerated BS to MSMSE Application Deadlines Domestic International Spring December 1 Fall July 1 Spring July 1 Fall January 15 Ready to get started? Apply Today Career Opportunities UCF prepares you for life beyond the classroom. Here, you’ll experience a wide range of opportunity, like learning diverse skills from world-renowned faculty to networking with top employers across Central Florida to gaining first-hand experience in internships nearby. Achieve your degree and more as a Knight. Automotive Sheet Metal Engineer Ceramic Engineer Chemical Engineering Professor Civil Engineering Professor Construction Estimator Crating and Moving Estimator Electrical Engineering Director Electrical Engineering Professor Electrical Estimator Engineering Design Manager Engineering Manager Global Engineering Manager Industrial Engineering Professor Manufacturing Engineering Professor Marine Engineering Professor Mechanical Engineering Director Metallographer Metallurgist Petroleum Engineering Professor Welding Engineer Show More Career Opportunities Degree Search College of Engineering and Computer Science programs Masters Materials Science and Engineering (MSMS) University of Central Florida Colleges Burnett Honors Arts and Humanities Business Community Innovation and Education Graduate Studies Health Professions and Sciences Medicine Nursing Optics and Photonics Sciences Undergraduate Studies Hospitality Management Request Information × Enter your information below to receive more information about the Materials Science and Engineering (MSMS) program offered at UCF. Loading... × The Master of Science in Materials Science and Engineering program is primarily for students with bachelor's degrees in Materials Science and Engineering or a closely related discipline. Fields of emphasis and research for materials science and engineering include crystal growth, high temperature materials and coatings, multicomponent interdiffusion, material stability and degradation, shape memory alloys, mechanical behavior, magnetic and optical and electronic materials, thin films, solar cells, sensors, ceramics, powder metallurgy, non-equilibrium processing of materials, nano synthesis and consolidation, nanomaterials including quantum dots nanowires and nanocomposites, biomaterials, and electrochemically active materials. The Materials Science and Engineering MSMSE program offers both thesis and nonthesis options with each requiring a minimum of 30 credit hours beyond the bachelor's degree. In general, the program includes 12-15 credit hours of required courses with the remaining courses being electives except for at least six credit hours of thesis work for students in the thesis option. Total Credit Hours Required: 30 Credit Hours Minimum beyond the Bachelor's Degree This program has potential ties to professional licensure or certification in the field. For more information on how this program may prepare you in that regard, please visit https://apq.ucf.edu/files/Licensure-Disclosure-CECS-Materials-Science-Engineering-MS.pdf. Please note: Materials Science and Engineering (MSMSE) may be completed fully online, although not all elective options or program prerequisites may be offered online. Newly admitted students choosing to complete this program exclusively via UCF online classes may enroll with a reduction in campus-based fees. International students (F or J visa) are required to enroll in a full-time course load of 9 credit hours during the fall and spring semesters. Only 3 of the 9 credit hours may be taken in a completely online format. For a detailed listing of enrollment requirements for international students, please visit http://global.ucf.edu/. If you have questions, please consult UCF Global at (407) 823-2337. UCF is not authorized to provide online courses or instruction to students in some states. Refer to State Restrictions for current information. Program Prerequisites A bachelor's degree in Materials Science and Engineering or a closely related discipline. Prerequisites (or equivalent) Mathematics through Differential Equations (MAP 2302 ) Structure and Properties of Materials (EGN 3365 ) Mechanics of Materials (EGN 3331) or Thermodynamics (EGN 3343 ) Experimental Techniques in Mechanics and Materials (EMA 3012C) Application Requirements For information on general UCF graduate admissions requirements that apply to all prospective students, please visit the Admissions section of the Graduate Catalog. Applicants must apply online. All requested materials must be submitted by the established deadline. In addition to the general UCF graduate application requirement, applicants to this program must provide: One official transcript (in a sealed envelope) from each college/university attended. A bachelor's degree in Materials Science and Engineering or a closely related discipline. The GRE is not required for admission to this program. Résumé. Statement of educational, research, and professional career objectives. Applicants applying to this program who have attended a college/university outside the United States must provide a course-by-course credential evaluation with GPA calculation. Credential evaluations are accepted from World Education Services (WES) or Josef Silny and Associates, Inc. only. Faculty members may choose to conduct face-to-face or telephone interviews before accepting an applicant into their research program. Additional courses may be required to correct deficiencies. Students should contact the MSE graduate program director for more information. Application Deadlines Materials Science and Engineering MSMSE *Fall Priority Fall Spring Summer Domestic Applicants Jan 15 Jul 1 Dec 1 International Applicants Jan 15 Jan 15 Jul 1 *Applicants who plan to enroll full time in a degree program and who wish to be considered for university fellowships or assistantships should apply by the Fall Priority date. Financial Information Graduate students may receive financial assistance through fellowships, assistantships, tuition support, or loans. For more information, see the College of Graduate Studies Funding website, which describes the types of financial assistance available at UCF and provides general guidance in planning your graduate finances. The Financial Information section of the Graduate Catalog is another key resource. Fellowship Information Fellowships are awarded based on academic merit to highly qualified students. They are paid to students through the Office of Student Financial Assistance, based on instructions provided by the College of Graduate Studies. Fellowships are given to support a student's graduate study and do not have a work obligation. For more information, see UCF Graduate Fellowships, which includes descriptions of university fellowships and what you should do to be considered for a fellowship. University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida