Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Statistics MS You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Statistics MS Apply Events Request More Info Statistics MS Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Master of Science in Statistics Master the theory and methods of statistics through a Master of Science in Statistics in the Fox School of Business at Temple University. Learn to apply statistical tools to immediate, complex challenges across contemporary scientific and societal ventures. Students pursue a program appropriately balanced between theory and methods. Along with a solid foundation in the theory of statistics, you will gain substantial knowledge in statistical methodology and statistical computing. In addition, 18 credits taken toward the completion of the degree will be chosen from graduate business elective courses in consultation with the director of graduate studies. At the end of the program, students will pass a comprehensive written exam and be prepared for careers as professional statisticians in industry, research organizations or government. Request Information Learn more about the Statistics MS program. Apply Now Ready to apply? Submit your graduate application. Learn More Explore all of the specialized master's programs at Fox. Request Information Apply Learn More Areas of Study Possible areas of specialization within the Master of Science in Statistics program include biostatistics, data science, and most areas of statistical theory and method. Faculty members are currently engaged in research in the areas of Bayesian inference and data analysis, causal inference, data privacy, design of experiments, high-dimensional inference and data analysis, linear and generalized linear models, multiple testing, network data analysis, pharmaceutical statistics, statistical computing, statistical learning and data mining, statistical methodology and theory, sufficient dimension reduction, and time series analysis. Through classroom study and work with faculty, students will discover their own path toward a general understanding of statistical theory and methods. Classes & Curriculum Core courses you will take as part of the Master of Science in Statistics program include Probability and Statistics Theory I, Probability and Statistics Theory II, Statistical Methods I and Statistical Methods II. Services Sequence The department also offers a series of courses designed specifically for students who are not enrolled in the statistics program but are interested in gaining comprehensive training in the use of statistical techniques. These courses emphasize applying these techniques to real-life problems in diverse disciplines. Learn more about required courses within the Statistics MS program. Related Graduate Degrees Actuarial Science MS Financial Analysis MS Statistics and Data Science MS Statistics PhD Related Graduate Certificates Business Analytics Innovation Strategy Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Master of Science offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $1,142.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,276.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Program Contact Chen Yong Tang, associate professor and director of the graduate program, is the advisor for the Statistics MS. Phone: 215-204-3191 Email: yongtang@temple.edu Student Clubs & Organizations Joining student clubs and organizations is a great way to meet like-minded students; connect with local, national and international businesses; and enhance the skills you use in your professional career. Fox offers more than 30 student professional organizations. Supplement your academic experience by participating in a club related to your major or interests. The following clubs and organizations are available to students in Fox. The Fox Graduate Student Association connects students and alumni with the greater Fox community, providing professional development, networking and volunteer opportunities for graduate students. The mission of Net Impact is to grow and strengthen a network of leaders who use the power of business to make a positive economic, environmental and social impact. It brings together students seeking to network and to use the power of business to create a better world. The International Business Association brings together students from all over the world to learn about foreign business and the global economy, and offers an array of professional development opportunities. Fox Professional Speakers invites students to practice their communication, presentation and leadership skills in a supportive and positive environment. Those with dreams of starting their own business may be interested in the Entrepreneurial Students Association, which aims to support, inspire and encourage students to pursue their entrepreneurial goals. The association is open to students of all majors. See a full list of student clubs and organizations. Global Immersions Fox graduate students can participate in Global Immersions. They are destination-focused learning experiences that allow graduate students to engage with a different country's culture, language and business practices. Global Immersions expose students to comparative business environments, global business in emerging markets, global companies working to solve crucial problems, intensive and diverse learning experiences, and international innovation and entrepreneurship. Previous destinations include China, India, Latin America and South Africa. Recent participating companies include Black and Decker, BMW, Deloitte, Microsoft and SanDisk. Learn more about Global Immersion Programs. Temple also offers interested students a variety of options for pursuing internship, teaching and volunteer opportunities abroad through the Center for International Business and Research. Learn more about your options for studying or working abroad. Accreditation The Fox School of Business is accredited by the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB). The school has maintained AACSB accreditation since 1934. BU-STAT-MS Additional Program Information School/College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Statistics MS Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Events Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Events Request More Info