Skip to main content Skip to site menu Skip to Brown menu Skip to site search Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Enter search keyword About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Bursar Office First Year Students / New to Brown Bursar Office First Year Students / New to Brown Financial Checklist for Brown U First Years & New Students Welcome you to our Brown community! Please complete the checklist actions below to become familiar with Brown's systems and policies related to your student account. Our EBill & Payment User Guide provides detailed instructions for using our billing system. ____ Become familiar with our electronic Student Account Billing (EBill). Fall billing occurs in late June and payment is due on August 1st. Spring billing occurs in late November and payment is due on January 1st. Electronic billing (EBill) is Brown University’s official method of billing - no paper statements are produced or mailed. EBills are only created at the beginning of each semester and will not reflect activity that occurs after the statement was generated. Visit payment.brown.edu and select "Billing Statement" to view or print the billing statement. Select “Account Activity” to view real-time information regarding your student account charges and credits. (Note: Brown University does not currently require a deposit for incoming first year undergraduate students) ____Set up your preferences in payment.brown.edu to manage account access and refund methods. Give parents/family members access to view and pay your bill by setting them up as Authorized Users Setup your ERefund Profile to receive any eligible credit balance refunds electronically. This is the fastest and most secure way to receive your future refunds, if eligible Consent to receive your education tax credit 1098T form electronically ____ Complete these items in Banner Self Service to provide your information or satisfy aid requirements. Verify or provide your Social Security Number of Tax Identification Number for 1098-T tax credit purposes If you are applying for financial aid, complete any unsatisfied requirements for financial aid or loans and complete the Title IV Authorization form. This form allows Brown to apply your federal student aid toward your student account charges (found under the Financial Aid section of Banner Self Service). ____ Become familiar with our Installment Payment Plan (IPP) and make note of the enrollment window. IPP enrollment closes on August 2nd for the fall and on January 2nd for the spring. ___ Make decisions regarding Student Health Insurance (SHIP). SHIP is billed to your student account. If you have adequate alternate coverage, you may be able to waive SHIP by the waiver deadline. If you are an aided student and you do not currently have health insurance, please complete the online waiver process to be considered for a scholarship to help cover the cost. Contact [email protected] for additional information. ____Be aware of financial hold policies that impact registration and enrollment ___ Make payment for Fall charges by the August 1st deadline and Spring charges by the January 1st deadline. See the electronic student account billing information above for details. Payment may be made online through payment.brown.edu, through Flywire for international students, or by mail to our Cashier Office at Brown University Cashier Office, Box 1911, Providence, RI 02912. ___ Verify that any anticipated support pays to your student account. This can include support from scholarship agencies, college savings plans, and other outside sources. Any unpaid memo credits for anticipated support are removed from students accounts on October 15th for Fall and on February 15th for Spring. Students are responsible for paying any remaining balances. For questions regarding changes to housing or dining, students should reference their room agreement or meal agreement. Helpful Resources and Contact Information: ● Activate your Brown email account to receive important university communications Student Financial Services Frequently Asked Questions FAQ ● Brown U Undergrad Orientation ● Division of Campus Life Parents & Families ● Financial Aid Admitted Students ● Dining & Meal Plan ● Residential Life Housing Please contact your student account representative with any questions regarding your student account. We wish you the best and we look forward to connecting with you soon. Sincerely, Student Financial Services Home About First Year Students / New to Brown Student Account & Electronic Billing Tuition and Fees Financing & Payment Options Installment Payment Plan Policies 1098T & Education Tax Information Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ) Print this Page Share this Page Brown University Box 1839 Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401-863-2484 Fax 401-863-7518 [email protected] Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory Related Cashier's Office Loan Office Financial Services Resources Bookstore Brown Dining Health Insurance Home Student Life