ABOUT THE CHAPEL SAM'S STORY GIVING GENERAL INFORMATION VISUALS CONSTRUCTION HISTORY “We thank Ken and Mary Cadden for celebrating Sam's life in a way that will touch the hearts and lift the spirits of generations of future Clemson students.” - President James P. Clements Ken and Mary Cadden Located near the heart of campus, Samuel J. Cadden Chapel is a quiet place for prayer and other expressions of faith, along with meditation, reflection and celebration for the entire Clemson University community. The Samuel J. Cadden Chapel and its accompanying memorial gardens create a warm, inviting space for people of any belief, or of no belief, to feel welcome and accepted. The unique character of Samuel J. Cadden Chapel is realized through strong vertical lines with majestic windows, allowing for transparency and light. Using elegantly detailed, high-quality materials, Samuel J. Cadden Chapel adds a radiant presence to Clemson’s beautiful campus. The chapel is a special place for students to express beliefs, search within themselves or to have a safe place to go when they seek reflection. The accompanying gardens provide a serene natural area for anyone who prefers to reflect in the midst of nature. The Cadden family was joined by members of the Board of Trustees, President James P. Clements, other university administrators and project donors on May 23, 2019, in a ceremonial groundbreaking and again on Dec. 10, 2021 for the facility dedication and ribbon-cutting. Project History June 2016 Ken and Mary Cadden announce the lead gift of $1.5 million to build a chapel in their son’s name on the Clemson University campus. May 2019 Ground was broken on the facility in the space between the Brooks Center for the Performing Arts and Strom Thurmond Institute. December 2021 Family, friends, University officials and members of the community came together in a celebration of Sam’s life and dedicated the chapel in his memory in a ribbon-cutting ceremony. CONTACT Division of Student Affairs 202 Sikes Hall Clemson, SC © 2020