Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Search Type Faculty & Staff Event Featured Profile News Opportunity Resource Student Research Project Videos Search Menu Info for… [Select an Audience] [Select An Audience] Admitted Graduate Students Current Graduate Students Employers Departments» Applied Physics and Applied Mathematics Biomedical Engineering Chemical Engineering Civil Engineering and Engineering Mechanics Computer Science Earth and Environmental Engineering Electrical Engineering Industrial Engineering and Operations Research Mechanical Engineering Admissions» Application Requirements Apply Admissions Events Campus Tours Frequently Asked Questions Graduate Funding Opportunities Tuition and Financial Aid Visit Us Brochures Graduate Student Life» Professional Development & Leadership Housing New Student Checklist Student Organizations Campus Resources Graduate Career Placement Graduation Class Day 2022 events for Graduate Students Fellowships & Opportunities The Graduate Student Affairs Team Graduate Students Resources Events & Activities Diversity and Community Engagement» Events Student Life Bridge to PhD Program Graduate Enrollment Services» Registration Requests Change of Status Change of Status Forms Learning Online Resources List» Columbia Engineering COVID-19 Emergency Fund for Doctoral Students Virtual Event Opportunities» Welcome New Students!» New Student Checklist Admitted Student Webinars Applying for a Visa Campus Resources Connect Engineering Welcome Day & Orientation Housing Information International Student Panel Frequently Asked Questions Program Kick-Off Schedule Apply Now News Bulletin Graduate Engineering Home > Graduate Enrollment Services Registration Requests Registration Requests Change of Status Learning Online If you are registering during the change of program period (add/drop), you must use Student Services Online (SSOL). Registration inquiries or concerns must be directed to the department. Registration requests after the change of program period must follow the rules provided on this page. The Registration Adjustment Form can be used after the Change of Program Period (last day of add/drop) for the following requests: Add/drop a course Change a course's grading option Change course points Cross-register Please read the instructions carefully and consult with your department before submitting a request. Non-SEAS students must inquire with the department about cross-registration procedures. Engineering courses are prioritized for SEAS students. Processing Times & Procedures The Office of Graduate Student Affairs will review your request for a final approval. Requests will take 7 to 10 days during peak registration periods. Before You Register Confirm with your department that courses can be counted towards your degree. Please make sure to check the dates for the last day of registration on the Registrar's Website. Additionally, please note that after the Change of Program Period (last day of add/drop), Courses dropped will be billed in full tuition to your student account There is no swapping of courses Pass/Fail courses do not count towards the degree. After the last day of the change of grade option period, there is no uncovering or changing of P/F or letter grades under any circumstances Requirements You must obtain the permission of your department administrator (your home department). Columbia Engineering cross-registration: If you are cross-registering, you must also obtain the permission of the "host department" (ex. if you are a MECE student and you are registering for a CS course, you must obtain approval from the CS department) University cross-registration: If you are registering for a Business school course, please refer to the MBA Course Cross-Registation Policies The Registration Adjustment Form does not work for Business School registration requests If you are registering for courses at another school, please make sure to read/inquire about their registration policies Registration Adjustment Form Submissions Email your form to your department administrator (department contacts are provided below) Your email subject line should state "Registration Request | "UNI" Make sure that your form is completely filled out (course number, call number, action code, etc.) Make sure you review registration deadlines Summer registration deadlines can be found at Summer registration dates and deadlines Forms that are incomplete will not be reviewed or processed. Make sure to read the form directions carefully. Department Administrator Contacts: Department Reviewer APAM (Applied Physics & Applied Mathematics) Jessica Pierson APAM (Medical Physics only) Svitlana Samoilina BME (Biomedical Engineering) Helen Cen CEEM (Civil Engineering) Scott Kelly CHEN (Chemical Engineering) Kathy Marte COMS (Computer Science- Tracks: Machine Learning, NLP, Computer Security, Computational Biology) Randolph Rivo COMS (Computer Science- Tracks: Software Systems, Network Systems, Foundations, VGIR, CS/Journalism) Clarissa Pena COMS (Computer Science- Tracks: Thesis, Personalized) Cindy Meekins DSI (Data Science Institute) Jonathan Stark EAEE (Earth and Environmental Engineering) Elizabeth Allende ELEN (Electrical Engineering) Elsa Sanchez IEOR (Industrial Engineering and Operations Research) Carmen Ng IEOR (Industrial Engineering and Operations Research) Liz Morales IEOR (Industrial Engineering and Operations Research) Kristen Maynor MECE (Mechanical Engineering) Mel Francis Registration Adjustment Form To access the form, please click on the link below: Registration Adjustment Form (PDF) Student Services Online (SSOL) Please use SSOL to register for classes during the change of program (add/drop) period. SSOL LOGIN Office of Graduate Student Affairs 500 W. 120th Street New York, NY 10027 Admissions (212) 854-4688 | [email protected] Academics and Student Affairs (212) 854-6438 | [email protected] Apply Now Plan a Visit Directory Columbia Engineering Columbia University