Skip To Content Skip To Navigation Skip To Search Academics Admissions Research Global Faith & Service Offices & Initiatives Centers & Institutes Congregation of Holy Cross Campus Life About Visit About Visit Give Alumni Athletics University of Notre Dame Home Academics Admissions Research Global Faith & Service Campus Life About Visit About Visit Give Alumni Athletics Home Contact Search Menu Faith & Service Catholic, and a University Notre Dame’s Catholic character informs all it does. “There are no universities that have done what Notre Dame aspires to do: to become a preeminent research University, to offer an unsurpassed undergraduate program, and to infuse both with a religious and moral framework that imbues knowledge with the power to benefit human beings.” —Rev. John I. Jenkins, C.S.C., president The Catholic intellectual and moral traditions provide the underlying foundation for our aspirations as a community of scholars and administrators and shape the spirit with which we engage each other and the world. They are also the University’s point of greatest distinction from the academies of many other fine research institutions. Notre Dame believes commitments to faith and reason are not only compatible, but even complementary and mutually beneficial. As Pope John Paul II wrote: “Science can purify religion from error and superstition; religion can purify science from idolatry and false absolutes. Each can draw the other into a wider world in which both can flourish.” In this way, Notre Dame’s Catholic character informs all it does. We pursue discoveries both because of the scholarly and scientific achievement they represent, and because of the potential these breakthroughs have for a world deeply in need. Our charter as a university calls us to pursue the former; our calling as a community rooted in faith compels us to find the latter. We pursue both with equal rigor. Our nature as a Catholic university moreover gives us cause to embody two important characteristics: a spirit of inclusion and welcoming of people from all faith traditions, or no faith tradition; and an earnest desire to serve the local and global community. Our diversity as a campus community is an essential precursor to mutual learning and understanding, and service provides needed perspective and significance to all facets of life and helps cultivate a spirit of connection to each other. Both are important contributions to a holistic educational experience. The Catholic nature of Notre Dame is visibly evident in a variety of ways on campus. The 43 Holy Cross priests in residence provide a steadfast spiritual presence that extends to the residence halls, classrooms, and the quads. More than 100 Masses are celebrated each week on campus at more than 50 on-campus chapels. And more than 80 percent of Notre Dame students participate in some form of service learning, even while they study abroad. Our faith is not just a characteristic present at our founding and then slowly relegated to the past. It is an inextricable part of Notre Dame's identity today and will continue to be in the future. The University has a number of administrative and academic units committed to exploring questions of faith, and maintaining and stewarding Notre Dame's relationship with the Church. Offices & Initiatives angle right Report on Catholic Mission Faith & Service The Fighter 2022 Laetare Medalist Sharon Lavigne Read story Community Changing the Face of Swimming Notre Dame student-athlete leads effort to provide swim lessons to kids from all backgrounds Faith & Service “Live with Hope” Notre Dame, Boston College presidents offer vision for Church revitalization Latest Wednesday, May 25 Of faith and reason: Reflecting on Sister Kathleen Cannon’s 32 years at Notre Dame Friday, May 13 Standing in solidarity: Notre Dame expands partnership with Ukrainian Catholic University Thursday, May 05 de Nicola Center for Ethics and Culture presents Evangelium Vitae Medal to John Bruchalski Faith & Service News Thursday, January 13 Supreme Court must determine religious voices deserve a place in the public square, experts say Thursday, December 09 Vatican’s focus on moral and ethical impact of new technologies “a challenge to do better,” scientists say Offices & Initiatives Centers & Institutes Congregation of Holy Cross Quick Links Bookstore Employment Tour InsideND Academic Calendar University of Notre Dame Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn © 2022 University of Notre Dame Notre Dame, IN 46556 USA 41.703234 -86.238985 Phone: (574) 631-5000 Contact Search Mobile App News Events Visit Accessibility Emergency Closed Captioning Notice of Non-Discrimination Home Academics Admissions Research Global Faith & Service Campus Life About Visit