Skip to main site navigation Skip to main content Open the search panel Open the main menu Search Go Close the search panel Information for… Incoming J.D. Current Students Faculty Staff Media Employers News Events Alumni Giving About Library Login Open the Search panel Admissions Admissions Why Columbia J.D. Admissions Graduate Admissions Academics Academics J.D. Program and Curriculum LL.M. Program and Curriculum Executive LL.M. Program and Curriculum J.S.D. Program and Curriculum Dual and Joint Degrees International Programs Public Interest and Public Service Experiential Learning Courses Registration Services Academic Calendar Executive Education Areas of Study Areas of Study Constitutional Law, Regulation, and Public Policy Corporate, Business, and Transactional Law Criminal Justice Data Analytics Environment and Energy Family, Gender, and Sexuality Intellectual Property and Technology International and Comparative Law Law of the Workplace Leadership Legal History Litigation and Dispute Resolution National Security and Privacy Social Justice and Human Rights Faculty & Scholarship Faculty & Scholarship Faculty Directory Research Centers and Programs Scholarship Archive Workshops, Lectures, and Colloquia Careers Careers Private Sector Careers Public Interest and Public Service Careers Academic Careers Judicial Clerkships Employment Statistics Employment Policies Community Life Community Life Visit Campus Dean’s Welcome Your Campus, Your City Student Life Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Strategic Initiatives Litigation and Dispute Resolution The prospect of arguing a case in a courtroom is what attracts many students to law: It covers a wide range of legal areas and involves strategy, advocacy, rhetorical skills, and knowledge of procedure and law. Corporations and jurisdictions in the United States and abroad also turn to alternative methods for dispute resolution, including arbitration, mediation, and negotiation. To be effective problem solvers and to successfully represent their clients, lawyers need to know what methodology to follow. What is the best way to resolve a civil or criminal dispute, and how can lawyers effectively practice different methods? Columbia Law School students study litigation and dispute resolution with expert and influential faculty, including leaders in international commercial arbitration and mediation practitioners who teach United Nations diplomats. Students also benefit from the Law School’s location in New York City through extensive networking, clinics, and other experiential learning opportunities. Training in litigation and dispute resolution also can include pursuing specific substantive areas of law, accommodating students’ varied interests. Why Columbia? Explore the full range of dispute resolution strategies, including: Litigation: Beyond foundational education in civil procedure and torts, students take courses in litigation strategy, “thinking like a litigator,” and electronic evidence and discovery. Seminars cover specialized litigation areas including pharmaceuticals, patents, securities, and construction. In simulation courses, students tackle real-world challenges in trial practice and pretrial commercial litigation. Negotiation: The popular Negotiation Workshop is Columbia Law’s most extensive simulation course. In addition to learning communication and persuasion skills, students explore topics including the nature of conflict; barriers to agreement and ways to overcome them; and the role of culture, gender, and race in negotiation. Mediation: In the Mediation Clinic, students analyze ethical, systemic, and jurisprudential issues involved in alternative dispute resolution and then work as mediators to settle disputes through the courts. The clinic is the exclusive provider for mediation training for the United Nations diplomatic corps and has trained diplomats from more than 80 countries. Arbitration: Courses cover international commercial and investment arbitration. The Center for International Commercial and Investment Arbitration hosts speakers and networking events and publishes the American Review of International Arbitration, the only publication of its kind in the United States. The student-run Columbia International Association for Arbitration organizes the annual Columbia Arbitration Day conference, which attracts hundreds of practitioners. “I strive to create in the classroom the same environment we create in a mediation: a place where everyone knows they can be heard, where their voice matters, and they have the power to decide what their future looks like.” —Alexandra Carter, Clinical Professor of Law Related Links Explore Courses Related Faculty All Faculty George A. Bermann Gellhorn Professor of Law and Monnet Professor in European Union Law Vincent Blasi Corliss Lamont Professor of Civil Liberties Alexandra Carter Clinical Professor of Law Sarah Cleveland Louis Henkin Professor of Human and Constitutional Rights Kellen R. Funk Associate Professor of Law Philip M. Genty Everett B. Birch Innovative Teaching Clinical Professor in Professional Responsibility and Vice Dean for Experiential Education Maeve Glass Associate Professor of Law Suzanne Goldberg Herbert and Doris Wechsler Clinical Professor of Law Bert Huang Michael I. Sovern Professor of Law Olatunde C. Johnson Jerome B. Sherman Professor of Law Avery W. Katz Milton Handler Professor of Law and Reuben Mark Professor of Organizational Character James S. Liebman Simon H. Rifkind Professor of Law Debra A. Livingston Paul J. Kellner Professor of Law Thomas W. Merrill Charles Evans Hughes Professor of Law Andrzej Rapaczynski Daniel G. Ross Professor of Law; Joseph Solomon Professor of Wills, Trusts, and Estate Planning Colleen F. Shanahan Clinical Professor of Law Susan P. Sturm George M. Jaffin Professor of Law and Social Responsibility Carol B. Liebman Clinical Professor of Law Emerita Gerard E. Lynch Paul J. Kellner Professor Emeritus of Law All Faculty Listing Related Centers and Programs All Centers and Programs Center for International Commercial & Investment Arbitration The Center for International Commercial & Investment Arbitration furthers the teaching and study of international arbitration. Through research and collaborations with other like-minded institutions worldwide, the center develops effective methods of resolving international disputes and encouraging international commerce and exchange. The center also prepares students and young professionals interested in arbitration and dispute resolution for careers in the field. Areas of Study Corporate, Business, and Transactional Law International and Comparative Law Litigation and Dispute Resolution All Centers and Programs Related Experiential Learning All Experiential Learning Clinic Mediation Clinic Areas of Study Corporate, Business, and Transactional Law Litigation and Dispute Resolution Externship Criminal Defense Externships Areas of Study Criminal Justice All Experiential Learning at Columbia Law Public Interest/Public Service No matter what your area of interest, find ways to incorporate public interest and public service into your academic program and career. Academics Careers Related Student Groups and Journals Columbia International Arbitration Association Prison Healthcare Initiative Public Defender Students of Columbia Law School Suspension Representation Project Tenants’ Rights Project The American Review of International Arbitration Related News Read All Stories More in The Press Law School News News Professor Bert Huang Awarded the 2020 Willis L.M. Reese Prize for Excellence in Teaching Students praise his pedagogy, intellect, charisma, and kindness. Huang will receive the honor, awarded annually by the graduating class, at graduation on May 20. In The Press Your Time Is Valuable: Here Is How to Negotiate for More at Work Alexandra Carter | Reuters In The Press Ask for What You Deserve: How to Secure A Raise During the Great Resignation Alexandra Carter | CNET In The Press How to Get Better at Asking for More Money Alexandra Carter | Fast Company Admissions Why Columbia Visit 435 West 116th Street New York, NY 10027 212-854-2640 Contact Us Social Media (Administrative Title) Twitter LinkedIn Facebook Instagram Admissions Academics Areas of Study Faculty & Scholarship Careers Community Life Information for… Incoming J.D. Current Students Faculty Staff Media Employers Login News Events Alumni Giving About Library Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Donate © Copyright 2022 The Trustees of Columbia University in the City of New York.