COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Evelyn Hendren Cassat Speech-Language-Hearing Clinic Section Menu Speech-Language-Hearing Clinic Home About the Speech-Language-Hearing Clinic Speech and Language Services Hearing Services Client Enrollment Information Clinical Specialists Research Labs Ways to Give Outreach Partners Department of Communication Sciences and Disorders College of Health Professions Patient Serving Clinics College of Health Professions Home Contact Us Our clinic is open to the public and serves people of all ages!Schedule an appointment today The Speech-Language-Hearing Clinic at Wichita State provides speech, language services for literacy, fluency and stuttering, and speech-language disorders following a stroke, head trauma or laryngectomy. Our audiology services include hearing evaluations, assistive listening devices, blue tooth accessories, and hearing aid fittings, repairs and maintenance. We also offer programs and support groups for aphasia, autism, fluency, literacy, and more. Speech/Language Services Hearing Services Research Labs Changing lives through better communication Our goal is to improve the lives of those living with communication disorders and their loved ones. We provide services to people of all ages who have communication difficulties, including speaking, hearing, swallowing, and spoken and written language impairments. Services are performed by graduate students in the Communication Sciences and Disorders program under the direct supervision of faculty who are licensed to practice speech-language pathology or audiology. We take great pride in providing the highest standard of patient care and excellent student education. We are open to the general public and faculty, staff and students at Wichita State. We offer late afternoon and evening appointments (call for details). Contact us today to find out how we can help transform your future! Call (316) 978-3289 to schedule an appointment. » Learn more about the Speech-Language-Hearing Clinic at Wichita State Social Media / News Speech-Language-Hearing Clinic Facebook College of Health Professions Facebook Clinic Brochure Pay Online Find a Board Certified Specialist Research Labs Academic Programs Faculty and Staff Directory Show Your Support Our clinic is able to operate and serve the community thanks, in part, to donations. Your gift will help change lives by providing much-needed assistance to individuals with communication disorders and enhancing students' clinical education. Give to the Evelyn Hendren Cassat Speech-Language-Hearing Clinic. 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©