Skip to main content Top Bar PENN SUSTAINABILITY HOME News Contact View Upcoming Events » Main navigation Our Commitment Overview President's Message About Penn Sustainability Our Plan Our History Our Team Annual Progress Reports STARS Plan Videos Initiatives Overview Learning Sustainability Conserving Energy Designing Green Minimizing Waste Reducing Emissions Purchasing Practices Eating Local Wellness Partners Overview Academic Centers Schools and Centers Student Groups Morris Arboretum Resources Overview FAQs Guides & Manuals Tours and Maps Participate Overview Students Staff and Faculty Penn Community Purchasing Practices Sustainable Procurement at Penn Penn Purchasing will continue its efforts, in collaboration with School and Center partners, to reduce packaging and shipping waste and increase the number of environmentally friendly products brought to campus. Penn Purchasing collaborates with units across campus to improve value, sourcing, and performance through contracts, vendor approvals, and management of the Penn Marketplace. Working with partner Schools and Centers, Penn Purchasing advances campus sustainability through improved communications, dining contracting and food procurement, vehicle purchases, and office furniture. Stationery and Business Cards Penn branded business cards and stationery, printed on Mohawk Via 30% PC Bright White which is made with 30% post-consumer process chlorine-free waste fiber, can be ordered from Maximum Graphics via the Penn Marketplace, or for University purchasing card cardholders, from the Maximum Graphics purchasing card enabled online ordering web site. The selection of this paper was based in part upon the manufacturer's environmental performance. Mohawk's Environmental Management System incorporates measures which ensure biosphere protection and sustainable use of natural resources, materials, and energy. Managed Print Members of the Penn Community seeking to significantly reduce their office printing costs and environmental impact can take advantage of Penn’s Managed Print Services (MPS) Program. The MPS Program is a service that analyzes and manages document input/output devices to: improve efficiency and productivity; reduce electronic, paper, and plastic (ink/toner) waste; lower the total cost of office printing; reduce support burden to IT staff; and manage the printer fleet with greater visibility. Green Packaging University preferred contract suppliers partner with Purchasing Services to identify opportunities to reduce the amount of product packaging that will in turn end up in the University’s waste stream. For example, Purchasing Services, together with Telrose and Office Depot, now have a minimum order value of $25 for all office supply orders. This simple change can potentially eliminate over 3,000 packages reducing of over 17,000 lbs. of CO2, and eliminating over 8,500 lbs. of packaging waste (cardboard and pillows). TAP WATER FILTERS Campus-wide preferred purchasing agreements were made with providers such as Quench water filters, which replaced bottled water in many offices across campus. The Quench system works by UV filtration, purifying and cooling municipal water. This eliminates the need for plastic bottles and bottled water, cutting down on costs and greatly reducing the University’s carbon footprint. Lab Supplies and Services Penn Purchasing offers a number of services to help make Penn’s lab’s greener. These include securing contracts for recycling freezers, lab equipment, centrifuges and rotors and offering GreenGlo Safe DNA Dye and sustainable laundry services. Energy Star The University is committed to purchasing Energy Star qualified products such as printers, computers, and appliances. Penn Computing Green Information Technology (IT) program has established recommended guidelines for IT purchases that include Energy Star 4.0 compliant desktops, replacing CRT monitors with LCD monitors, and encouraging the purchase of small form factor or all-in-one desktops instead of mini-towers or towers. Beyond its purchasing guidelines, Green IT provides resources to help users throughout the University improve the sustainable aspects of their computing operations by reducing energy consumption and producing less e-waste. Ben's Attic BEN’s Attic, a website developed by Purchasing Services, allows Penn faculty and staff to exchange and purchase surplus University-owned property. All faculty and staff are able to browse the site to see if there are any items they may need before purchasing new. To list or purchase items, you just need to first register as a Buyer/Seller using the menu option on the site. Items are listed by category and can be sold or given away at no cost. Users can request an email notification of items by category as they become available. You can also utilize the “I’m Searching For Feature”, in the event you don’t see what you need, but someone in the University has such an item and simply has not listed it. If you have any questions regarding the usage of Ben’s Attic, please email BensAttic@upenn.edu. Infographic courtesy of the University of Edinburgh *Illustration not at scale Air Travel Sustainability While air travel can be necessary, it’s also environmentally impactful. Air travel alone makes up approximately 10% of Penn’s main campus carbon footprint, emitting almost 20,000 metric tons of CO2 per year. That’s about the same amount of carbon emitted by powering 2,000 homes for one year. As the University is committed to advancing travel sustainability for the Penn Community, a cross-disciplinary Air Travel Working Group, comprised of faculty and staff, is working to find the best solutions for achieving carbon neutrality for air travel at Penn. Learn more about their work and tips for reducing the impact of your business travel here. Penn Sustainability 3101 Walnut Street Philadelphia, PA 19104 sustainability@upenn.edu Social Links Our Committment Penn's 2042 Carbon Neutrality Goal Power Purchase Agreement: A 25-Year Commitment The Plan The University of Pennsylvania's Climate and Sustainability Action Plan Penn Sustainability ENewsletter Subscribe to our E-Newsletter » Program Highlights Student Eco-Reps Green Fund Staff and Faculty Eco-Reps Green Labs Footer Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Disclaimer Copyright Information Privacy Policy © 2022 University of Pennsylvania Website Design and Programming: 4x3, LLC