Skip to main content Navigation Academics Admissions Research Locations Student Life Alumni & Giving Athletics Apply Now College of Nursing The College of Nursing makes earning a nursing degree flexible, convenient and affordable with regional campuses and online programs. You can attend face-to-face “lock-step” programs in Orlando and on select regional campuses—and registered nurses (R.N.) can earn bachelor’s, master’s, Ph.D. and select DNP degrees online. The BSN, MSN, DNP and post-graduate APRN certificate programs at UCF are accredited by the Commission on Collegiate Nursing Education. nursing.ucf.edu Bachelor of Science in Nursing (BSN), Master of Science in Nursing (MSN), Doctor of Nursing Practice (DNP) and APRN Certificate programs are nationally accredited by the Commission of Collegiate Nursing Education. The college’s baccalaureate students rank among the top nursing programs nationally with 96% of students passing the NCLEX-RN license exam on their first attempt – far surpassing the state (74%) and national (85%) averages. U.S. News & World Report has ranked the college as one of the nation’s “Best Online Graduate Nursing Programs” and “Best Online Graduate Nursing Programs for Veterans.” The nationally recognized faculty includes 13 fellows of national nursing organizations and three of the world’s global experts in healthcare simulation education. The college pioneers innovative simulation technology to train students in state-of-the-art patient care techniques. The college is the first in Florida to offer an online RN to BSN degree, an online Ph.D. for nurse scientists and a Nursing and Healthcare Simulation graduate program. Explore your opportunities. There are many benefits to taking a more proactive approach to choosing a career. The College of Nursing has curriculum and programs to help you land your next opportunity. Or browse by: Undergraduate Certificates Masters Doctorates Graduate Certificates Top College Degrees Top College Degrees Nursing (BSN) Nursing (MSN) Nursing (PhD) Doctor of Nursing Practice (DNP) Admissions Info Explore admissions requirements, deadlines, tuition and financial aid, and more. Visit UCF Take a tour of the campus and see what makes UCF so amazing. Apply Now Seeking a bachelor’s degree? Interested in graduate school? Get started today. Nursing News Check out more stories Colleges & Campus UCF Nursing Student, Leukemia Survivor Inspired by Nurse Alumna who Treated Him Max Jones beat the odds and is now pursuing a career path in pediatric oncology thanks to the mentorship of his nurses, including a very… Colleges & Campus Knights Do That Podcast: The Future of Nursing UCF College of Nursing Associate Professor Desiree Diaz shares how UCF is leading the charge in virtual reality education, the importance of teaching students about… Health & Medicine UCF Lake Nona Hospital Training Future Doctors, Nurses Sooner than Expected Within the year since its opening, the hospital has gained national recognition among HCA hospitals for quality of care and patient satisfaction. Next-generation Nursing Education Learn more about the advanced research, innovative technology and faculty that power the UCF’s Nursing programs. Read More University of Central Florida Colleges Burnett Honors Arts and Humanities Business Community Innovation and Education Engineering and Computer Science Graduate Studies Health Professions and Sciences Medicine Optics and Photonics Sciences Undergraduate Studies Hospitality Management University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida