Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu Division of Student Affairs Housing and Residential Engagement Main Navigation About Us Show Extended Mission Meet Our Staff Contact Us Student Employment and Leadership Opportunities Parking Information Student Housing Policies Current Residents Show Extended Payment Information Resident Mailing Addresses Wi-Fi for Entertainment Devices Lockouts Dining Services FAQ's Submit a Maintenance Request The Gastronome Community Market Future Residents Show Extended Housing Information Housing Communities Student Housing Suites How to Apply for Housing Payment Information Theme Communities What to Bring on Move-in Day International Students International Programs & Global Engagement On-Campus Housing for International Students Housing Tours Tour Information Campus Tours Residential Engagement Show Extended Residential Engagement Faculty in Residence Theme Communities Housing Policies Of The Month Awards Housing Student Organizations About RSA About NRHH Resources Show Extended SwakU Gifts and Care Packages MicroFridge® with Safe Plug® GradGuard Renters insurance Spectrum Fire Safety Report Off-campus Housing Events and Conference Services Show Extended Meeting Room Reservation Request Form Summer Conferences Dining and Catering Tabling Request Form Marketing Requests Contact our Events and Conferences Team Take a Housing Tour Submit a Maintenance Request Contact Us Housing Portal Student Housing Application Process The 2022-2023 Student Housing Application will open at 10 a.m. on Wednesday, April 6, 2022. Students can start their Student Housing Application on the CSUF Student Housing Portal. New Students: You must accept your Cal State Fullerton admission offer and pay the $250 enrollment deposit before applying for student housing. After you complete this process, you may need to wait up to four (4) business days before our system will recognize you as a student. If you're not able to log into the Student Housing Portal, we don't have your information in our system yet and you'll need to wait another business day. Contact our office if this continues for more than four (4) days. You will use your Cal State Fullerton username and password in order to login to the online Housing Portal. See below for details regarding the application process. Summer Housing Looking for housing for Summer 2022? More information will be available soon on this page, but you can expect to apply on Wednesday, April 20. for all students applying for student housing: Explore our website to learn more about our housing options and theme community programs. Thoroughly read the following once they become available: 2022-2023 Sample Student Housing License Agreement and related Waivers and Releases Student Housing Policies Proposed Room and Board Rates Payment Installment Schedule If you're a newly admitted student at Cal State Fullerton, you have a few extra steps to complete before our application opens: Set up your CSUF student email. Begin checking this account regularly once you've been admitted. You will receive corresondence from the Housing and Residential Engagement Office only at this email address. For more information, please visit the Student Registration website . Accept your admission and pay your $250 Enrollment Deposit, if required. You won't be able to access the Student Housing Portal until you've accepted admission. Wait 2–3 business days after accepting admission, then use the button above to try to log into the Student Housing Portal. If you're able to log in successfully, you're ready to apply once the application opens. If you can't log in after a full 4 days, reach out to us for help. If you are under the age of 18 when starting your application, you should be prepared to have your parent or legal guardian complete an electronic cosigner agreement. You will not be able to move forward through the Housing Application until your parent or legal guardian's electronic signature is completed. Gather information to have available when working on your application: Emergency Contact Information: You will be asked to supply emergency contact information which includes name, telephone, and email addresses. Room Type Preference: Visit our page about building and room types and decide which style best fits your need. Meal Plan Choice: Visit our dining services page to help decide which of our three meal plans is best for you. Theme Community Preference: For more information, please read our page about theme communities . Please note that these are preferences only and are not guaranteed. Eligibility is based on available space and other criteria that vary by theme community. Meningococcal Disease and Vaccine Information: You will be asked to report some information about your vaccination history. GradGuard Renters' Insurance : We highly recommend that students consider Renters' Insurance to protect their belongings. This insurance is optional. During the application process, you'll have the option to automatically provide your information to GradGuard if you're interested. Student Housing Application Fee: All students applying to live on-campus will pay a nonrefundable $50 Application Fee in order to submit an application. This fee cannot be waived or deferred. Our system will have you pay through Student Business Services' secure payment portal. Please note: The Application Fee cannot be paid by Financial Aid or Scholarships. Meal Plan Changes: Students with an application in-progress who want to change their meal plan choice may do so by returning to that page of the application and simply changing their choice. After Move-In Day, meal plan changes must be requested using our Meal Plan Change Request form, which will become available later in the year. Cancelling an Application: Students are able to cancel their in-progress application for student housing. To cancel an application, students should log into the CSUF Student Housing Portal, open their in-progress Student Housing Application, and find the section about cancelling at the bottom of the Application Overview page. That page will show further instructions about the cancellation process, based on the current date and other circumstances. Our $50 Application Fee is nonrefundable, even if an application or license agreement is cancelled. That said, if you decide to re-apply after cancelling your application, you won't have to pay a new application fee. After being confirmed for a space, students may request to be released from their Student Housing License Agreement by following the same instructions. Requests will be considered at the sole discretion of the University. The Student Housing Application New Students: You must accept your Cal State Fullerton admission offer and pay the $250 enrollment deposit before applying for student housing. After you complete this process, you may need to wait up to four (4) business days before our system will recognize you as a student. If you're not able to log into the Student Housing Portal, we don't have your information in our system yet and you'll need to wait another business day. Contact our office if this continues for more than four (4) days. Using your Cal State Fullerton student portal username and password, use the button below to access the CSUF Student Housing Portal and choose Student Housing Applications from the menu bar. Choose Academic Year 2022-2023 once it becomes available, and follow the instructions from there. Your student housing application is built uniquely for you, and much of the content on each page of the application will change based on a variety of different factors. Do your best to follow the instructions on each page, and please feel free to reach out to our office for help if you get stuck. After you start an application, you'll be taken to your Application Overview, which serves as the home page of your application and shows you what you need to do in order to submit your application. Steps marked with a red ⭕ circle indicate that action is required from you, and will be marked with a ✅ check mark once they're complete. Click here to access the online CSUF Student Housing Portal Application Content The following pages will appear on the Application Overview for all students to complete: Personal Information: This is where we'll ask you about your preferred name, cell phone number, emergency contact information, and any medical or dietary needs you might have. If you've applied with us before, we'll carry this information over from your last application, but you'll need to review it to make sure it's still accurate. Meal Plan: This is where you'll choose your meal plan. See "Meal Plan Changes" above for more information. Roommate Profile: This is where you'll read more about our room assignment process and answer some questions about yourself as a potential roommate. All students living on-campus have some sort of roommate or apartment-mate, and none of our options are completely private. Answer this section as truthfully as possible to ensure that you can be successful with your roommate. Again, if you've applied with us before, we'll carry this information over from your previous application. Theme Community Preferences: This is where you'll read about our theme community options and answer some questions about which you'd prefer. Financial Literacy: New to our application process this year, our Financial Literacy module in the housing application is designed to help students build a strong understanding of the financial obligation of living on-campus. This section will explain how Room and Board charges work, including information about Financial Aid, scholarships, and student loans. Additional Information and Resources: This section contains extra resources that all students should consider in order to have the most successful experience living on-campus, but they aren't required to submit an application. Submitting an Application After you complete all necessary steps, including paying your $50 Application Fee, you'll see an option to submit your completed application at the top of your Application Overview. At that point, your application is submitted and will be considered for placement. Roommates and Room Selection During the first two weeks of the application process (closing at 11:55 p.m. on Wednesday, April 20), students can request specific roommates on their application. These requests are subject to availability and don't guarantee that you'll be placed together. Starting on June 1, we'll start inviting selected students with completed applications to choose their own beds via the student housing portal. While choosing rooms, you'll be able to view the Roommate Profiles of any other students who've selected the same room, suite, or apartment. After June 21, students will no longer be invited to choose their own spaces. Instead, our team will review our remaining spaces and send invididual offers to students for specific rooms as quickly as we can. If students don't select a room during their room selection window or don't accept an offer we send them before its deadline, we'll put those applications on hold to be considered for later offers. If your application is put on hold, you'll be notified and can reactivate it via your Student Housing Portal. Once you either select a space yourself or choose to accept your offer, you'll be prompted to sign the Student Housing License Agreement and our other Waivers and Releases. If you don't complete these steps, we'll revert your room reservation and place your application on hold. WEDNESDAY, APRIL 6, 2022 Student Housing Applications for Academic Year 2022-2023 become available on the CSUF Student Housing Portal. The application will open at 10 a.m. Students can login at any time after that point. ❗ If you see an error message when you log in, our portal may be operating beyond its capacity and you should wait about an hour before trying to log in again. This won't affect any part of your application, and you do not need to contact our office for assistance. Wednesday, April 20, 2022 at 11:55 p.m. Deadline to request a specific apartment-mate or roommate for your Student Housing Application. After this date, we won't be able to consider any kind of roommate requests. Student Housing Applications for Summer 2022 become available on the CSUF Student Housing Portal. The application will open at 10 a.m. June, 2022: Room Selection Our office will review completed applications and begin sending invitations for students to participate in room selection. More information and instructions will be available on the Student Housing Portal. How will it Work If your selected for room selection, you will receive an email inviting you to participate in room selection a few days before each round. During the room selection process, you will have a week to see a floorplan of the spaces you are eligible for. if an availabe room is empty, you can be the first person to fill it. if it's occupied with another person but still has a space open, you can select it and review you campatibility with a potential roommate. First Round: June 1 – June 7 Second Round: June 8 – June 14 Third Round: June 15 – June 21 After June 21, 2022 and throughout the ACADEMIC year We'll send individual offers for specific spaces in student housing to students who match the criteria for those spaces. Students will have a limited amount of time to accept their offer before it expires and places their application into a hold state. Early July, 2022 Room and Board Charges will appear for students with confirmed room reservations. July 18, 2022 Last day for students with confirmed room reservations to cancel their room reservations without a request. After this date, students with room reservations will need to request to be released from their space and their financial obligation. Our office will approve these requests at our sole discretion if we're able to find a replacement for your space. Students who remain on our waiting list at this point (meaning, not assigned to a space) maintain the ability to cancel their application without any special request through their Student Housing Portal. This is also the last day for students to change their meal plan on their housing application. If a student wants to change their meal plan after this date they must use the meal plan change request form which will be reviewed by our staff and is not guranteed to be approved. Friday, August 12, 2022 First Housing Installment Payment due in your CSUF Student Portal. See our payment installment schedule for more information. Thursday and Friday, August 18 and 19, 2022 Opening Days! Students with confirmed reservations will be sent check-in instructions during the first week of August with more information. Students will arrive on either Thursday or Friday, August 18 and 19. We'll have more specific information regarding moving instructions later in the year. You can review our Move-In Guide from the previous year for a general idea of what our opening days look like. This site is maintained by Housing and Residential Engagement. Last Published 5/4/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact housing@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.10 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript. This page uses accordion styles which rely on javascript. You do not have javascript enabled, some functions will be disabled.