Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Explore Brown University Search Global Navigation Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Chemistry at Brown: Facilities & Services Home About Facilities & Services NMR Facility Mass Spectrometry Facility Machine Shop Electronics Shop Stockroom Room Reservations Connect your Computer Outreach & Inclusion Visitor & Contact Information Brown Chemistry Department Employment Opportunities & Internship Postings Geo-Chem MacMillan Safety Resources Research Academics People News Seminars & Events Site Navigation Home About Facilities & Services NMR Facility Mass Spectrometry Facility Machine Shop Electronics Shop Stockroom Room Reservations Connect your Computer Outreach & Inclusion Diversity & Inclusion Action Committee Outreach Activities Chemistry Anonymous Climate Form Visitor & Contact Information Travel Policies for Guests Brown Chemistry Department Employment Opportunities & Internship Postings Geo-Chem MacMillan Safety Resources Research Chemical Biology Inorganic Chemistry Nano and Materials Chemistry Organic Chemistry Physical & Theoretical Chemistry Chemical Education Publications Academics Undergraduate Research Opportunities Chemistry Placement & Introductory Courses CHEM - Web Tutorial Transfer Credit Honors & Awards ChemDUG REUs & Funding Graduate Financial Support and Funding Opportunities Awards Graduate Leadership Courses Resources People Faculty Staff Department Directory News Archive Seminars & Events Endowed Lectures DIAC-Hosted Events Alumni Speaker Series Stockroom The Chemistry Department Stockroom provides researchers with a convenient, user-friendly, and affordable system of accessing the materials needed to allow continuous research efforts. For Chemistry Personnel: Due to the Covid situation, our Stockroom is currently closed for self-service. In order to place orders, you will have to use this Google Form. Chemistry Stockroom Order form Here is a searchable PDF of our inventory sorted by description Chemistry Stockroom Order Form for DEEPS and other Non-Chemistry Departments Chemistry Stockroom Inventory - By Description Here is the link for the Stockroom Calendar to make a pickup appointment. Please wait until you receive an email from the stockroom that your order is ready before making the pickup appointment: Stockroom Appointment Calendar Blanket Orders (Outside Vendor Orders) Please complete our online ordering form. NOTE: functionality ONLY using Chrome, Internet Explorer or Safari. Firefox will NOT work. Justifications for Purchases made on Federal Grants All justifications should address who (role on the project), what, when & why? The justification is needed to tie the expense to the scope of work, describing the direct benefit of the expense to the project. If the expense is for a piece of equipment or for a service agreement, component part, repair, etc. for equipment, is there more than one sponsored project utilizing this equipment for research? Is this expense reasonable? Is the cost necessary to meet the project's scope of work? Is this expense allowable? A cost is allowable if it is permitted as a cost within general federal regulations, the terms of the award, and/or University policy. Is this expense allocable? Does it benefit only this award or any other sponsored projects/non-sponsored projects? Can it be distributed to all benefited funding sources using reasonable methods? The allocation methodology and basis for the allocation should be determined/.developed with the Chemistry grant manager, who will then share with OSP for approval, before the expense is incurred. The allocation of the cost should represent a reasonable estimation of the benefit provided to each awards' objectives. Is this expense consistently treated? All costs incurred for the same purpose and in like circumstances must be treated uniformly either as direct costs or as indirect (facilities and administrative or F&A) costs. For example, administrative salaries and office supplies are normally treated as F&A costs. Please review this training document on Documentation and Justifications from the Office of Sponsored Projects (OSP). For further training visit OSP's Research at Brown. Inquiries Contact Allen Sylvia for questions regarding the chemical stockroom and inventory. Contact Robert Wilson for questions regarding purchases made by faculty, students, and other researchers. Express Shipments Please download and complete an express shipping form. IMPORTANT: This form is required for ALL express shipping packages being sent from the Chemistry Department e.g. UPS, FedEx. Please print, sign, and return this form to Allen Sylvia, Stockroom Coordinator, in GC 216. Incomplete forms will not be accepted. The business purpose must provide justification for how shipment-related expenses pertain to the account being charged. If you are sending a chemical or sample for analysis, please fill out the required EHS paperwork. Chemical Inventory & Tracking Please note: All chemicals in the Chemistry Department are barcoded and entered into a chemical inventory and tracking system called CEMS. It is very important that any chemical that is moved from one room to another, or discarded, be updated in the system. The system used is a web-enabled database that is hosted at the University of New Hampshire. Please follow the directions and link below to update any chemical that is moved or discarded. https://cems.unh.edu/brown/CEMS/index.html#1 To move a chemical to a new location: Click on above link to access the database. Login to system with your Brown Email and password. Under “Quick Links”, Click on Add/Update Chemical Inventory. In the Top Field enter the Chemistry Department barcode number that appears on the bottle of chemical and press “Next”. Under “Container Information” update the “Owner” and “Location” information to the new PI and Room Location where this chemical is moving to, then click “Save”. If you begin typing in these fields, the names and rooms will auto-populate. Be sure to choose the correct room number with the appropriate abbreviation before it (ie. GeoChem GC444 or Mac Millan Hall MM216). To discard a chemical: Follow steps 1-4 above. Click on “Mark Empty” on the far right side of the webpage, then click on “Save” on the next Screen. LOCATION The stockroom is located in room 216 of the GeoChem Building. The address is 324 Brook Street, Providence, RI 02912. Phone: 401-863-1025; 401-863-3102 Fax: 401-863-1993 HOURS The stockroom is open daily from 8:30am to 5:00pm and from 8:00am to 4:00pm during the summer months. It is closed during all University Holidays. After hours access to the chemistry stockroom requires key card access. PERSONNEL Eric Friedfeld, Manager, Technical Services Allen Sylvia, Stockroom Coordinator Robert Wilson, Purchasing Coordinator Facilities & Services NMR Facility Mass Spectrometry Facility Machine Shop Electronics Shop Stockroom Room Reservations Connect your Computer Department of Chemistry Department of Chemistry Brown University Box H 324 Brook Street Thayer Street at MacMillan Lawn Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-2321 Email [email protected] Twitter Twitter Facebook Facebook Instagram Instagram Brown University Giving to Brown Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA 401-863-1000 Contact Us Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility All Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top