COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Masters of Innovation Design (MID) Section Menu College of Innovation & Design Home Master of Innovation Design (MID) Makers and Doers Design Thinking Agile Product Management Innovate. Break. Make. Repeat. Customized Curriculum Each student will choose the path they want to take. From courses in core design and engineering skills, as well as design-thinking infused curriculum across campus. Experimental Learning Be part of an experiment-driven active learning approach that creates structure and process to the chaos that characterizes the early stages of creative pursuits. Collaborative Culture Our students come from various disciplines with different strengths and weaknesses; but all have a passion for creativity, collaboration, and having fun. Exclusive Opportunities Students have access to creative spaces like WIDGET and GoCreate, as well as leading industry professionals from our community and across the globe. MID Curriculum at a Glance To complete the Masters of Innovation Design degree, you must complete a total of 30 credit hours. Up to 6 hrs can come from Innovation in Practice and an additional 6 hrs can come from Project. You can also choose other graduate courses from disciplines across campus, not listed below. Design Thinking From learning the process to being able to facilate a Design Thinking Sprint - you will learn it all. ID 500 Design Thinking Process - impact of human centered design on products & services, build understanding of empathy, develop problem statements, cover tools needed to utilize design thinking, build vocabulary for design thinking practices. ID 501 Design Thinking Faciliation - build understanding of facilitation & its role in leadership, identify stakeholders and why they’re important, grow an understanding of different personalities & their impact, develop a tool kit of skills to implement design thinking within teams and organizations. ID 502 Design Thinking Implementation - utilize design thinking process, work within teams to tackle one or more design challenges provided by Fortune 100 company to innovate new ideas & solutions. ID 505 Design Thinking Challenges - utilizing design thinking process tackle one or more design challenges provided by Fortune 100 company and/or local start-ups to innovate new ideas & solutions. Agile Learn how to apply emprical processes in a distributed team environment - Agility is more than a process, it's a mindset. ID 511 Agile Product Management - prepare for integration into a professional Agile product development environment. You will learn how to collaborate within a product team, establish an Agile product development workflow, estimate solutions effort and cost, and learn to fail gracefully. ID 705D Agile Software Development - don’t just learn to code, learn to develop products. Develop the technical skills necessary to excel in a cross-functional, distributed team environment using Agile software development techniques. Sustainability Start applying traditional concepts in sustainability to complex problems in innovation for a holistic approach. ID 509 Applied Sustainability in Innovation - participate in thoughtful discussion on sustainability, adoption of sustainable practices and policies, and employ hands-on analysis of the long-term sustainability of innovation solutions. ID 720 Sustainable Teams & Organizations - assess and discuss the long-term sustainability of different management approaches in individual, team, and organizational settings. Prototyping Starting from cardboard to creating a fully developed prototype - you will be able to SHOW your idea, not just talk about it. ID 705a Practical Prototyping - learn the basics of prototyping utilizing machines and tools in GoCreate. ID 752 Product, Service & Process Prototyping - this is a more in-depth prototyping course. You will learn how to utilize the machines at GoCreate, Groover Labs, and other industry partner labs to demonstrate and present your idea, product, or process. Blockchain ID 705i Introduction to Blockchain - This course is for the nontechnical audience. It will introduce the key concepts behind blockchain technology, digital currency, hyperledger, and other use cases. Independent Study ID 840 Innovation in Practice - Built around experiential enrichment related to the broad topic of innovation. Topics such as intellectual property, branding, pitching, wire-framing, prototyping and funding are discussed in a group setting and may include guest speakers and/or visits to local companies. ID 841 Project - An independent study course for students undertaking the project development/creativity option for completion of the Master of Innovation Design. VIEW ALL COLLEGE OF INNOVATION AND DESIGN COURSES Recent Collaborations Let's Chat Send us a message if you want more information about collaborations or if you are interested in applying for the Master's of Innovation Design. Contact us Request Info from The College of Innovation and Design New Student Partnership All Links Below This Line of Text will take you to the Wichita State Admissions page. If you want to speak to someone from The College of Innovation and Design or Masters of Innovation Design program, click one of the links above. 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©