Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Office of the Student Experience Orientation and Transition Programs Orientation and Transition Programs Mustang StartUp Stampede First 5 Leadership Programs Leadership Programs Leadership Development & Training Programs Leadership Experiences Leadership Framework Parent and Families Parent and Families Parent and Family Resources About Us ☰ First 5 Office of the Student Experience Orientation and Transition Programs First 5 Five Things to Know About First 5: First 5 is the third step of the SMU Orientation process. Participating in First 5 through the app, Scavify, will make you eligible to win free laundry, free dining, and free Apple technology! You will connect to the people, academy, spirit, campus, and community of Dallas through First 5. The first two weeks of First 5 will count towards Commons Cup points for your residential commons. First 5 is a combination of live events and individual experiences. The transition from high school students to university scholars is important to the success of college students. The information new students need to encourage success and make the most of their collegiate experience is extensive and varied. The Office of the Student Experience uses five Connecting Points to help organize the information shared with students during their transition. Through participation in orientation, students connect to the SMU: Prizes, Points, & Participation People Academy Spirit Campus Community Community Individual Experiences on Scavify 1. Meet your Engage Dallas Student Director 2. Download the DART app 3. Visit a Dallas restaurant 4. Visit Outdoor Adventures in the Dedman Campus Recreation Center 5. Attend a volunteer consultation in the SCIE Office 6. Attend a game for a local Dallas team 7. Visit Klyde Warren Park 8. Take a walk down the Katy Trail 9. Watch a sunrise or sunset at White Rock Lake Spirit Individual Experiences on Scavify 1. Take a picture with Peruna human at a basketball game 2. Attend or play in an intramural game 3. Visit the book store! Take a Picture in Front of the Blue 'Hail to the Red & Blue Wall' 4. Record a video singing Pony Battle Cry 5. State your Commons values 6. Take a picture in your Commons or orientation shirt 7. Take a picture in front of Dallas Hall 8. Recite the SMU Values Statement Campus Individual Experiences on Scavify 1. Take a picture of the Bush Center 2. Take a picture of the Health Center 3. Check Your PO Box at the Mail Center 4. Attend a Group X Class in Dedman Rec (Group Exercise) 5. Try a new dining location on campus 6. Take a picture of the Mustang Statues 7. Take a picture of the Doak Walker Statue 8. Visit the Starbucks at Fondren Library Academy Individual Experiences on Scavify 1. Visit the ALEC at Ford Stadium (Altshuler Learning Enhancement Center) 2. Attend a Fondren Library Workshop 3. Visit the Hegi Family Career Development Center at HTSC 4. Visit the Deason Innovation Gym (DIG) at Lyle 5. Visit the Engaged Learning Space in the Scholars' Den in Clements Hall 6. Visit the SMU Abroad Office on the 2nd Floor of the Blanton Building 7. Visit the Fondren Library Research Help Desk 8. Meet your Peer Academic Leader 9. Find the Engaged Learning Incubator in East Tower 10. Visit the SMU-in-Taos Office on the 3rd Floor of the Blanton Building 11. Visit the Undergraduate Advising Center (UAC) on the 4th Floor of the Blanton Building People Individual Experiences on Scavify 1. Meet your Commons Council President 2. Meet your Residential Assistant 3. Meet your Faculty in Resident 4. Meet your Peer Academic Leader 5. Meet your Residential Community Director 6. Meet your Engage Dallas Student Director 7. Meet your Peer Chaplain 8. Meet your Honors Mentor 9. Meet a Student Wellness Champion Prizes, Points, & Participation Prizes: Win free SMU dining, Mustang laundry, parking, SMU swag, and Apple technology! Points: Each completed individual experience and attended event counts as one entry in the weekly drawing for prizes. Participation: All Mustangs can participate in First 5 by downloading the Scavify app (Apple and Google Play). Use your SMU email address when creating a Scavify account. Scavify will track all participation duringFirst 5. Apply Visit School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share