Georgetown University Open Search Form Who We Are The Whole Person Our Catholic & Jesuit Heritage Our History Student Stories Faculty Stories Alumni Stories Campus & City Living in DC Opportunities Getting Around Service & Action Campus Life Housing On-Campus Dining Clubs & Organizations Arts & Culture Community & Diversity Student Life Blog Wellness & Safety Sports & Fitness Health Center Safety & Emergency Preparedness Athletics External Link Academic Life Restless Inquiry Our Schools Areas of Study Study Abroad Research Centers and Programs Global Initiatives External Link Library System Admissions & Aid Undergraduate Admissions External Link Graduate Admissions Financial Aid External Link Commitment to Access News Events Giving Alumni Info For Students Faculty Staff/AAP Alumni Parents Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Content Skip to Footer News Events Giving Alumni Info For Students Faculty Staff/AAP Alumni Parents Georgetown University Who We Are The Whole Person Our Catholic & Jesuit Heritage Our History Student Stories Faculty Stories Alumni Stories Campus & City Living in DC Opportunities Getting Around Service & Action Campus Life Housing On-Campus Dining Clubs & Organizations Arts & Culture Community & Diversity Student Life Blog Wellness & Safety Sports & Fitness Health Center Safety & Emergency Preparedness Athletics External Link Academic Life Restless Inquiry Our Schools Areas of Study Study Abroad Research Centers and Programs Global Initiatives External Link Library System Admissions & Aid Undergraduate Admissions External Link Graduate Admissions Financial Aid External Link Commitment to Access Open Search Form Georgetown University Home Who We Are Alumni Stories Alumni Stories Where will Georgetown lead you? Our alumni go on to exciting careers – in every facet of society – and strive to make the world a better place. Alumni become humanitarians, social activists, academics, heads of states, comedians, journalists, business owners, doctors and lawyers. Our extensive alumni network provides mentorship and inspiration. Meet Hoya Alumni “My calling is to make space and form for meaning and truth to be less invisible and to participate in the poetry of the world.” RaMell’s Story “If I want to change my path from banking to a different sector and have more impact in society and the world, Save the Children is the best place to be.” Amy’s Story “Creating new and innovative programs and opportunities for previously incarcerated people is something that I consider a distinct honor to be able to do for a living.” Brian’s Story Previous Story Next Story Play Youtube Video Exceptional Alumni The John Carroll Award recognizes alumni who exemplify the ideals and traditions of Georgetown and its founder. The Patrick Healy Award honors a friend of the university whose achievements and service reflect Georgetown ideals and traditions. Catch up with Hoya Alumni A Testimonial “I want write about how policies actually affect people.” ABC News reporter Elizabeth Thomas’ (G’19) Story Play Youtube Video Meet Craig + Fred Hoya author and Marine veteran Craig Grossi (G’16) shares how meeting a ‘plucky little stray dog’ in Afghanistan changed his life. Watch More Play Youtube Video Impacting History Tony Essaye (C’55) had an unexpected chat with Meryl Streep when he took his daughter Anne (L’88) to the premiere of The Post. Essaye, the lawyer played by actor Zach Woods in the Oscar-nominated film, recalls what it was like to help defend The Washington Post before the U.S. Supreme Court in 1971 when the newspaper sought to publish the Pentagon Papers. Meet Tony Essaye (C’55) University News More Alumni News Alumni Congressional Medal of Honor Society Awards Alumnus for Medical Service in War Zones Aaron Epstein, MD (SFS’12, M’18) has received the 2022 Citizen Honors Award for Service for providing medical care and training to communities in conflict zones — most recently, in Ukraine. Alumni Celebrating Women’s History Month: Business School Alumna on Breaking Barriers in Investment Banking Alumni Georgetown’s New Program Helps Alumni Entrepreneurs Grow Their Startups Alumni At the U.S. Embassy in Beirut, SFS Alumni Find a Hoya Community A Testimonial “Ultimately, being an entrepreneur is just being very good at getting down-and-dirty to solve real-world problems.” Diana Tsai Rau’s Story (F’12), cofounder of Veterati Contact Us Directory Visit Maps About Academic Calendar Careers Media Resources FacebookFacebook TwitterTwitter InstagramInstagram LinkedInLinkedIn YouTubeYouTube Georgetown University 37th and O Streets, N.W. Washington, D.C. 20057 P. 202-687-0100 Georgetown University Privacy Policy Copyright Web Accessibility Notice of Non-Discrimination © 2022 Georgetown University Search Georgetown Search Close the Search Dialog