Skip to site alert. Skip to content College of Dental Medicine Students Alumni Faculty Giving Contact Us Search About Us About Us Our Mission History Leadership and Administration Board of Advisors Global Dean's Council News Diversity Community Outreach Global Initiatives Support the College of Dental Medicine Events Calendar Contact Us Columbia Visiting Professorship Program CDM Publications Education Education DDS Program Advanced Standing Program for Foreign Trained Dentists Postdoctoral and Residency Programs Tuition, Fees and Financial Aid Global Programs Visits & Externships Continuing Education Academic Sections/Divisions Academic Calendars Research Research Research Areas Research Labs Research Centers Research Faculty Clinical Trials Research Resources Student Research First International Symposium of Fusobacteria Patient Care Patient Care ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Teaching Clinics Patient Resources COVID-19 Safety ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Our Doctors Our Services Our Locations Make an Appointment Make an Appointment Choose between ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry and our affordable Dental Clinics. Para Español, haga clic aquí. Explore Your Options Events News You are here Home > About Us > Support the College of Dental Medicine Our Mission History Leadership and Administration Board of Advisors Global Dean's Council News Diversity Community Outreach Global Initiatives Support the College of Dental Medicine Choose Where to Direct Your Gift Ways to Give Columbia Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships The 1852 Society Events Calendar Contact Us Columbia Visiting Professorship Program CDM Publications Support the College of Dental Medicine Make a Gift Make a Gift Students in the new Center for Precision Dental Medicine on VC-5. Making a Difference Thank you for supporting the College of Dental Medicine. Since its inception 100 years ago, the college has remained committed to educating the world's future leaders in dentistry. Your contributions are critical to our continued ability to stay at the forefront of advancing practice, education, and scientific research. To achieve our ambitious goals, we rely on the generosity of alumni, foundations, community and corporate partners, faculty, and friends. Your donations to our annual fund support a number of strategic priorities including increasing the financial aid for students, continually innovating the curriculum, and providing patient-centric care in state-of-the art facilities. Whether you are a graduate giving back to the school that helped you become the professional you are today, a grateful patient, or a friend who understands the importance of supporting scientific discovery, education, and care, your gift is truly an investment in our future. Make a Gift Online Now For more information about giving to the College of Dental Medicine, please contact: Geraldine Connors Sr. Director of Development 212-342-5612 cdmdevelopment@cumc.columbia.edu Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian ColumbiaDoctors About Us Education Research Student Life Alumni Faculty Contact Us Intranet Columbia University College of Dental Medicine 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Back to top