Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Explore Brown University Search Global Navigation Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Division of Campus Life Home About Us Resources Emergency Contacts Campus Resources Remote Access to Campus Resources Help for Students in Distress Graduate and Medical School Students Campus Life Staff Resources For Parents & Families Legal Services - Open Hours Student Initiatives Staff Initiatives News & Events Site Navigation Home About Us Mission, Vision, Values Senior Team Executive Group Organizational Chart Office of the VP for Campus Life Resources Emergency Contacts Campus Resources Remote Access to Campus Resources Help for Students in Distress Graduate and Medical School Students Campus Life Staff Resources For Parents & Families Legal Services - Open Hours Student Initiatives Student Awards Buoy Newsletter The Culture of Respect at Brown Campus Life Student Advisory Board CLSAB 20-21 Membership CLSAB 21-22 Membership Disability Justice Student Initiative Disability History at Brown Timeline JUST Lead Leadership Development Initiative Staff Initiatives Campus Safety Working Group Campus Life Fellowship Campus Life Staff Excellence Awards Multi-Partial Team Professional Development Grant for Staff News & Events Campus Life in the News Campus Life Newsletter Wellness Residential Experience at Sternlicht Commons Space Programming Housing Selection FAQs Housing Application Graduate and Medical School Students Support Resources Office of the Vice President for Campus Life 20 Benevolent Street, 2nd-3rd Floors, Providence, RI 02912 (401) 863-1800 The Office of the Vice President for Campus Life as the senior leadership office of the division, has responsibilities in four broad areas: institution and division-level visioning and planning related to undergraduate, graduate and medical student support and the student experience; leadership of a large division consisting of 18 offices and departments and more than 450 staff; working with a wide range of collaborative partners to maximize opportunities and address challenges so that all students and staff can thrive by equitably accessing their educational and employment opportunities; and perhaps most importantly being highly visible and accessible to all students (and staff) in order to hear their hopes and concerns as a senior administrators. If you want to meet with us to learn more, we are all available during office hours or by appointment. Student Conduct & Community Standards 42 Charlesfield St., 4th Floor, Providence, RI 02912 (401) 863-3145 The Office of Student Conduct and Community Standards investigates and adjudicates alleged violations of the Code of Student Conduct. Students who have been harmed or who have witnessed harm are encouraged to report these incidents and speak with deans. Graduate and medical school students have access to file a complaint or seek a no contact order.  Student Support Services Graduate Center E 42 Charlesfield St., 4th Floor Providence, RI 02912 (401) 863-3145 (Dean of the Day, business hours) (401) 863-4111 (Administrator-on-Call, evenings and weekends) Student Support Services (SSS) is available to assist students who may be managing health or personal circumstances which are impacting their time at Brown. The Student Support deans provide a sounding board for students to discuss their situation, help connect students to the right set of resources for their needs, and help to develop a plan to assist students in managing whatever challenges they may be facing. SSS has a dean of the day available to respond to urgent student needs and/or is available by appointment. They also support an administrator-on-call system where students can connect with resources in an urgent situation after hours and on the weekends. The Graduate and Medical Schools also have specific resources to help their respective students navigate such concerns and can help to address the specific and unique needs of those student populations. Graduate students may want to be in touch with Associate Dean for Student Support in the Graduate School. Medical students may wish to contact the student affairs team within the Alpert Medical School for support. Community Building Resources Brown Center for Students of Color (BCSC) 68 Brown Street, Providence, RI 02912 The BCSC sponsors dozens of public programs – speakers and artists – each year open to the community including graduate and medical school students. To learn more about these events subscribe to the BCSC newsletter. BCSC spaces are accessible for graduate and medical school students. To learn more about opportunities to use these spaces please contact the BCSC. The BCSC sponsors a number of programs specifically for graduate students of color (GSOC) including the 2018-2019 RESET Program Series that takes place during the academic year and coordinates Graduate Student of Color Orientation each fall in collaboration the Graduate School. Two graduate students are members of the BCSC Student Advisory Board each year. And each year the BCSC staff includes a Graduate Coordinator and often a Graduate Intern. The BCSC also provides support for graduate student organizations like Nabrit or SACNAS and collaborates with them around programming throughout the year. Chaplains & Religious Life 69 Brown Street Room 410, Providence, RI 02912 (401) 863-2344 Team of multi-faith chaplains serve undergraduate, graduate and medical students, as well as staff, faculty and alumni/ae. Any and every member of the Brown community can find sanctuary and confidential counsel here, and a number of lectures, recitals and services are available on campus throughout the year. Graduate and medical school students are invited to "What Really Matters" Graduate Student Supper, hosted by Chaplain Janet Cooper Nelson and Associate Dean of Diversity Initiatives Marlina Duncan with support from the Dean of the Faculty, the Vice President of Campus Life and the "Truth, Racial Healing and Transformation" project. These monthly suppers are an opportunity for graduate students and post-docs to hear from new faculty and administrators from across campus. We hope that these dinners create friendships, dialogue, and space to further explore what it is that matters, inside and outside the classroom, to those around us. Global Brown Center for International Students (GBC) 69 Brown Street Room 312, Providence, RI 02912 (401) 863-6397 Graduate and medical school students have are welcome to attend the different programs and events throughout the year which include are included in all GBC events, including monthly trips (Outlet mall, Newport, hiking, ice skating, etc.) and on-campus programs (Cross-Cultural Conversations, Self-Care Series, Holiday break events, Meet & Greets, International Festival, and International Education Week, etc.). For more information on events, Sign up for the newsletter. Graduate and medical school students have swipe access to the Global Brown Lounge (Page-Robinson 310) which is a space to study, host events, and build community with coffee and tea. Graduate and medical students also make up half of the membership for the International Student Advisory Board, which meets monthly with upper administration in key areas across campus and is co-chaired by Dr. Shayna Kessel, Associate Dean of Master's Education & Strategic Initiatives and Interim Associate Dean for International Graduate Students, Dr. Asabe Poloma, Assistant Dean for International Students and Associate Director of the Mellon Mays Undergraduate Fellowship program, and Christina Bonnell, Program Director of the Global Brown Center for International Students. GBC is a part of the planning committee for International Graduate Orientation, and work closely with the two Graduate Assistants for the International Graduate Orientation to plan the peer mentoring program and social activities. GBC is also part of the Graduate Student Council (GSC) International Committee, which meets monthly to discuss advocacy and plan programming for the graduate international community at Brown. Program Director, Christina Bonnell serves on the program selection committee and as a mentor for the Graduate School's International Community Fellows Program. The two community fellows participate in GBC staff meetings and retreats, and plan their initiatives for graduate students as a team. Program Director, Christina Bonnell Finally serves on the planning committee for the Graduate International Career Preparation Series, bringing together multiple offices (Graduate School, English Language Learning, CareerLAB, OISSS) to develop a series of programs that support graduate international students in their job search.   LGBTQ Center Stephen Robert '62 Campus Center Room 321 (401) 863-3062 Graduate and medical school students have access to the LGBTQ Center space and are welcome to attend the different programs and events throughout the year. Sign up for the newsletter. Graduate student coordinator assists with assessing graduate student needs,plans and implements LGBTQ Center programs for graduate students, ongoing and ad-hoc, collaborates with Centers, Departments, and student groups across campus to provide programs and support for graduate and medical students Specific programs for graduate students include QTPOC caucus event during Graduate Student of Color Orientation, LGBTQ+ Graduate/Medical Student Dessert Social during Graduate Orientation in collaboration with graduate school, ongoing Graduate Student Socials (often in collaboration with Spectrum of the Medical School, Deviant Minds, Deviant Bodies Reading group (introducing outside groups, faculty and staff to co-facilitate reading sessions, Undone Journal: A legacy of Queer (Re)imaginings, LGBTQ+ Renn Mentor Program: Grad/Med students can serve as a mentor or request to have a mentor, annual CareerCon event OSTEM (Out in STEM) is supported by the center - a LGBTQ+ group organized by graduate students. LGBTQ Center Staff strongly encourage graduate students to be presenters at our Out for Lunch events. When possible, provide small professional development grants and assist students in finding funding for LGBTQ+ professional development opportunities, provide information about conferences of interest to graduate students, assist with accessing resources on and off campus, assist with gender transition plan within department if requested, and serve as an advocate within a department if student needs support.   Office of Military-Affiliated Students 69 Brown Street, Room 317, Providence RI, 02912 401-863-5440 Newly located in Vartan Gregorian Quad, OMAS provides a community space for graduate student veterans to connect with other student veterans. The Program Director serves as an important resource to graduate students when they have questions or concerns related to their VA benefits, military-affiliated issues, or the university at large. Coordinates major events like a Veterans Day and ceremony at Commencement that includes graduate and medical school student veterans and their families. Student Activities & Stephen Robert ‘62 Campus Center 75 Waterman St., Providence RI 02912 (401) 863-2341 Graduate and medical school students have access to the space and are welcome to attend the different programs and events throughout the year. SAO staff supports graduate student groups, including the Graduate Student Council on their events if they need advice, support, or guidance. To view the existing student organizations please visit https://orgsync.com/browse_orgs/741 Locker room space available in the Stephen Robert ‘62 Campus Center maintained by SAO staff so graduate students who may need space to store belongings near campus have a way to do so. The Greek and Program house systems include some graduate members and the Assistant Director for Greek and Program House engagement supports those students as they would undergraduate students. The Associate Director for Outdoor Leadership serves as an external advisor for the Medical School outdoor orientation for first year medical students. The Director of SAO serves as the liaison to the Graduate Center Bar and works in conjunction with the Graduate School to provide oversight and ensure that policies and procedures are in place and followed. Undocumented, First -Generation College & Low-Income Student Center (UFLi-Center) 201 Thayer St. 5th Floor, Providence, Rhode Island 02912 (401) 863-5675 Graduate and medical school students have access to the space and are welcome to attend the different programs and events throughout the year. Sign up for the newsletter. Last year graduate student coordinator, Vania Pereira, conducted a needs assessment (via a community forum and anonymous survey) that now informs the development of relevant programs. In the spring semester 2019, the U-FLi Center piloted community building programs including a mixer for U-FLi graduate students. If you have thoughts on future programs please contact the center. Health and Wellness Resources Athletics and Recreation 235 Hope St., Providence, RI 02912 More than 500 home athletics competitions in 38 varsity sports each year are free for graduate and medical school students with a student ID. See the schedule for competitions on the Athletics Department website. Graduate and medical school students have access to all Recreational Facilities during open recreational hours. During the academic year 2017-2018, 1766 Graduate students made a total of 177,882 visits to the Nelson Fitness Center. Graduate and medical school students accounted for 14% of those who visited Nelson and 22% of all students (undergraduate, graduate, and medical school) last year. Graduate and medical school students participate in both Intramural Sports and Club Sports each year. During the academic year 2017-2018, 470 graduate students participated in intramural sports and 56 graduate students participated in club sports. BWell Health Promotion 13 Brown Street, Providence, RI 02912 (401) 863-2794 BWell holistically supports the health and wellbeing of all Brown University students through individual and community level engagement that is evidence informed, rooted in social justice and recognizes the social determinants of health. Our work empowers students through knowledge and skill building to promote lifelong wellness and community care. All services are free for all Brown graduate and medical students. BWell offers more than 200 workshops and trainings each year, reaching an average of 9000 participants. Programs specifically for graduate and medical students have included sleep hygiene and stress management workshops, interpersonal violence prevention education and a survivor support group. In addition to these community wellness interventions, BWell staff provide more than 500 individual appointments each year. Community Care: Materials Request: brown.edu/go/bwellmaterials for health empowerment tools (printed materials, stress management tools, safer sex supplies and more) Workshop Request: brown.edu/go/bwellworkshop facilitated by BWell staff Workshop in a Bag Request: brown.edu/go/workshopinabag bring health empowerment strategies and information to your group, on your schedule. Individual Care: Confidential appointments available by calling 401-863-2794 or request an appointment at brown.edu/bwell. SHARE advocates [support and advocacy for those impacted by interpersonal violence] Substance use [education and motivational interviewing for positive behavior change] Sexual health [education and referrals for medical care] Sleep [sleep hygiene assessment and sleep improvement planning] Confidential response by phone. Sexual Assault Response Line: For 24/7 crisis support for interpersonal violence, call 401-863-6000] SHAG texting: Text keyword SHAG to 66746 with sexual health questions. Resources and Information: BWell On the Go: pick up free health empowerment tools. Full list of locations at brown.edu/go/bwellonthego] Brown.edu/bwell: 100+ page website with Brown specific health and wellness information. Wellness texts: subscribe to campus wellness updates text keyword BWELL to 66746 Online sleep assessment: brown.edu/go/sleep for sleep strategies Ship n SHAG: Order FREE safer sex supplies @ brown.edu/go/shipnshag. Counseling & Psychological Services (CAPS) 69 Brown Street Room 512, Providence, RI 02912 (401) 863-3476 CAPS provides a wide range of mental health care for graduate students. They are a diverse, multidisciplinary, and multilingual staff that have expertise in working with students toward their academic success and overall well being. In-person care is available throughout the year (check website for current hours), and students can also connect with a clinician on nights, weekends, and holidays by calling CAPS After Hours (dial our phone number and follow the prompts). Appointments can be made in person, via phone, or via email at [email protected]. Emergency Medical Services (EMS) (401) 863-4111 EMS provides services to graduate and medical school students 24/7. Health Services 13 Brown Street, Providence, RI 02912 (401) 863-3953 Health Services has full service hours extended to evenings and weekends to accommodate the varying schedules of graduate and medical students. Nursing advice available 24/7 for all students. Appointments/General Questions: 401-863-3953 Nursing advice 24/7: 401-863-1330 Student Accessibility Services (SAS) 20 Benevolent Street Providence, RI 02912 (401) 863-9588 SAS coordinates and provides accessibility accommodations and services for graduate students with temporary or ongoing physical disabilities as well as psychological, and learning disabilities. SAS also coordinates as needed with Accessibility Support in the Alpert Medical School. Resources Emergency Contacts Campus Resources Remote Access to Campus Resources Help for Students in Distress Graduate and Medical School Students Campus Life Staff Resources For Parents & Families Legal Services - Open Hours Division of Campus Life Division of Campus Life Brown University Box 1896 20 Benevolent Street Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-1800 Email [email protected] Instagram Instagram Brown University Giving to Brown Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA 401-863-1000 Contact Us Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility All Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top