By continuing to use this site, you agree to the use of cookies in accordance with our privacy policy. Dismiss Stay Safe The official source of public health information for Syracuse University. Skip to Content Open menu About Admissions Academics Life Athletics More Search the University Open search Popular searches Close menu Home About Toggle dropdown Leadership Vision & Mission Consumer Information Facts & Figures Plan Your Visit Campus Map History News Partnerships Work at Syracuse Social Media Bookstore Brand Help & Contacts Admissions Toggle dropdown Undergraduate Graduate Online Part-Time Cost & Aid Request Information Visit & Tour Apply Academics Toggle dropdown Schools & Colleges Undergraduate Majors & Minors Graduate Degrees Online Programs Syracuse University Global Study Abroad Opportunities & Support Calendars Departments Research Centers & Institutes Libraries, Collections & Galleries Academic Administration Life Toggle dropdown Accessibility & Diversity Campus Highlights Events Calendar Services & Support Meals & Dining Housing Groups & Activities Recreation & Facilities For Students For Veterans & Military For Faculty & Staff For Parents & Families A-Z Index Sitemap Login Athletics Men’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Football Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Track and Field Women’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Field Hockey Ice Hockey Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Softball Tennis Track and Field Volleyball Athletics Dept. Toggle dropdown Facilities Staff Directory Academic Honors Community Service Spirit Program Varsity Club Sports Medicine Championships Fan Zone Toggle dropdown Dome Schedule Seating Information Orange All Access Otto’s Kids Club Game Photos Promotions Orange Club Schedules News Alumni About Toggle dropdown Notable Alumni Alumni Association Awards News Events and Clubs Toggle dropdown Orange Central Northeast Midwest South West World/Affinity Regions Toggle dropdown Atlanta Boston Chicago Los Angeles Middle East New York San Francisco Washington, DC Services Toggle dropdown Career Network Generation Orange Directory Profile Class Notes Giving Contact Contact Visit Apply Coronavirus Updates Forever Orange Home About Help & Contacts Emergencies More from this Section Status Emergencies In the event of a campus emergency, the Syracuse University community will be notified via the Orange Alert system. Campus status Update alert preferences Emergency Contacts Medical Syracuse University Ambulance : 315.443.4299, or #78 from a cell phone The Syracuse University Ambulance (SUA) provides emergency and non-emergency services 24 hours a day, 7 days a week during the academic school year and is funded by a portion of the student health fee. Crime Department of Public Safety (DPS) : 315.443.2224 Syracuse City Police Department : 911 Contact DPS 24 hours a day, 365 days a year. The DPS office on Main Campus is located at 005 Sims Hall, and is open 8:30 a.m. to 4 p.m. during the academic year. You can also speak with Public Safety employees at security desks and other locations around campus. Additional Contact Options Toll-Free Number 1.855.443.2224 From a Cell Phone #78 From a Campus Phone 711 Emergency Email or Text 711@syr.edu Alarm System Blue Light Stations Mental Health and Sexual Assault Syracuse University 24-Hour Crisis Services : 315.443.4715 If you are currently experiencing a mental health crisis or you are seeking support for sexual assault or relationship violence, 24-hour 365-days-a-year crisis support services are available to all Syracuse University students through the Counseling Center . Vera House 24-Hour Crisis Services : 315.422.7273 Vera House is a Syracuse community resource that provides privileged and confidential support. This resource is not associated with Syracuse University. On-Campus Resources Automated External Defibrillators (AED) Blue Light Phones : Activate for assistance from a Public Safety Officer The Rave Guardian App : A “mobile blue light” for contacting the Emergency Communications Center Emergency Guide : Basic procedures to follow for emergency situations at Syracuse University Law enforcement patrols in near-campus neighborhoods Syracuse Police Department (SPD) Partnership Orange Alert Orange Alert is the emergency notification system that Syracuse University uses to communicate changes to the campus status the community. During an emergency, notifications are sent via text, phone call, and email, and information is additionally printed above the top navigation of webpages across the Syracuse Web Presence, such as this one. Be Prepared Emergency situations, such as power outages, severe weather, and illnesses, can strike when you least expect them. Syracuse University has comprehensive emergency response plans and we encourage students, parents, faculty, and staff to be aware of these plans and prepared for an emergency. For Students For Parents For Faculty and Staff Related Pages Department of Public Safety The Department of Public Safety works every day to keep the Syracuse University community a safe and secure place to live, learn, and work. Safety Escort Program Parking and Transportation Services offers safety escort shuttles which operate nightly from 9 p.m. to 6 a.m. throughout the year. Emergency Guide Basic procedures to follow in emergency situations, including what to do and which department(s) to notify. Threat Assessment and Management Team This team is an interdisciplinary group of appropriately trained professional Syracuse University staff, convened on an ad hoc basis, to evaluate concerns regarding potential physical threats to the campus community. Popular Toggle dropdown Academic Calendar Campus Map Careers Libraries Majors and Minors Visit and Tour A-Z Toggle dropdown Academic Departments Schools and Colleges Sitemap Search Contact Toggle dropdown Admissions Financial Aid Emergency Contacts Human Resources Make a Gift Login Toggle dropdown MySlice Blackboard SUMail Syracuse University 900 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, NY 13244 Phone: +1.315.443.1870 Follow S.U. on Instagram Like S.U. on Facebook Follow S.U. on Twitter Follow S.U. on LinkedIn Follow S.U. on Tiktok Subscribe to S.U. on YouTube © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy