Skip to main content Skip to main navigation School of Engineering and Computer Science Menu Students & Academics Student Services Career Center Student Leadership Learning Resource Center Scholarships List of ECS Scholarships Student Organizations Incoming Students Summer Accelerate Program Summer of Discovery Freshmen Fall Incoming Freshmen Equipment Requirements and Computer Recommendations Transfer Course Recommendations Entrance and Progression Standards ECS Scholars Program Academic Advising Meet with an ECS Advisor Advising Walk-in Hours Course Drops Academic Actions Certification for Graduation ECS Summer Courses Advising Resources Pre-Engineering Requirements ECS Course Repeat Policy Final Exam Policy Teal Residential College ECS ID Management ECS Scholars Program Degree Programs Flow Charts Capstone Meet Our Alumni ECS Digital Brochure ECS Student Organization Fair Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Research Bioinformatics Computer Science Electrical and Computer Engineering Mechanical Engineering Engineering Materials Science About Education Materials Science Faculty Get Involved Give Dean's Funding Initiatives Quick Impact Giving Planned Giving Matching Gifts Corporate Collaborations Engineering Corporate Affiliate Program Computer Science Corporate Affiliate Program Cybersecurity Corporate Affiliate Program Alumni ASEE Gulf Southwest Conference 2021 About the ASEE GSW Conference Abstract and Paper Submission Conference Agenda and Program Conference Host Conference Registration Conference Organization About Mission Statement Dean's Welcome Office of the Dean Staff Directory ABET Board of Advocates Board Members Synergy Magazine Synergy Magazine - Archives News Events Admission & Aid Departments Informatics About Us Degree Programs Bachelor of Science in Informatics: Bioinformatics Bachelor of Science in Informatics: Data Science major Research Computer Science About Us ABET Chair's Welcome Degree Programs Bachelor of Science in Computer Science Bachelor of Science in Computer Science: Software Engineering Concentration Bachelor of Science in Computer Science: Cybersecurity Concentration Bachelor of Arts Bachelor of Science with Computer Science Fellows Major Online Master of Science Master of Science Doctor of Philosophy Research Bioinformatics Competitive Learning Cybersecurity & Networking Data Science Human-Computer Interaction Machine Learning Software Engineering VLSI Design Giving Electrical & Computer Engineering About Us ABET Welcome from the Chair eBears Seminars Cadence University Program Programs Bachelor of Science B.S. & M.S. Joint Program B.S. & Master of Engineering Joint Program B.S. & M.S. Joint Program Master of Science Doctor of Philosophy Research Biomedical Computing Engineering and Cyber-Physical Systems Material and Devices Sustainable Energy and Power Systems Wireless & Microwave Circuits & Systems Alumni Giving Open Faculty Positions Mechanical Engineering About Us ABET Welcome from the Chair Programs Bachelor of Science B.S. & M.S. Joint Program B.S. & M.S. Joint Program B.S. & M.E. Joint Program M.S. Ph.D. Research Advance Materials and Additive Manufacturing Biomechanics and Biomedical Engineering Energy Systems Engineering Geriatric Engineering Humanitarian Engineering and Engineering Ethics Sustainable Engineering Thermo-Fluids Engineering Open Faculty Positions Engineering About Us ABET Programs Bachelor of Science B.S. & M.S. Joint Program B.S. & M.E. Joint Program M.B.A. & M.E. Joint Program Master of Science Master of Engineering Research 25th Anniversary School of Engineering and Computer Science Timeline Stories Rick Tullis Kimmie Sandusky Mario Lopez Heather Benoit Jay D. Battershell Denton Wood Videos Marques Jones Heather Benoit Spotlight Timeline Merchandise Baylor>Engineering & Computer Science>Get Involved>Give>Dean's Funding Initiatives Dean's Funding Initiatives Faculty Support Strategic Growth In order to expand the depth and breadth of the School of Engineering and Computer Science's teaching and academic inquiry, Dean O'Neal and his faculty have identified the following priority areas for strategic growth: MECHANICAL ENGINEERING Biomedical Engineering Sustainable Energy Healthy Aging ELECTRICAL AND COMPUTER ENGINEERING Wireless Technology Cyber Physical Systems COMPUTER SCIENCE Bioinformatics Cyber Security Simulated Environments The School is seeking to grow its resources and faculty support through teh establishment of endowed faculty positions and programmatic support in order to recruit faculty leaders for its departments who will grow its programs and help the School remain relevant and forward-focused. Postdoctoral Fellowships and Research Funds In response to the goals of Illuminate, Dean O'Neal has charged faculty members with increasing their efforts in scientific discovery. Research is the engine that drives compelling and current instruction in the classrooms, discovery in the laboratory and publications within scientific journals that elevate the prestige and national profile of the School. In order to make these advances through research, the School must secure funding for postdoctoral fellowships and research funds, providing the capacity for faculty to conduct research while still investing in students in the classroom. If you're interested in investing in faculty or fellowships, contact Jenna Hoff. Program Support Humanitarian Engineering and Outreach As a Christian institution, Baylor attracts mission-minded students who are eager to make a difference and who look to the institution to help equip them with the skills necessary to make an impact. The School of Engineering and Computer Science has responded to such student interest by creating the Humanitarian Engineering concentration, which continues to draw students to the School. In order to better equip our students, as well as to meet the demand for this area of study, the School is seeking funding for faculty positions to grow the concentration into the program. The School is also seeking further funding to increase the number of students able to participate in discipline-specific mission trips, as well as funding for community outreach projects. Give to Engineers with a Mission Design Experience The emphasis on experiential learning for Engineering and Computer Science students continues to grow. From laboratory coursework to the Senior Capstone Desgin Project, students' access to hands-on projects that provide space for mistakes and reflective learning helps them to synthesize the many elements of their coursework derived from letures and textbooks. Design Experience Funds will allow Baylor Engineering and Computer Science to engage with experts in specialized fields to provide constructive feedback and concept evaluation of relevant Capstone Projects. Give to Capstone Design Student Support Many companies hire students based on their student organization participation. Being involved in a student organization gives students leadership, project management and team collaboration experience. Give to the Student Life Fund Few investments more directly impact the life of a Baylor Engineering and Computer Science student than a scholarship. For many, it's a determining factor in their decision to come to Baylor. Scholarships touch students' lives in a powerful and personal way - for many, it is the only way they can access a Baylor education. Our students fill the gap between their unmet financial needs and their access to Baylor through federal student loans, personal loans, or through out-of-pocket resources. Give to Student Scholarships Equipment and Facilities Support Creating endowment and equipment funds for the Department of Computer Science, Electrical and Computer Engineering, and Mechanical Engineering will allow faculty to keep current with industry standards and remain relevant. Give to the Laboratory Equipment Fund Learn more at www.baylor.edu/givelight/ecs. Contact our ECS Gift Officer Every gift is important. Every gift makes a difference. We are grateful for all of the creative ways you choose to give! For questions, please contact: Jenna Hoff Director of Development and Corporate Relations Jenna_Hoff@baylor.edu 254.710.7809 Get Involved Give Dean's Funding Initiatives Quick Impact Giving Planned Giving Matching Gifts Corporate Collaborations Engineering Corporate Affiliate Program Computer Science Corporate Affiliate Program Cybersecurity Corporate Affiliate Program Alumni ASEE Gulf Southwest Conference 2021 About the ASEE GSW Conference Abstract and Paper Submission Conference Agenda and Program Conference Host Conference Registration Conference Organization School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Engineering & Computer Science One Bear Place #97356 Waco, TX 76798-7356 Computer Science One Bear Place #97141 Waco, TX 76798-7141 (254) 710-3890 ECS_Student_Services@baylor.edu Apply Give Questions for Undergraduate Programs Questions for Graduate Programs General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 Students & Academics Student Services Career Center Student Leadership Learning Resource Center Scholarships Student Organizations Incoming Students Academic Advising Teal Residential College ECS ID Management ECS Scholars Program Degree Programs Flow Charts Capstone Meet Our Alumni ECS Digital Brochure ECS Student Organization Fair Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Research Bioinformatics Computer Science Electrical and Computer Engineering Mechanical Engineering Engineering Materials Science Get Involved Give Dean's Funding Initiatives Quick Impact Giving Planned Giving Matching Gifts Corporate Collaborations Engineering Corporate Affiliate Program Computer Science Corporate Affiliate Program Cybersecurity Corporate Affiliate Program Alumni ASEE Gulf Southwest Conference 2021 About the ASEE GSW Conference Abstract and Paper Submission Conference Agenda and Program Conference Host Conference Registration Conference Organization About Mission Statement Dean's Welcome Office of the Dean Staff Directory ABET Board of Advocates Board Members Synergy Magazine Synergy Magazine - Archives News Events Admission & Aid Departments Informatics About Us Degree Programs Research Computer Science About Us Degree Programs Research Giving Electrical & Computer Engineering About Us Programs Research Alumni Giving Open Faculty Positions Mechanical Engineering About Us Programs Research Open Faculty Positions Engineering About Us Programs Research 25th Anniversary School of Engineering and Computer Science Timeline Stories Rick Tullis Kimmie Sandusky Mario Lopez Heather Benoit Jay D. Battershell Denton Wood Videos Marques Jones Heather Benoit Spotlight Timeline Merchandise