Skip Navigation menu search Sign-ons CyMail Outlook Canvas AccessPlus Workday More Directory Maps Contact Us Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Office of Research Ethics menu Home Compliance Committees IRB (Humans) IACUC (Animals) FAQ a-tune Program Information Training Policies Forms Review Process Post-Approval Monitoring Guidance & Education Committee & Meeting Info Laboratory Animal Resources Attending Veterinarian IBC (Biohazards) RSC (Radiation) Additional ORE Support Areas About Us Reporting Concerns Why Comply? How to Comply Responsible Conduct of Research ClinicalTrials.gov Registration Animals - Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee (IACUC) Mission and Vision The mission of the Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee (IACUC) is to ensure the humane care and use of animals in research, teaching, and testing, and to ensure compliance with guidelines and regulations. IACUC's vision is to ensure the humane care and use of animals while interpreting the regulations in a practical, meaningful, and reasonable manner that facilitates valuable research, teaching, and testing. Purpose The Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee (IACUC) must approve any activities that involve the use of live vertebrate animals. Specific examples of such activities and/or uses are research, including field studies and clinical trials; use of blood donor animals; breeding colonies; scheduled courses; continuing education offerings. Faculty are expected to obtain IACUC approval for these activities regardless of where the animals are maintained and/or the project is carried out. However, if a project is to be done at a site or in cooperation with an institution that has its own Animal Care and Use Committee, a copy of that committee's approved form may be submitted to the IACUC. IACUC approval is not required when all procedures are being carried out on tissues obtained from a slaughterhouse or from animals euthanized for another purpose. If, however, animals are procured and euthanized/slaughtered to obtain tissues for a particular project, that project must be approved by the IACUC. Partners The Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee (IACUC) comprises one part of Iowa State University's overarching Animal Care and Use Program. The IACUC works closely with its program partners and the Institutional Official to assure that all components of the program are appropriately administered. For more detailed information about the Animal Care and Use Program, click on the links below: Organizational Chart Components and Responsible Parties Office of Research Ethics, 2420 Lincoln Way, Suite 202, Ames, IA 50014, 515-294-1516, Contact Us. Copyright © 1995-2022, Iowa State University of Science and Technology. All rights reserved.