Skip to main content Skip to site menu Skip to Brown menu Skip to site search Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Enter search keyword About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Business, Entrepreneurship and Organizations Business Pathways @ Brown New Curricular Pathways FAQs Business, Entrepreneurship and Organizations New Curricular Pathways FAQs It is key to note that the BEO Concentration as it exists today with 15-16 credits (depending upon the track) and the culminating senior year capstone project will continue through the academic year 2022-2023. For currently enrolled students and for those students entering in the fall of 2019 the BEO Concentration will continue alongside the new curricular pathways. Please see the New Curricular Pathways FAQs page for comparison tables and links to the new offerings. What are the new curricular offerings in addition to the three BEO tracks? The Department of Economics is offering a new track within the Economics concentration called Business Economics (AB Economics: Business Economics Track) The Department of Sociology is offering a new track within the Sociology concentration called Organizational Studies (AB Sociology: Organizational Studies Track) The Nelson Center for Entrepreneurship is offering a Certificate in Entrepreneurship in partnership with the School of Engineering Why are there new options? In the spring of 2019, the Departments of Economics and Sociology established new tracks within their concentrations for Business Economics and Organizational Studies, respectively. These new concentrations were created to allow students to pursue these fields with significant disciplinary depth, relevant and focused advising, and the flexibility to take full advantage of Brown’s Open Curriculum. In addition, the Nelson Center, in partnership with the School of Engineering, has created an undergraduate certificate program in entrepreneurship, which will provide curricular structure for undergraduate students who wish to make entrepreneurship an important part of their intellectual journey at Brown. When do the changes take place? The Program in BEO and all of its current BEO track offerings remain in place through the Class of 2023 The new concentration offerings in the Departments of Economics (AB Economics: Business Economics Track) and Sociology (AB Sociology: Organizational Studies Track) will be available to all Brown students in the fall of 2019. These new concentration offerings are available to the classes of 2020 and beyond.Students who wish to add another concentration should note relevant deadlines: second concentrations must be approved in ASK by the last day of classes in their penultimate (typically 7th) semester. The Certificate in Entrepreneurship will be available to Brown students who are in their 5th or 6th semester in the spring of 2020. The first class to graduate with a Certificate in Entrepreneurship will be the Class of 2022. BEO Transition - Academic Year View 2019-20 2020-21 2021-22 2022-23 2023-24 BEO in place for Class of 2020 BEO in place for Class of 2021 BEO in place for Class of 2022 BEO in place for Class of 2023 New Offerings for the Class of 2024 Economics Concentration: Business Econ Track Sociology Concentration: Organization Studies Track AB Engineering Beginning in the spring of 2020, students in their 5th or 6th semester may begin the pursuit of a Certificate in Entrepreneurship. The first graduating class to be granted Certificates will be the class of 2022. What are the main differences between the BEO Business Economics track and the new Economics Department Business Economics track? The BEO Business Economics (BEO-BUSE) concentration track requires students to complete 15 courses, 9 of which are in the discipline of Economics. This track provides a multi-disciplinary approach in the foundation courses including organizational theory, introduction to entrepreneurial methods and related business practices and, an overview of the impact of current technologies on the future of work. In addition, the BEO Business Economics concentration provides all seniors with an opportunity to apply their academic knowledge to real-world problems by working in small teams with C-suite executives on semester-long capstone projects. The Economics Business Economics (ECON-BUSE) requires 12 courses, all of which are in the discipline of Economics. This track will provide greater depth in upper-level economics classes and because it requires 12 total courses, students will have more opportunity to explore research projects, an honors thesis and Brown’s open curriculum. What is the difference between the BEO Organizational Studies (BEO-ORGS) track and the new Sociology concentration with a track in the Organizational Studies (S-OS)? The BEO Business Organizational Studies track (BEO-ORGS) requires students to complete 15 courses. This track provides a multi-disciplinary approach in the foundation courses including economic theory, organizational theory, introduction to entrepreneurial methods and related business practices and, overview of the impact of current technologies on the future of work. In addition, the BEO Organizational Studies provides all seniors with an opportunity to apply their academic knowledge to real-world problems by working in small teams with C-suite executives on two-semester long capstone projects. The new concentration in Sociology with a track in Organizational Studies (S-OS) requires students to complete 10 courses which will ensure a firm grasp of the conceptual frameworks at the core of sociological analysis, a proficiency in the methodological techniques at the core of sociological research and an understanding of organizational theory. This new Organizational Studies track will take the same foundation sequence of social theory and research methods courses as general Sociology concentrators. A senior seminar course is required which will prepare students for independent research projects or an honors thesis. What is the difference between the BEO Entrepreneurship and Technology Management track and a Bachelor of Arts in Engineering? The BEO Entrepreneurship and Technology Management (BEO-ETCM) track requires students to complete 16 courses and provides an academic grounding in economic and social theory and practice, an introduction to entrepreneurial methods and related business practices and, an overview of the impact of current technologies on the future of work. In addition, the BEO Entrepreneurship and Technology Management (BEO-ETCM) concentration provides all seniors with an opportunity to apply their academic and technical knowledge on year-long capstone project in which BEO-ETCM students are asked to launch a business that requires engineering product development and prototype testing in the senior year BEO capstone. An AB in Engineering at Brown requires 11 total courses. This course of study allows students to take full advantage of the open curriculum by having 21 elective courses. It should be noted that the AB in Engineering is not accredited by the ABET and requires careful course planning and approval by an Engineering Concentration Advisor and the Chair of the Engineering Concentration Committee. What are the requirements for a Certificate in Entrepreneurship? The certificate in entrepreneurship will require 5 courses. Certificates will be available to Brown students who are in either their 5th or 6th semester in the spring of 2020. The two core classes will be Management of Industrial and Nonprofit Organizations (ENGN0090) and The Entrepreneurial Process (ENGN1010). Students must have two electives available from a broad list of options. The fifth class will be an experiential course (practicum) related to entrepreneurship, mentored by faculty/staff in the Nelson Center for Entrepreneurship. When will the Certificate in Entrepreneurship be available? Certificates will be available for students in their fifth or sixth semester in the spring semester of 2020. The first class to graduate with a certificate will be 2022. If I am a declared BEO concentrator, can I drop my BEO concentration and declare one of the new offerings in Economics, Sociology or Engineering? At any time in your academic career at Brown you are able to drop a concentration and declare another as long as you can successfully meet the requirements for the new concentration, be it one of the new offerings in Economics, Sociology or Engineering or any other concentration offered. As a BEO concentrator, will I continue to have my same faculty track advisor? We make every effort to ensure that students have one faculty track advisor during their BEO academic career, however due to sabbatical leaves and the occasional unplanned leave, faculty advisors may change. We do anticipate some advisor changes in the 2019-20 academic year. You will receive notifications via ASK of any updates to your advisor. If I declare a new concentration, and drop my current BEO concentration, can I also participate in the BEO capstone course? No. Capstone experiences are designed to draw upon the academic content of the BEO curriculum. Students in the capstone are required to demonstrate knowledge of organizational, economic, entrepreneurial and technology management theories and methods from courses within the BEO curriculum. Will I be able to double concentrate in one of the existing BEO tracks and also one of the the new offerings in Economics, Sociology or Engineering? Students double concentrating are not allowed to have more than two courses that overlap with both concentrations. Therefore the following combinations would not be allowed: BEO-BUSE and ECON-BUSE BEO-ORGS and S-OS It may be possible to double concentrate in Engineering (AB) and in one of the existing BEO tracks or one of the new offerings (ECON-BUSE or S-OS) Home People BEO Concentration The BEO Capstone BEO Concentration FAQs and Tips Business Pathways @ Brown New Curricular Pathways Details New Curricular Pathways FAQs Graduate Research Print this Page Share this Page Sayles Hall, Suite 015 Brown University Box 1922 79-81 Waterman Street Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401-863-6348 Fax 401-863-6415 Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory Related Programs Program in Management and Entrepreneurship IE Brown Executive MBA Department of Sociology Department of Economics School of Engineering Get Involved BEO DUG Entrepreneurship Program BEO Newsletter | Subscribe Here Jonathan M. Nelson Center for Entrepreneurship