Skip to Main Content HBS Home About Academic Programs Alumni Faculty & Research Baker Library Giving Harvard Business Review Initiatives News Recruit Map / Directions Faculty & Research Faculty Research Featured Topics Academic Units …→ Harvard Business School→ Faculty & Research→ Faculty Faculty Positions Byungyeon Kim Doctoral Student Doctoral Student Byungyeon Kim is a PhD candidate in the Marketing Unit at Harvard Business School. Byungyeon's research focuses on sales management, specifically in the domains of personal selling and business-to-business marketing. He examines the implications of sales management policy design on salespeople's behavior and is particularly interested in ways to better motivate and direct salespeople toward organization's goals. To answer the research questions, he formulates empirical models based on industrial organization and econometrics methods as well as principal-agent and microeconomic theories. Across a number of projects, he investigates the implications of compensation, training, call planning, and shift-scheduling policies on the performance and selection of salespeople. Most recently, his job market paper examines the role of behavior-based and outcome-based control measures on sales force behavior. Read more Byungyeon Kim is a PhD candidate in the Marketing Unit at Harvard Business School. Byungyeon's research focuses on sales management, specifically in the domains of personal selling and business-to-business marketing. He examines the implications of sales management policy design on salespeople's behavior and is particularly interested in ways to better motivate and direct salespeople toward organization's goals. To answer the research questions, he formulates empirical models based on industrial organization and econometrics methods as well as principal-agent and microeconomic theories. Across a number of projects, he investigates the implications of compensation, training, call planning, and shift-scheduling policies on the performance and selection of salespeople. Most recently, his job market paper examines the role of behavior-based and outcome-based control measures on sales force behavior. Byungyeon received his Master of Science in Marketing and Bachelor in Business Administration, both from Korea University Business School. Prior to his studies, he worked as a marketing manager in the marketing strategy department at POSCO. Less +1 →Send Email Contact Information Send Email Publications Journal Articles Journal Articles Chung, Doug J., Byungyeon Kim, and Byoung G. Park. "The Comprehensive Effects of Sales Force Management: A Dynamic Structural Analysis of Selection, Compensation, and Training." Management Science 67, no. 11 (November 2021): 7046–7074. View Details Chung, Doug J., Byungyeon Kim, and Niladri B. Syam. "A Practical Approach to Sales Compensation: What Do We Know Now? What Should We Know in the Future?" Foundations and Trends® in Marketing 14, no. 1 (2020): 1–52. View Details Chung, Doug J., Byungyeon Kim, and Byoung G. Park. "How Do Sales Efforts Pay Off? Dynamic Panel Data Analysis in the Nerlove-Arrow Framework." Management Science 65, no. 11 (November 2019): 5197–5218. View Details Working Papers Working Papers Chung, Doug J., Byungyeon Kim, and Byoung G. Park. "Time Dependence and Preference: Implications for Compensation Structure and Shift Scheduling." Harvard Business School Working Paper, No. 21-121, April 2021. View Details All Publications Byungyeon Kim is a PhD candidate in the Marketing Unit at Harvard Business School. Byungyeon's research focuses on sales management, specifically in the domains of personal selling and business-to-business marketing. He examines the implications of sales management policy design on salespeople's behavior and is particularly interested in ways to better motivate and direct salespeople toward organization's goals. To answer the research questions, he formulates empirical models based on industrial organization and econometrics methods as well as principal-agent and microeconomic theories. Across a number of projects, he investigates the implications of compensation, training, call planning, and shift-scheduling policies on the performance and selection of salespeople. Most recently, his job market paper examines the role of behavior-based and outcome-based control measures on sales force behavior. Byungyeon received his Master of Science in Marketing and Bachelor in Business Administration, both from Korea University Business School. Prior to his studies, he worked as a marketing manager in the marketing strategy department at POSCO. Journal Articles Chung, Doug J., Byungyeon Kim, and Byoung G. Park. "The Comprehensive Effects of Sales Force Management: A Dynamic Structural Analysis of Selection, Compensation, and Training." Management Science 67, no. 11 (November 2021): 7046–7074. View Details Chung, Doug J., Byungyeon Kim, and Niladri B. Syam. "A Practical Approach to Sales Compensation: What Do We Know Now? What Should We Know in the Future?" Foundations and Trends® in Marketing 14, no. 1 (2020): 1–52. View Details Chung, Doug J., Byungyeon Kim, and Byoung G. Park. "How Do Sales Efforts Pay Off? Dynamic Panel Data Analysis in the Nerlove-Arrow Framework." Management Science 65, no. 11 (November 2019): 5197–5218. View Details Working Papers Chung, Doug J., Byungyeon Kim, and Byoung G. Park. "Time Dependence and Preference: Implications for Compensation Structure and Shift Scheduling." Harvard Business School Working Paper, No. 21-121, April 2021. View Details Additional Information Personal Website Curriculum Vitae Area of Study Marketing Areas of Interest business marketing customer relationship management marketing sales force management Additional Information Personal Website Curriculum Vitae Area of Study Marketing Areas of Interest business marketing customer relationship management marketing sales force management ǁ Harvard Business School Soldiers Field Boston, MA 02163 →Map & Directions →More Contact Information Make a Gift Site Map Jobs Harvard University Trademarks Policies Digital Accessibility Copyright © President & Fellows of Harvard College