Home Home Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni College of the Environment School of Oceanography 105 Oceanography Teaching Building 206-543-5060 Website Faculty Website student@ocean.washington.edu Oceanography - the study of the marine environment and its interactions with the earth, the biosphere, and the atmosphere - is prompted both by the intellectual desire to understand how the oceans move and how life develops in a salty, cold environment, and the need to use wisely the ocean's resources for the benefit of humanity. Oceanography integrates the basic principles of biology, chemistry, geology, and physics into scientific research in the marine environment. Applications of high technology to oceanographic instrumentation and vessels, increasingly sophisticated computers, satellite remote sensing, and innovative methodologies are rapidly opening new possibilities for exploration and study. At the undergraduate level, Oceanography is presented as an integrated interdisciplinary science that prepares students for a broad range of careers. At the graduate level, Oceanography is specialized into four areas of emphasis: Biological, Chemical, Geology and Geophysics, and Physical. Undergraduate Programs Program of Study: Major: Oceanography Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Oceanography Bachelor of Science degree with a major in Oceanography Program of Study: Minor: Oceanography Minor in Oceanography Graduate Programs Program of Study: Doctor Of Philosophy (Oceanography) Doctor Of Philosophy (Oceanography) Doctor Of Philosophy (Oceanography: Advanced Data Science) Doctor Of Philosophy (Oceanography: Oceanography And Astrobiology) Program of Study: Master Of Science (Oceanography) Master Of Science (Oceanography) Undergraduate Programs School of Oceanography 108 Oceanography Teaching Building 206- 543-5039 student@ocean.washington.edu Program of Study: Major: Oceanography Program Overview The undergraduate program in Oceanography provides students with an interdisciplinary science background that prepares them for a broad range of careers. Students can pursue a Bachelor of Science, Bachelor of Arts or a Minor in Oceanography. Oceanography partners with other departments to support interdisciplinary minors in Marine Biology, Climate and Arctic Studies. This program of study leads to the following credentials: Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Oceanography Bachelor of Science degree with a major in Oceanography Recommended Preparation Suggested Pre-College Courses: Interest in natural sciences and a good record in high school science courses, particularly mathematics. One year each of biology, chemistry, physics, and earth sciences recommended. Suggested First- and Second-Year College Courses: MATH 124; CHEM 120 or CHEM 142 and CHEM 152; BIOL 180, BIOL 200; ESS 210 or ESS 211; PHYS 121; either OCEAN 215 or CSE 160; OCEAN 200, OCEAN 201, OCEAN 210, OCEAN 220, OCEAN 285, OCEAN 286, and OCEAN 295; and English composition. Admission Requirements Students in good academic standing may declare this major at any time. Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Oceanography Credential Overview The Oceanography Bachelor of Arts degree provides a solid background in the basic principles of Oceanography using the same foundational core as the Bachelor of Science degree. The B. A. diverges from the B. S. during the senior year, with additional flexibility that allows students to tailor their course of study to their individual interest in other areas of the sciences or humanities. Completion Requirements General Education Requirements All majors must satisfy the College of the Environment general education requirements. University-required additional writing credits may include OCEAN 220, OCEAN 443, and OCEAN 445. Completion Requirements Minimum 104 credits Core requirements (79 credits): PHYS 121; MATH 124, MATH 125; CHEM 120 or CHEM 142; BIOL 180, BIOL 200; ESS 210 or ESS 211; OCEAN 200, OCEAN 201, OCEAN 210, either OCEAN 215 or CSE 160, OCEAN 220, OCEAN 285, OCEAN 286, OCEAN 295, OCEAN 310, OCEAN 320, OCEAN 330, OCEAN 351 Elective foundational science (5 credits): one of PHYS 122, MATH 126, CHEM 152, BIOL 220, or OCEAN 270 300- or 400-level oceanography coursework that may include the senior thesis sequence, selected in the student's area of specialization, in consultation with a faculty adviser (minimum 10 credits) Upper-division science, mathematics, or engineering, selected in the student's area of specialization, in consultation with a faculty adviser (10 credits) Back to Top Bachelor of Science degree with a major in Oceanography Credential Overview The School of Oceanography offers a unique undergraduate major program leading to a Bachelor of Science in Oceanography that emphasizes a solid basic science training and interdisciplinary approach, and provides ample opportunities for field and research experience. The course of study integrates a foundation in biology, chemistry, physics and geology into science of the marine environment. Students conduct independent research in areas such as biological, chemical, physical oceanography, marine geology and geophysics, or ocean technology. Completion Requirements General Education Requirements All majors must satisfy the College of the Environment general education requirements. University-required additional writing credits may include OCEAN 220, OCEAN 443, and OCEAN 445. Completion Requirements Minimum 116 credits Core requirements(79 credits): PHYS 121 ; MATH 124, MATH 125; CHEM 120 or CHEM 142; BIOL 180, BIOL 200; ESS 210 or ESS 211; OCEAN 200, OCEAN 201, OCEAN 210, either OCEAN 215 or CSE 160, OCEAN 220, OCEAN 285, OCEAN 286, OCEAN 295, OCEAN 310, OCEAN 320, OCEAN 330, OCEAN 351. Senior thesis sequence (8 credits): OCEAN 443, OCEAN 444, OCEAN 445 Elective foundational science (5 credits): one of PHYS 122, MATH 126, CHEM 152, BIOL 220, or OCEAN 270 300- or 400-level oceanography coursework selected in the student's area of specialization, in consultation with a faculty adviser (9 credits) Upper-division science, mathematics, or engineering, selected in the student's area of specialization, in consultation with a faculty adviser (15 credits) Students with introductory science and mathematics courses equivalent to those listed are encouraged to contact the Oceanography adviser. Back to Top Program of Study: Minor: Oceanography Program Overview The undergraduate program in Oceanography provides students with an interdisciplinary science background that prepares them for a broad range of careers. Students can pursue a Bachelor of Science, Bachelor of Arts or a Minor in Oceanography. Oceanography partners with other departments to support interdisciplinary minors in Marine Biology, Climate and Arctic Studies. This program of study leads to the following credential: Minor in Oceanography Minor in Oceanography Credential Overview The Oceanography minor is designed for students pursuing science degrees to tailor their studies to the marine environment. The minor could also serve as a background for a career in teaching, administration, marine affairs, environmental studies, production, inspection, ocean engineering, instrumentation development, and statistical analysis. Completion Requirements 26 credits OCEAN 200, OCEAN 210 One of the following sequences: OCEAN 285, OCEAN 286, and OCEAN 320; or OCEAN 295 and OCEAN 330; or one of ESS 210 or ESS 211 and OCEAN 310 9 credits of OCEAN electives, chosen from 300- and 400-level oceanography courses Back to Top Additional Information Student Outcomes and Opportunities Learning Objectives and Expected Outcomes: The degree offers students a solid foundation in biological, chemical, geological, and physical oceanography, together with more specialized expertise in one of those options. Expertise is gained through team-based field and laboratory research during the sophomore and junior years, then by independent research on a thesis topic during the senior year. Emphasis is on building skills with the tools and techniques of shipboard oceanographic research and data analysis and interpretation. Students engage in fieldwork and data collection, learn to analyze and interpret that data, and prepare scientific reports. Additionally students acquire familiarity with the specialized instruments of oceanographic research. The program prepares students to enter the profession directly or to pursue graduate studies. Oceanographers seek to produce a new understanding of an ocean system and to explore the potential consequences to the marine environment of human activities. They collect samples and data, analyze and interpret them, and prepare and disseminate the results. They work at sea, on land, in laboratories, and with computers. Most are employed in education and research institutions and federal, state and local government agencies. Other employers include environmental consulting firms and private companies extracting and harvesting marine products. A degree can also serve as a background for a career in teaching, administration, marine affairs, computing, or environmental studies. Instructional and Research Facilities: The school has extensive laboratory facilities equipped with highly specialized instruments and computers for teaching and research. The school operates two research vessels: the 274 foot R/V Thomas G. Thompson, used chiefly for open ocean research throughout the world, and the 65 foot R/V Clifford A. Barnes, used for research in coastal waters and estuaries of Washington. Undergraduate students have ample opportunities to gain research experience in the laboratories of faculty and to do oceanographic research in Puget Sound. Honors Options Available: With College Honors (Completion of Honors Core Curriculum and Departmental Honors); With Honors (Completion of Departmental Honors requirements in the major). See adviser for requirements. Research, Internships, and Service Learning: Special opportunities for oceanography majors are provided by involving students in undergraduate research projects and part-time employment. Department Scholarships: See adviser for availability. Student Organizations/Associations: The Student Oceanographic Society (SOS) provides peer advice, organizes field trips, sponsors alumni career panels, and holds social gatherings. Graduate Programs School of Oceanography Program of Study: Doctor Of Philosophy (Oceanography) This program of study leads to the following credentials: Doctor Of Philosophy (Oceanography) Doctor Of Philosophy (Oceanography: Advanced Data Science) Doctor Of Philosophy (Oceanography: Oceanography And Astrobiology) Admission Requirements Contact department for requirements. Doctor Of Philosophy (Oceanography) Completion Requirements Contact department for requirements. Back to Top Doctor Of Philosophy (Oceanography: Advanced Data Science) Completion Requirements Contact department for requirements. Back to Top Doctor Of Philosophy (Oceanography: Oceanography And Astrobiology) Completion Requirements Contact department for requirements. Back to Top Program of Study: Master Of Science (Oceanography) This program of study leads to the following credential: Master Of Science (Oceanography) Admission Requirements Contact department for requirements. Master Of Science (Oceanography) Completion Requirements Contact department for requirements. Back to Top University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms Newsletter © University of Washington | Seattle, WA