Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Annual Giving Donate Now Giving Options Affinity Groups Matching Gifts FAQs Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Student Giving Donate Now Senior Class Gift Common Cents Philanthropy Council Take Action Senior Class Gift Faculty and Staff Phonathon Online Giving Form Phonathon Student Callers Follow Us Online InstagramFacebooktwitter Home Annual Giving Student Giving Common Cents Student Giving It just takes a few CENTS to benefit the COMMON good! The Common Cents Council is a student organization of dedicated students at the University of Memphis committed to raising awareness of philanthropy and giving among UofM students. The council has a goal to teach peers about the benefits of philanthropy, collect funds for student-centered campus projects, helping fund raise for the Senior Class Gift and inspire students to make an impact at the UofM. We also serve as a student development board, assisting the Office of Annual Giving in raising awareness about the impact of private giving at The University of Memphis. Council members get a first-hand look at fundraising operations for the University and work actively with the development team on marketing campaigns, events, and other activities. If you are a current student and: Have a True Blue University of Memphis spirit Want to be part of enhancements at the University of Memphis Enjoy meeting new people Participate in campus activities Are interested in philanthropy Want to build your résumé You belong on the Common Cents Council! Click here to complete an application today. Read about the roles and responsibilities of the Council Leadership Board. Read about the roles and responsibilities of Council Members. The Common Cents Council meets only 1 time per month. Other meetings and events are held periodically throughout the year. When you give, you strengthen, serve, and support the University of Memphis. Show your True Blue Tiger Spirit and become a student donor. Make your gift today! Click here to view Frequently Asked Questions. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 12/9/19 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.