Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Alumni Association Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Alumni Clubs Alumni Community Benefits CAA Arts Access Career Resources Events Get Involved News Columbia Alumni Association You are here: Home CAA Chile | Visit the first electric bus depot in Latin America Events Past Event CAA Chile | Visit the first electric bus depot in Latin America Share Add to Calendar: Calendar / Outlook Google Yahoo April 22, 2022 10:00 AM - 12:00 PM America/Santiago Off-campus Join the Columbia Alumni Association of Chile for a private tour of the first electric bus depot in Latin America, located in Peñalolén. The Italian utility company Enel built the facility, which is operated by bus company MetBus. Alumni will have the opportunity to learn about how the depot works, how lithium batteries and charging systems function and other details. The depot opened in 2019, and is part of a national policy to develop electric-powered transportation alternatives in Chile. Gabriel Guggisberg ’18SIPA will lead the tour. He worked in the electromobility team of the Sustainable Energy Agency, which implements projects for the Ministries of Transport and Energy. If you’re taking public transportation, buses D03, 510 and 516 leave you at the entrance. There are no parking spots in the facility. If you arrive by car, there is informal parking between the curb and the sidewalk. Please confirm your attendance. There is limited capacity so we encourage early registration. RSVP: https://chile.alumni.columbia.edu/electric_bus_depot? Contact Information CAA Chile [email protected] Upcoming Events Columbia Alumni Center 622 West 113th Street, Mail Code 4525 · New York, NY 10025 Phone 212-851-7800 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close