Skip to main content Skip to site menu Skip to Brown menu Skip to site search Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Enter search keyword About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Brown Center for Students of Color Senior Graduation Ceremony Brown Center for Students of Color Senior Graduation Ceremony Live stream our Latinx Pre-Comencement Ceremony here from 5:30 PM-8:00 PM Saturday, May 28th, 2022. Live stream our ONYX Rights of Passage Ceremony here from 5:30 PM-8:00 PM Saturday, May 28th, 2022. The Latinx Pre-Commencement Ceremony and the ONYX Ceremony are sacred celebrations that congratulates undergraduate students for successfully completing their studies at Brown University. It is also an opportunity to recognize the intergenerational history and tradition in which graduating students are inducted into the alumni council. Held the evening before Commencement, the ceremony consists of a processional, a stole presentation, and a keynote address from a distinguished alum. All graduating students will receive ONE free ticket and will be allowed to purchase FOUR additional tickets for family members and guests. For those students who may need financial assistance for purchasing guest tickets please complete our waiver application form to see if you qualify for financial ticketing assistance. The waiver application will be available from Thursday, February 10 - Friday, February 25. Ticket sales for the event will begin in March 2022. Be advised, ticket limits will be strictly enforced. Please refer to our LCC FAQ Page or ONYX FAQ Page if you have any questions or email Frank Garcia, Assistant Director of the BCSC at [email protected] or Dean Harris, Associate Dean and Director of the BCSC at [email protected]. If you know a senior who is not receiving official email correspondences from the BCSC regarding this event, please have them email Frank or Dean Harris to be added to this listserv. ** BE ADVISED: In adherence with Brown University’s COVID-19 Policy, visitors to Brown, whether researchers, faculty, students or others, who are engaged in any sustained and consistent in-person contact with other Brown employees, students or visitors are required to be vaccinated for COVID-19. Any visitor of this type who is not vaccinated for COVID-19 must engage with the University virtually. Please see the links below for additional information and guidance regarding vaccination requirements, facial coverings for vaccinated guests and the University’s official COVID-19 policy. Healthy Brown Website. COVID-19 Campus Activity Status page COVID-19 Campus Safety Policy. We appreciate your understanding and adherence to these policies as we look forward to engaging in a safe and unforgettable ceremony. Latinx Pre-Comencement Ceremony Saturday, May 28, 2022 5:30 p.m. - 8:30 p.m. Graduating Student: FREE Admission OMNI Providence Hotel Ballroom ONYX Comencement Ceremony Saturday, May 28, 2022 5:30 p.m. - 8:30 p.m. Graduating Student: FREE Admission Rhode Island Convention Center Home About BCSC Weekly Newsletter Third World Transition Program (TWTP) MPC Program Heritage Series Student Communications Team Graduate Students of Color Senior Graduation Ceremony 2022 Senior Commencement Ceremony 2021 Senior Commencement Ceremony Center Spaces Meet the Staff Contact Print this Page Share this Page Brown Center for Students of Color Brown University Box 1871 68 Brown St. Providence, RI 02912 Phone (401) 863-2120 Fax (401) 863-1184 [email protected] Calendar There are no upcoming events. Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory Our Social Media Facebook Instagram Twitter