Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Marketing and Communication The Brand Our Team Resources Social Media Web Events News Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact The Brand Logos University MarksLambuth MarksDepartmental Identities Guidelines Size and ClearanceColorsFontsBrand ExtensionsWriting GuidelinesDos and Don'tsView Brand GuidelinesView Athletic Brand GuidelinesEmail Guidelines Photo Style Positioning Statement Take Action Media Resources Brand Standards Marketing Toolkit Contact Us Follow UofM Online InstagramFacebooktwitterYoutubeLinkedIn Home Marketing and Communication The Brand The Brand We created this brand identity for the UofM to stand apart. This identity takes on many forms — in publications, on outdoor boards, in newsletters, in person — but each item sets us apart from others. It represents what we value: Action Hard work Pragmatism Curiosity Collaboration Innovation And explains who we are: Confident Proud Unapologetic Outgoing Optimistic Driven We are one brand. We have one face and speak with one voice. This ensures that all printed and online communications are polished and professional. You are the keeper of our brand. With this site, you'll discover how to use our visual identity correctly, while always capturing the can-do spirit of our institution. Be consistent. By consistently putting forth a unified image, we are bringing value, prominence and awareness to our university. When in doubt, contact us. Don't improvise. We're here to help you. For any questions or concerns, consult the Department of Marketing and Communications at 901.678.2843 or logo@memphis.edu. Brand Guidelines View Brand Guidelines on Issuu >> Athletic Brand Guidelines View Athletic Brand Guidelines on Issuu >> Style Guidelines In writing and editing materials for publication, the University of Memphis relies primarily upon The Associated Press Stylebook. The AP stylebook is the preferred editing reference for materials directed at general audiences. Consequently, it is widely used nationwide in the preparation of text for serial publications, newspapers and marketing materials. The UofM Style Guidelines supplements AP by offering guidance on a variety of University-specific exceptions. On some issues, in accordance with an academic culture, it differs from AP. For questions not covered by either AP or the UofM Style Guidelines, please contact your marketing manager. Download UofM Style Guidelines >> Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 4/8/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.