Skip to main content University of Nebraska–Lincoln Visit Visit Visit the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Apply Apply Apply to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Give Give Give to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Log In Search Search Form Search Submit Close Nebraska Menu Search Log In About News Events Maps Our Vision Leadership & Organization Diversity & Inclusion Faculty / Staff Services Admissions Undergraduate Graduate Online & Distance Education Law Global Academics Programs of Study Colleges & Departments Faculty Academic Calendar Academic Catalog Search for Classes Libraries Accounts & Services Research Office of Research & Economic Development Nebraska Innovation Campus NuTech Ventures Industry Relations Life at Nebraska Involvement & Support Living On Campus Life In Lincoln Arts & Culture Recreation & Well-Being Husker Athletics Outreach & Impact Global Nebraska Nebraska Extension Parents Association Alumni Association Entrepreneurship Visit Visit the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Apply Apply to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Give Give to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Nebraska Academics Academics Nebraska Academics Academics When it comes to academics, what matters more than anything else is you. Nebraska offers world-class faculty and colleagues, unsurpassed research facilities and opportunities, and a diversity of fields of study. But what makes big things happen here is you. Your interest. Your determination. Your questions. And your answers. You've got this. We're with you. Programs of Study With hundreds of programs of study, Nebraska offers the breadth of academic areas you’d expect from a tier-one research university. Several of our programs are among the best in the U.S. and have been for years, and we can help you find the right program (or programs) for you. Undergraduate Majors Graduate Programs Law Degree Programs Honors Program The University Honors Program enhances your college experience by immersing you in a community of talented, hardworking individuals and offering a curriculum that is challenging yet customizable. The Program’s interactive, interdisciplinary seminars and continuum of hands-on experiences allow students of all majors to maximize their time at Nebraska. Honors Program Colleges & Departments Agricultural Sciences & Natural Resources Architecture Arts & Sciences Business Education & Human Sciences Engineering Hixson-Lied College of Fine & Performing Arts Journalism & Mass Communications College of Law Graduate Studies Libraries Nebraska’s University Libraries is a national leader in creativity and knowledge development. Our Library experts promote resources and tools for transformative teaching, learning and research, and manage spaces and technology that inspire lifelong learning. Libraries Accounts & Resources Your Accounts Canvas MyRed Print IT - Wepa DLC Email MyPlan Box Libraries Nvolve-U Handshake MyWorld Firefly Campus Resources Maps Academic Calendar Events Advising Select your home campus icon below to log in to Canvas at the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Close We’re here to help you shape the future. Visit Nebraska Become a Husker Contact Us Address University of Nebraska–Lincoln 1400 R Street Lincoln, NE 68588 US Phone 402-472-7211 Social Media Affiliates Alumni & Friends Emeriti and Retirees Association Husker Athletics Lied Center for Performing Arts International Quilt Museum Nebraska Innovation Campus Nebraska Public Media Parents Association Mary Riepma Ross Media Arts Center Sheldon Museum of Art State Museum University Bookstore University of Nebraska Press University of Nebraska Foundation University of Nebraska System Campus Links Directory Employment Events Libraries Maps News Office of the Chancellor Report an Incident Policies & Reports Accessibility Statement Emergency Planning and Preparedness Institutional Equity and Compliance Notice of Nondiscrimination Privacy Policy Security and Fire Safety Report Student Information Disclosures UNL web framework and quality assurance provided by the Web Developer Network · QA Test University of Nebraska–Lincoln Established 1869 · Copyright 2022 Some parts of this site work best with JavaScript enabled.