COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Electrical and Computer Engineering, Master's Master'sElectrical and Computer Engineering All Programs College of Engineering Electrical and Computer Engineering A Master of Science (MS) in electrical and computer engineering from Wichita State will prepare you for high-paying, high-demand career options in avionics, process control systems, information processing and others—as well as for success in a future Ph.D. program. You’ll have access to some of the best research facilities in the country and the chance to work and research with faculty and industry professionals on campus and throughout Kansas’ largest city. Learn how electrical and computer engineering is the right fit for you. Request Info Start Your Application Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the program The program is open to bachelor’s degree holders in electrical engineering, computer engineering or a related area. For consideration, you must have a minimum 3.0 GPA (or equivalent score from another country) in your bachelor's degree. Students whose bachelor’s degree is from an institution outside the U.S. are required to submit official scores of the GRE General Test along with the admission application. For additional admission details, click on the link below. Admission requirements Inside the Program Collaborative project helps local kids with disabilities As an engineering student, you have the opportunity to work hands-on in your industry while also making a difference in children’s lives through GoBabyGo! The collaborative program involves engineering and physical therapy students who modify off-the-shelf toy ride-on cars for children with disabilities. “It allows me to engage my mind. In the end you’ve done something to help someone less-fortunate than yourself,” said computer engineering major Brandon Nece. Learn more about GoBaby Go! Curriculum Each MSEE student chooses a major and minor specialization area. Major areas include communication and signal processing, computing systems, control systems and robotics, and power and energy systems. Any of these can also be chosen as a minor area. In addition, computing can be a minor area. The program consists of at least 30 credit hours and offers three graduating options: thesis, project or coursework. View the curriculum Careers Whether you’re pursuing a promotion or preparing for a Ph.D., WSU’s vast industry connections, research opportunities and unmatched facilities create an environment for our engineering students to gain the expertise that leads to dream careers. Learn more about careers in this field Similar Programs Computing (Master's) Computer Science (Master's) Information Assurance and Cybersecurity (Graduate Certificate) Electrical Engineering and Computer Science (Doctorate) 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©