Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Explore Brown University Search Global Navigation Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Global Brown Center for International Students Home About Incoming Students Undergraduate Students Graduate Students What to Bring Banking and Finances Cultural Adjustment Cell Phones Current Students Additional Resources Academic and Language Campus Life & Student Services Health Care & Insurance Immigration and Visas Working as a Student Providence and Rhode Island Life After Brown Site Navigation Home About Global Brown Lounge Meet Our Team Andrew Heald Stay in Touch! Incoming Students Undergraduate Students About the International Mentoring Program (IMP) International Undergraduate Orientation Fall 2022 Graduate Students What to Bring Banking and Finances Cultural Adjustment Cell Phones Current Students GBC Programs & Events Semester Breaks and Summer Additional Resources Academic and Language Campus Life & Student Services Health Care & Insurance Immigration and Visas Working as a Student Providence and Rhode Island Life After Brown Cell Phones We will provide a Cell Phone Fair during International Undergraduate and Graduate Orientation, but here's some info to get you started. If you would like additional information, please consult with staff in the Office of International Student and Scholar Services and view the OISSS page on Utilities. There are a variety of cell phone companies around the Providence area. The four most popular companies are Verizon Wireless, AT&T, Sprint and T-Mobile. All four companies offer coverage throughout the U.S. and if your plan allows for it, international coverage. Wireless plans in the U.S can be very different from plans outside of the U.S. Therefore, make sure you carefully read everything before you sign up for a particular plan; in particular, please be certain to ask specifically about international calling rates, messaging plans, 3G/4G network fees and capabilities (if applicable), contract agreements, and possible overage charges. To get a cell phone and a plan, there are two main options: 1) a prepaid plan, or 2) a two year contract. The prepaid plan have slightly higher rates on outgoing calls, messaging, ect. However, they are convenient for international students and scholars. Prepaid plans offer the same services and network capabilities as contract plans, but do not require a U.S. Social Security Number (SSN) or a hefty deposit. Contract plans require a two-year contract commitment as well as a SSN for identity and credit check purposes. A large deposit ($100-$500) is required in lieu of a SSN, but usually, cell phone companies will refund your initial deposit after twelve months of good standing. It is important to note that breaking the contract will result in heavy penalty fees. Most cell phone companies offer family plans. Family plans allow up to five lines to be on the same contract. Keep in mind that it is difficult to add/ drop lines once the contract is signed without paying a penalty fee. Family plans are inexpensive if you know multiple individuals signing up for a contract plan. Popular cell phone companies: Verizon Wireless 216 Thayer Street 401-270-4330 Prepaid plan information A deposit is required for a contract plan for individuals without a SSN but will be refunded after 12 months of good standing. You do not need a SSN for prepaid plans. AT&T Providence Place Mall, 3rd Floor 401-270-4903 Prepaid plan information A deposit is required for a contract plan for individuals without a SSN but will be refunded after 12 months of good standing. You do not need a SSN for prepaid plans. T-Mobile Providence Place Mall, 1st Floor Prepaid plan information A deposit is required for a contract plan for individuals without a SSN but will be refunded after 12 months of good standing. You do not need a SSN for prepaid plans. metroPCS metroPCS is an option for international students and scholars who are staying less than a year in the U.S. metroPCS does not require a contract or SSN to get a phone and service plan. The plans are month to month. Service in only available in major U.S. cities. 55 Dorrance Street Providence, RI 02903 1-888-863-8768 Incoming Students Undergraduate Students Graduate Students What to Bring Banking and Finances Cultural Adjustment Cell Phones Global Brown Center for International Students Global Brown Center for International Students Campus Life & Student Services Box 1840 Page-Robinson Hall 312 69 Brown Street Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-6397 Email [email protected] Facebook Facebook Instagram Instagram Brown University Giving to Brown Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA 401-863-1000 Contact Us Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility All Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top