Skip to main content University of Pennsylvania School of Arts and Sciences Penn A-Z Penn Calendar Search form SearchSearch The Program in Gender, Sexuality, and Women’s Studies The Center for Research in Feminist, Queer, and Transgender Studies The Program in Gender, Sexuality, and Women’s Studies The Center for Research in Feminist, Queer, and Transgender Studies Home The Center About Publications People Media Funding The Program About People Undergraduate Graduate Courses Alumni/ae People Staff Core Faculty Affiliated Faculty Graduate Instructors FQTC Scholars Executive Board Steering Committee Former Directors News Events Giving Contact Our website is currently under construction! Please stay tuned for more details. To join our mailing list and request co-sponsorship please reference the links at the bottom of our page. Thank you! The Care Crisis GSWS/FQT releases Caregiving on Campus survey results and recommendations 2021-2022 FQT/GSWS Programming Theme A new name and a new director for the Alice Paul Center The Center for Research in Feminist, Queer, and Transgender Studies director Melissa E. Sanchez discusses the name change and purpose GSWS Major & Minor Learn more about the GSWS Major & Minor. ‹ › Gender, Sexuality and Women’s Studies at Penn is comprised of two separate but related entities—the Alice Paul Center for Research on Gender, Sexuality and Women, and the Penn Program on Gender, Sexuality and Women’s Studies—each with distinct but complementary projects. The Center and Program encompass faculty from more than 20 departments and schools at Penn, and provide vital opportunities and resources for research, learning, and practice in the areas of gender and sexuality. The Alice Paul Center for Research on Gender, Sexuality, and Women and GSWS at the University of Pennsylvania are committed to cultivating a learning environment that values and prioritizes inclusion, equity, and diversity through research, teaching, advocacy, activism, and community engagement. GSWS at Penn is an inclusive space, committed to affirming students, staff, and faculty of all genders and identities, including trans and non-binary individuals. We endeavor to cultivate a community in which every person, regardless of gender identity or expression, sexual orientation, race, ethnicity, socio-economic status, ability, neurodiversity, nationality, documented status, religious views, or position within the institution, is respected. GSWS supports pedagogy with gender-inclusive language, an intersectional curriculum, and accessible classroom practices, and invites departments and centers that share these values to collaborate and cross list courses. Philadelphia occupies the traditional homelands of the Lenni-Lenape. The Alice Paul Center and GSWS at the University of Pennsylvania acknowledge and express gratitude to the indigenous people of this land, past and present, for the opportunity to live and learn on Lenapehoking, land of the Lenape. Contact Fisher-Bennett Hall 3340 Walnut Street Suite 345 Philadelphia, PA 19104 (215) 898-8740 gsws-fqt@sas.upenn.edu Request Co-Sponsorship Mailing List Signup Make a Gift Penn WebLogin © 2022 The Trustees of the University of Pennsylvania