Skip to main content Search form Search Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers Contact Give About Search Menu Public Health Now News Events Publications Topics Student Voices Celebrating the Centennial Our Work to Address COVID-19 Columbia Public Health Magazine Academics Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy & Procedures Office of Education Research Featured Research Global Health Centers Programs Grants & Awards Corporate Partnerships People Our Faculty Current Students Friends and Supporters Partners Alumni Become a Student Meet Our Faculty Life & Community Degree Finder How to Apply Career Services More Information Master of Public Health Degree Programs Certificate Program Core Curriculum Search You are here Home About Dean Linda P. Fried Winter Storm Update/Impacts to Campus and Services Last Updated 12:50pm Fri May 6 See Coronavirus Updates for information on campus protocols. Biography For the Media Biography For the Media Dean Linda P. Fried We have reached a pivotal moment in public health. As the mission, knowledge, and boundaries of the field continue to expand, there is an acute need for leadership to articulate the next generation vision, develop innovative agendas for discovery, education, and translation into practice, strengthen our social compact for the public’s health, and implement a new era of public health. The Mailman School’s commitment to the creation of cutting-edge knowledge and our pioneering efforts in the translation of science for maximum impact on the public’s health position us to lead. Today we are confronted by changing societal and global conditions affecting health—environmental degradation including climate change, globalization, urbanization, aging populations, and the increasing chronic and communicable disease burden. This is the world in which we live; one that poses new challenges and calls for a new level of innovation and leadership. These challenges cannot be solved only one person at a time—solutions must improve health for whole populations in order to protect each person's health. To find solutions to these new health challenges and advance our commitment to public health issues, the School draws upon the talents, ideas, and resources of all its constituents: our world-class faculty, exceptional students, dedicated staff, and enterprising and committed Board members, alumni, friends, and partners. While the challenges are great, it is also an exceptionally exciting time. The Mailman School is capitalizing on the breadth and depth of our partnerships across Columbia University, the City of New York, and around the globe to share knowledge, build upon our history of creating ground-breaking models for health promotion and disease prevention, maintain an unwavering dedication to excellence in research and education, and play a leadership role in the design of health systems for the future. We look to the future with a commitment to the values that have always shaped our work, including a fundamental focus on understanding and resolving health disparities in vulnerable populations, advancing a human rights-based approach in the global context in which we work, and a continual grounding and learning from the very populations that we serve, both locally and globally. Since joining the Mailman School in 2008, I have been on a truly extraordinary journey. I invite you to learn more about the Mailman School of Public Health, the impact the School has around the world and in our city, our research priorities, and educational focus. For those committed to addressing tomorrow’s public health challenges, Columbia University’s Mailman School of Public Health provides countless opportunities to make a difference. I look forward to seeing you here. More to Explore Friday 03June COVID-19: From Causes to ConsequencesMay 27 2022 BARDA Support to Speed Development of Next-Generation Sequencing-Based Diagnostics PlatformMay 3 2022 Memorial Event Celebrates the Life of Zena SteinApr 27 2022 Bronx Gets Another Boost Toward a Clean Air FutureApr 25 2022 Sign up for Transmission Columnbia Mailman Connect with Us Public Health Now News Events Publications Topics Student Voices Academics Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy & Procedures Office of Education Research Featured Research Global Health Centers Programs Grants & Awards Corporate Partnerships People Our Faculty Current Students Friends and Supporters Partners Alumni Become a Student Meet Our Faculty Life & Community Degree Finder How to Apply Career Services More Information Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health | 722 West 168th St. NY, NY 10032 Site Map Privacy Columbia University Irving Medical Center Copyright © Columbia University 2019 Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers