Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Health Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Our Services Appointments Health Topics Events Forms and Guidelines Our Organization News See All Services What's Open Now Patient Resources Quarantine and Isolation Support Coping Tools Immunization Compliance Top Services Birth Control Education Individual Counseling Primary Care Register with Disability Services Sexual Assault: Get Support STI Testing Support Groups Travel Medicine Urgent Medical Concerns Workshops and Trainings Cost of Service Overview Make an Appointment Same Day Service Emergency and After-hours Support Alcohol Body Image Concerns Marijuana Disabilities Other Drugs HIV Insurance Men's Health Mental Health and Well-Being Anxiety Depression Stress Nutrition Physical Activity Relationships Overview Academic Relationships Friendships Roommates Sexual and Reproductive Health Sleep Transgender and Gender Expansive Health Violence Prevention Prevention Consent What Is Sexual Assault? Supporting a Survivor What Is Relationship Abuse? Stalking What Is Sexual Harassment? Bystander Intervention-Step UP! Women's Health See All Events Sexual Assault Awareness Month Columbia Health Flu Season Information Virtual Naloxone Training About Columbia Health Who We Are Who We Serve Confidentiality, Patient Rights, & Patient Responsibilities Operating Philosophy Video Library Your Feedback Staff Directory Health Units Alice! Health Promotion Counseling and Psychological Services Disability Services Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) Insurance Office Medical Services Sexual Violence Response Columbia Health You are here: Home Staff Directory Eduvigis Cruz-Arrieta Eduvigis Cruz-Arrieta Dr. Eduvigis Cruz-Arrieta joined CPS in February 2018. She is a licensed Clinical Psychologist with 20 years of experience in health psychology. Prior to Columbia, she was a supervising psychologist at Lincoln Medical Center, part of the NYC Health & Hospital/Physicians Affiliates Group of NY. She is also an Adjunct Associate Professor of medical psychology at the CUNY School of Medicine. She has been dedicated to providing quality care to underserved communities in NYC. As staff member of the CUMC Pediatric Hematology/Oncology/Blood & Marrow Transplantation service, she served as Chair of its Diversity & Health Disparities Committee of the Children's Oncology Group. In her role, she participated in advocacy efforts on Capitol Hill representing the viewpoints of stakeholders about disparities in healthcare. Dr. Cruz-Arrieta received her B.A. from the University of Puerto Rico where she graduated Magna Cum Laude, followed by a M.A. in Clinical Psychology. She completed her clinical internship and pre-doctoral fellowship at NYU Bellevue Clinical Psychology Internship program, and received her doctorate from the City University of New York Graduate Center at City College. Her expertise and interests includes mood disorders, chronic illness, eating disorders, trauma and post-traumatic stress, life transitions (loss, grief, and end of life), multicultural concerns, as well as diversity and health disparity-related issues, complementary medicine (body/mind coping strategies; hypnosis; homeopathy), and psychology and the arts. Eduvigis is originally from Puerto Rico and Spanish is her first language. She has resided in New York City since 1988, after retiring from professional classical ballet dancing and serving as an educator with Ballets de San Juan. Eduvigis believes in people’s capacity for continuous change and renewal, as they identify and fortify their inner strengths. Her goal is to help members of the Columbia University community to reach their goals. Education: Ph.D. and M.Phil., CUNY Graduate Center M.A. and B.A., University of Puerto Rico Certifications and Licensure: Licensed to practice psychology in the state of New York American Board of Professional Psychology, Clinical Health Psychology Professional Experience: Senior Psychologist, Adult/Child & Adolescent Outpatient Services, HHC Lincoln Medical Center/Physicians Affiliate Group of New York Supervising Psychologist, Hematology, Oncology & Stem Cell Transplantation & Psychiatry Divisions, Columbia University Medical Center Senior Psychologist, Stephen D. Hassenfeld Center for Children with Cancer & Blood Disorders, NYU Langone Medical Center Senior Psychologist, Child & Adolescent Outpatient Clinic Bellevue Hospital Center, NYU Langone Medical Center Published Articles: Bhatia M, Kolva E, Cimini L, Jin Z, Satwani P, Savone M, George D, GarvinJ, Paz ML, Briamonte C, Cruz-Arrieta E, Sands S. Health Related Quality of Life following Allogeneic Hematopoietic Stem Cell Transplantation for Sickle Cell Disease, Biology of Blood and MarrowTransplantation (2015), doi:10.1016/j.bbmt.2014.12.007. Cruz-Arrieta, E., Weinshank, L.: Multidisciplinary Approach to Psychosocial Care: The Stephen D. Hassenfeld Model. Primary Psychiatry. 2008; 15(7): 63-67 Cruz-Arrieta, E., Pill-swallowing training in pediatric cancer: a brief report. Primary Psychiatry. 2008; 15(7): 49-53 Memberships: American Psychological Association American Board of Professional Psychology Children’s Oncology Group/National Cancer Institute New York State Psychological Association Asociación de Psicólogos de Puerto Rico Languages Spoken: Spanish English Psychologist Contact Info Counseling and Psychological Services Alfred Lerner Hall, 5th and 8th Floors, Mail Code 2606 2920 Broadway New York, NY 10027 +1 212 854 2878 [email protected] Columbia Health Administration Wallach Hall, Suite 125, Mail Code 4202, 1116 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-2284 Contact Us [email protected] Internal Use Only Login to Access Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close