Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Prospective Newly Admitted Current Alumni Columbia University School of General Studies Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Admissions Educational Financing Academics Student Services About Undergraduate Admissions How to Apply Eligibility Application Deadlines and Decisions Information Sessions/Campus Visits Transfer Students Postbac Premed Admissions How to Apply Eligibility Application Deadlines and Decisions Information Sessions/Campus Visits Newly Admitted Students International Students Planning Day Placement Exams University-Wide Placement Exams U.S. Military Veterans International Dual Degree Programs Types of Financial Aid Institutional Scholarships Federal and State Grants Loans Private Scholarships and Grants Student Employment Financial Aid for Military Veterans Post-9/11 GI Bill® and the Yellow Ribbon Program Veterans Request for Certification Cost of Attendance Applying for Financial Aid Prospective Students Newly Admitted Students Current Students University Employees Postbac Premed Students Counseling Appointments Enrollment Update Form Student Account Refunds Undergraduate The Core Curriculum Degree Fulfillment Course Listings Majors and Concentrations Research Opportunities Study Abroad Academic Calendar Postbac Premed Program Curriculum & Courses Sample Schedule Course Listings Preparatory Coursework Previously Completed Coursework Glide Year Master’s Programs Academic Calendar Applying to Medical School General Admission Linkage Admission Linkage Specific Program Requirements Reapplicants Letters of Recommendation Academic Policies Registration Enrollment and Courseload Leaves and Withdrawals Academic Integrity and Standards Faculty of Arts and Sciences Undergraduate Announcements Postbac Premed Announcements Academic Advising Academic Resource Center Programs & Services Jumpstart Series Tutoring Peer Advising Campus Services Forms and Guides Graduation Health and Wellness Housing International Students Medical School Fair Planning Your Future Accelerated Master's Programs Fellowships and Research Premedical Clinical and Research Positions Student Life Leadership Development Multicultural & Social Justice Education Programs Student Organizations Upcoming Events Veterans Resources and Initiatives Leadership Mission History Statistics and Facts Notable Alumni University Policies Events Staff Directory Faculty News Press Coverage Media Inquiries School of General Studies You are here: Home Educational Financing Types of Financial Aid Loans Loans Information about federal and private loan options for new and continuing GS students. The GS Office of Educational Financing administers both federal education loans—which include Federal Direct and Parent PLUS loans—and private education loans. Expand all Collapse all Undergraduate Students Federal Loans Amounts and types of Federal Direct loans available depend on factors obtained by the School after a student completes the FAFSA. A full overview of federal loans is available on the Student Financial Services website. The Columbia University FAFSA school code is 002707. Private Loans Private student loans, also known as alternative education loans, help bridge the gap between the actual cost of your education and the limited amount the government allows you to borrow in its programs. Private loans are offered by private lenders and there are no federal forms to complete. A full overview of private loans is available on the Student Financial Services website. For a private education loan, the GS school code is 002707-05. Expand all Collapse all Postbac Premed Program Students Federal Loans Postbac Premed students are eligible to borrow Federal Direct Loans for the Program. Amounts and types of Federal Direct loans available depend on factors obtained by the School after a student completes the FAFSA. Federal Direct loans are usually awarded for a two-semester loan period and require an enrollment of at least 6 points each semester. For additional information about the Federal Direct Loan Program, as well as alternative loans, visit the Student Financial Services website. The Columbia University FAFSA school code is 002707. Private Loans Private student loans, also known as alternative education loans, help bridge the gap between the actual cost of your education and the limited amount the government allows you to borrow in its programs. Private loans are offered by private lenders and there are no federal forms to complete. A full overview of private loans is available on the Student Financial Services website. For a private education loan, the GS school code is 002707-05. Make an Appointment GS Office of Educational Financing 408 Lewisohn Hall 2970 Broadway New York, NY 10027 (212) 854-5410 [email protected] Hours Monday - Friday: 9 a.m. - 5 p.m. Payment and Account Inquiries Columbia University Student Financial Services 205 Kent Hall 1140 Amsterdam Avenue New York, NY 10027 (212) 854-4400 http://askus.columbia.edu Hours Monday - Friday: 9 a.m. - 5 p.m. (Cashiering windows in 210 Kent Hall close at 4 p.m. daily) Work-Study Program Work-Study Office 210 Kent Hall (212) 854-6232 [email protected] Hours Monday - Friday: 9 a.m. - 5 p.m. Admissions Undergraduate Admissions Postbac Premed Admissions Newly Admitted Students U.S. Military Veterans International Dual Degree Programs Educational Financing Types of Financial Aid Financial Aid for Military Veterans Cost of Attendance Applying for Financial Aid Counseling Appointments Enrollment Update Form Student Account Refunds Academics Undergraduate Postbac Premed Program Applying to Medical School Academic Policies Faculty of Arts and Sciences Student Services Undergraduate Announcements Postbac Premed Announcements Academic Advising Academic Resource Center Campus Services Forms and Guides Graduation Health and Wellness Housing International Students Medical School Fair Planning Your Future Premedical Clinical and Research Positions Student Life Veterans Resources and Initiatives About Leadership Mission History Statistics and Facts Notable Alumni University Policies Events Staff Directory Faculty News Press Coverage Media Inquiries Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close