Skip to Main Content Brown University News from Brown Site Navigation Featured Events For Journalists Search Menu Topics News and Events Date April 13, 2020 2020-04-13 Media Contact Brian E. Clark [email protected] 401-863-1638 All News Share Facebook Twitter Linkedin Email Letter from President Paxson: Healthy Fall 2020 Task Force Brown President Christina H. Paxson charged a committee of faculty, staff and students with developing a public health plan for the University that charts a path to the safe reopening of campus in Fall 2020. Each year, incoming students to Brown gather to celebrate Opening Convocation. A new Healthy Fall 2020 Task Force will develop a public health plan for Brown that charts a path to the safe reopening of the campus in Fall 2020. Photo from Opening Convocation 2019 by Nicholas Dentamaro / Brown University. PROVIDENCE, R.I. [Brown University] — Even the most optimistic projections on the impact of the novel coronavirus pandemic on daily life in the United States acknowledge that until a vaccine is available, the virus will continue to threaten the health of some Americans. In recognition of that fact — yet with cautious optimism that social distancing and other public health measures will mitigate the pandemic to the point where students can return to Brown’s campus in Fall 2020 — University President Christina H. Paxson has created a task force to chart a path toward a safe reopening. Paxson outlined her charge to the group and its members in an April 13 letter to students, faculty and staff. “The foundational principles that will guide the work of the task force are that the health and safety of our students and employees come first, and that we ensure that Brown provides a high-quality learning and social experience for our students,” she wrote. “The task force will develop a plan based on well-understood public health protocols for managing infectious diseases, adapting those protocols to the operations of the Brown University campus community.” The full text of Paxson’s letter is included below and on Brown’s comprehensive COVID-19 response website. ****** Healthy Fall 2020 Task Force Dear Members of the Brown Community, I am writing to announce the creation of the Healthy Fall 2020 Task Force. This group is charged with developing an effective public health plan for Brown University that charts a path to the safe reopening of the campus in fall 2020. The work of this task force will complement planning to restart research operations at Brown, led by Provost Richard M. Locke and Vice President for Research Jill Pipher. In the coming months, experts predict that social distancing and other public health measures will make significant contributions to the containment and mitigation of the COVID-19 pandemic. I am cautiously optimistic that with careful planning, we will be able to welcome all of you back to campus in the fall. However, until a vaccine is developed, it is likely that the virus will continue to be a threat to health. The foundational principles that will guide the work of the task force are that the health and safety of our students and employees come first, and that we ensure that Brown provides a high-quality learning and social experience for our students. The task force will develop a plan based on well-understood public health protocols for managing infectious diseases, adapting those protocols to the operations of the Brown University campus community. The group will also consider how to collaborate and coordinate plans across the Brown and RISD campuses due to our close proximity as well as joint academic and campus programs. I am grateful to Eric Estes, Vice President for Campus Life, and Emily Oster, Professor of Economics and Public Policy, for agreeing to co-chair this important committee. The task force will report to me and provide regular updates to the Brown community. The group will begin its work this month and continue into the fall semester as plans are developed and implemented. Membership Eris Estes, Vice President for Campus Life (Co-Chair) Emily Oster, Professor of Economics and Public Policy (Co-Chair) Vanessa Britto, Associate Vice President for Campus Life and Executive Director of Health Services Russell Carey, Executive Vice President of Policy and Planning Shontay Delalue, Vice President for Institutional Equity and Diversity Elizabeth Doherty, Deputy Provost for Academic Affairs Michael Grabo, Associate General Counsel Michael Guglielmo, Vice President for Facilities Management Jen Howley, Director, Risk, Emergency Management and RISD Property Holdings Kathleen Kuesters, Graduate Student Adam Levine, Associate Professor of Emergency Medicine and Director of the Center for Human Rights and Humanitarian Studies Maria Guerrero Martinez, Undergraduate Student Amy Nunn, Associate Professor of Behavioral and Social Sciences and Associate Professor of Medicine Kathy Tameo, Associate Vice President for Campus Life and Director of Finance and Administration The Office of the Vice President for Campus Life will provide administrative support for the task force. I am deeply appreciative of the members of the task force for their willingness to devote their time and attention to this important and timely undertaking. During this uncertain and difficult time, it is more important than ever that we work together as a community. Sincerely, Christina H. Paxson President Tags COVID-19 President Related news: News and Events Brown Corporation approves base budget for Fiscal Year 2023 June 1, 2022 The $1.5 billion base budget includes deep investments in student financial aid and support for faculty and staff, balancing continued advancement in academic excellence with a focus on long-term financial sustainability. Read Article Open details for Brown Corporation approves base budget for Fiscal Year 2023 News and Events Brown Corporation elects two new fellows, eight trustees June 1, 2022 Brown’s governing body elected each new member based on their commitment to the University and its mission of education and research. Read Article Open details for Brown Corporation elects two new fellows, eight trustees News and Events In three ceremonies, medical, doctoral and master’s graduates celebrate hard-earned degrees May 29, 2022 In addresses at Brown’s Commencement ceremonies on Sunday, May 29, student speakers entreated their peers to make a positive impact using lessons they had learned during the COVID-19 pandemic. Read Article Open details for In three ceremonies, medical, doctoral and master’s graduates celebrate hard-earned degrees Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Snapchat Twitter YouTube Social Media Directory © Brown University Brown University For You Current Students Faculty Staff Parents & Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Featured Events For Journalists Topics Arts and Humanities Environment Health and Medicine News and Events Science and Technology Social Sciences Student Life University Initiatives Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events For You Give to Brown All of Brown.edu People News Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Letter from President Paxson: Healthy Fall 2020 Task Force Open details for Letter from President Paxson: Healthy Fall 2020 Task Force Bookmark this Page