Menu Close Menu Skip to content Information For: Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Friends & Supporters A to Z index Search for: Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health Email People Departments Calendar Careers my.harvard Giving About Faculty & Research Admissions & Aid Academics Executive/Continuing Ed News Racism is a public health crisis Harvard Chan School stands together to help fight structural racism Read more Welcome back! Graduates from 2020 and 2021 returned for an in-person Convocation on May 28 Read more Congratulations graduates! Harvard Chan School celebrated the accomplishments of 633 graduates at Convocation on May 25 Read more Probing disease disparities Francisco Barrera, SM ’22, delves into thorny questions about racial differences in health outcomes Read more Saving a daughter, starting a career Oana Geambasu, MPH ’22, journeyed to the U.S. to help save her daughter’s life—which sparked her passion to improve health care access in her native Romania Read more Tackling disparities and stigma around obesity, mental health Tiffani Bell Washington, MPH ’22, aims to improve the health of minority populations on a large scale Read more News Student Stories Featured Stories Getting to know … Patience Saaka, MPH ’22 Hot, dusty, and unhealthy Making field to table work regionally COVID-19 information for Harvard Chan School community View More Stories A better antibiotic for tuberculosis treatment Need help managing diabetes? These students made an app for that Uncovering the health effects of the Great Migration Improving health care for marginalized patients View More Stories Apply Degree Programs Diversity and Inclusion Upcoming Events Dismantling disinformation June 6 @ 12:00 pm - 1:00 pm The 23rd Annual Harvard Nutrition Obesity Symposium – The Neurobiology of Eating Behavior in Obesity: Mechanisms and Novel Therapeutics June 8 @ 8:30 am - 4:30 pm Harvard Chan C-CHANGE Youth Summit on Climate Change and Public Health July 24 - July 30 More events In The News Machine learning tool can predict which COVID variants will cause case surges ‘Ebola hunter’ Jean-Jacques Muyembe receives Harvard honorary degree Better data needed around deaths in police custody Sikhulile Moyo named one of TIME magazine’s 100 most influential for 2022 Hanage: Don’t let latest COVID surge overshadow progress More News The Studio Executive education Harvard Public Health Magazine The Nutrition Source Global research Video series Harvard Chan School on Twitter In the wake of a May 24 mass shooting at a Uvalde, Texas, elementary school that left 19 students and two teachers… https://t.co/x8GHo0fMZS RT @dengdiit: This week,I had the honor and responsibility of receiving a master’s degree in public health with concentration in health pol… RT @Harvard: “Don’t let your generation be defined by the pandemic. Let it be defined by public service,” said Attorney General Merrick Gar… RT @HarvardCCHANGE: Looking for ways to take action on #climate? The Climate Health Organizing Fellowship trains health professionals to u… RT @HarvardCCHANGE: Creativity is turning coal mines, landfills, and toxic waters into opportunities for #CleanEnergy. Your lights yearn to… RT @HarvardCenterHH: What is the relationship between #technology and #happiness? This @Forbes article offers potential considerations, wit… Information For: Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Friends & Supporters About Key Facts Renaming the School Office of the Dean Location and Facilities Administrative Offices Contact Us Faculty and Research Faculty and Researcher Directory Academic Departments, Divisions and Centers International Research Postdoctoral Research Fellows Office of Faculty Affairs Faculty Searches Office of Diversity and Inclusion Admissions & Aid Why Harvard Chan Degree Programs Non-Degree Programs Financial Aid Student Experience Career Advancement Apply Academics Academic Departments Divisions Research Centers Flagship Initiatives International Research Research Administration and Support Degree Programs Fellowships and Residencies Summer Programs Continuing Professional Education Interdisciplinary Concentrations Academic Calendar Harvard Chan Viewbook Executive/Continuing Ed Program Offerings Custom Programs Request Information News and Resources About ECPE Contact News Featured News Press Releases Student Stories In the News Newsletters HPH Magazine Why Public Health? Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health 677 Huntington Avenue Boston, MA 02115 +1 (617) 495‑1000 Twitter Facebook YouTube LinkedIn Instagram iTunes Harvard Chan Home Contact Us Harvard University Home Make a Gift Privacy Policy Report Copyright Violation Accessibility Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College