Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu College of Natural Sciences and Mathematics Biological Science Main Navigation People Undergraduates Graduate Students Events Facilities Employment Contact Us Social Media Careers Announcements and Opportunities Application Information Funding Opportunities Admitted and Current Students Careers MS to PhD About the Biology Graduate Program The Department of Biological Science is one of five departments in the College of Natural Science & Mathematics. The Department offers a thesis-based Master of Science (M.S.) in Biology degree, which requires completion of a research thesis under the supervision of one of the Department's full-time faculty members. No other routes (e.g. coursework, examination, project) to the M.S. degree are offered. The purpose of the M.S. in Biology program is to provide students with advanced learning opportunities in biology through the performance and completion of original research. The program is designed to prepare students for: 1) admission to Ph.D. programs in the biological and biomedical sciences; 2) professional careers with governmental agencies and in the private sector; 3) technical work in education, medical, and environmental settings; and 4) teaching at the two-year college level. Additionally, the program provides opportunities for students to enhance their knowledge of science and the scientific process for teaching at the secondary level and for professional work in other fields. The program can be completed in two years, but most students take longer because of the amount of time required to complete a rigorous, research-based thesis, especially if the student works on- or off-campus, or devotes considerable time to activities other than research, e.g., teaching. M.S. Degree Requirements Completion, with an average grade of B or better, of 30 units of thesis committee-approved coursework Completion of a committee-approved, scholarly research thesis Satisfactory performance on a final oral examination (defense) of the thesis Public presentation of thesis research Contact Information For general inquiries about the M.S. in Biology program, contact the Biology Graduate Adviser (biogradadv@fullerton.edu) or the Department Office (McCarthy Hall 282) at (657) 278-3614 (fax -3426). This site is maintained by Biological Science. Last Published 4/7/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact mcuajungco@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.10 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.