Skip to main content Main navigation Mobile Educational Programs Master’s Programs Executive Education Doctoral Programs Public Leadership Credential Courses Academic Calendars & Policies Admissions & Aid Master's Program Admissions Executive Education Admissions Doctoral Program Admissions Funding Your Education Faculty & Research Faculty Profiles Publications Policy Topics PolicyCast Library & Knowledge Services Centers & Initiatives Ash Center for Democratic Governance and Innovation Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs Carr Center for Human Rights Policy Center for International Development Center for Public Leadership Institute of Politics Malcolm Wiener Center for Social Policy Mossavar-Rahmani Center for Business and Government Shorenstein Center on Media, Politics and Public Policy Taubman Center for State and Local Government Women and Public Policy Program All Initiatives Alumni Connect Volunteer Give Back Benefits Events About More COVID-19: Keep HKS Healthy Commencement About News & Announcements Events Student Life Directory Employers HKS Magazine Contact Us Search Search Main navigation Educational Programs Master’s Programs Executive Education Doctoral Programs Public Leadership Credential Courses Academic Calendars & Policies Admissions & Aid Master's Program Admissions Executive Education Admissions Doctoral Program Admissions Funding Your Education Faculty & Research Faculty Profiles Publications Policy Topics PolicyCast Library & Knowledge Services Centers & Initiatives Ash Center for Democratic Governance and Innovation Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs Carr Center for Human Rights Policy Center for International Development Center for Public Leadership Institute of Politics Malcolm Wiener Center for Social Policy Mossavar-Rahmani Center for Business and Government Shorenstein Center on Media, Politics and Public Policy Taubman Center for State and Local Government Women and Public Policy Program All Initiatives Alumni Connect Volunteer Give Back Benefits Events About More COVID-19: Keep HKS Healthy Commencement About News & Announcements Events Student Life Directory Employers HKS Magazine Contact Us Search Search Commencement 2022 Monday, May 23 to Thursday, May 26 You are here Home Events Commencement Commencement 2022 We celebrate Harvard Kennedy School’s Class of 2022, their significant achievements, and their dedication to serve in all corners of the globe. We honor this new class of leaders and the many sacrifices they made this year to preserve the well-being of our community. Moldovan President Maia Sandu urges graduates to jump into the political fray “If you want to live in a better world … become involved in shaping it,” Moldovan head of state Maia Sandu MC/MPA 2010 tells graduates in the first in-person HKS graduation ceremony since 2019. We look forward to coming together in person to celebrate the Harvard Kennedy School Class of 2022, their remarkable resilience and achievements, and their commitment to serve others in all corners of the globe. We celebrate this new class of leaders—and their families, friends, and loved ones who have supported them—and the sacrifices they have made during this difficult period to preserve the well-being of our community. The current schedule of events is below—it will be updated often as new information is confirmed. The Class of 2022 will continue to receive details about their celebration in the coming weeks. Graduating Student Profiles A long route to Cambridge—from China via South Africa Seizing her chance to make the world a better place It is all in the translation Connecting a passion for the arts to civic and humanitarian spaces Working to help homeless in less-welcoming land Championing nature, community-based resilience, and biodiversity Balancing a life of service with a love of performing Ensuring equitable and efficient city services A long military heritage shapes a desire to keep the peace A passion for learning, communicating, and helping others Making legible the beauty and brilliance of underserved communities Coming full circle to help Bedouin parents and their babies Orchestrating meaningful change for refugees Elevating the stories of diverse, unsung women, one interview at a time Lessons from and for Indian Country Schedule of Events Event times and locations are subject to change. Please read the HKS Commencement Week COVID Protocols. Monday, May 23 MC/MPA Mason Certificate Ceremony, 4-6 p.m. | John F. Kennedy Memorial Park The certificate ceremony is a joyful celebration to recognize the achievements of graduating MC/MPA Mason Fellows. Asian American Pacific Islander/Asian Pacific Islander Desi American (AAPI/APIDA) Graduation, 7-9 p.m.** | Tercentenary Theatre, Harvard university campus Tuesday, May 24 Next Gen (FGLI+) Graduation, 9:30–11:30 a.m.** | Harvard Memorial Church Led by the Next Gen Initiative Lavender Graduation, 1–3 p.m.** | Harvard Divinity School Led by the Queer Rites and LGBTQ+ Coalition Black Graduation, 3:30–5:30 p.m.** | Sanders Theatre Led by the Black Graduate Students Alliance Latinx Graduation, 7-9 p.m.** | Sanders Theatre Led by Comunidad Latinx Wednesday, May 25 Class Day Awards Ceremony, 9 A.m.* | John F. Kennedy Memorial Park | Livestream Class Day is a time-honored HKS tradition. Graduating students and their guests as well as faculty members and staff celebrate the Class of 2022, listen to graduating student speakers, and award recognized members of the graduating class for their remarkable achievements. HKS Graduation Address, 2:30 p.m.* | John F. Kennedy Memorial Park | livestream The graduation address is open to graduating students, their guests, and members of the HKS community. Moldova President Maia Sandu MC/MPA 2010 will address the HKS Class of 2022. MPP, MPA/ID, MPA, and MC/MPA Degree Program Celebrations, 4-6 p.m. | John F. Kennedy Memorial Park Graduating students gather with their degree program classmates the day before Commencement to celebrate each other and their HKS experience. Thursday, May 26 | Commencement Day Graduating students must wear full academic regalia at all Commencement Day celebrations. Graduates will continue to receive details about Commencement Day, including meals provided to graduates and guests. Class Photos and Procession to Harvard Yard, 6:45 a.m. | John F. Kennedy Jr. Forum Graduating students meet on the HKS campus for class photos before proceeding to Harvard Yard together to participate in Morning Exercises. Morning Exercises, 9:45-11:45 a.m.* | Tercentenary Theatre, Harvard university campus Morning Exercises is a ticketed University-wide event held on the lawn in front of Widener Library. New Zealand Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern will address the Class of 2022. Graduating Harvard students sit with their schools to participate in the celebration. Individual diplomas are awarded at the HKS Diploma Ceremony. Graduating students receive two (2) guest tickets for Morning Exercises. Diploma Ceremony, approximately 12:45 p.m.* | John F. Kennedy Memorial Park | Livestream The HKS Diploma Ceremony is held directly following Morning Exercises. Diplomas are awarded individually on stage at this special celebration. Guests do not need tickets to attend the HKS Diploma Ceremony. Doctoral Program Reception, 3 p.m. | EAST Courtyard Tent PhD graduates and their guests gather with faculty members to celebrate each other and their accomplishments. Harvard University Native American Program (HUNAP) Indigenous Graduation, 5 P.M.** | Sheraton Commander Hotel Led by Harvard University Native American Program *To be livestreamed on the HKS website. **Affinity graduation ceremonies are student-led, staff supported events that aim to recognize and celebrate the accomplishments of graduates from historically marginalized and underrepresented communities. Championing student organizations plan the ceremonies, hosted by the Harvard community. Harvard will host six affinity graduation ceremonies in 2022. #HKSGrad CSS - Do Not Delete JavaScript - Do Not Delete 79 John F. Kennedy Street Cambridge, MA 02138 617-495-1100 Ask What You Can Do Master’s Programs Executive Education Doctoral Programs Public Leadership Credential Admissions Events Give Now Alumni Jobs Contact Us Privacy Web Accessibility Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College. https://www.facebook.com/harvardkennedyschool/ https://twitter.com/kennedy_school https://www.linkedin.com/school/harvard-kennedy-school-of-government/ https://www.youtube.com/user/HarvardKennedySchool http://instagram.com/harvardkennedyschool/