Menu Close Menu Skip to content Information For: Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Friends & Supporters A to Z index Search for: Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health Email People Departments Calendar Careers my.harvard Giving About Faculty & Research Admissions & Aid Academics Executive/Continuing Ed News John B. Little Center for Radiation Sciences Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health > John B. Little Center for Radiation Sciences John B. Little Center for Radiation Sciences Menu Search for: JBL Home The Leadership Faculty Staff The Need Background International Scientific Advisory Committee Members (ISAC) Publications Research Focus Radiation biology Radiation epidemiology Radiation exposure and risk assessment Low Dose Radiation Our vision Training and Education Instrumentation and Expertise A Living Legacy JBL Symposium Past JBL Symposia John B. Little Center for Radiation Sciences The JBL Center will support cutting edge biological, physical and population-based epidemiological research to understand, interpret, and estimate the health effects of radiation that should pave the way for effective preventive and therapeutic strategies. A primary focus will be on understanding fundamental interactions of ionizing radiation, especially low dose levels of radiation, with molecules, cells, and organisms. Major topics will include metabolic response to radiation, oxidative stress and inflammatory signaling pathways in the cellular response to radiation, genetic and epigenetic mechanisms regulating radiation response, genetic susceptibility to human disease, improved strategies of radiation therapy, and identification of molecular and cellular markers for radiation response. Radiation biology research will interface with the population-based studies of radiation epidemiology and exposure/risk assessment by providing molecular and mechanistic information and biomarkers that may inform population studies at the levels of molecular approaches, population and computational genetics and systems biology approaches to study adaptive responses to radiation exposure, radiation risk assessment, and health outcomes. Today a great deal is known about the cellular response to “targeted” DNA damage, including relevant DNA repair pathways and signaling mechanisms executing cell death or survival programs in response to radiation. It is also known that DNA is not the only target, as irradiating the cytoplasm outside of the nucleus can also lead to radiation-induced genome instability. Much less is known about cellular homeostatic mechanisms governing stress resistance and how they participate in adaptation to future stressors, particularly in the setting of chronic low-dose stress. Furthermore, the role of the immune system in response to radiation damage is poorly understood, as it can participate both in protection from tumorigenesis through immune surveillance, but also contribute to an inflammatory, tumor-promoting environment. Finally, while it is clear that energy metabolism is intricately linked to stress resistance and declines with age, we still do not understand how these processes are interconnected or how they can be manipulated with diet. In our vision of the future of radiobiology at the JBL Center, we propose to use acute and chronic low-dose radiation as a means to understand underlying mechanisms of cellular and organismal stress responses. Our challenge will be to understand these mechanisms in detail so that we can predict effects of genetic and environmental differences between people on their relative risk or reward from radiation exposure, be it radiotherapy or a CT scan. To this end, we believe that critical areas of basic research must include cellular defenses against oxidative and proteotoxic stress, diet, inflammation, energy metabolism and transcriptional networks that facilitate adaptations to stress. Information For: Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Friends & Supporters About Key Facts Renaming the School Office of the Dean Location and Facilities Administrative Offices Contact Us Faculty and Research Faculty and Researcher Directory Academic Departments, Divisions and Centers International Research Postdoctoral Research Fellows Office of Faculty Affairs Faculty Searches Office of Diversity and Inclusion Admissions & Aid Why Harvard Chan Degree Programs Non-Degree Programs Financial Aid Student Experience Career Advancement Apply Academics Academic Departments Divisions Research Centers Flagship Initiatives International Research Research Administration and Support Degree Programs Fellowships and Residencies Summer Programs Continuing Professional Education Interdisciplinary Concentrations Academic Calendar Harvard Chan Viewbook Executive/Continuing Ed Program Offerings Custom Programs Request Information News and Resources About ECPE Contact News Featured News Press Releases Student Stories In the News Newsletters HPH Magazine Why Public Health? Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health 677 Huntington Avenue Boston, MA 02115 +1 (617) 495‑1000 Twitter Facebook YouTube LinkedIn Instagram iTunes Harvard Chan Home Contact Us Harvard University Home Make a Gift Privacy Policy Report Copyright Violation Accessibility Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College