Skip to main content Menu Resources Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply or Give Apply Now Make a Gift Corporate Partnerships and Strategic Initiatives Partners Prospective and Industry Partners The heart of the University’s strategy in working with companies is listening to our partners and our collaborative approach. At Clemson, we encourage our most innovative thinkers to work alongside industry to create value-added solutions and accelerate new technologies that improve the quality of life in South Carolina and beyond. This unique approach distinguishes the University as a leader in both commercially relevant research and engaged educational experiences. Clemson's strong emphasis on creating the skilled workforce for tomorrow has a growing reaching across a number of sectors, particularly advanced materials, automotive engineering, biotechnology, energy systems and high performance computing. Whether you would like to interact with our students, become part of one of our Innovation Campuses, conduct research in our state-of-the-art laboratories or form a public-private partnership, we welcome the opportunity to explore how we can work with you. Contact the Office of Corporate Partnerships and Strategic Initiatives Agribusiness Partners Clemson’s statewide research, extension and regulatory programs (Public Service Activities) enhance economic growth in South Carolina agriculture and forestry industries through a continuous process of identifying critical issues, finding solutions and transferring knowledge to farmers, foresters and land managers. From its beginnings, Clemson has been part of a national system of land-grant universities, partnering with the U.S. Department of Agriculture to help South Carolina’s agriculture and forestry producers compete in a global economy. Research scientists develop new production technologies, investigate value-added products and develop new plant varieties. Regulatory agents monitor for plant and animal diseases and alert producers of potential threats. Extension personnel share science-based information on sustainable timber crop and livestock production systems, turfgrass and ornamental horticulture, and organic and alternative crops. To learn more about how Clemson can improve your productivity and profitability: Agricultural Service Laboratory Coastal Research & Education Center Edisto Research & Education Center Genomics Institute Home and Garden Information Center Pee Dee Research & Education Center S.C. Botanical Garden T. Ed Garrison Arena OCPSI Home Research Student Engagement Partners Innovation Campuses and Facilities Contact Us Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram