Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Division of Student Affairs Student Affairs Information for Employers Faculty and Staff Alumni Search BC.edu Links Career Center Menu Main Nav Career Center Meet With a Career Coach Back Back Close About Overview Meet Our Team Student Employment Contact and Visit Us Meet with a Career Coach Learning Outcomes Career Clusters Overview Career Exploration Business, Consulting, and Finance Communication, Arts, and Media Education, Nonprofit, and Social Service Government, Law, and Public Policy Healthcare and Nursing Science, Technology, and Engineering Jobs and Internships Overview Be Career Ready Internships Jobs Resumes Cover Letters Online Presence Networking Interviewing Evaluating an Offer and Salary Negotiation Graduate School Overview Applying to Graduate School Law School For Current Graduate Students Events and Programs Overview Event Calendar Careerfest Endeavor Schedule of Events Endeavor Fellows Endeavor Keynote Endeavor FAQs Information for Alumni Envision Designing Your Career Course Alumni Job Shadow Program Career Fairs and Networking Events Campus Recruitment Eagle Intern Fellowship Career Closet Praxis Summer Program Winter Break Challenge Illumination Awards Outcomes Resources Overview Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Handshake Guide Eagle Exchange Guide Meet With a Career Coach Close Directory A to Z Listing Search BC Career Center Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Employers Faculty and Staff Alumni BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Schedule of Events Home Events and Programs Endeavor Schedule of Events Endeavor Schedule of Events Endeavor Fellows Endeavor Keynote Endeavor FAQs Information for Alumni Endeavor is a three-day program at the end of Winter Break. Day one focuses on getting to know yourself and your skills through workshops and reflection time with peers and alumni. You will connect with alumni on day two to explore industries of interest. The final day brings everything full circle with an industry immersion where you will experience a workplace. Endeavor 2022 Schedule To ensure the safety of our community, Endeavor 2022 will take place virtually. Wednesday, January 12 Thursday, January 13 Friday, January 14 Wednesday, January 12, 2022 PROGRAM 11:00 a.m.–12:00 p.m. Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Welcome Panel Meet with AHANA+, LGBTQ+, Montserrat, and First Generation students and Endeavor Fellows to discuss your experiences with career development. 1:00–2:00 p.m. Meet Your Endeavor Team Meet your Endeavor Fellow and start connecting with other Endeavor 2022 participants. Complete exercise to reflect on your skills, interests, and values. 2:30–3:30 p.m. Alumni Mentor Group Meetings Meet with your alumni mentor and discuss networking tips. 4:00–5:00 p.m. Reconnect and Reflect With Your Group Connect with your Endeavor Fellow and peers. Enjoy retreat-style reflective conversations with students about your interests, skills, and education, and how they contribute to your plans for the future. Thursday, January 13, 2022 PROGRAM 9:30–10:00 a.m. Connect with your Group Connect with your Endeavor Fellow and peers to prepare for the day ahead. 10:00–11:00 a.m. Opening Endeavor Keynote and Panel A prominent liberal arts alum discusses the advantage provided by a liberal arts education. The keynote will followed by a panel of alumni discussing current workplace trends. 11:00 a.m.–7:00 p.m. Alumni Panels and Networking Hear from BC alumni about their career paths. The panels are followed by short breakout networking sessions. Select the panels you would like to attend based on your interests or curiosity. You can choose to attend as many as you would like. Healthcare and Nursing: 11:15 a.m.–12:30 p.m. Communication, Arts, and Media: 12:30–1:45 p.m. Education, Nonprofit, and Social Service: 1:45–3:00 p.m. Science, Technology, and Engineering: 3:00–4:15 p.m. Government, Law, and Public Policy: 4:15–5:30 p.m. Business, Consulting, and Finance: 5:30–6:45 p.m. 8:00 p.m. Connect with your Group Connect with your Endeavor Fellow and peers. Debrief the day with your peers and prepare for the final day. Friday, January 14, 2022 PROGRAM 10:00 a.m.–12:00 p.m. Industry Immersive Experiences Panels and interactive learning activities that will help you experience what it is like to work in an industry of interest. 12:30–1:15 p.m. Alumni Mentor Group Meetings Reconnect with your alumni mentor. 1:30–2:15 p.m. Closing Debrief the overall experience with your Endeavor group. Note: Schedule is subject to change Back To Top Back To Top Career Center Southwell Hall 38 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 617-552-3430 About Departments & Programs How can we help you? Events Division of Student Affairs Division of Student Affairs BAIC BC Bands Business Service Center Career Center Counseling Services Graduate Student Life Health Promotion Health Services Residential Life Robsham Theater Student Conduct Student Involvement Student Outreach & Support Women’s Center Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College