Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Events Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Schedule a Visit SMU Tour Follow Us Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us Twitter Follow Us YouTube Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Home Academics Academics Departments Undergraduate Majors Undergraduate Minors and Programs Graduate Studies Why Study Here? Why Study Here? The Dedman Edge Heard on The Hilltop Research and Fellowships Research and Fellowships Undergraduate Students Graduate Students National Student Fellowships Institutes and Centers Faculty Dean's Research Council Resources Resources Current Students Faculty and Staff Prospective Students Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate About About Dean's Welcome Administrative Directory Executive Board Department Chairs Department Faculty Directory Dedman Diversity Publications Facilities Connect Connect Make a Gift Contact Us Prospective Student Visit Alumni Connection and Events ☰ Prospective Students Prospective Students Undergraduate Students Resources Resources Welcome to Dedman College! Below is a compilation of resources to guide you through the college selection process. Feel free to watch our virtual information session and browse our list of frequently asked questions to learn more about all things humanities, social sciences, and natural and mathematical sciences. Whether you are an admitted student making your final decision or a prospective student just embarking upon the college search journey, we hope this page is helpful! Should you have any questions, please don’t hesitate to contact us at dedmancollege@smu.edu. Pony up! Frequently Asked Questions What majors and minors does Dedman College offer? Dedman College offers nearly 100 majors and minors that span 16 departments in the humanities, social sciences, and natural and mathematical sciences. We also offer multiple interdisciplinary studies - programs that combine courses from two or more departments. Check out our viewbook to learn more about all Dedman’s programs and offerings! What are SMU's general education requirements? The University Curriculum is a flexible set of student learning outcomes composed of four requirements: Foundations, Breadth, Depth, and Proficiencies and Experiences. Students can fulfill these requirements through classes inside or outside of their major, study abroad, and community engagement. What if I'm unsure about what exactly I'd like to study? We like to think of our students as multi-interested. All students enter SMU as pre-majors, and many change their mind when they get to campus. Additionally, students are not required to declare their major until the start of their junior year – though they may do so at any point up until then – so there is plenty of time for multi-interested students to explore their options across all five undergraduate schools. What resources are available for students interested in medical or other health professions schools? These students will be part of SMU's pre-health program! Pre-health is our umbrella term for any student interested in pursuing any type of post graduate medical or health professions school. Tracks within the pre-health program include pre-med, pre-dental, pre-occupational therapy, pre-optometry, pre-pharmacy, pre-physical therapy, pre-physician assistant, and pre-veterinary. Because the pre-health program is a track, rather than a major, it both prepares students with the necessary skills and requirements for post-graduate program admissions and allows them to major in any area of study across campus. Requirements include courses in biology, calculus, chemistry, physics, psychology, sociology, and statistics. For reference, check out the program’s suggested pre-med plan and timeline. Given the pre-health requirements, the most common majors paired tend to be those in the natural sciences, but in recent years there have been pre-health students who have studied business, dance, and English – you really can major in anything! Additional resources include the Health Professions Recommendation Committee (HPRC), specialized advising, and student organizations. What about for law school? SMU’s pre-law program provides support, advising, and resources for any student interested in attending law school. There are no required majors or courses for the pre-law program, as the Law School Admissions Council specifies no particular major for admission. Students will want to ensure whichever area they choose to study allows for the development of clear and effective writing and communication, logical reasoning, and creative analysis. We encourage pre-law students to pursue the law and legal reasoning minor, which combines political science, philosophy, and communication courses to equip students with the aforementioned skills. The Pre-Law Scholars Program provides networking and mentorship opportunities, as well as automatic admission to SMU’s Dedman School of Law, granted students achieve the specified minimum GPA and LSAT requirements. Highly qualified SMU applicants who have indicated an interest in pre-law are automatically considered for acceptance into the program. Continuing students may apply for the program after their first semester at SMU. How can I double major or study within multiple undergraduate schools - and graduate and four years? Don’t worry, we’ve got you covered! When entering SMU, all students are assigned an advisor with the University Advising Center. Students will have the opportunity to meet their advisor at one of the Academic Advising, Registration, and Orientation (AARO) sessions throughout the summer. This advisor can help students create an academic plan, explore class options inside and outside of students’ areas of interest, and guide students toward eventually declaring a major. After declaring a major, students then receive a departmental advisor who can assist with course paths, departmental distinction, and anything specific to that area of study. Students have a departmental advisor for each major – the more complex the degree plan, the more support we provide! Students following a pre-professional track (pre-health and pre-law) and in the University Honors Program will also receive specialized advising support. Is it possible to double major in business or the arts? Absolutely! Many of our students double major in an area of study outside of Dedman, including in the Cox School of Business and Meadows School of the Arts. Both of these undergraduate schools have unique admission requirements for some majors. Visit the Cox Direct Admit and Meadows Dual Admit websites to learn more about each undergraduate school's programs and requirements. What if I realize I want to study business after I get to SMU? Never fear! Dedman also houses several business-related programs that require no separate admission. The Department of Economics boasts both a Bachelor of Arts and Bachelor of Science degree in Economics, as well as two B.S. concentrations: Economics with Finance Applications and Economics with Management Information Applications. The Department of Sociology houses a B.A. in Markets and Culture, one of our interdisciplinary majors that combines economics and sociology courses to provide insight into how humans and the marketplace interact. You may also pursue a business minor through Cox, which requires no separate application. How does SMU's honors program work? The University Honors Program (UHP) is open to students of all majors. Students are automatically considered for acceptance into the UHP via their SMU application and will be notified shortly after their admission decision. The UHP accepts about 10% of the incoming first year class. If a student is not originally invited to the UHP, they may apply after their first semester, given they have achieved a minimum 3.5 GPA. The UHP offers smaller classes sizes, travel courses, and the opportunity to engage in self-directed research. What research opportunities are available for undergrads? SMU believes strongly in the value of undergraduate research. Each of our 16 Dedman College departments engages in research and encourages undergraduate students to get involved. Some professors will announce research opportunities in class and others may look to individual students to reach out. SMU also provides funding for undergraduate research through fellowships and assistantships such as the Engaged Learning Fellowship, Summer Research Assistantship, and Undergraduate Research Assistantship. Below are just a few examples of Dedman College research projects. Visit each department’s webpage to see more research opportunities. Center for Drug Discovery, Design, and Delivery (Multi-disciplinary scientific research) Family Health and Development Lab (Department of Psychology) Voices of SMU (Department of History) Tip: As an SMU student, if you find an area in which you’re interested, don’t be afraid to email the lead faculty to see what opportunities may be available for an undergraduate researcher. What about internships? Each year, SMU has more internships come through our doors than students to fill the spots. The city of Dallas is booming, and our students are able to take advantage of the many companies available just down the road. Additionally, SMU’s vast alumni network ensures internships, externships, and shadowing opportunities are available just about anywhere in the country. Students can connect with internship opportunities through the Hegi Career Center or online via SMU’s internal LinkedIn system, Handshake. Fun fact: Some majors will even count an internship as course credit. Visit the Hegi Career Center website to learn more about internships and career development at SMU. What financial support is available for students? Important topic, glad you asked. We bleed red and blue, but we know your mind may be on the green. About 75% of SMU students receive some sort of financial support. Students are automatically considered for merit scholarships as part of their SMU application, and this includes school-specific scholarships. Here in Dedman, our school-specific scholarship is the Dedman College Scholars Program (DCS). DCS provides up to $10,000 a year for four years for up to 25 students. It couples academic opportunities with community to support students who have indicated a primary area of interest within Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences. If you meet the requirements for consideration based on your SMU application, the program directors will reach out to you for additional materials. Are there scholarship opportunities for current Dedman College students? Yes! Current students with a declared major in Dedman College may apply for departmental scholarships. Departmental scholarship applications are due in the spring for the following academic year. What else should I know as an admitted student? Check out the Class of 2024 webpage to get connected with other potential mustangs, view a new student checklist, submit your deposit, and more! Anything else? Always! We’ve compiled some Dedman College and SMU resources below to ensure you get a more complete look at all we have to offer on the Hilltop. What do our students have to say about SMU and Dedman College? “Between the internship possibilities in Dallas and the small class sizes at SMU, the benefits of attending SMU seemed endless. I knew that the academic setting would be rigorous and rewarding, especially because of the accessibility of professors. I did not want to be just a student ID number that my professors saw when entering grades, and to this day I have not had a professor who hasn’t known my name. Rather than adjusting your plans to fit the needs of the university, your SMU experience is tailored specifically to meet your desires and needs.” – Mimi Mallory, Class of 2020 Economics with Finance Applications, Mathematics, and Statistics “What I love most about SMU is the direction and continued guidance it gives me. Coming in as a freshman studying English on the Pre-Med track, SMU allowed me to pursue my love of the liberal arts to the fullest, which again shows how much it values every student’s unique path. However, after a few weeks of feeling that I didn’t really want to be a doctor, I discovered the Human Rights Program, one of only seven in the entire nation. I realized that this was where my passion really lay, and it has fueled my academic career ever since. The transition was seamless, and I am surrounded by encouraging classmates, friends, and mentors.” – Johanna Pang, Class of 2022 English and Human Rights Check out these Ted Talks from two of our Dedman College professors: Dr. Greg Brownderville (Director, Creative Writing Specialization) and Dr. Rick Halperin (Director, SMU Human Rights Program). Want to see what current Dedman students, alumni, and faculty are doing? Browse Inside Dedman College, our virtual newsletter! As our university president, Dr. R. Gerald Turner, says, “Life’s too short to go to school on an ugly campus.” Take our virtual tour and see why the Huffington Post has named SMU “The Most Beautiful College Campus in America.” For admission-specific questions, visit the Office of Undergraduate Admission website and use the “Meet Your Counselor” tool. Resources Contact a Recruiter Departmental Videos Virtual Campus Tour Apply Visit Academics Undergraduate Degrees Graduate Degrees Minors and Programs Research Centers and Institutes Connect Administrative Directory Department Directory Alumni Make a Gift Dedman College of Humanities & Sciences P.O. Box 750235 | Dallas, Texas | 75275-0233 214-768-2440 © Southern Methodist University Legal Disclosures facebook twitter youtube