COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Educational Psychology, Master's Master'sEducational Psychology All Programs College of Applied Studies Intervention Services and Leadership in Education The Master of Education (MEd) in educational psychology from Wichita State offers several different programs of study: general, higher education / student affairs and customizable specialization options. The program will help you upgrade your career—or start a new one—in a diverse range of settings from K-12 schools and higher education to research and health care. The program is also excellent preparation for pursuing a Ph.D. You'll be able to create your own program of study—and choose from flexible options, including in-person, online and hybrid courses (in person/online). Learn how Educational Psychology is the right fit for you. Request Info Start Your Application Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the program For admission consideration, applicants must provide: GPA for the most recent 60 credit hours of undergraduate coursework Evidence of academic competence Resume Contact information for three references Statements of professional goals and research interests For complete admission details, click on the link below. Admission requirements Inside the Program Flexible program lets students balance life while learning how to improve career In the Educational Psychology program, you can enhance your existing career or start a new one. As director of a local childcare center, Marissa Harris needed to understand why and how children learn, grow and succeed. Through the program, Marissa honed all those skills while also working and juggling a growing family, courtesy of a flexible evening class schedule. "The professors were able to deliver an abundant level of high quality education, while continuing to make school less about how you do on a test and more about making sure students really learn the information." Curriculum The MEd in educational psychology can be taken in its generalized form, a higher education / student affairs track or in a number of customizable tracks based on your interests and career goals. The degree also has a thesis or non-thesis option. The non-thesis option requires 33 credit hours of coursework and a written comprehensive examination. The thesis option requires 32 credit hours of coursework plus an oral examination over the thesis. View the curriculum Careers A graduate degree from Wichita State's College of Applied Studies will give you the knowledge, skills and confidence to make a positive impact in the classroom—and on your career. Learn more about careers in this field Similar Programs School Psychology (Postbaccalaureate) School Psychology (Postmaster's) Educational Leadership (Master's) Educational Leadership - Educational Psychology (Doctorate) 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©