Menu Close Menu Skip to content Information For: Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Friends & Supporters A to Z index Search for: Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health Email People Departments Calendar Careers my.harvard Giving About Faculty & Research Admissions & Aid Academics Executive/Continuing Ed News Graduation Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health > Graduation > Post-Graduation FAQs Graduation Menu Search for: Home Class of 2022 Response form 2022 University Commencement Regalia Affinity Graduation Celebrations Student Speaker Contest Visa Support Letter Other Graduation Events Classes of 2020 and 2021 Response form 20/21 University Commencement Regalia Keynote Speaker Harvard Chan Live Speaker Profiles Getting to Campus Visa Support Letter Alumni Graduation Timeline November Graduation Timeline March Graduation Timeline May Graduation Timeline Diploma, Registration, Dissertation, Tuition & Health Insurance Information Loan Exit Counseling Requirements Awards Post-Graduation FAQs Information for Faculty Information for Guests Transportation and shuttles Post-Graduation FAQs Following are a series of frequently asked questions (FAQs) to help you understand changes to your student access after graduation. We know that new graduates often have a need to access Harvard Chan School resources and have developed this memo to help new graduates negotiate the transitional period immediately following graduation. These FAQs have been drafted in consultation with the Office of Alumni Affairs, the Office of Career and Professional Development, and the Offices for Academic Affairs, Student Affairs, Information Technology, and Operations to address some of the issues that arise each spring for our new graduates. Why is my HUID disabled so soon after graduation? Harvard University policy mandates that all HUIDs be deactivated the day a student graduates, whether November, March or May. Deactivated HUIDs should be turned in at the ID Office. I still have some work to do and need access to Harvard Chan school buildings. What should I do? Alumni are always welcome to visit the Harvard Chan School campus buildings. Future access to the campus will require either a visitor pass or application for a non-student HUID to be approved by the appropriate department. If you only need access for the day, please identify yourself to the Kresge entrance security guard as a graduate of the Harvard Chan School and the security guard will direct you to the ID office. The ID office will ask for a photo ID and will issue you an alumni visitor pass for the day. Alumni may only receive a single-day pass without making prior arrangements with a department or program administrator, and no more than two-day passes will be issued in any given three-month period. If you require sustained access to the Harvard Chan School buildings after graduation to complete work or for other legitimate business or academic reasons, please see your department or program administrator, who can sponsor you for a temporary ID—for one week or 30, 60, or 90 days—that will allow you access to the portions of the campus that are necessary for completing your work. The decision to sponsor a temporary ID is at the sole discretion of the department or program and may be rescinded at any time (revised July 10, 2013). UPDATE AS OF 2021: Due to COVID-19 protocols, alumni are not currently able to obtain day passes. I’m still doing some research. Can I use the Countway Library or other Harvard libraries after graduation? Student access to Harvard libraries is removed immediately after graduation. However, all Harvard alumni now have access to a wide variety of electronic resources. While this catalog is not comprehensive, it does provide access to many of the most popular journals and other resources through the Harvard libraries. Additionally, alumni can apply for borrowing privileges at Countway and Widener Libraries for a fee, and we recently began providing alumni access to one of the largest publishers of online journals. Your alumni representatives serving on the Harvard Chan School Alumni Council are continuing to seek new ways for Harvard Chan School alumni to access Harvard’s vast scholarly resources. Visit our Career Tools page to see the scholarly resources that are currently available to our alumni and how to access them. What about Canvas? Can I still access my course materials after graduation? Access to courses on Canvas is available for up to two years after graduation. Some collaborative features of courses will be in a “read only” state after the course has concluded (e.g., discussion boards, assignment submissions). Features that rely on student library access privileges will not be available. Please also note that faculty may opt to remove their courses and/or select content ahead of the two-year time period. We recommend copying materials locally to your computer to ensure continued access to content of interest from your courses. If a course was recorded, videos will be available for up to two years after the course was offered. Faculty may opt to remove course videos ahead of the two-year time period. Videos are not available for download. If you have questions or problems accessing materials, please contact the Harvard Chan IT Helpdesk at helpdesk@hsph.harvard.edu. I’m still looking for a job. Can I use the Office of Career and Professional Development after graduation? Yes. A variety of services are available throughout your career, and you are always welcome to contact us for assistance. As alumni, you will also have lifelong access to the CareerConnect job listings, and we are increasingly posting mid- to senior-level positions to help you as you progress through your career. Please visit the Career Advancement website for more details. Does my Harvard email expire? The Harvard University policy for Microsoft Office 365 accounts (designated by student@hsph.harvard.edu) states that accounts expire 230 days after a student’s graduation. This policy applies to all students entering from the 2018-2019 academic year onward. The Department of Information Technology can provide guidance on how to create a personal archive of your mail as well as copy other O365 files to local drives. For students who entered in the 2017-2018 academic year, your email address will expire 365 days after graduation. If you were on the previous Gmail system for students (designated by student@mail.harvard.edu and pertaining to students enrolled between 2011 and May 2017), there is currently no expiration date. These accounts will be available for the foreseeable future. Does my access to other Harvard Chan and Harvard systems expire? Access to most systems ends upon graduation or shortly thereafter. Policies are determined by the technology unit that manages each service on a service-by-service basis. Most notably, access to your Harvard Chan network drives (P:/, S:/, G:/ drives), as well as virtual student computing (VDI), expires on June 30 for all graduation dates (November, March, and May). The Department of Information Technology can provide guidance on copying personal files to your local computer or other devices. The Department of Information Technology also maintains a detailed list at https://hsph.me/student-offboarding with additional information for recent graduates. Does my HarvardKey credential expire? Current Harvard University policy states that your HavardKey credential does not expire. The HarvardKey is used for some alumni activities, including accessing the University’s alumni website (alumni.harvard.edu). How can I connect with other Harvard Chan School alumni specifically? A unique benefit of attending the Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health is that you are part of a great School within a great University! Our alumni are members of both the Harvard Chan School Alumni Association and the University-wide Harvard Alumni Association (HAA) described below. Please note that joining the Harvard Chan School Alumni Online Community requires a separate registration process from that for the HAA registration. The Harvard Chan School Alumni Online Community features a secure, password-protected, Harvard Chan School–specific alumni directory, an alumni mentoring network, information on how to submit class notes, listings of regional groups, current news about Harvard Chan School faculty and alumni, and career and volunteer opportunities around the globe. Whenever your home or business information changes, be sure to update your online community profile. You can also request to join the Harvard Chan Alumni LinkedIn Network and Facebook groups. I heard I can join the Harvard Alumni Association (HAA). What's that about? As an additional resource, all Harvard alumni are eligible to register with the Harvard Alumni Association at a password-protected site (alumni.harvard.edu) offering a variety of services, including a University-wide alumni directory, distance-learning programs, and career/networking opportunities. To register: Go to the HAA website. Click the Community Login or Register button on the top right-hand side of the page, and Follow the information requests. Use your existing Harvard Key to log in. If you have any problems registering, please email the HAA help desk or call 800-823-2478 or 617-496-0559 (M-F, 9 am – 5 pm ET) or visit the HAA help page for more options. If you have questions about any of these FAQs, please feel free to email the Office for Alumni Affairs or call +1 (617) 432-8429. News from the School Congratulations graduates! Probing disease disparities Saving a daughter, starting a career Tackling disparities and stigma around obesity, mental health Information For: Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Friends & Supporters About Key Facts Renaming the School Office of the Dean Location and Facilities Administrative Offices Contact Us Faculty and Research Faculty and Researcher Directory Academic Departments, Divisions and Centers International Research Postdoctoral Research Fellows Office of Faculty Affairs Faculty Searches Office of Diversity and Inclusion Admissions & Aid Why Harvard Chan Degree Programs Non-Degree Programs Financial Aid Student Experience Career Advancement Apply Academics Academic Departments Divisions Research Centers Flagship Initiatives International Research Research Administration and Support Degree Programs Fellowships and Residencies Summer Programs Continuing Professional Education Interdisciplinary Concentrations Academic Calendar Harvard Chan Viewbook Executive/Continuing Ed Program Offerings Custom Programs Request Information News and Resources About ECPE Contact News Featured News Press Releases Student Stories In the News Newsletters HPH Magazine Why Public Health? Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health 677 Huntington Avenue Boston, MA 02115 +1 (617) 495‑1000 Twitter Facebook YouTube LinkedIn Instagram iTunes Harvard Chan Home Contact Us Harvard University Home Make a Gift Privacy Policy Report Copyright Violation Accessibility Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College