Skip to main content menu Cornell University SEARCH: This Site Cornell more options Financial Aid Main menu Apply for Aid Prospective Applicants Prospective Applicants International Prospective Applicants Undocumented Current Students Current Students International/Undocumented Graduate Students Special Circumstances Appealing Your Aid Decision Family Circumstances Additional Aid Possibilities Residence Hall Positions Changes to your Student Contribution Living Off Campus Study Abroad/Off Campus Programs Summer/Winter Session Consortium Agreements Emergency Funds Types of Aid Grants and Scholarships Work Loans Cost to Attend Value of a Cornell Education Financial Aid Calculator Cornell’s Commitment to Access and Affordability Financial Aid Eligibility Financial Aid Initiatives Policies Consumer Information Course Repeats and Financial Aid Eligibility Eligible U.S. Citizenship Status, Eligible Non-Citizens, Undocumented Students Federal Satisfactory Academic Progress Federal Student Financial Aid Penalties for Drug Law Violations Federal Verification Leaves and Withdrawals Lending Code of Conduct New York State Tuition Assistance Program (TAP) Satisfactory Academic Progress Prorated Tuition Student Rights and Responsibilities Summer/Winter Session Aid Tax Withholding Veterans Education Benefits Policy Consent to Release Student Information Forms Videos How to Find a Job File your FAFSA College Board's IDOC Service Understanding Your Award Letter Financial Aid Appeal Financial Aid Overview Completing the CSS Profile Ayuda Financiera de Cornell Financial Aid Application Process Orientation Information OUR GOAL: Remove financial barriers and allow students the opportunity to invest in a Cornell education. OUR GOAL: Remove financial barriers and allow students the opportunity to invest in a Cornell education. OUR GOAL: Remove financial barriers and allow students the opportunity to invest in a Cornell education. OUR GOAL: Remove financial barriers and allow students the opportunity to invest in a Cornell education. You are here print share Facebook Twitter Classes and Campus Activities During the Winter 2022 and Spring 2022 Semester Statement Important Information: Please be mindful of phishing attempts regarding Student Employment opportunities. To verify phishing attempts, please reference the Cornell IT Security Phish Bowl. Cornell employers will not send electronic payroll checks by email and will not ask students to make gift card purchases on their behalf. A World-Class, Ivy League Education Within Reach Ezra Cornell’s founding vision – a university where “any person can find instruction in any study” – holds true today. More students than ever are able to graduate from Cornell with little to no debt, and about half of all undergraduate students receive substantial financial aid in the form of Cornell grants – this is free money that does not need to be repaid. After factoring in funding awarded through grants and work-study programs, the cost of a Cornell education may be less than you would expect. And, in many cases, families qualify for no or reduced loans, too. We encourage you to explore all available aid options at Cornell. Our admissions and financial aid counselors are available to help you on your way to becoming part of the Big Red family. Cost of Attendance Financial Aid Value of a Cornell Education Application Timeline Early Decision Freshman Regular Decision Freshman Fall Transfer Spring Transfer International Applicants Current Students November 21 | All Financial Aid application requirements due Mid-December | Financial Aid notifications sent to admitted students Early January | Deposit due to Admissions February 15 | All Financial Aid application requirements due Early April | Financial Aid notifications sent to admitted applicants May 1 | Deposit due to Admissions March 15 | All Financial Aid application requirements due By June 15 | Financial Aid notifications sent to admitted students By July 1 | Deposit due to Admissions October 15 | All Financial Aid application requirements due Mid-December/Early January | Financial Aid notifications sent to admitted applicants Early January | Deposit due to Admissions November 16 | Early Decision applicants January 2 | Regular Decision applicants March 1 | Current International reapplication deadline March 15 | Fall Transfer applicants October 1 | renewal applications available March 1 | renewal applications due for all continuing students May 1 | Summer Session aid application due May - August | Financial Aid decisions posted to Student Center August 7 | Fall Bursar bill due December 1 | Winter Session financial aid application due It starts here... It starts here... Prospective Applicants Current Students Newly Admitted Students News and Resources News & ResourcesStay in the know. Costs & Facts The breakdown on your education. Aid InitiativesThe breakdown on your education. Financial EducationLearn to manage your money. news Fri, 5/20 Changes to 2022-2023 Verification Requirements resources Financial Aid Calculator Estimate your potential aid eligibility Apply for Aid Make sure you complete all the steps Submit Documents Upload materials electronically Application Status Check your application To Do list Aid Decision View your financial aid decision To better understand the cost of attendance and access the Financial Aid Calculator, please visit our Cost to Attend page. For more information regarding admission, enrollment, and graduation metrics, please view the University Factbook. Our unique financial aid initiatives exemplify our commitment to providing need-based aid and making Cornell affordable for admitted students. To learn more, view all of our financial aid initiatives. Undocumented Undergraduate Applicant Initiative As of fall 2021, all current and future enrolled undergraduate students who attended and graduated from a US high school without US citizenship, residency, or visa status are eligible for a Cornell financial aid package that matches their demonstrated financial need. All applicants attending and expecting to graduate from a US high school despite lacking citizenship, residency, or visa status will be evaluated as part of Cornell’s need-blind admission review alongside their US peers. Parent Contribution Initiative Families with a total family income of less than $60,000, and total assets of less than $100,000 (including primary home equity), will have no parent contribution. Total family income equals adjusted gross income for the tax year that we are looking at for financial aid purposes, plus any business or other losses, as well as any untaxed income. In cases of divorce or separation, we calculate total family income for each parent and add them together. Low Debt Burden Cornell guarantees that any family with a total income of less than $60,000, and total assets of less than $100,000 (including primary home equity), will have no parent contribution and no loans in the initial aid package. Loans may be necessary for some families. Cornell makes initial offers of loan to a student based on their family’s income. The mean debt at graduation among Cornell students who borrow is less than $24,000 – substantially lower than the mean debt of $32,600 for all private college graduates. Evaluating Peer Need-Based Offers If you have received a financial aid offer from another Ivy League institution, MIT, Duke, or Stanford, Cornell will strive to calculate the same eligibility based on the information provided. The components that we will evaluate are the parent contribution, student contribution, and initial offers of loan and work. We are unable to consider evaluating scholarship offers that are from schools other than the Ivy League, Stanford, Duke or MIT or offers based on athletics and/or merit scholarships. Assessments can only be made for the applicants who received the offer. It will not be applied to other siblings at Cornell. Please submit a copy of the official aid offer from the other institution directly to the Financial Aid Office. Learning to manage your money is a critical life skill. Your college years should be a time when you are mastering the art of budgeting and preparing for the years to come when you can save and invest for your future. Financial Aid FAQ Take Our Survey Contact Us Office Hours: Monday-Thursday from 9:00am - 1:00pm & 2:00pm - 4:00pm Phone Hours: Monday-Thursday from 10:00am - 1:00pm & 2:00pm - 4:00pm Schedule Counselor Appointments: Cornell Chatter Website Feedback 203 Day Hall, Cornell University Tel: 607-255-5145 | finaid@cornell.edu Secure fax: 607-255-6329 | Secure Online Upload If you have a disability and are having trouble accessing information on this website or need materials in an alternate format, Contact web-accessibility@cornell.edu for assistance. © 2022 Cornell University Admissions Financial Aid Student Employment