Skip to content PVAMU Search STUDENTS FACULTY AND STAFF PARENTS AND FAMILY ALUMNI STUDENTS FACULTY AND STAFF PARENTS AND FAMILY ALUMNI Search APPLY NOW ABOUT PVAMU Accreditations Auxiliary Services Business Affairs Cooperative Extension Directions and Campus Tours Directory History and Traditions Human Resources Marketing and Communications President and Administration PVAMU Online Store Strategic Plan 2016-2021 University Police Department University Special Events and Protocol ACADEMICS Academic Affairs Academic Engagement and Student Success College of Agriculture and Human Sciences College of Arts and Sciences College of Business College of Education College of Engineering College of Juvenile Justice College of Nursing School of Architecture Continuing Education Distance Learning Graduate Studies Honors Program Institutional Research and Effectiveness John B. Coleman Library Marching Storm Band Northwest Houston Center Undergraduate Medical Academy Undergraduate Studies ADMISSIONS Application Deadlines Financial Aid Graduate Admissions Scholarship Services Student Services Transfer Admissions Undergraduate Admissions Veteran Services Visit ATHLETICS PVPanthers.com CAMPUS LIFE Bookstore Careers & Internships International Programs Student Affairs Recreational Sports Student Counseling Services Student Employment Student Media Student Resources RESEARCH Research Centers & Institutes Innovation Research Advancement Undergraduate Research Title III Programs Research Communications Research Compliance Sponsored Programs DONATE Homepagewebservices2022-03-24T15:31:09-05:00 Campus information and resources related to COVID-19 Vaccines Testing Reported Cases Learn More PVAMU ranks No. 4 in Texas for best value universities, No.1 HBCU Request Information Tuition and Costs Visit PVAMU IGNITE Your Passion Take the first step towards EXPERIENCING PVAMU. Learn more > Latest News Campus Announcements Newsroom Recent PVAMU alumna reflects upon personal growth, comfort zones following months-long study abroad trip to Costa Rica May 27, 2022 PRAIRIE VIEW, Texas (May 27, 2022) – While many students across the U.S. dealt with drought conditions and winter blizzards this spring semester, Prairie View A&M University senior Shaylan Young ‘22 (now a graduate) was dipping her toes in the sand while experiencing a different culture as a study abroad student in Costa Rica. “I’ve […] PVAMU students place fifth in semester-long case competition hosted by Goldman Sachs May 25, 2022 PRAIRIE VIEW, Texas (May 25, 2022) – A team of Prairie View A&M University students who took part in a semester-long program culminating in a case study competition took home fifth place and $155,000 in grants from Goldman Sachs, the New York City-based investment banking, securities and investment management firm. Anisah Hassan (sophomore, finance), Adriel […] Opinion| Change often comes out of tragedy. Reflecting on George Floyd’s legacy May 24, 2022 Months before George Floyd’s murder — before he cried for his mother while taking his last breath — a feeling of mediocrity had settled into my gut, an ache that spread throughout my body. I had watched the nation’s truth unfold in videos of Sandra Bland, Philando Castile, Breonna Taylor, Ahmaud Arbery. I had bottled up words […] Black colleges are still an underutilized market for recruiting tech talent May 23, 2022 As a business major at Prairie View A&M University in Prairie View, Texas, Sean Johnson had been on track to work in finance after graduating. But then his adviser mentioned a program that the historically Black university had with Accenture and Microsoft that was meant to function as a direct pipeline from Prairie View into […] Staying on the bold path: Tips from Ford Foundation chief, PVAMU's Spring 2022 Commencement Speaker Darren Walker May 20, 2022 What’s the best thing about working in an organization with a big social mission? The mission. I’ve worked in such places; I’ve come to know many more of them as a journalist, and I’m starting this new LinkedIn newsletter as a way of championing what cause-minded leaders can do. Believe me: There’s nothing like the […] WATCH: Honda Battle of the Bands Presents Driving the Legacy of HBCUs: Episode 2 - Band May 19, 2022 The second episode in Honda Battle of the Band’s four-part docuseries “Driving the Legacy of HBCUs” features Prairie View A&M University and explores marching band culture, its history, nostalgia, and impact on the HBCU community. Connect with PVAMU Happenings On the Hill Full Calendar This Week in Athletics Academic Calendar New Student Orientation June 2 Summer 2022 Mini-Mester Final Exams June 3 First Day of Class (Summer 2022) June 6 Spotlights New Student Orientation 2022 Summer Programs Register for Summer/Fall 2022 Academics Soar to New Heights Visit Academic Affairs Browse Our Programs Course Syllabi and Faculty CV From the time you step on campus to the time you leave with your degree, you will have been inspired by our dedicated PVAMU professors and staff to dream big, to be a production force on and off-campus and to soar to new heights. Our students are constantly winning awards, excelling in tournaments and pushing themselves to be the best that they can be in the classroom, on the field and in their communities. PVAMU is a place where you can be yourself. Our institution values individuality and productive self-expression. Whether you want to be a CEO, an entrepreneur, a singer or mathematician, we have the right alumni mentors to help you hone your skills and realize your dreams. We were established as an institution dedicated to service and we proudly carry that mantle today. 1,833 Courses offered per semester on average Diverse student population with 41 states and 43 countries currently represented 36 Bachelors 48 Minors 31 Masters 6 Doctoral Money Magazine “Best Value Education” 16:1 student to faculty ratio Academic Calendars Academic Programs Accessibility Accreditation Administrative Officers Bookstore Campus Map Careers/Jobs at PVAMU CARES Act Reporting and Guidance Clery Report Compact with Texans Consumer Information Disability Services Drug & Alcohol Abuse Prevention Program (DAAPP) eCourses Equal Opportunity Emergency Preparedness Faculty/Staff Email File a Report of Sexual Misconduct For the Media Forms Library Governance Health Services KPVU Library Mental Health Resources Non-Discrimination/Sexual Harassment Occupational License Eligibility Notification Office of the President Office of University Compliance Online Services Open Records Policy Library Privacy Protected Expression on Campus PVPlace Reports Library Risk, Fraud & Misconduct Social Media State Library Search State of Texas Student Complaints Texas A&M System Texas CREWS Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Title IX Tuition and Fees University Police Department SITE MAP CONTACT PVAMU VISIT US DIRECTORY ABOUT PVAMU REQUEST INFORMATION Physical Address: 700 University Drive, Prairie View, Texas 77446 Mailing Address: P.O. Box 519 - Prairie View, Texas 77446 (936) 261-3311 © 2017 PRAIRIE VIEW A&M UNIVERSITY We use third-party, session and persistent cookies and similar technology to collect aggregate (non-personal) information about usage by all of our visitors and to help us remember you and your preferences or to provide relevant advertising to you. For more information see our Privacy Policy Accept