Skip to main content Search Cornell Cornell Video Explore Home Browse Recent Trending Playlists Series Speakers Topics Contributors Submit MyPlaylist Play all in MyPlaylist Ask a Question tbd Name Email Address Question Send or cancel × Ask a Question Successful Thanks, ! Your question has been submitted. × A Personal Path to Science Posted on May 25, 2018 By Weill Cornell Graduate School of Medical Sciences, Weill Cornell Medicine facebook twitter share interactive transcript request transcript/captions live captions | MyPlaylist start: now end: now reset copy link copy embed X SUSANNAH CALHOUN: I was born with a condition called fibular hemimelia, which means I was born without a fibula bone in my leg. Growing up as an amputee, I've always been aware of the differences between myself and others. These differences left me with a desire to overcome challenges and also open my path to becoming a scientist. [MUSIC PLAYING] I grew up in Brooklyn, New York. My mom and my sister have been my biggest sources of support. In high school, my disability inspired me to conduct a study through the Intel Science Talent Search. I studied the differences in positive body image between congenital and non-congenital amputees. This was my first foray into scientific research, and I fell in love. After graduating from college, I started working as a research tech at Weill Cornell Medicine. That experience helped me cement my desire to continue working in an academic research environment. I realized that getting a PhD could open more doors for my scientific career. When I started graduate school at Weill Cornell Graduate School of Medical Sciences, I knew right away that I wanted to work in the lab of Dr. Kirk Deitsch studying Plasmodium falciparum, the parasite that causes malaria. My research studied how the malaria parasite repairs its DNA and what proteins are essential to that process. I've been really lucky to have two great thesis mentors-- Doctor Kirk Deitsch and Doctor Laura Kirkman. Kirk and Laura have created such a supportive and collaborative research environment. DR. KIRK DEITSCH: --infected red cell, so put the parasite in there. These guys are all sitting in here. SUSANNAH CALHOUN: While pursuing my PhD, I was one of the leaders of the Tri-Institutional Minority Society, which works to mentor talented minority undergraduates in biomedical research. I believe that the best scientific research requires people of diverse backgrounds. I'm going to be working at Novartis in Cambridge studying oncology. The skills that I learned at Weill Cornell in parasitology will now translate to my research in cancer diagnostics. I'm proud to be a scientist changing the face of scientific research. [MUSIC PLAYING] Transcript Request Form Name Email Address Disability Accommodation? Disability Accommodation? Yes No Affiliation -Select- Faculty Staff Student Alumni Other Send Request Cancel X We've received your request You will be notified by email when the transcript and captions are available. The process may take up to 5 business days. Please contact cornellcast@cornell.edu if you have any questions about this request. For Susannah Calhoun, her differences are also her greatest strengths. As a congenital amputee, she was inspired to overcome the challenges she faced and pursue a future in science, an interest first sparked in high school and culminating in her PhD. Related Links Education and research at Weill Cornell Medicine Learn more about Weill Cornell Graduate School of Medical Sciences Learn more about Weill Cornell Medicine patient care Weill Cornell Medicine graduates are an inspiration (Cornell Chronicle) More About medicine graduation 2018 class of 2018 graduate programs What to watch next 3:40 MyPlaylist Living Life with Purpose 1:52:54 MyPlaylist 150th Cornell University Commencement 1:00 MyPlaylist Cornell CALS Commencement 2018 surprise me Subscribe Submit Content Contact us RSS Cornell on YouTube Give Feedback Name Email Comments Send or cancel × Feedback Thanks for writing. We will be in touch shortly to address any questions, concerns, or technical difficulties you may have. × Schedule of Future Events There are no live broadcasts scheduled. × Email Updates See what's new on CornellCast and find out what's coming up next — and how you can take part. Subscribe to receive weekly CornellCast updates via email. Email address Subscribe or cancel × Subscribe Our hamsters have processed your subscription request and advise that the weekly update messages will contain details on unsubscribing in case you need them. × List Sent Our hamsters have processed your request and advise that a summary has been sent to the email address entered. × RSVP to this Live Event tdb tbd Enter your email below to be notified when this event begins Name Email Address Set reminder for Set reminder for 5 minutes 15 minutes 30 minutes 1 hour 1 day before the event starts. RSVP or cancel × RSVP Successful You should receive an email confirmation shortly. We will send you an email reminder before the show begins. You may request additional reminders for other times if you wish. You can also add this event to a calendar of your choice iCal/Outlook/other Google calendar For iCal, an .ics file will be downloaded to your computer or device. You may need to take additional steps to add the event to your personal calendar. × Settings Let us know your preferences and our accommodating hamsters will snap to it! Autoplay: on off Update or cancel × Follow this tbd tbd Enter your email below to be notified when new related videos become available. Name Email Address Follow or cancel × Thanks for Your Interest You should receive an email confirmation shortly. We will send you an email message when new related videos are posted. ×