Skip to main content MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links Home Ways to give Get involved Alumni and friends Students Parents Faculty and staff Corporations and foundations Recognition Be Boundless Campaign The President’s Circle Cumulative Giving Recognition Henry Suzzallo Society Gates Volunteer Service Award Report to Contributors Contacts Giving FAQs Give now My UW Giving Give to the UW Menu Home Ways to give Get involved Alumni and friends Students Parents Faculty and staff Corporations and foundations Recognition Be Boundless Campaign The President’s Circle Cumulative Giving Recognition Henry Suzzallo Society Gates Volunteer Service Award Report to Contributors Contacts Giving FAQs Give now My UW Giving Home Give to the UW Get involved Parents Parents Close Menu Home Get involved Alumni and friends Students Senior Class Gift Student Calling Program Parents Faculty and staff Payroll Deduction Seeing your children attend college is a significant milestone — a time of pride, excitement and opportunity. The experiences that shape your child’s education happen both inside and outside of the classroom. At the UW, every corner is abuzz with interactive learning opportunities that are an integral part of the Husky Experience. These experiences connect students to one another, broaden their perspectives and prepare them to be thoughtful and engaged citizens. You can help foster these experiences by giving through the UW Parents’ Program. It is a great way to enrich the education of your child — and of all students — at the UW. Husky parents make a difference Every year thousands of UW parents support specially selected funds that benefit all students. Parents have supported technological upgrades and new study spaces, and have created the UW Parents Collections and Programs Endowed Fund to support UW Libraries’ efforts to acquire material specifically for undergraduates. You can support this year’s project or you can direct your gift to your child’s school, college or program. Gifts can be made online, by phone or by mail. The UW also welcomes gifts of stock or securities and gifts made through matching gift programs. To learn more about how to give, contact 1-877-UW-GIFTS (877-894-4387) Stay informed and get involved UW Parent and Families Programs encourages the active interest and involvement of parents and families in their students’ experiences. Online you can find great information about your student’s activities and wellness, learn about upcoming events to which you are invited and sign up for the newsletter! Learn more about the Parent & Families Programs. Home Get involved Alumni and friends Students Senior Class Gift Student Calling Program Parents Faculty and staff Payroll Deduction Search for: University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms Newsletter © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA