Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Alumni Association Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Alumni Clubs Alumni Community Benefits CAA Arts Access Career Resources Events Get Involved News Columbia Alumni Association You are here: Home CAA Arts Access News CAA Arts Access News New Site-Specific Work by Columbia Faculty Sarah Sze The stunning five-ton sculpture Shorter Than the Day created by Columbia University School of the Arts Professor Sarah Sze was unveiled in June at the newly renovated Terminal B of LaGuardia Airport. Read more on the Columbia University School of the Arts site here. Columbia Filmmakers Head to Sundance and Slamdance With the start of the new year, comes the 35th edition of the Sundance Film Festival. The first major player on the festival circuit takes place January 23 to February 2, 2020. 32 Columbia filmmakers will participate. GSAS Alumnae to Launch Immigrant Artist Biennial Mary Annunziata '17GSAS and Allison Cannella '18GSAS, co-founders will launch The Immigrant Artist Biennial with artist Katya Grokhovsky, slated to open in March 2020. This will be the first-ever arts biennial to feature a roster made up entirely of immigrant artists. The Met Hires Denise Murrell '14GSAS On November 20, 2019, The New York Times first reported the news of The Metropolitan Museum of Art's hiring of Denise Murrell '14GSAS. The acclaimed curator of the Wallach Art Gallery's Posing Modernity will begin her appoinment in January 2020 as associate curator for 19th and 20th century art. Twenty Columbians Exhibiting Work at Art Basel Miami Twenty Columbia visual artists and gallerists, including two faculty members and nineteen alumni, will exhibit work at the 2019 Art Basel Miami and other associated art fairs in Miami. Art Basel Miami and Miami Art Week is from December 4 to December 8, 2019. Ito Aghayere '12SOA Stars in New CBS Comedy Carol's Second Act Ito Aghayere ’12SOA stars alongside Emmy Award winner Patricia Heaton in the new CBS comedy Carol’s Second Act. The series centers around Carol Chambers (Heaton), who pursues her dream of becoming a doctor. Aghayere plays Dr. Maya Jacobs, the Chief Resident in charge of Carol. Coming Soon to Theaters: Greta Gerwig’s Little Women Academy Award-nominated writer-director Greta Gerwig ‘06BC takes on the eighth feature film adaptation of Little Women, based on Louisa May Alcott's 1868 novel of the same name. Little Women will be released at theaters nationwide on December 25, 2019. Glance from the Edge, a New Film by Columbia Alumni and Students Glance from the Edge is a Bulgarian-American collaboration between co-directors and choreographers Kosta Karakashyan '19CC and Stephanie Handjiiska, director of photography Kevin Chiu '17SEAS, composer Julien Leitner '20CC (stage name Jude Icarus), and line producer Lora Beltcheva '19CC. Lucasfilm Hires Star Wars Producer Michelle Rejwan '08GS Michelle Rejwan '08GS producer of Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker was recently hired by Lucasfilm as their new senior vice president of live action development and production. In her new role will oversee all theatrical and direct-to-consumer live-action content for Lucasfilm and Disney Plus and is responsible for identifying and delivering future projects for Lucasfilm. Hadestown's Director Rachel Chavkin '08SOA Wins Tony Award The 2019 Tony Awards were presented on Sunday, June 9, at Radio City Music Hall in New York City. Columbia alumni and faculty were among the notable nominees including director Rachel Chavkin '08SOA, who led with 14 total nominations for Hadestown and took home eight Tony Awards including Best Musical and Best Direction of a Musical. Alumni Artists at The Whitney Biennial 2019 The Whitney Museum of American Art announced the artists selected to present at the 2019 Whitney Biennial, co-organized by Whitney curators, Jane Panetta and Rujeko Hockley ‘05CC. Seven Columbia alumni artists will participate in this year’s Whitney Biennial. Past News Columbia Alumni Center 622 West 113th Street, Mail Code 4525 · New York, NY 10025 Phone 212-851-7800 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close