Skip to content Clemson University Clemson University Search Menu Close Sorry, your browser does not support inline SVG. Sorry, your browser does not support inline SVG. Apply Giving News Resources for Students Faculty & Staff Parents Alumni Clemson University Academics Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Academics Home Employment Opportunities Apply for Admission Colleges College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business College of Education College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences College of Science Graduate School Academic Resources Academic Calendar Registrar Division of Undergraduate Studies Center for Career and Professional Development Academic Success Center GRAD 360° Libraries Outside the Classroom PEER/WISE Call Me MISTER® Creative Inquiry and Undergraduate Research Cooperative Education University Professional Internship and Co-op Program (UPIC) Study Abroad Admissions Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Admissions Home Schedule a Tour Apply for Admission Applying to Clemson First-Year Undergraduate Transfer Undergraduate International Undergraduate Graduate Students Academic Opportunities Majors Graduate Programs Online Graduate Programs Scholar Programs Paths to Graduate School Honors College Experiential Learning Financial Aid Tuition and Fee Calculator Undergraduate Financial Aid Graduate Fellowships and Awards Residency Requirements Campus Life Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Campus Life Home Club Sports Brooks Center for the Performing Arts Join Your Clemson Family Finding Your Community Living-Learning Communities Student Veterans Multicultural Programs FIRST Army ROTC Air Force ROTC Services On Campus Housing & Dining Campus Recreation Parking and Transportation Student Health Services TigerOne Card Services Clemson Athletics Get Involved Clubs and Organizations Fraternity and Sorority Life Orientation Ambassadors Tiger Media Graduate Student Government Undergraduate Student Government Research Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Research Home Clemson University Research Foundation (CURF) Division of Research Research Opportunities Student Research at Clemson Creative Inquiry Research Facilities Postdoctoral Affairs Serving South Carolina Through Research School of Health Research Public Service and Agriculture Clemson Experimental Forest Clemson Extension Clemson Research and Education Centers Public Service and Agriculture Research Farm Services Innovation and Economic Development Corporate Partnerships and Strategic Initiatives Clemson University International Center for Automotive Research (CU-ICAR) Clemson University Restoration Institute (CURI) Clemson University Biomedical Engineering Innovation Campus (CUBEInC) Center for Human Genetics Innovation Campus and Technology Park About Clemson Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back About Clemson Home Clemson News Clemson Athletics For Tigers Applying to Clemson Working at Clemson Traditions Military Heritage Things To Do in Clemson Visit Clemson Campus Resources Employment Opportunities Home and Garden Information Center Brand Guidelines CCIT Academic Calendar Training ClemsonForward Campus Leadership Board of Trustees President Academic Affairs and Provost Inclusion and Equity Student Affairs Faculty Senate Staff Senate Search Resources for Current Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Department of Military Leadership About Us Forward Arrow About Us FAQ Back Arrow Back Prospective Cadets Forward Arrow Prospective Cadets Classes Program Requirements Scholarship Information Clubs and Activities Back Arrow Back Current Cadets Forward Arrow Current Cadets Summer Training and Internships Cadet Resources Incentives for Nurses and Doctors Back Arrow Back Alumni Contact Us Forward Arrow Contact Us Prospective Cadet Form Back Arrow Back Apply Giving News Sikes Hall Icon Main Menu Forward Arrow Icon Back Arrow Icon Back Clemson University Academics Academics Home Employment Opportunities Apply for Admission Colleges College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business College of Education College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences College of Science Graduate School Academic Resources Academic Calendar Registrar Division of Undergraduate Studies Center for Career and Professional Development Academic Success Center GRAD 360° Libraries Outside the Classroom PEER/WISE Call Me MISTER® Creative Inquiry and Undergraduate Research Cooperative Education University Professional Internship and Co-op Program (UPIC) Study Abroad Admissions Admissions Home Schedule a Tour Apply for Admission Applying to Clemson First-Year Undergraduate Transfer Undergraduate International Undergraduate Graduate Students Academic Opportunities Majors Graduate Programs Online Graduate Programs Scholar Programs Paths to Graduate School Honors College Experiential Learning Financial Aid Tuition and Fee Calculator Undergraduate Financial Aid Graduate Fellowships and Awards Residency Requirements Campus Life Campus Life Home Club Sports Brooks Center for the Performing Arts Join Your Clemson Family Finding Your Community Living-Learning Communities Student Veterans Multicultural Programs FIRST Army ROTC Air Force ROTC Services On Campus Housing & Dining Campus Recreation Parking and Transportation Student Health Services TigerOne Card Services Clemson Athletics Get Involved Clubs and Organizations Fraternity and Sorority Life Orientation Ambassadors Tiger Media Graduate Student Government Undergraduate Student Government Research Research Home Clemson University Research Foundation (CURF) Division of Research Research Opportunities Student Research at Clemson Creative Inquiry Research Facilities Postdoctoral Affairs Serving South Carolina Through Research School of Health Research Public Service and Agriculture Clemson Experimental Forest Clemson Extension Clemson Research and Education Centers Public Service and Agriculture Research Farm Services Innovation and Economic Development Corporate Partnerships and Strategic Initiatives Clemson University International Center for Automotive Research (CU-ICAR) Clemson University Restoration Institute (CURI) Clemson University Biomedical Engineering Innovation Campus (CUBEInC) Center for Human Genetics Innovation Campus and Technology Park About Clemson About Clemson Home Clemson News Clemson Athletics For Tigers Applying to Clemson Working at Clemson Traditions Military Heritage Things To Do in Clemson Visit Clemson Campus Resources Employment Opportunities Home and Garden Information Center Brand Guidelines CCIT Academic Calendar Training ClemsonForward Campus Leadership Board of Trustees President Academic Affairs and Provost Inclusion and Equity Student Affairs Faculty Senate Staff Senate Search close Department of Military Leadership Clubs and Activities About Us show submenu for About Us FAQ Prospective Cadets show submenu for Prospective Cadets Classes Program Requirements Scholarship Information Clubs and Activities Current Cadets show submenu for Current Cadets Summer Training and Internships Cadet Resources Incentives for Nurses and Doctors Alumni Contact Us show submenu for Contact Us Prospective Cadet Form Clemson Home Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business Departments Department of Military Leadership Prospective Cadets Current: Clubs and Activities Clubs and Activities Ranger Club Open to all Clemson University students, no ROTC affiliation required. The Clemson Rangers is an all-volunteer unit that is affiliated with the Army ROTC. The purpose of the club is to challenge students physically and academically, promote self-confidence, increase leadership capability, increase military knowledge and promote overall professionalism and integrity. Some activities and benefits of the Clemson Rangers include: a. Leadership Training b. Discipline Training c. Physical Fitness Enhancement d. Time Management Skills e. Team Camaraderie Development f. Rappelling g. Weapons Safety and Firing h Small Unit Infantry Tactics / CQB i. Combat Survival Training The club meets bi-weekly in the mornings for physical fitness training, bimonthly for administration meetings and as scheduled for field training exercises at Clemson area training sites and other military installations. Membership in the club is attained by completing a three-week indoctrination phase followed by a series of tests concentrating on physical fitness and specific military knowledge. During the indoctrination phase, those prospective members are instructed and trained in areas of physical development and knowledge acquisition. If you are interested, feel free to email the club. Pershing Rifles Open to all students at Clemson University. "The purpose of Pershing Rifles is to foster a spirit of friendship and cooperation among the men in the military department and maintain a highly efficient drill company." - as stated by General John Joseph Pershing. Chartered March 19, 1946, Company C-4 has a long tradition of excellence. Most recently this includes national drill meet champion in 2008 and 2009. Performing at functions throughout the nation, the drill team and color guard have distinguished themselves. Members distinguish themselves in drill and ceremonies, Rifle Drill and Color Guard. Over the years since 1939, Company C-4 has established an unparalleled record of achievement. Each past company has contributed to the reputation and success of the unit- as will each successive unit. Although small in number, Company C-4 will always continue to strive for excellence in all it does. If you are interested, feel free to e-mail the club. Tiger Platoon Open to all University students, Army and Air Force ROTC. Purpose: Provide an opportunity to all students interested in practicing drill and ceremonies. The first Clemson A&M College Fancy Drill Platoon was organized in the spring of 1929 by Cadet Frank Burdick Farr, class of 1930. The Citadel had a drill platoon that competed at ROTC summer camp with platoons from other schools. Farr's brother, a Citadel cadet, told him that the only way to settle the argument on who was best was for Clemson to organize a platoon and compete with the Citadel Platoon at camp. In the spring of 1929, Cadet Farr was the highest-ranking junior cadet at Clemson. He called for members of the junior class to try out for the platoon and about 150 reported for the competition. The platoon consisted of five squads of eight men each, two guides, a leader and an alternate squad of eight men. Fifty-one members were chosen by competitive drills. At ROTC camp in the summer of 1929, the drill platoons of all fourth corps area schools competed. The Clemson Platoon won the area championship. The purpose of the platoon was accomplished. However, instead of disbanding, the members decided to remain organized and put on exhibition drills. Clemson's Senior Platoon had the enviable reputation of being the only one of its kind in the United States. During the early 30s, the platoon was referred to as The Fancy Prize Drill Platoon or the Junior Platoon. In 1934, the name Clemson Senior Platoon was adopted. In 1960, the Clemson Senior Platoon was deactivated and reactivated in the fall of 2000. If you are interested, feel free to email the club. Scabbard and Blade Open to Army and Air Force ROTC cadets by invitation. The Scabbard and Blade organization represents the highest military fraternity at Clemson University. The purpose of this organization is to promote interest in the military and to promote a closer relationship between the students and the military departments. Membership in Scabbard and Blade is open to a select number of Army and Air Force cadets not to exceed the top 10 percent of the Corps of Cadets. New members are selected by active individual qualities of leadership ability and exemplary character. K Company's core of activities revolves around the professional development of its members, the Clemson Corps and cadets. Our activities range from hosting speaking engagements featuring military professionals from all services and ranks as well as political and defense specialists. We are the keepers of the history of the Clemson Corps at Clemson University. We provide watch over all the historical monuments that are dedicated to the cadets that have passed through the pillars of excellence into the Armed Forces of the United States. Each year K-Co sponsors the annual Clemson University Scabbard and Blade Military Ball. This evening of formal dinner and dance is held in the spring of each school year. If you are interested, feel free to email the club. Click here to view summer training opportunities and internships. Army ROTC Copyright © Clemson University Army ROTC | Johnstone Hall, Box 341351, Clemson, S.C. 29634 864-656-3107 | Email Us | Website Updates intro-arrow Engage With Us Through Facebook Instagram Clemson University Facebook Instagram Twitter Linkedin Youtube Tiktok Policy/Terms of Use Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Copyright © 2022 Clemson University • Clemson, South Carolina 29634 Clemson University Facebook Instagram Twitter Linkedin Youtube Tiktok Resources A-Z Index Campus Map CU Safety Directory Webcams Apply to Clemson