Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Legal Affairs & General Counsel General Counsel right arrow down arrow Office of General Counsel right arrow down arrow Public Records Requests Contracting with UC Ethics Attorneys & Staff Contact Us Enterprise Risk Management right arrow down arrow Insurance & Claims right arrow down arrow Insurance Verification or Claims History right arrow down arrow Claims History / Proof of Insurance Request Non-Employee Exception Sheet Medical Malpractice Cross Reference Certificate of Insurance Loss Control & Training right arrow down arrow Drones right arrow down arrow Flight Request Form Fleet Safety right arrow down arrow Driver Registration Protection of Minors Special Events Student Organizations About the Process right arrow down arrow Staff FAQ's Ask a Risk Manager Privacy Internal Audit Home » About UC » Legal Affairs & General Counsel » Office of General Counsel » Contracting with UC Set Navigation title in component Public Records Requests Contracting with UC Ethics Attorneys & Staff Contact Us Contracting with UC Contract Signature Authority Pursuant to applicable Ohio law, University contracts can only be executed by University officials with delegated signature authority from the University’s Board of Trustees. If you have questions about who is authorized to sign a contract on behalf of the University, please contact the Office of General Counsel. Office of General Counsel's Role in the Contracting Process After a contract has received appropriate department and division approvals in the University’s online contracting system, the University department or unit contract manager submits the contract for institutional approval. The Office of General Counsel is the final step in the institutional approval process. The Office of General Counsel is responsible for review and negotiation of legal terms and ensuring a contract is legally sufficient prior to signing. The Office of General Counsel reviews each contract according to applicable law, University policies, and the following principles: The execution and delivery of the contract will not result in or constitute: (i) a default, breach or violation of the University’s rules, policies, or other organizational documents or any instrument, contract or agreement to which the University is a party or by which it or its property is bound; or (ii) a violation of any law, judgment, order, writ, injunction, or decree affecting the University. The contract does not include language requiring the University to indemnify any party in a manner not permitted by Ohio law. The contract does not subject the University to another jurisdiction by proposing choice of law, jurisdiction, and/or venue of another state or a foreign country. The contract does not subject the University to binding arbitration. The contract does not require the University to pay another party’s litigation expenses/attorney fees. The contract does not require the University to add any party as an additional insured under the University’s insurance coverage. The contract has a stated term that is typically no more than five (5) years and does not automatically renew. The contract includes the University’s data security rider if it involves University restricted data or access to a University system. The contract includes the University's accessibility rider if it involves interactive software. The Office of General Counsel will work with the University’s contracting partners to create acceptable legal terms. Approved Templates The contracting process timeline can be considerably shortened by using the University’s approved template agreements. The following templates may be presented to contracting partners. Please note that each department or unit may need to modify the preamble language and statement of work/pricing schedule or other business terms, as needed. Vendor Services Agreement UC Services Agreement If you cannot find the answer to your questions here, please contact: Joseph Doup Legal Assistant II 650 University Pavilion 513-556-3483 (Main Office) | 513-558-2375 (Direct) Joseph.Doup@uc.edu Karen James Legal Assistant II 368 University Hall 513-558-3485 (Main) | 513-556-5698 (Direct) Karen.James@uc.edu Disclaimer The information on this website is only current as of the date of publication. For most up to date information, please visit the source documents, regulations, and websites cited within. The information on this website is for informational purposes only and is not to be considered legal advice. Contact an attorney directly for assistance with addressing current University legal issues. University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-0000 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-0000 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top