Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Bachelor of General Studies (BGS) You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Bachelor of General Studies (BGS) Apply Visit Request More Info Bachelor of General Studies (BGS) Admissions Careers Choose Temple Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Bachelor of General Studies The Bachelor of General Studies, offered through Temple’s University College, is designed specifically for adult learners with prior college and at least 60 transferable credits who are ready to complete their undergraduate degree. This 120-credit bachelor’s program focuses on creating a solid foundation for a wide variety of careers and it allows students the opportunity to customize their degree path. The general studies degree combines major coursework (including two writing intensive courses), general education courses and electives. The curriculum is specifically tailored to enhance students’ critical thinking skills, effective communication abilities and interdisciplinary knowledge to achieve their personal and professional goals. Students receive personalized guidance from the University College Academic and Student Services team to develop the curriculum that meets their needs. Students also have access to courses and resources available at any of Temple’s campuses, including Main Campus, Ambler Campus, Temple University Harrisburg and Temple University Center City. You can customize your degree by choosing a combination of minors and/or certificates across our schools and colleges, or by focusing your coursework in a broad subject grouping that builds on coursework you’ve already completed. The general studies degree is flexible, customizable and prepares you to adapt to an ever-changing workplace. You will complete your degree with a capstone course, which provides opportunities to integrate academic learning with professional experiences in a culminating project that combines knowledge, skills and reflection within your selected subject grouping. Classes and Curriculum This program comprises coursework offered by Temple’s schools and colleges. Students can customize their degree by choosing two or more existing minors or certificate programs, or by choosing a broad subject grouping that builds on their previous coursework. These areas—which include arts and architecture; business, sports and communication; health and human services; humanities, education and social sciences; and science, technology, engineering and mathematics—are flexible and customizable through collaboration with a Bachelor of General Studies advisor. Learn more about the Bachelor of General Studies curriculum. Program Outcomes Graduates of the general studies degree program will be prepared to evaluate and synthesize knowledge from interdisciplinary perspectives.  communicate clearly, concisely and effectively, both orally and in writing.  demonstrate critical analysis and evaluation of an argument, including the argument’s assertions, background and assumptions; evidence used to support assertions; and the explanatory utility, and present conclusions, interpretations and implications.  build and apply research and critical analysis skills in ways that are informed by discipline-specific methodologies.  critically reflect on the relationship between their prior academic and nonacademic life experience with the skills and knowledge acquired through their academic subject grouping. Related Graduate Degrees Africology and African American Studies MA Anthropology MA Art History MA Master of Business Administration City and Regional Planning MS Communication Management MS Development and Social Change MS Advocacy and Organizational Development MEd Master of Liberal Arts Related Graduate Certificates Bioinformatics (STEM focus) College Access and Success Computer Science Conflict Management Destination Management Disability Studies Public Relations Strategic Communication and Cross-Cultural Leadership Explore More Graduate Options The flexibility of the general studies degree extends to many options for advanced study. Your individualized academic focuses and coursework can determine your related graduate degrees and certificates. Learn more about graduate programs at Temple. Your Academic and Student Services Team General studies degree students receive personalized support from the University College Academic and Student Services team. Students work collaboratively with staff to select courses and determine post-graduation plans. Students are encouraged to meet with their advisor each semester, and may do so virtually and in-person at most Temple campuses. Questions For more information about this program and how to apply for admission or reenroll, contact the University College Academic and Student Services team. Phone: 215-204-6565 Email: BGSadmissions@temple.edu Program Administrators Vicki Lewis McGarvey, vice provost for University College. Nicole M. Westrick, associate vice provost for University College. Tara E. Stasik, director of academic and student services for University College. https://go.oncehub.com/BGSAdmissions Your Questions, Answered Schedule an appointment with our Academic and Student Services team to discuss the Bachelor of General Studies program. Your Questions, Answered Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, the Bachelor of General Studies offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. Learn more about our tuition and fees. These tuition costs apply to the 2020–2021 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $670.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,208.00 per credit Student Clubs & Organizations Enhance your undergraduate experience by meeting and networking with like-minded students across the university through student clubs and organizations. Temple Veterans Association Adult Learner Organization For a full list of student clubs, organizations and activities at Temple University, visit Owl Connect. Study Away All full-time, degree-seeking Temple University students in good academic and disciplinary standing are eligible to study abroad. To learn more about the study away opportunities at Temple University, visit Temple’s Study Abroad website. Accreditation Temple University’s departments and programs are accredited by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education. UC-GS-BGS Additional Program Information School/College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Bachelor of General Studies (BGS) Admissions Careers Choose Temple Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Visit Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Visit Request More Info