Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Maguire Center Events Events 21st Annual Bonhoeffer Lectures in Public Ethics: Everyday Ethics for Exceptional Times J. Erik Jonsson Ethics Award Delta Gamma Lectureship in Values and Ethics Ethics & Compliance Certificate Public Scholar Lecture Conference of the Professions Past Events Student Engagement Student Engagement The Ethics Essay Prize Public Service Fellowships Teaching and Research Teaching and Research Teaching Fellowship Public Scholars Faculty Incentive Grant Program Resources Resources COVID-19 SMU Ethics Toolbox Papers Sound Ethics Research Newsletter Newsroom Newsroom From the Director's Desk Ethics Blog About Us About Us Leadership Cary M. Maguire Ethics Center Advisory Board Faculty Advisory Committee Contact Give ☰ SMU Office of the Provost Cary M. Maguire Center for Ethics and Public Responsibility Cary M. Maguire Center for Ethics and Public Responsibility The Maguire Center for Ethics & Public Responsibility is a university-wide center that supports student and faculty ethics-related education and activities. The Center seeks to recognize, honor and model ethical behavior; provide moral reflection on the contemporary issues; and celebrate ethics that reflect SMU's fundamental goals. Student Engagement Events Podcast Contact the Center Creating Opportunities for SMU and the Community to Connect Students Faculty Community Events News and Events The SMU Maguire Ethics Center Blog Read More Thinking Big. Doing Good. Previous Next pause play hide show Follow us: Tweets by MaguireEthics “Cary was a vibrant, pioneering member of the Mustang community,” said SMU President R. Gerald Turner. “His commitment to the growth of the University’s programs, the development of its students and the brightness of its potential laid the groundwork for its future success. Our University was made a better and more enriching learning and research environment because of Cary, and we feel his loss profoundly.” CONTACT US 6405 Boaz Lane Dallas, TX 75205 Main Phone: 214.768.4255 Fax: 214.768.3391 E-mail: maguire_ethics@smu.edu SMU Map Follow the Center's activities on our social media channels below. Apply Visit School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share