Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Department of Philosophy Undergraduate Graduate People Research News & Events Resources Contact Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Undergraduate Program Resources About Undergrad Courses The Online B.A. Advising Philosophy and Law Minor in Legal Thought and Liberal Arts Philosophy Circle Awards and Activities Take Action Apply to the Graduate Program Online B.A. 3+3 Accelerated BA/JD Program Minor in Legal Thought and Liberal Arts Support the Department Follow Us Online Facebook Home Philosophy Undergraduate Online BA in Philosophy: Concentration in Applied Ethics Online BA in Philosophy - Concentration in Applied Ethics This program focuses on ethical theories and ethical problem-solving in the context of a number of professional domains including medicine, law, and business. Core courses in this program provide a solid foundation in the history of philosophy and logic. This degree may be completed in the following ways: (a) University of Memphis courses (entirely online), or (b) by combining University of Memphis courses (online and on-campus), or (c) by combining University of Memphis courses (online and on-campus) with a limited number of approved courses transferred from other institutions (please consult the Undergraduate Catalog for more information). Additionally, out-of-state students may qualify for in-state tuition. Click here for more information. Note carefully: Online courses are rotated year to year so as to allow completion of the B.A. over the course of 2-4 years, so plan accordingly, being sure to take required courses as they become available. You are also advised to stay in regular contact with the departmental advisor, Mr. Amit Sen: amitsen@memphis.edu. Major Degree Requirements This program's degree requirements are the same as those of the Philosophy Major except part C. which will read as follows. C. The Major (30 hours) Completion of 30 semester hours in philosophy courses comprised of the two lists, Core and Applied Ethics, below. To prepare philosophy students for success in a number of fields, the department offers online courses in several sub-divisions of philosophy. Majors have to fulfill the following core requirements (15 hrs): PHIL 1102 (Values in the Modern World) PHIL 1611 (Elementary Logic) PHIL 3001 (History of Ancient Philosophy) PHIL 3002 (History of Modern Philosophy) PHIL 3411 (Contemporary Moral Problems) Note: Online versions of 3001 and 3002 are typically offered in the summer, and in opposite years. In addition, they have to complete 15 hrs from the following courses: PHIL 3514 (Biomedical Ethics) PHIL 3515 (Environmental Ethics) PHIL 3516 (Philosophy of Law) PHIL 3571 (Business Ethics and Society) PHIL 3806 (Data Ethics) Minor Degree Requirements Completion of 18 semester hours in philosophy courses, including PHIL 1102, PHIL 1611 or PHIL 1311, and 12 upper division semester hours. In consultation with the coordinator of undergraduate studies in philosophy, a student may design a minor (18 hours) that applies to the student's major area of study. Note carefully: Online courses are rotated year to year so as to allow completion of the minor over the course of 2-4 years, so plan accordingly, being sure to take required courses as they become available. You are also advised to stay in regular contact with the departmental advisor, Mr. Amit Sen: amitsen@memphis.edu. Further Information for Students Interested in Pursuing the Online BA The online BA degree is a reading, writing, and discussion intensive program that helps students develop their critical thinking and argumentative writing skills. The University's admission requirements apply; there are no specific admission requirements for the philosophy online BA. For more general information about admissions requirements, and the procedure for applying, please see the Admissions website. Admissions can be contacted at 901-678-2111 (toll-free at 800-669-2911), or by email at admissions@memphis.edu. For a general listing of application deadlines, please visit the following link: https://www.memphis.edu/admissions/apply.php Students who have completed university-level coursework are encouraged to review the information about being a transfer student, including information about the process of evaluating previous coursework for transfer credit. This information can be found by clicking the following link, and then selecting the second link in the top left corner of the screen marked "Undergraduate Transfer:" https://www.memphis.edu/admissions. You may also contact Admissions via the contact information provided above. Information about our current course offerings is available on the Class Offerings page of the UofM website. Select the Class Schedule Search, pick a semester, pick "Philosophy" in the Subject box and select submit. The online classes are those designated with a "M" in the section number. For example: "Values in Modern World - 91998 - PHIL 1102 - M50". The program has the same degree requirements as our on-campus program. Please see the Philosophy Department's Undergraduate program website for further details on specific degree requirements, and other details of the undergraduate program. A thesis is not required to complete the online major. However, online majors are welcome to take thesis hours and complete a thesis in an area of applied ethics. Online students also have the opportunity to build a portfolio of their work throughout the program, such that they have a collection of their work to show to potential employers or to further academic programs that they wish to attend after completing their degree. Information about tuition fees is available here: University Student and Business Services For more information about tuition, please contact the Bursar's Office. The Bursar's Office website, which includes the contact information for the office, can be found here: https://www.memphis.edu/usbs/ For further questions, please contact the Department's undergraduate advisor, Mr. Amit Sen. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 3/28/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.