Skip to main content Navigation Academics Admissions Research Locations Student Life Alumni & Giving Athletics Apply Now Interdisciplinary Studies (BA) Program at a Glance Program Bachelor College(s) College of Undergraduate Studies Department(s) Office of Interdisc Studies In State Tuition Out of State Tuition $212.28 per credit hour $748.89 per credit hour Learn more about program tuition and fees. Interdisciplinary Studies is a university-wide program leading to either the Bachelor of Arts or the Bachelor of Science in Interdisciplinary Studies, depending on the concentration of work selected in consultation with an Interdisciplinary Studies advisor. The program is administered through the Interdisciplinary Studies Department and is designed for academic flexibility. It recognizes that there are many combinations of courses that meet the needs of individual students. Interdisciplinary Studies (B.A. or BS) may be completed fully online, although not all elective options or program prerequisites may be offered online. Newly admitted students choosing to complete this program exclusively via UCF online classes may enroll with a reduction in campus-based fees. Degree Requirements Students who change degree programs and select this major must adopt the most current catalog. Students must have declared an Interdisciplinary Studies major at least two semesters before graduation. Research, Internship, and Independent study credit cannot be used in this major without prior approval from Interdisciplinary Studies. Meet with a college advisor for additional information. Co-op credit cannot be used in this major. Students must earn at least a "C" (2.0) in each core and restricted elective course. Students must consult with a college adviser to enter the program. Courses designated in 1 (General Education Program) and 2 (Common Program Prerequisites) are usually completed in the first 60 hours. No courses can count in more than one subject area or in a subject area and a minor. Students wishing to earn an Interdisciplinary Studies degree as a double degree, double major, or second major, must complete all restricted elective credits exclusive of the credits done for the other degree(s) or major(s), including any minors associated with that degree or degrees. Online Interdisciplinary Studies, BA/BS View Full Description Program Tracks/Options Interdisciplinary Studies BA - Diversity Studies Track General Studies Undergraduate Application Deadlines Freshmen Transfers International Fall May 1 Spring November 1 Summer March 1 Fall July 1 Spring November 1 Summer March 1 Fall March 1 Spring September 1 Summer January 1 Ready to get started? Apply Today Degree Search College of Undergraduate Studies programs Bachelors Interdisciplinary Studies (BA) University of Central Florida Colleges Burnett Honors Arts and Humanities Business Community Innovation and Education Engineering and Computer Science Graduate Studies Health Professions and Sciences Medicine Nursing Optics and Photonics Sciences Hospitality Management × Interdisciplinary Studies is a university-wide program leading to either the Bachelor of Arts or the Bachelor of Science in Interdisciplinary Studies, depending on the concentration of work selected in consultation with an Interdisciplinary Studies advisor. The program is administered through the Interdisciplinary Studies Department and is designed for academic flexibility. It recognizes that there are many combinations of courses that meet the needs of individual students. Interdisciplinary Studies (B.A. or BS) may be completed fully online, although not all elective options or program prerequisites may be offered online. Newly admitted students choosing to complete this program exclusively via UCF online classes may enroll with a reduction in campus-based fees. Degree Requirements Students who change degree programs and select this major must adopt the most current catalog. Students must have declared an Interdisciplinary Studies major at least two semesters before graduation. Research, Internship, and Independent study credit cannot be used in this major without prior approval from Interdisciplinary Studies. Meet with a college advisor for additional information. Co-op credit cannot be used in this major. Students must earn at least a "C" (2.0) in each core and restricted elective course. Students must consult with a college adviser to enter the program. Courses designated in 1 (General Education Program) and 2 (Common Program Prerequisites) are usually completed in the first 60 hours. No courses can count in more than one subject area or in a subject area and a minor. Students wishing to earn an Interdisciplinary Studies degree as a double degree, double major, or second major, must complete all restricted elective credits exclusive of the credits done for the other degree(s) or major(s), including any minors associated with that degree or degrees. Online Interdisciplinary Studies, BA/BS Degree Requirements Core Requirements 3 Total Credits Complete the following: IDS3933 - Cornerstone Experience (3) Restricted Electives 30 Total Credits Earn at least 30 credits from the following types of courses: * Students must complete two different subject area concentrations from among those specified below. * Students must take a minimum of 15 hours of approved courses in each selected subject area (excluding GEP courses). Courses are considered approved only when they have been reviewed by an Interdisciplinary Studies adviser and not simply when they appear on a student audit. * Students are required to take a minimum of 15 UCF hours, as well as 15 upper division hours, in the two areas combined. * The program will maintain a list of approved courses; substitutions require recommendation by an advisor and approval by the program director. * Up to three hours of undergraduate research, with a minimum grade of C (2.0), may be applied to restricted electives with prior program approval. * Up to three hours of internship, whether graded or S/U, may be applied to restricted electives with prior program approval. * See the Interdisciplinary Studies Advising Team for details regarding each area: -Arts -Behavioral and Social Sciences -Commerce -Communication -Computational Sciences -Education -Engineering -Health -Humanities -Letters and Modern Languages -Physical Sciences -Life/Biomedical Sciences -Public Affairs Electives 0 Total Credits Select primarily from upper level courses, with an Interdisciplinary Studies adviser's approval to reach 120 credit hours. Capstone 3 Total Credits Complete the following: IDS4934 - Capstone Experience (3) Grand Total Credits: 36 University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida