Skip to Content Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Indiana University Bloomington Indiana University Bloomington IU Bloomington Menu About History Rankings & Campus Statistics Mission & Strategic Planning Leadership & Administration Safety & Emergency Information Visit Campus Transportation & Parking A-Z List Jobs at IU How to Hire IU Students Admissions How to Apply Cost & Finances Visit IU & Bloomington Academics The Academic Experience Degrees & Majors Business Health & Wellness Science, Engineering & Technology Public Service Arts & Culture Schools Academic Opportunities Study Abroad Online Classes & Programs Schedule of Classes & Academic Calendar Academic Advising & Support Libraries Research Hoosier Life Traditions & Spirit Student Organizations Recreational Sports Athletics Health, Wellness & Safety Housing & Dining Visiting Bloomington Attractions & Things to Do Diversity on Campus Career Prep Find Your Passion Get Experience Develop Your Career Use Your Network Alumni & Giving News & Events Indiana University Bloomington Home About Admissions Academics Research Hoosier Life Career Prep Alumni & Giving News & Events Home Academics Degrees & Majors Business Business Discover the business of everything Heard of the Kelley School of Business? We thought so. In addition to top-business-school status and programs like finance and marketing, you’ll find business-related career opportunities in other areas that might surprise you. Where can business take you? Learn the business of business If you want to understand how organizations operate, from accounting to strategic management, explore our degrees in business. Explore news and entertainment If you want to push your creativity in areas like advertising or video, or love working on school publications, check out our degrees in media and journalism. Hype your team If you want to oversee major sporting events or promote your favorite franchise, check out our degree in sport marketing and management. Be a fashionista If you have a passion for retail and fashion trends, and want to learn more about product development, check out our degree in merchandising. Find other programs in business and moreExplore all IU degrees Customize your course of study If you want to . . . Learn more about majors in Own an art gallery or performance studio Arts & culture Manage a health care facility or be a hospital CEO Health & wellness Start a tech company Science, engineering & technology Help underserved populations Public service When it comes to business schools, we’re #goals Our reputation precedes us, thanks to the Kelley School of Business—ranked 11th in the nation. Whatever you study at IU, you can sharpen your business skills by taking classes, earning a minor or certificate, or participating in expert-led workshops from this top school.Learn more about the Kelley School Meet Evelyn This journalism major is taking advantage of every opportunity at IU—from reporting for the Indiana Daily Student to working part time at WTIU public television. Found a home in our Latinx community and serves as co-president of Latinos Unidos at IU. Plans to one day own her own media company.Read Evelyn’s story IU advantage Experience—Internships that lead to jobs with major companies, from finance to retail Expertise—120+ faculty experts across campus and opportunities to engage with industry leaders Career prep—Innovation and Entrepreneurship Program to fuel your startup idea Resources—Mark Cuban Center for Sports Media and Technology, Sage Fashion Collection, and much more Let’s stay in touch Ready to become an IU insider? Complete this form to join our mailing list. First name * Last name * Email address * Year of high school graduation * Select a year20222023202420252026 Take your next step at Indiana University Visit campus virtually Learn how to apply The Academic Experience Degrees & Majors Business Health & Wellness Science, Engineering & Technology Public Service Arts & Culture Schools Academic Opportunities Study Abroad Online Classes & Programs Schedule of Classes & Academic Calendar Academic Advising & Support Libraries Indiana University Bloomington social media channels Twitter Facebook Instagram YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn Contact, Address and Additional Links Services Canvas One.IU AskIU Find Directory A-Z List Courses Campus Map Required Disclosures Library IU Bloomington Libraries IUCAT OneSearch@IU Resources Knowledge Base IT Services Faculty & Staff Resources Diversity Non-Discrimination Notice Protect IU Email About Email at IU Outlook Web Access INDIANA UNIVERSITY BLOOMINGTON 107 S. Indiana Avenue Bloomington, IN 47405-7000 Phone: 812-855-4848 Accessibility | Privacy Notice | Copyright © 2022 The Trustees of Indiana University