Emergency Notification More details Skip to main content Dartmouth Home Search Index Dartmouth College Emergency Preparedness Home About Emergency Preparedness Search this Site Home About Emergency Preparedness Individual Preparedness Emergency Procedures Common Hazards Emergency Communications Emergency Resources Create a Departmental Emergency Plan Quick Links DartAlert Registration DartAlert FAQ Safety & Security College Health Services Environmental Health & Safety Sexual Abuse Awareness Dartmouth Emergency Medical Services New England Center for Emergency Preparedness Inclement Weather Ready.Gov New Hampshire Red Cross Communications@Dartmouth.edu Emergency Preparedness at Dartmouth On Focus: Download DartAlert's new Desktop Alerts. Welcome to the Emergency Preparedness website. Here you can find information on how to prepare for the unexpected, from floods to the flu. We encourage you to look through this site and see all the resources available to you, but here is a list of the top three things to do to prepare yourself for an emergency: Sign up for DartAlert and learn about emergency communication Review the guides on Emergency Procedures and Common Hazards to know what to do in an emergency situation Look over the Individual Preparedness page to see how to make a kit and a plan to suit your needs, as well as ways to stay informed COVID-19 Find all the latest updates and news about COVID-19 on the Dartmouth Together COVID-19 website. WHAT IS AN EMERGENCY? Emergencies are not always major disasters; sometimes they're as small as catching the flu. Any event, big or small, that puts the functionality of the Dartmouth community in jeopardy is considered an emergency. Examples include any occasion that could: Seriously stall or impair the College’s ability to function in the short or long term Result in mass casualties, serious injury or extensive property damage Significantly impact the College community The primary areas of focus include: Inclement weather Natural disasters Chemical or biohazardous disasters Fires and floods Pandemic flu Suspicious behavior/activity The College reviews its emergency management procedures on an ongoing basis. This involves refining processes designed to deal with various types of emergencies, monitoring developing events and issues and providing appropriate information in a rapidly changing environment. This web site is updated often and includes important information, updates, news, tips and training opportunities. What to do in an Emergency See Dartmouth's emergency procedures to know what to do and who to call in case of an emergency. Dartmouth has several resources available to to handle emergency situations, from floods to hostile intruders, and departments such as Environmental Health and Safety and Safety and Security are ready to help. How to Prepare for an Emergency These resources work best when you know how to use them. Becoming familiar with the College's emergency procedures and contacts is a great way to start preparing. You can also see our guides on common hazards, how we will communicate with you, and how to make your own emergency plans so that you are equipped to handle the worst. See our Emergency Resources page for links to maps and weather tools, as well as a listing of Automated External Defibrillators (AEDs) on campus. Contact Us Top of page | Privacy | Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College Last Updated: 11/10/21