Skip to content Cornell University Search toggle menu close About Cornell About Cornell Overview University Facts Maps & Directions Mission & Vision Core Values Locations Ithaca New York City Related Links Diversity Indigenous Engagement Economic Impact Sustainability Global Cornell Leadership Admissions Overview Undergraduate Apply Admissions Dates and Deadlines Costs and Aid Graduate Admissions Fields of Study Financial Support Continuing Education & Summer Sessions Summer Sessions Winter Sessions Part-time Study Academics Academics Overview Fields of Study Colleges & Schools Departments Library Continuing Education Related Links Office of the Provost Academic Calendar Course Catalog Global Learning Learning Goals Research Overview Explore Cornell Research Extreme Talent. Radical Collaboration. Results That Matter. Related Links Vice President for Research and Innovation Centers & Institutes Technology Licensing (CTL) Graduate Research Undergraduate Research OVPRI Research Publications Public Engagement Overview Featured CCE helps Buffalo get school food truck rolling Related Links Cornell Cooperative Extension Engaged Cornell Hub Land Grant to New York State New York State Impact Life at Cornell Life at Cornell Overview Athletics & Recreation Arts & Culture Health & Safety Live, Work, Travel Student Life Related Links Find Your Networks Center for First-Year Students Clubs & Student Groups More Toggle navigation Apply Undergraduate Graduate Visit Give Students Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Search Search Overview Fields of Study Colleges & Schools Departments Library Continuing Education Library Search the Library Hours & Locations Ask a Librarian Library News Library Events Cornell University Library is at the center of Cornell’s vibrant intellectual life. Expert librarians are available in person—and online 24/7—to help navigate our world-class collections and assist with papers, exam prep, and research projects. We're a home away from home, with warm, inviting spaces for solo study and high-tech, flexible spaces for group work. Students and faculty agree: The Library is an important contributor to their academic success. Law Library in Myron Taylor Hall A selection from the Cornell Witchcraft Collection Butterflies and moths in the Cornell University Insect Collection Students in Mann Library Cornell Costume and Textile Collection in the Human Ecology building The A.D. White Library within Uris Library Cornell University Unit Libraries Adelson Library (ornithology) Albert R. Mann Library (life sciences, agriculture, applied social sciences, human ecology) Carl A. Kroch Library, Division of Asia Collections Carl A. Kroch Library, Division of Rare & Manuscript Collections Edna McConnell Clark Library (physical sciences) Engineering Library Flower-Sprecher Veterinary Library Harold Uris Library (humanities, social sciences, and engineering) John Henrik Clarke Africana Library John M. Olin Library (humanities and social sciences) Law Library Library Annex (high-density storage) Management Library Martin P. Catherwood Library (industrial and labor relations) and Kheel Center for Labor-Management Documentation & Archives Mathematics Library Medical Center Archives - Weill Cornell Mui Ho Fine Arts Library Nestlé Hotel Library Sidney Cox Library of Music and Dance Weill Cornell Medicine Samuel J. Wood Library Weill Cornell Medicine-Qatar eLibrary Library Videos McMichael, Development and Social Change 59:29 Wang & Gülgöz, Remembering and Forgetting 1:16:31 Eswar Prasad Chats in the Stacks 1:03:25 Riché Richardson - Emancipation's Daughters: Reimagining Black Femininity and the National Body 1:19:08 Other Libraries and Collections Anne Carry Durland Memorial Alternatives Library Located in Anabel Taylor Hall, the Durland Alternatives Library provides resources in support of the Center for Transformative Action. This library is dedicated to providing free and open access to materials expressing viewpoints and information not readily available through mainstream publications and mass-media sources. Bailey Hortorium Library The Bailey Hortorium Library is a collection of botanical books and journals that represents the personal library of our Hortorium's founder, Liberty Hyde Bailey, combined with the library of Cornell's old Wiegand Herbarium. Career Library The Career Library in Barnes has one goal: to help you find the best career-related information in the shortest time possible. The Cornell Club, New York Relax in the quiet Andrew Dickson White Library. Macaulay Library Residing in the Cornell Lab of Ornithology, the Macaulay Library houses the world's largest archive of animal sounds and associated video. Paleontological Research Institution Library Housed in PRI's Museum of the Earth in Ithaca, our library of over 60,000 volumes focuses on paleontology, geology, and natural history. The Wells Rare Book Room includes an important collection of books on corals, mollusks, and foraminiferans. In addition to our library, we have an extensive collection of photographic and glass slides, photos, and memorabilia from PRI Directors and other notable scientists. Women's Resource Center Library The Cornell Women's Resource Center Library has information on dating, stress, health, and sexual harassment, as well as the many local support agencies in Tompkins County. Located in Willard Straight Hall. Reading Rooms Mary Donlon Hall Library You'll find a small, quiet library space on the first floor of this unusual postmodern building. RisLibrary Located in Risley Hall, the RisLibrary is more of a quiet place to study than a library. It does house the second largest collection of romance novels on campus, though (after the Cornell Library, of course). Snee Hall Reading Room A glass-enclosed reading room with a view of the Cascadilla gorge. Helpful Links expand menu Academic Calendar Leadership Careers Events News Title IX Emergency Preparedness Visiting Cornell expand menu Campus Tours Maps & Directions Ithaca-NYC Travel Johnson Museum Botanic Gardens Ithaca Ithaca Today expand menu Live View Weather 79°F / 26°C Ithaca, New York University Privacy Web Accessibility Assistance Copyright Site Information Contact Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube