Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Apply Visit Give Information For Incoming Students – Summer 2022 Current Students Employers Alumni Veterans Search BC.edu Links Menu Main Nav Back Back Close About Overview Dean's Message Mission & History STM Values Facts & Figures STM Global Diversity at STM Contact Us and Staff Directory Accreditation and Educational Effectiveness Related Links Strategic Plan STM News About BC Admission Overview Why Choose STM? How To Apply Funding Your Studies Scholarships & Assistantships Federal Financial Aid Webinars and Campus Visits Request Information Meet the Admissions Team Partnerships Related Links Living in Boston Facts & Figures FAQ New Student Information Academics Overview Programs Master of Divinity (M.Div.) Master of Arts in Theology and Ministry (M.A.) Master of Theological Studies (M.T.S.) Hybrid M.A. in Theology and Ministry Master of Theology (Th.M.) Ph.D. in Theology and Education Doctorate in Sacred Theology (S.T.D.) Licentiate in Sacred Theology (S.T.L.) Bachelor of Sacred Theology (S.T.B.) Certificate in Theology and Ministry Certificate in Hispanic Ministry Certificate in Religious Education Post-Master's Certificate Certificate in Christian Spirituality Certificate in Ignatian Spirituality Certificate in Spiritual and Pastoral Care Hispanic Ministry Programs Dual Program with M.S.W. Dual Program with M.B.A. Dual Program in Counseling Nondegree Coursework Summer at STM Intensive on the 19th Annotation for Spiritual Directors Courses Summer at STM Summer at Linz Summer at STM Supervised Ministry Spirituality Studies Programs in Hispanic Theology and Ministry STM From a Distance Related Links Current Student Resources Dual Degrees Boston Theological Interreligious Consortium Arts at STM Certificates & Nondegree Faculty & Research Overview Faculty Directory Jeffrey Von Arx, S.J. John F. Baldovin, S.J. André Brouillette, S.J. Francine Cardman Vicente Chong, S.J. Richard J. Clifford, S.J. Andrew R. Davis Daniel J. Daly Dominic F. Doyle Brian Dunkle, S.J. Angela Kim Harkins Colleen M. Griffith Margaret Eletta Guider, O.S.F. Barton T. Geger, S.J. Franklin T. Harkins Thomas H. Groome Mary Jo Iozzio David W. Jorgensen Maria Kakavas L. Callid Keefe-Perry Melissa Kelley Richard Lennan Rafael Luciani Christopher R. Matthews Catherine Mooney Matthew S. Monnig, S.J. Hosffman Ospino Theresa A. O'Keefe Félix Palazzi Andrea Ponzone, J.C.D., LL.B. William D. Roozeboom Jane E. Regan Walter J. Smith, S.J., Ph.D. Thomas D. Stegman, S.J. Judith A. Talvacchia O. Ernesto Valiente Benjamin Valentin Andrea Vicini, S.J. Joseph E. Weiss, S.J. Faculty Expertise New Testament Abstracts Student Research International Fellows Theology and Ministry Library Related Links BC Theology Department Lumen et Vita (STM Student Journal) Institute for Advanced Jesuit Studies Ricci Institute for Chinese-Western Cultural History Center for Teaching Excellence Community Overview Liturgy & Worship Diversity & Dialogue Formation Living in Boston Our Spaces Career Development Student Forum Related Links Current Student Resources BC Campus Ministry BC Graduate Student Life STM Alumni Resources Continuing Ed Overview Crossroads Formación Continua Campus Events / Webinars Registration Instructions STM Webinar Zoom Help Encore The Journey Continues Calling Out From the Depths Related Links Strategic Plan STM News About BC Close Directory A to Z Listing Search STM site Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Incoming Students – Summer 2022 Current Students Employers Alumni Veterans BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Home About About Dean's Message Mission & History STM Values Facts & Figures STM Global Diversity at STM Contact Us and Staff Directory Accreditation and Educational Effectiveness About Thrive, Transform, Serve The Boston College School of Theology and Ministry is a world-class center of theological study, where students thrive with the help of distinguished faculty and a diverse, attentive community. Our commitment to the Jesuit, Catholic ideal of cura personalis—care for the whole person—distinguishes our eight graduate degree programs and numerous certificates and nondegree programs. Throughout curricula, one-on-one interactions, daily liturgies, retreats, and other formation-based experiences, we cultivate students’ intellectual, spiritual, professional, and social growth. STM scholars, ministers, and mentors help students transform into leaders who will serve Catholic and Christian communities through careers within the Church and beyond. Related Links Strategic Plan STM News About BC “We approach theology not only as an academic discipline but also with a view that our students are going to be doing active ministry. I never tire of telling our students that good theology is a sine qua non for effective ministry.” Thomas D. Stegman, S.J., Dean, School of Theology and Ministry Dean's Message STM Facts & Figures 400 Total enrollment 95% Placement rate within six months of graduation 100% Master's students receive financial support More Facts Leaders for the 21st century STM is commited to preparing students for leadership and service rooted in faith. STM Mission Formation: The Core of Our Culture The STM experience is so much more than education—it emphasizes formation of students as whole people, helping them grow and flourish throughout the intellectual, spiritual, ministerial, and human dimensions of their lives. These dimensions of formation constitute the foundation of the STM community and culture. . Academic Formation Intellectual inquiry, persistent questioning, the collaborative pursuit of knowledge—these values have always been at the heart of Jesuit, Catholic theological traditions. Our approach to intellectual formation prioritizes rigorous scholarship that elevates these values and positively impacts communities. Ministerial Formation All across campus and in parishes across Greater Boston, our students are challenged to grow as ministerial leaders and excel through new pastoral experiences. They serve as mentors in a variety of programs and conduct Confirmation, the Rite of Christian Initiation of Adults, and faith formation programs—in turn shaping classroom conversations through these experiences. Spiritual Formation At STM, we believe that theology can never be merely an academic study—it must be a personal, spiritual pursuit that actively envelops one’s entire being. That’s why we support students with a variety of opportunities to reflect, offering prayer, worship, retreats, and spiritual direction for all students. Many degree programs include an intentional spiritual formation component, and our students are valued members of faith communities across the Boston area. Human Formation How will you serve and lead? Who do you want to become? These questions imbue everything we do, from curricula to student support, immersion experiences, and other opportunities. Professors, administrators, and peers alike encourage students’ engagement outside of the classroom and value the insights they bring back with them. Explore Campus & Our Community Whether it’s strolling through beautiful Simboli Hall, enjoying the ample green space of Brighton Campus, or browsing the Theology and Ministry Library (which is right next door), we make every effort to tailor your campus visit to your needs and interests. VISIT US Back To Top Back To Top School of Theology and Ministry Simboli Hall 9 Lake Street Brighton, MA 02135-3841 617-552-6501 About Admission Academics Faculty & Research Continuing Ed/Formación Continua Community Apply Visit Give Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube LinkedIn Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College