Skip navigation Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Office of the Registrar Academic Records Academic Transcript Requests Office of the Registrar Important Graduation Related Deadlines ****ATTENTION GRADUATING SENIORS**** Important Spring 2022 Graduation Related Deadlines Read more. Academic Transcript Requests NOTE FOR GRADUATING STUDENTS: If your order requires that your degree be listed on your transcript, please check your internal academic record prior to placing your order to be sure it reads "degree awarded". The Official Academic Transcript contains all essential academic data, including dates of attendance, courses taken and passed, grades (Note: grades of NC never appear on official transcripts), transfer credits awarded, degree received, and relevant remarks. Academic status of Suspension or Dismissal will be noted permanently on a student's transcript. The transcript must bear the college seal, be recently dated, and have the appropriate signature of Robert F. Fitzgerald, University Registrar. * Official transcripts are produced only for credit-bearing courses at the undergraduate, graduate, medical and post-baccalaureate certificate levels. Courses taken in the Pre-College (non-credit) program through the School of Professional Studies are not reflected. Therefore students enrolled in the non-credit Pre-College courses through this division should not order official transcripts. These students should call the SPS Pre-College Program Services staff at 401-863-7900 or email [email protected]. For students enrolled since September 1983, the Brown transcript is a single document presenting a cumulative record of all terms of enrollment in all schools (the College, the Graduate School, the Alpert Medical School, the School of Engineering, and the School of Public Health). A statement is added to all transcripts explaining the grading system and indicating that the student may elect to include other material with the official transcript. A student who wishes to have course performance reports sent out with a transcript should provide copies of all the material to be enclosed at the time he or she requests an official transcript. The student should choose this material in consultation with his or her advisor. The University will mail this material in one envelope along with the official transcript. Brown University does not provide unofficial academic transcripts. Current and former degree candidates have access to the Internal Academic Record available in Banner Web for this purpose. Academic Calendar Academic Records Diplomas Transcript Requests Academic Transcript Legend Transcript Ordering FAQs Enrollment/Degree Verifications Estimated Date of Completion (EDOC) Post-Commencement Changes to Records Brown University FERPA Policy University Bulletin Course Enrollment Degree Guidelines Final Exams Faculty/Staff Resources University Scheduling Office Classroom Assignments & Locations Contact Us Gateways For Students For Faculty For Staff Print this Page Share this Page Office of the Registrar Brown University Box K 69 Brown Street Page-Robinson Hall, 3rd floor Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401-863-2500 Fax 401-863-7542 [email protected] Academic Calendar Jun 2 All Day Registration period for Summer courses for Brown undergraduates re-opens at 9:00 a.m.EDT and remains open until Wednesday June 22 at 5:00 p.m. EDT Jun 19 All Day Residence halls open. Jun 20 All Day Juneteenth Holiday observed. No University exercises. Jun 20 All Day Summer Session opens. Jun 21 All Day Summer Session classes begin. Jun 22 All Day Last day to change courses (5:00 p.m. EDT deadline). (All students MUST be in their registered courses by Thursday, June 23.) Jul 4 All Day Independence Day holiday. No University exercises. Jul 6 All Day Last day to change grade options (5:00 p.m. EDT deadline) Jul 29 All Day Classes end. Jul 30 All Day Reading Period View full calendar > Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory Student Links [email protected] Banner Video Tutorials Banner Web Student Information Rights - FERPA Voter Registration ASK - Advising Sidekick Related Offices Admission Dean of the College Alpert Medical School Bulletin of the University Bursar Financial Aid Graduate School School of Professional Studies