Menu Biomedical Graduate Studies About Overview Facts-at-a-Glance Faculty Members Academic Structure BGS Contacts News & Events Information For... Prospective Students Current Students Overview New Students (2022) Faculty Alumni & Friends Staff Admissions Overview PhD Application Information Diversity and Inclusivity Admissions FAQs Additional Information for Applicants Diversity & Outreach IDEAL (Inclusion, Diversity, Equity, and Learner) Research Combating Racial Inequities Committee (CRIC) Recruitment Initiatives Community Outreach Student Support Programs BGS PhD Programs Combined Degree Programs Certificate Options for PhD Students Undergraduate and Postbac Programs Resources Academic Information Overview Spring 2022 Awards and Honors Expectations of Students Professional Skills RCR and SRR Training Research Resources and Policies Student Funding Student Organizations Training Grants and Fellowships Wellness, Health, and Safety Career Development BGS Career Development Career Paths Mentorship Program Search Site For pandemic-related information, please see the BGS resource page here and University announcements here. Neuroscience Graduate Group Retina I by Greg Dunn, http://www.gregadunn.com NGG Home About Overview Administration Handbook Faculty Students Student Directory Graduates Student Spotlights Academics Overview NGG Courses First Year Journal Club Specialty Journal Clubs Admissions Overview NGG Live! Overview NGG Live! Slides and More NGG Live! Presenters Watch the NGG Live! Video FAQ Resources News & Events NGG News Archive GLIA - Graduate-Led Initiatives and Activies Action Against Bias Mahoney Institute for Neurosciences (MINS) Connect with NGG: Neuroscience Graduate Group (NGG) NGG Spotlights Please join us in congratulating our amazing Class of 2022 Graduates!!! Congratulations to Erin Purvis! Erin was one of three recipients selected for the Provost’s Graduate Academic Engagement Fellowship at the Netter Center. Congratulations to the following NGG students for their successful applications to the NSF Graduate Research Fellowships Program (GRFP) this year: Misgana Ghidewon (awarded), Jessie Greenslade (awarded), Sam Lyons (awarded), Jake Parker (awarded), Liz Siefert (awarded), Sarah Applebey (honorable mention), Aaron Mcknight (honorable mention), and Adama Berndt (honorable mention). Great job to all of you, and to all of the students who applied! Congratulations to NGG student Katie Copley for being selected as one of the recipients of the 2022 Penn Prize for Excellence in Teaching by Graduate Students! Congratulations to China Byrns for being selected as this year’s Flexner Award winner for her thesis, “Glial Contributions to Traumatic Brain Injury”, completed under the supervision of Nancy Bonini. The Louis B. Flexner Award, sponsored by the Mahoney Institute for Neurosciences, is given for outstanding thesis work in the Neurosciences. The NGG is a collaborative and interdisciplinary PhD program that provides training for careers in neuroscience research, teaching, and more. Our training program is designed to provide a strong foundation of neuroscientific knowledge while at the same time taking into account each student's strengths, needs, and career goals. We place a high value on activities that promote professional development, cohesiveness within our program, and outreach to the outside community. Many of these activities are organized by our students through the Graduate-Led Initiatives and Activities (GLIA) Committee. We also emphasize both diversity and inclusion. We embrace differences in background, age, color, disability, ethnicity, family or marital status, gender identity or expression, language, national origin, ability, political affiliation, race, religion, sexual orientation, socio-economic status, veteran status, and other characteristics that help define who we are. We continue to work to promote a sense of inclusion for everyone in the program via mentoring, workshops, and other mechanisms that focus on open communication. The NGG is closely affiliated with the Mahoney Institute for Neurosciences (MINS) and the Penn Medicine Translational Neuroscience Center (PTNC). Upcoming NGG Events View Calendar NGG in the News Follow @PennNGG @PENNNGG | Jun 01 RT @Sloan_Lab: It brings me great pride to share this new preprint from our lab! This was a true team effort spearheaded by the su… https://t.co/x81H8G1di1 @PENNNGG | May 31 Congratulations DOCTOR @harangju! Your hard work has paid off! We’ll miss you dearly here in #PennNGG, but we wish… https://t.co/M1p1898TrY © The Trustees of the University of Pennsylvania | Site best viewed in a supported browser. | Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help | Privacy Policy | Site Design: DART Web Team. Close Menu NGG Home About Close Menu Overview Administration Handbook Faculty Students Close Menu Student Directory Graduates Student Spotlights Academics Close Menu Overview NGG Courses First Year Journal Club Specialty Journal Clubs Admissions Close Menu Overview NGG Live! Close Menu Overview NGG Live! Slides and More NGG Live! Presenters Watch the NGG Live! Video FAQ Resources News & Events Close Menu NGG News Archive GLIA - Graduate-Led Initiatives and Activies Action Against Bias Mahoney Institute for Neurosciences (MINS) Connect with NGG: Go to Biomedical Graduate Studies