Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University University Compliance Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Hotline Contacts Code Policies Minors ID Theft Prevention Resources Training About Us Program Statement of Ethical Conduct and Administrative Code of Conduct University Compliance You are here: Home Protection of Minors Protection of Minors Protection of Minors Flyer Protection of Minors Columbia welcomes minors to our campus every day. They are part of our academic programs and activities, athletic programs, summer camps, the (K-8) School at Columbia University, medical clinics and practices, and affiliated childcare centers. We all bear a special responsibility for their care and protection, and we all need to act immediately when we reasonably suspect they may be at risk. Register your program or activity involving minors here! Read the executive memorandum on the duty to report suspected cases of abuse and maltreatment of individuals under the age of 18. volume-control-phone icon Reporting Suspected Abuse and Maltreatment of Minors If you believe that a minor may have been abused or maltreated, you must take the following steps: If a child is in immediate danger or you require emergency assistance, call 911. If you suspect child abuse or maltreatment: Call the New York State Child Abuse & Maltreatment Hotline: 800-342-3720 and Call the Department of Public Safety: 212-854-5555 (Morningside) or 212-305-7979 (Medical Center). When calling the NY State Child Abuse & Maltreatment Hotline, make sure to obtain an ID number and the name of representative contacted. Please notify the Department of Public Safety with this information. You are also strongly encouraged to notify the appropriate program director. book icon Policy: Reporting Suspected Abuse and Maltreatment of Minors This policy creates an independent duty for members of the Columbia University community who interact with, supervise, chaperone, or otherwise oversee minors in programs or activities at the University or sponsored by the University to report immediately in they have reasonable cause to suspect abuse or maltreatment of individuals under the age of 18. Any members of the Columbia University community may report abuse if they suspect that a child has been abused or maltreated. Read the policy. pencil-square icon Training: Protection of Minors at Columbia This course is designed to familiarize members of the Columbia community with University policy and relevant law on reporting suspected child abuse and maltreatment of minors. The course includes definitions of child abuse and maltreatment, possible signs and indicators, appropriate responses, how to report a concern, and appropriate interactions with minors. The Protection of Minors Training will be offered both online via Courseworks, as well in a few limited live training sessions. Who should take this Course? Members of the Columbia University community, who interact with, supervise, chaperone, or otherwise oversee minors in programs or activities at the University or sponsored by the University. Webcast (30 Minutes) For your convenience, there is a 30 minute online training available to all those who work with minors. Please contact Ursula Bollini [email protected] to make arrangements. Live Training Several live sessions of the Protection of Minors Training have been conducted. If you are interested in a face-to-face training for your group, please contact us at [email protected] More Information Expand all Collapse all Flyer: Protection of Minors We encourage you to download, print, and post this flyer in areas that have programs or activities involving minors. This flyer highlights the duty of members of the Columbia University community who interact with, supervise, chaperone, or otherwise oversee minors in programs or activities at the University or sponsored by the University to report immediately if they have reasonable cause to suspect abuse or maltreatment of individuals under the age of 18. Any members of the Columbia University community may report abuse if they suspect that a child has been abused or maltreated. Download and/or print a copy of the flyer. Hard copies and/or larger posters are available upon request at [email protected]. Resources for the Protection of Minors Recognizing & Reporting Child Abuse & Neglect This brochure from the NYC Administration for Children’s Services addresses questions often asked by friends, neighbors, and relatives about recognizing and reporting child abuse and neglect. Parent’s Guide to New York State Child Neglect and Abuse Laws (Fourth Edition) As part of its ongoing effort to ensure the safety and well being of New York City’s children, Children’s Services has produced this Fourth edition of the Parent’s Guide to the New York State Child Neglect and Abuse Laws. Children’s Services acknowledges the many challenges that families and children encounter. This publication provides useful information about the New York State laws that protect children. Child Abuse and Neglect Prevention This 48-page guide from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, U.S. Department of Health and Human Services includes chapters on prevention, overcoming challenges, developing processes, and implementing training. Child Abuse and Addiction Recovery Center Resources for Mandated Reporters Summary Guide for Mandated Reporters in New York State (Pub. 1159) This material provides mandated reporters with an overview of their obligations and some basic information about the New York State Child Protective Services (CPS) system. Mandated Reporter Self-Directed Online Training This online, two hour, web-based online training course is sponsored by the New York State Office of Children and Family Services. This course meets the New York State Education Department mandatory requirements for Training in Child Abuse Identification and Reporting. Related Laws Primary Guidance to Which This Policy Responds Title 6 of Article 6 of the New York State Social Services Law , §§411-428 define child abuse and maltreatment. Article 10 of the New York State Family Court Act, §1012 further defines child abuse, maltreatment and other key terms commonly used in investigations and reports. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 (“Title IX”) is a Federal Civil Rights law that prohibits discrimination on the basis of sex and gender in any education program or activity receiving federal funds. The “Dear Colleague Letter on Sexual Violence,” dated April 2011, emphasizes that sexual violence is the most egregious form of sexual harassment under Title IX. The Jeanne Clery Disclosure of Campus Security Policy and Campus Crime Statistics Act, 20 U.S.C. §1092(f) (the “Clery Act”) requires all colleges and universities that participate in federal financial aid programs to keep and disclose information about crime on and near their campuses with penalties for infractions. Related Policies Cross References to Related Policies Employment Policies and Procedures on Discrimination and Harassment Columbia University Non-Discrimination Statement and Policy Consensual Romantic and Sexual Relationship Policy Between Faculty and Students Gender Based Misconduct Policies for Students Guidelines for Short-term Visitors in Research-Related Activities Information for Parents & Families Columbia University is committed to promoting a safe environment for minors who participate in our programs and activities. We have taken a number of important steps to establish safeguards for your child: We have revised our policy on Reporting Suspected Abuse and Maltreatment of Minors. We have established clear requirements for reporting abuse and maltreatment. We have widely disseminated a flyer reminding employees and volunteers how to make a report. We have developed a website that contains valuable information on the protection of minors at Columbia. We are educating members of the University community about the signs of abuse and maltreatment and how to make a report. We are requiring certain categories of adults who participate in programs or activities involving minors to clear criminal background checks and other screening requirements. Office of University Compliance91 Claremont Ave., Suite 516 · New York, NY 10027 Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close