Skip to main content Harvard Faculty Club Logo Site Logo Logo: Secondary DINING RESERVATIONS ► Calendar About Primary Membership Meetings & Conferences Weddings & Special Events Dining Directions & Parking Directions From North of Boston (via Rte. 93) Take I-93 south to exit 26, Storrow Drive. Proceed about 4 miles to the Harvard Square exit. Turn right onto JFK Street. Continue through four lights to Harvard Square. You should see the Out of Town newsstand on your right. Continue following directions under Harvard Square. From West of Boston (via Mass. Turnpike) Take the Massachusetts Turnpike (I-90) east to exit 18 (a left exit), Cambridge/Allston. After the toll booth, bear right towards the Cambridge exit. At the second set of lights--just before the bridge--turn left onto Storrow Drive. Proceed about 1/2 mile to the Harvard Square exit. Turn right onto JFK Street. Continue through four lights to Harvard Square. You should see the Out of Town newsstand on your right. Continue following directions under Harvard Square. From Logan Airport Take airport loop road to Sumner Tunnel exit. Go through tunnel, and exit to I-93 North. Take I-93 north to exit 26, Storrow Drive. Proceed about 4 miles to the Harvard Square exit. Turn right onto JFK Street. Continue through four lights to Harvard Square. You should see the Out of Town newsstand on your right. Continue following directions under Harvard Square. From South of Boston (via Rte. 93) Take I-93 north to exit 26, Storrow Drive. Proceed about 4 miles to the Harvard Square exit. Turn right onto JFK Street. Continue through four lights to Harvard Square. You should see the Out of Town newsstand on your right. Continue following directions under Harvard Square. From Northwest of Boston (via Rte. 2) Take Route 2 East until the highway portion ends. Bear right and continue through the lights, remaining on Route 2. You should pass the T station/garage on your right. Go over the bridge. At the rotary, continue on Route 2 East by taking the second exit. At the next rotary, take the first exit, continuing on Route 2. After the large intersection with Mt. Auburn Street, watch for signs to Memorial Drive. You will have to bear left to get onto Memorial Drive. At the first light, turn left onto JFK Street. Continue through three lights to Harvard Square. You should see the Out of Town newsstand on your right. Continue following directions under Harvard Square. From Boston (via Massachusetts Ave.) Follow Massachusetts Avenue (route 2A) to Harvard Square. When you reach Harvard Square, you will see the Out of Town newsstand on your left, and the road will bend sharply to the right. Continue following directions under Harvard Square. Harvard Square After passing the Out of Town newsstand, stay to the right. After the next light, the road will fork. Bear right and go through the tunnel. The road will fork again; a fire station is located in the middle of this fork. Bear right*, then take the first right onto Quincy Street. The Faculty Club is located about halfway up the street on the left, set back from the road. It is the red brick building with white trim facing sideways at 20 Quincy Street. *If parking at the Broadway Garage, bear LEFT instead, and take the third right onto Felton Street. Via Public Transportation Take the MBTA (www.mbta.com) subway Red Line to the Harvard Square station. Use the main exit, which is found at the far end of the platform (rear of outbound platform, front of inbound platform). Go upstairs and take a U-turn out of the exit. Walk up Massachusetts Avenue against the traffic. Quincy Street will be the first street on the left, several blocks up. The Faculty Club is located on the right side of the street, just after the gray house. Parking Options Parking at Harvard University and in the city of Cambridge is challenging to say the least. We have no on-site parking at the Club. The following parking options are available. All visitors, any time of day: Metered parking, Quincy Street and Harvard Street A limited number of parking at Broadway Garage (located at Felton Street and Broadway) is available to be reserved through the Harvard Parking Reservation website. Private event guests: Please check with the organizer of your event to see if any off-site parking arrangements have been made. Guests attending private events may NOT use the Broadway Garage unless special arrangements have been made by the organizer. Accessibility The Club is wheelchair-accessible from both Quincy Street and Prescott Street (ramp located between Barker Center and Warren House). There are two handicap parking spaces at 32 Quincy Street, directly in front of the Fogg Art Museum. About the Club Visiting the Club History Directions & Parking Horizontal Rule Horizontal Rule Social Facebook Find us on Facebook email Register for Email Updates Footer Footer Privacy Statement Accessibility Harvard.edu Copyright Copyright 2015 © The Presidents and Fellows of Harvard College