Skip to main content Toggle Tools navigation Toggle Site Navigation Toggle Search University of Cincinnati UC Home Visit UC Support UC Directories UC Tools Canopy & Blackboard Catalyst OneStop Student Email Faculty / Staff Email Shuttle Tracker UCFileSpace UC Flex/ESS IT Help UC VPN Concur Success Factors Enter a search term to search UC pages or the directory. Search String University of Cincinnati About Contact Us Policies Procedures Standards Guidelines Awareness How to Manage Your Social Media Privacy Settings National Cybersecurity Awareness Month End Of Support (EOS) Online Meetings Services Two-Factor Authentication Risk Management Shredding Security Certificates Information Security Review McAfee ePolicy Orchestrator (ePO) Encryption Account & Password Help Notifications of Expiration Password Help (PSS) Setup New Accounts How to Choose a Password Compliance & Law Copyright Infringement Two-Factor Authentication Risk Management Shredding Security Certificates Information Security Review McAfee ePolicy Orchestrator (ePO) Encryption About Policies Awareness Services Two-Factor Authentication Risk Management Shredding Security Certificates Information Security Review McAfee ePolicy Orchestrator (ePO) Encryption Account & Password Help Compliance & Law Copyright Infringement Two-Factor Authentication Free Antivirus Report an Incident Contact Us UCIT Homepage Information Security Review Facebook Twitter Information Security Services The IT@UC Office of Information Security (IT@UC OIS) provides several services to the UC community. Select one below to see further explanation or to e-mail IT@UC OIS. Awareness & Training - Awareness campaigns and associated materials such as posters, presentations and flyers; Short courses on a variety of topics targeted at various groups. Consulting - Review of applications, systems, or processes. If you are starting a project, get us involved early! The earlier, the easier and cheaper it will be to build in security and compliance. Creation of Security Policies – Creating policies that govern information security throughout the university and IT@UC. Cyber Security Incident Response – Oversight and guidance of an interdisciplinary team to equip them to respond appropriately in the event of a Cyber Security incident. Informal Audits - These policy and legal compliance checks must be requested by the Dean, Assistant Dean or a Director level person at the site to be assessment. McAfee Endpoint Security - IT@UC OIS partners with McAfee Endpoint Security to provide the following solutions to the university community: Antivirus, Encryption, Device Control, Data Loss Prevention, and policy enforcement via the ePolicy Orchestrator Server. Investigations & e-Discovery - Forensic analysis of computer systems, and copyright. Requests are made through Public Safety and General Counsel. Data Retrieval and Mailbox Forwarding Procedure - This IT@UC Mailbox Access/Retrieval procedure addresses how access is to be requested and granted under various circumstances. Risk Management - OIS is tasked with evaluating risk and determining its likelihood and impact. Shredding - Paper documents are important to dispose of properly. IT@UC OIS sponsors 2 to 3 shred events each year. Contact us for dates, more information, or guidance with arranging your own shredding. SSL Server and Personal Certification Identity Verification – Verify that requests are valid and requesters are valid employees with authority over the server. Two-Factor Authentication - IT@UC OIS oversees two-factor authentication for the university. Vulnerability Assessments – Network vulnerability scanning, Web application scanning, penetration testing. Whole Disk Encryption – Encryption is managed through the Enterprise McAfee ePolicy Orchestrator server. Please contact your local IT Coordinator for encryption and/or IT@UC OIS with questions. To view PDF files, you will need Adobe Acrobat Reader, a free download. University of Cincinnati IT@UC Office of Information Security University Hall 51 Goodman Drive Cincinnati, OH 45221 Phone: 513-558-ISEC (4732) E-mail: infosec@uc.edu Notice of Non-Discrimination Alerts Clery and HEOA Notice Notice of Non-Discrimination eAccessibility Concern Privacy Statement Copyright Information © 2018 University of Cincinnati This website offers many PDF files for download, which require Adobe Reader to view.