Skip to main content Skip to site menu Skip to Brown menu Skip to site search Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Enter search keyword About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory ADVANCE at Brown Faculty Development Sponsored Project Support ADVANCE at Brown Sponsored Project Support The Funding Resources Specialist works in cooperation with the Office of the Vice President for Research and the University Library to provide outreach to grantseekers in the area of funding opportunities and proposal writing resources. The underlying goal of this initiative is to increase external research funding for faculty, thus promoting their success at Brown as well as within their own scientific discipline. Funding Resources Specialist Amy Robb provides individual research consultations to faculty and students across the disciplines in the use of online funding resources, including Community of Science (COS), available through the University Library. See our brochure for additional information. Internet Resources ADVANCE Wiki - The sponsored project support wiki includes resources for communicating effectively with funding program officers, laboratory management, tips on raising your research profile, and University resources for external funding support. There is also lots of information for new investigators and women scientists. Brown University Library: Grant Subject Guide - Find here information on funding opportunities database, Community of Science (COS), as well as library and university resources for grant proposal writing, navigating NIH, and more. Foundation Center Cooperating Collections - Cooperating Collections are free funding information centers that provide a core collection of Foundation Center publications and a variety of supplementary materials and services in areas useful to grantseekers. The Providence Public Library is the Rhode Island repository for Foundation Center collections. Among the resources available is the Foundation Directory Online, the most comprehensive database for finding foundation support. Access available at the Providence Public Library Central Library's Reference Department. Presentations and Workshops Raising Your Research Profile with ResearcherID, Faculty Outreach & Networking Event (FONE), Oct 2010 Grantseeking through Community of Science, Faculty Outreach & Networking Event (FONE), Feb 2010 Private Funding for New Investigators: Faculty Brown Bag, Presented with Corporate & Foundation Relations, Sep 2010 Going After Federal Funding, Faculty Outreach & Networking Event (FONE), Nov 2009 Building Connections with NIH Program Officers: Myths & Realities, Dr. Donna Dean of Lewis- Burke, Oct 2009 Private Funding for New Investigators: Faculty Brown Bag, Presented with Corporate & Foundation Relations, Sep 2009 Mentoring Faculty on Proposal Writing: A Workshop for Department Chairs, Apr 2008 National Science Foundation and Funding Opportunities, Dr. Semahat Demir, Apr 2008 About People Leadership Program Faculty Development 2012-2013 Seminar Series 2011-12 Science Seminar Series FONE One-to-One Faculty Mentoring Program Peer-Mentoring Groups Sponsored Project Support Work-Life Balance Transforming Departments Visiting Scholars Resources News Print this Page Share this Page Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory