Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Health Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Our Services Appointments Health Topics Events Forms and Guidelines Our Organization News See All Services What's Open Now Patient Resources Quarantine and Isolation Support Coping Tools Immunization Compliance Top Services Birth Control Education Individual Counseling Primary Care Register with Disability Services Sexual Assault: Get Support STI Testing Support Groups Travel Medicine Urgent Medical Concerns Workshops and Trainings Cost of Service Overview Make an Appointment Same Day Service Emergency and After-hours Support Alcohol Body Image Concerns Marijuana Disabilities Other Drugs HIV Insurance Men's Health Mental Health and Well-Being Anxiety Depression Stress Nutrition Physical Activity Relationships Overview Academic Relationships Friendships Roommates Sexual and Reproductive Health Sleep Transgender and Gender Expansive Health Violence Prevention Prevention Consent What Is Sexual Assault? Supporting a Survivor What Is Relationship Abuse? Stalking What Is Sexual Harassment? Bystander Intervention-Step UP! Women's Health See All Events Sexual Assault Awareness Month Columbia Health Flu Season Information Virtual Naloxone Training About Columbia Health Who We Are Who We Serve Confidentiality, Patient Rights, & Patient Responsibilities Operating Philosophy Video Library Your Feedback Staff Directory Health Units Alice! Health Promotion Counseling and Psychological Services Disability Services Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) Insurance Office Medical Services Sexual Violence Response Columbia Health You are here: Home Getting Started Student Insurance Insurance for Families Insurance for Families Students who enroll in The Columbia Plan may also choose to insure their eligible dependents. Eligible dependents include: Lawful spouse or domestic partner residing with the student Unmarried children under the age of 26, including stepchildren and foster children, who are not self-supporting and reside with the student, or for whom the student is court-ordered to provide insurance Newborn or newly adopted children New dependents (e.g., marriage, birth, adoption, etc.) must be added to the policy within 60 days of their addition to the family. Dependents are not automatically enrolled. A new enrollment form for dependent coverage must be submitted each year by the deadlines below: Fall term: September 30 Spring term: February 15 (new incoming students only) Summer term: June 30 (new incoming students only) New dependents (e.g., marriage, birth, adoption, etc.) may only be added to the policy within 60 days of their addition to the family Expand all Collapse all Documenting Eligibility of Dependents Spouse or Domestic Partner Students who wish to enroll a dependent spouse or domestic partner for the first time will need to provide the Columbia Health Insurance Office with acceptable documentation to verify the dependent’s eligibility for enrollment. Acceptable forms of documentation: Spouse: marriage certificate (translated into English) Domestic partner: certificate of domestic partnership (translated into English) Students need to complete this verification only once unless they are enrolling a different spouse or domestic partner. The dependent enrollment form cannot be accepted by the insurance company without the University’s verification. If students fail to provide documentation, the dependent’s coverage cannot be activated. The deadline for enrolling and submitting documentation for new incoming summer students is June 30, 2022. For additional information on obtaining a domestic partnership certificate for New York City residents, review the City Clerk's Office Domestic Partnership Registration. Domestic Partnership Certificates issued outside of New York City may also be submitted. Newborn or Newly Adopted Children Children born to a covered person during the plan term will be covered for accident, sickness, and congenital defects for 31 days from the date of birth. At the end of this 31-day period, coverage will cease unless the newborn is enrolled as a dependent in the Columbia University Student Health Insurance Plan. Coverage is also provided for a child legally placed for adoption with a covered person, for 31 days from the moment of placement, provided the child lives in the household of the covered person and is dependent upon the covered person for support. At the end of this 31-day period, coverage will cease unless the adopted child is enrolled as a dependent in the Columbia University Student Health Insurance Plan. To enroll a newborn or newly adopted child, submit the dependent enrollment form via the Patient Portal (instructions) along with the child's birth certificate or hospital discharge papers within 60 days of their addition to the family. Coverage Period for Eligible Dependents Coverage will become effective on the same date the insured student's coverage becomes effective. New incoming spring or summer students may also request enrollment of their dependents during the corresponding open enrollment periods via the Patient Portal. Dependents’ fall term enrollment is automatically continued for the spring term as long as the student remains a registered student. Premiums are billed to the student’s account by semester. Coverage for insured dependents terminates in accordance with the termination policy described in the detailed Student Health Brochure of the Columbia Plan. Termination of benefits may be affected by two factors: the date the student's coverage terminates and the date the dependent no longer meets the definition of a dependent. Premiums For the 2021-22 plan year, enrolled spouses and domestic partners will be charged an additional $312 per semester for the Columbia Health and Related Services Fee. Spouses and domestic partners must receive their primary care on-campus at Medical Services. Referrals will be required for most non-emergency off-campus medical care; dependents do not require a referral for mental health services. Dependent children will continue to receive all of their care off-campus; referrals are not required. Review the full list of covered benefits under the Columbia University Student Health Insurance Plan on the Aetna Student Health website. Funded graduate students should contact their departmental administrator, financial aid office, or fellowship office to determine whether their program will pay for a portion of the cost for insuring their dependents prior to enrolling them. The Columbia Plan Premiums Student & Spouse/Domestic Partner Spring Term January 1st - August 14th, 2022. $4,818 Summer Term May 15th - August 14th, 2022. $1,968 Student & 1 Child Spring Term January 1st - August 14th, 2022. $4,800 Summer Term May 15th - August 14th, 2022. $1,957 Student & 2+ Children Spring Term January 1st - August 14th, 2022. $7,191 Summer Term May 15th - August 14th, 2022. $2,930 Student, Spouse, & 1 Child Spring Term January 1st - August 14th, 2022. $7,209 Summer Term May 15th - August 14th, 2022. $2,941 Student, Spouse, & 2+ Children Spring Term January 1st - August 14th, 2022. $9,600 Summer Term May 15th - August 14th, 2022. $3,914 Related Links About the Columbia Student Health Insurance Plan Dental and Vision Benefits Eligibility for Columbia Student Health Insurance Plan Loss of Health Insurance Insurance for Families Health Care for International Students Referral Requirements Request a Waiver Contact Us Columbia Health Insurance Office John Jay Hall, 3rd Floor [email protected] 212-854-3286 Need help with weekend or late night distress? Check out our Coping Tools page for various digital services, mobile apps, and online resources outside our regular hours of operation. Our limited podcast series, Invisible and On Stage, provides an open conversation around racism-related stress, identity, and community, and the way they impact mental health. Listen now! The entire Columbia Health team, photographed in Lerner Hall. Click the image to see a larger version. Columbia Health Alice! Health Promotion Disability Services Counseling and Psychological Services Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) Insurance Office Immunization Compliance Office Medical Services Sexual Violence Response All Columbia Health offices are closed on University Holidays. Annual Report Columbia Health Annual Report Stay Connected Receive important news and event info from Columbia Health Columbia Health Events Join us for workshops, panel discussions, skill-building opportunities, and other events! Accessibility Accommodations Columbia Health makes every effort to accommodate individuals with disabilities. If you require disability accommodations to attend an event sponsored by Columbia Health, or by the University, contact Disability Services at 212-854-2388 at least 10 days in advance of the event. 212-854-2284 [email protected] Columbia Health Administration Wallach Hall, Suite 125, Mail Code 4202, 1116 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-2284 Contact Us [email protected] Internal Use Only Login to Access Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close