Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Campus Recreation About Us Membership Fitness Nutrition Wellness Aquatics & Safety Sports & Intramurals Facilities Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Personal Training Get 1-on-1 training from fitness experts. Group Fitness Classes We offer Zumba, yoga, HIIT, kickboxing and more! Got questions? Check out our FAQ. Eat well. Be well. From our registered dietitian to our teaching kitchen and Tiger Café, we help you stay healthy and fueled. Work hard. Play hard. Get involved in intramural sports! PreviousNext Take Action Find a Fitness Class Hours of Operation Sign Up for a Membership Contact Us Connect with Us InstagramFacebooktwitter Home Campus Recreation Do what moves you. HOURS > Campus Recreation serves the University of Memphis community through outstanding sport and recreation facilities and inclusive programming in pursuit of mental and physical well-being. We strive to meet the dynamic needs and interests of students by providing programs and services that promote positive physical health and encourage lifetime interest in active, healthy lifestyles. Make it your goal to move more today! Our new 78,000 square foot state-of-the-art facility, the R. Brad Martin Student Wellness Center, opened in June of 2021. This facility gives UofM students and Campus Recreation members access to cardio machines, weight equipment, basketball courts, tennis courts and an outdoor leisure pool. We also offer group fitness classes like HIIT, Zumba, kickboxing, yoga and more which are held in our four large fitness studios. The former Student Recreation and Sports Complex right next door remains in operation and provides programming and facility rentals for basketball, volleyball, badminton, racquetball and outdoor playing fields. Our indoor pool is currently under construction. The new natatorium is expected to open late 2022. Keep your body fueled! Our registered dietitian is on-hand to answer all your nutrition questions. The Tiger Café opens in January 2022 serving healthy smoothies and snacks, and our Tiger Food Lab teaching kitchen hosts several events throughout the year like our Lunch & Learn and Date Night cooking classes. Movement and recreational activities help improve mental and physical health, add balance, reduce fatigue, restore energy and improve self-confidence. Explore all Campus Recreation has to offer! Work hard. Study hard. Stay healthy. Have fun! Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 5/30/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.