Skip to main content University of Texas at Austin Home Human Resources Menu University of Texas at Austin Home Financial and Administrative Services The University of Texas at Austin Financial and Administrative Services Human Resources Search Search GTranslate English EnglishArabicChinese (Simplified)Chinese (Traditional)FrenchGermanItalianPersianPortugueseRussianSpanishSwahiliTurkishVietnamese Search Search Current Employee Expand Applying for University Vacancies Career Management Compensation Compliance Conflict Management Coronavirus Resources Dealing with Workplace Changes or Job Transitions Employee Assistance Program (EAP) Employee Information System Employee Services Flexible Work Arrangements Forms Insurance Learning & Development New Employees Occupational Health Program Retirement Checklist Retirement Programs Staff Awards Sporadic Employment Time Off UTemps Furlough Program FAQs Prospective Employee Expand About Austin Applying Benefits Compensation Learning & Development Temporary Employment Retired Employee Expand Checklist Employment After Retirement Forms for Retired Employees Insurance Part-Time Work Support & Services Student Employee Expand Academic Employment Celebrate Student Employees Compensation Eligibility to Work Employee Insurance & Benefits Employment Resources Finding a Student Job Forms for Student Employees Learning & Development Managing Student Employees New Student Employee Checklist Non-Academic Employment Orientation & Training Student Employee Excellence & Development (SEED) Student Employment Questions and Answers Supervisor’s Checklist for Hiring a New Student Employee Manager & HR Pro Expand Compensation Coronavirus Resources Departmental Compliance Flexible Work Arrangements Forms for Managers Hiring and Separation HR Spectrum I-9 and E-Verify Resources Learning & Development Management Tools Organization Effectiveness Performance Management Timekeeping Training for HR Professionals Workers Compensation Insurance (for Managers) About Expand HR Partnerships Organizational Chart Our Organization Staff Directory Contact Expand Directions Find Your HR Representative Need Help? GTranslate English EnglishArabicChinese (Simplified)Chinese (Traditional)FrenchGermanItalianPersianPortugueseRussianSpanishSwahiliTurkishVietnamese Home Current Employee : Occupational Health Program (OHP) Occupational Health Program (OHP) OHP COVID-19 Reporting and Resources The Occupational Health Program staff is working diligently to answer all of your calls/emails. Please only leave one email or voicemail and we will get back to you in the order we received them. If you have COVID-19 symptoms, tested positive, or have been identified as a close contact of a positive, please refer to the COVID-19 Exposure Chart for guidance. If you are experiencing any symptoms or test positive, please do not return to campus until cleared by OHP. Report COVID-19 to OHP. Call 512-471-4647 or healthpoint.ohp@austin.utexas.edu to report COVID-19 symptoms or COVID-19 tests regardless of test results. Faculty and staff who are asymptomatic and receive a negative test result through Proactive Community Testing (PCT) do not need to report to OHP. Operational Status The HealthPoint Occupational Health Program (OHP) is open by appointment only. OHP is not accepting walk-ins at this time. Open Monday-Friday for appointments from 9am - 3pm. If you need to schedule an appointment, please call 512-471-4647. If you are calling Monday-Friday 8 a.m. - 5 p.m. and no one answers, please be sure to leave a message. A representative from OHP will call you back in a timely manner. If you are calling after hours, weekends, or holidays, please leave a message and a representative from OHP will return your call the next business day. If you have an injury that requires emergency treatment, please call 911. For work-related injuries that need immediate treatment, please seek care at an IMO provider. If your work-related injury is not an emergency, please call our office at 512-471-4647 and we will schedule an appointment with OHP. For work-related injuries, please complete the First Report of Incident/Injury Form (English), (Spanish) and fax completed form to 512-471-7008 and 512-232-3524 About The Occupational Health Program The Occupational Health Program (OHP) partners with the employee, Environmental Health & Safety (EHS), and Human Resources (HR) to understand working conditions and to ensure that precautions are taken to protect the university’s most valuable asset—our employees. Work injury treatment provided by OHP is not filed as workers’ compensation and is not subject to the IMO Provider Network requirements. If OHP refers you for follow-up to an external provider, typically a workers’ compensation claim will be submitted to UT System and OHP will refer you to a provider in the IMO Provider Network. For treatment, management, and follow-up of work-related injuries and illnesses please call the Occupational Health Program at 512-471-4647. Services Health risk assessments for research animal work, lab safety programs, and higher risk work and activities. Health risk counseling for issues that may impact your job functions. Medical clearance and fit testing for job required respiratory protection Job specific TB screening, drug testing, vaccinations* and titers Treatment, management, and follow-up of work-related injuries and illnesses Fitness for duty consultations * Travel Immunizations are provided by University Health Services Scheduling a Healthpoint OHP Appointment To schedule a HealthPoint OHP appointment, call 512-471-4OHP (4647). Hours of operation are Monday-Friday, 8 a.m.-5 p.m., closed for lunch 12 p.m. to 1 p.m Open Monday-Friday for appointments from 9am - 3pm. The concealed carry of handguns is prohibited in patient care areas at UT Austin, including those areas in which professional mental health services are provided. The on-campus clinic is located inside the Student Services Building (SSB) in Room 3.202. Address: Occupational Health Program, 100 W Dean Keeton, Austin, Texas 78712 Campus mail code: A9250 Main phone number: 512-471-4OHP (4647) Fax: 512-471-2666 For treatment during hours of closure, follow the guidelines below. Advanced Medical Care For emergency work-related injuries, call 911 and ask to be transported to the nearest hospital. If the injury involves an animal, chemical or biological exposure, request transport to a St. David's affiliated emergency room (PDF). If urgent consultation with the HealthPoint Occupational Health Program is needed, please call 512-471-4OHP (4647) and press 1 to be connected to an on-call nurse. Additional & After Hours Support During periods when OHP is closed (and depending on the provider, even when they are open), you may select an in-network provider from the IMO Workers’ Compensation Provider Network. In the Austin area, several in-network urgent care and occupational health options include: Texas MedClinic, Every day 8 a.m to 11 p.m. Concentra Medical Centers, Monday-Friday 8 a.m to 5 p.m. For employees living in an out-of-network county, contact IMO for assistance in selecting a provider at 1-877-772-4477, ext. 151. Personal Health Conditions For personal health care needs, contact your personal health care provider. Currently, the OHP only offers work-related health care services. If you are a UT Select benefits participant and you have a question about a personal medical condition for yourself or a covered family member, you may call the Blue Cross Blue Shield Nurseline. This free service is available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Call 1-888-315-9473. OHP Programs and Resources OHP-Labs The OHP provides services to employees working with research animals and other hazards in a research setting. This service is referred to as the OHP-Labs program and is offered at no cost to the employee. Initial and Recurring Enrollment Enrollment is provided to researchers and personnel working with or exposed to: bio-hazardous materials such as human blood borne pathogens, cell lines or tissues. animals, animal cell lines, or tissues. hazardous materials such as chemical, physical or radiological agents that require medical attention and follow up. Enrollment requirements vary by research protocol. You may be notified for an update by the eProtocol System or by OHP staff directly. To prevent delays in the eProtocol System, submit all required documents to OHP at least 72 hours in advance of the deadline. Initial Enrollment Complete the OHP Health Assessment Questionnaire (English),(Spanish) for personnel working with research animals and other hazards baseline form to enroll as a new program participant.. Submit your completed Baseline Questionnaire by one of the following methods: Email - healthpoint.ohp@austin.utexas.edu (Please be aware that email communication can be intercepted in transmission or misdirected.) Fax - 512-471-2666 In Person (or through our after hours drop box if the clinic is closed) UT Box Information about TB screening requirements is included on the Health Assessment Questionnaire. The health assessment questionnaire will be reviewed by OHP staff, after which you may be contacted to discuss additional recommendations with the nurse. Let the nurse know if you would like to discuss other health concerns. There will be no cost to you as an employee for these services. Recurring Enrollment Complete the following steps to update your program enrollment: Submit the completed OHP Update Questionnaire (English),(Spanish) via one of the same methods listed above for intial enrollment. Annually for persons enrolled in OHP-Labs high risk categories. (AN00023) Every three (3) years for persons enrolled in OHP-Labs low risk categories. (AN0020) The questionnaire will be reviewed by OHP staff, after which you may be contacted to discuss additional recommendations with the nurse. Let the nurse know if you would like to discuss other health concerns. There will be no cost to you as an employee for these services. Lab Animal Allergy Allergic reactions to animals are among the most common conditions affecting the health of employees involved in the care and use of research animals. The university has engineering, administrative and personal protection strategies in place to prevent the development of lab animal allergy (LAA). To learn more about the prevention of LAA at the university, read the Laboratory Animal Allergy Prevention and Information Guide (PDF). Also, See the Health Assessment Questionnaire for Personnel Working with Research Animals and Other Hazards (PDF) Biosafety Information and Resources Working in research requires dedicated attention to detail including the details involved in workplace safety practices that protect employees, students, university property and the community. Useful information sheets and manuals on biosafety topics including Bloodborne Pathogens, Lentivirus, Viral Vectors, Working with Wild Rodents, Working with Human Xenografts and many more topics are available on the EHS Biosafety page. Your department will also have lab-specific safety procedures available to review and may require lab or protocol-specific training. Safety Guide for Field Researchers Fieldwork is an important part of teaching and research at The University of Texas at Austin. Since fieldwork activities take you off-campus, this off-campus field guide (PDF) is intended to help you plan and prepare for health and safety problems you might encounter in the field. Confidentiality Information you provide to the Occupational Health Program is protected from unauthorized or indiscriminate release of personal health information, and medical records are maintained in a confidential manner and separate from department or Human Resources personnel records. Read our Notice of Privacy Practices (English), (Spanish) Occupational Health Program OHP Home OHP COVID-19 Reporting and Resources On This Page About The Occupational Health Program Services Scheduling a Healthpoint OHP Appointment Advanced Medical Care Additional & After Hours Support Personal Health Conditions OHP Programs and Resources: OHP-Labs Lab Animal Allergy Biosafety Information and Resources Safety Guide for Field Researchers Confidentiality COVID-19 Fliers What happens if I think I might have COVID-19 as an employee of UT? (PDF) What should employees do if they get tested for COVID-19 or have symptoms? (PDF) Self Isolation: Social Distancing, Monitoring, Quarantine, or Isolation. How do they differ? (PDF) How to Self-Quarantine (PDF) Quick Links Employee Assistance Program Environmental Health & Safety Disability and Accessibility Services International Travel Program Personal Health 24/7 Nurseline University Health Services for Students UT Austin HealthPoint Wellness Program Contact Info Email: Occupational Health Program Phone: 512-471-4647 (4OHP) Current Employee Applying for University Vacancies Career Management Compensation Compliance Conflict Management Coronavirus Resources Dealing with Workplace Changes or Job Transitions Employee Assistance Program (EAP) Employee Information System Employee Services Flexible Work Arrangements Alternative Flexible Work Arrangement for Employees with an Immunocompromised Resident Household Member Forms Insurance Learning & Development New Employees Occupational Health Program Retirement Checklist Retirement Programs Staff Awards Sporadic Employment Time Off UTemps Furlough Program FAQs Human Resources Human Resource Service Center 1616 Guadalupe St., Suite 1.408 Austin, TX 78701 Phone: 512-471-4772 (HRSC) Phone (Toll Free): 800-687-4178 Fax: 512-232-3524 Website problems? Contact FAS Communications fascommweb@austin.utexas.edu Website Comment Form Facebook Google Translate/En Español Need Help? Find Your HR Representative HR Staff Directory Human Resource Service Center Workday UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2022