Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Musical Theater Studies MA You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Musical Theater Studies MA Apply Request More Info Musical Theater Studies MA Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Productions & Facilities Required Courses Scholarships & Financial Aid Master of Arts in Musical Theater Studies Develop advanced skills in acting, dance, movement and music with the Master of Arts in Musical Theater Studies in Temple’s School of Theater, Film and Media Arts. This 30-credit, one-year master’s degree emphasizes hands-on learning and instruction to prepare graduates for careers in education, performance or production in musical theater. Achieve practical training through an interdisciplinary, progressive curriculum that blends classroom study with musical theater performance skills. You’ll gain expertise in all facets of musical theater through coursework focused on American musical theater, dramatic composition, performing arts direction and the business of theater. You’ll study with faculty from both the Boyer College of Music and Dance and the School of Theater, Film and Media Arts. The Musical Theater Studies MA faculty members’ experience includes screen and stage performances across an array of fields, all housed within a nationally accredited theater department. The culminating event for this master’s program is the final written thesis, which can be a demonstration project, performance or research paper. Classes & Curriculum All graduate students complete core courses in one year. The required courses are American Music Theater, Directing for the Musical Stage, Dramaturgy and The Business of Theater. Some of the required electives include Dance for the Actor, Musical Theater Voice and Acting, Script and Score Analysis, and Rehearsal and Performance. Learn more about courses for the Musical Theater Studies MA. Related Graduate Degrees Musical Theater Collaboration MFA Theater-Acting MFA Theater-Design MFA Theater-Directing MFA Theater-Playwriting MFA Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Master of Arts offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $1,078.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,441.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Additional Information Our Advisors Students in the Theater Department’s graduate program are advised by their area head. All students are reviewed each semester by their mentors to discuss progress. Peter Reynolds is an associate professor in the Theater Department and the head of Musical Theater programs. Phone: 215-204-8628 Email: peter.reynolds@temple.edu Program Contact Peter Reynolds, associate professor and head of the Musical Theater programs, is the faculty program contact for the Musical Theater Studies MA. Phone: 215-204-8628 Email: peter.reynolds@temple.edu Accreditation The Theater Department is accredited by the National Association of Schools of Theatre as well as a member of the University Resident Theatre Association. CA-MTST-MA Additional Program Information Visit School Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Musical Theater Studies MA Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Productions & Facilities Required Courses Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info