Skip to main content ISU Index Menu ISU News Store Contact Us Offices Community and Economic Development Main menu Main Menu Home Programs and Services Resources Newsletter Who we are You are here Home Community Development Data Information and Analysis Laboratory (CD-DIAL) Who We Are CD-DIAL is a technical assistance unit within Iowa State University Extension and Outreach Community and Economic Development that helps communities, organizations, and state and local agencies identify needs and evaluate their assets. Download our brochure Our Mission To improve the quality of Iowa community life, CD-DIAL educates and provides technical assistance in program evaluation, research methodology, and data analysis to communities, agencies, and organizations. Our Experience More than 30 years of surveying Iowa communities Skilled facilitation in problem identification and strategic planning More than 15 years of program evaluation experience Studies conducted in every Iowa county and many cities Working together, we will Identify problems Define survey methodology Collect data Analyze data Communicate findings through written reports and oral presentations Data collection services include Mailed paper-and-pencil surveys Telephone interviews Focus groups Online surveys Studies are carried out using a collaborative, facilitated process. Video of Program Details Our Products CD-DIAL has collected and evaluated data of a variety of subjects for clients throughout the state, a few of which are featured here. Ackley Community and Economic Development Survey, 2017 The Ackley Development Commission needed to better understand the needs and concerns for the City of Ackley. They reached out to Iowa State University for assistance with this survey. They plan to use the information gathered to help provide direction in strategic planning and to guide future development over the next five years. ackley_survey_2017.pdf Ames AEDC Workforce Survey The Ames Economic Development Commission contacted CD-DIAL for assistance in better understanding the dynamics of employees in choosing the community in which they reside. In this survey employees of the Ames workforce provided valuable information and critical feedback on why they decide to live in Ames or another community. aedc.workforce_survey.pdf City of Ames Residential Satisfaction Survey Since 2009, CD-DIAL has conducted a residential survey for Ames to evaluate the services it provides to citizens and to identify areas in need of improvement. A survey was mailed to randomly selected respondents. To obtain a better representation of ISU students, the survey was conducted online. ames_resident_satisfaction_survey_2017.pdf Linn County Conservation Board 2014 Outdoor Recreation and Conservation Survey CD-DIAL assisted the Linn County Conservation Board in conducting a survey to inform the board as it developed its long-term plans for increasing the quality of life through programs of conservation and education. The results of the survey reflect residents' usage and expectations of the existing recreation and conservation faciliies and services, as well as their opinions on the availability and accessibility of outdoor recreational areas in the county. The Board will use the survey results in its planning, resource allocation, and programming. linn_county_outdoor_rec_conservation_survey_2014.pdf Category: Data and Technology Support Tags: program evaluation, research methodology, data analysis, survey Contact Nora Ladjahasan nading@iastate.edu Community and Economic Development Copyright © 1995- Iowa State University of Science and Technology. All rights reserved. 2150 Beardshear Hall, Ames, IA 50011-2031 (800) 262-3804 Iowa State University | Policies State & National Extension Partners Site Index | Site Map Community and Economic Development 2321 N Loop Drive, Suite 121 Ames, IA 50010-8664 Phone: (515) 294-8397 Fax: (515) 294-1354 Twitter Facebook The Midwest Planning Bluz Geospatial Twitter Linked In