Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Search form Search Brown University Brown | RISD Dual Degree Program Search Brown University Home About History People Leadership BRDD Peer Advisors Student Demographics Visit Academics Advising BRDD Peer Advisors Five-Year Planning BRDD Canvas Page Current Student Degree Combinations Capstones New Courses 2021-2022 BRDD Calendar (PDF) Student Resources Five-Year Planning International Students BRDD Canvas Page 2021-2022 BRDD Academic Calendar Student Life Housing and Dining New Students Orientation Year 2 Orientation Admissions Tuition & Aid Apply FAQs Visit Alumni Alumni Newsletter News and Events Annual Exhibition Events and Programs Home About History People Student Demographics Visit Academics Student Resources Student Life Housing and Dining New Students Year 2 Orientation Admissions Alumni News and Events Search Brown | RISD Dual Degree Program Student Life Housing Program participants will be housed at RISD during the first year and at Brown during the second year. In the following years, students can live on either campus or off-campus (with permission), according to individual preference and availability. RISD Residence Life Brown Residential Life Dining First Year BRDD students live at RISD in the Fiirst-Year Quad and have the meal plan that is connected to the RISD Residential Launch Experience. First-year students have unlimited access to The Met, which is also conveniently located in The Quad. In addition, students may choose to use one meal credit daily which may be applied at any participating dining venues. Students may also purchase items using the 175 points they received each semester. These rooms also include a one-time $50 risdbucks credit which work in campus vending machines, all dining venues, campus stores, and laundry machines. Also included are 3 guest meal credits per semester. Second Year BRDD students are required to be either on a Brown Meal Plan with seventy dining points on their RISD ID card (thirty-five per semester) to spend at RISD dining facilities or on the Brown | RISD Dual Degree Meal Plan. Students living at RISD must adhere to RISD’s meal plan participation requirements based upon housing types. Students living at Brown in their third through fifth year are not required to participate in a meal plan. Alternatively, students in their second through fifth years of the program may choose to participate in the Dual Degree Meal Plan. The Dual Degree Meal Plan splits meals and declining balance points between Brown and RISD and makes meals and points on both campuses available during Wintersession. Students on the Dual Degree Meal Plan will be billed through Brown and cannot transfer meals or points from one school to another. However, students may add points to either plan directly. Students wishing to purchase additional points at Brown can do so by contacting Brown Dining. Students wishing to purchase additional points at RISD should log onto the risdbucks.com portal. Dual Degree Meal Plan The Dual Degree Flex meal plan is available to Dual Degree students in years 2-5 only. Eligible students will receive information about the cost and distribution of meals and points at each institution in the winter prior to housing selection for the subsequent year. The Dual Degree Flex meal plan contract is in effect for the entire academic year and it is billed by semester. Once a student has chosen the Dual Degree Flex meal plan, changes can only be made within the Dual Degree Flex A or B plan structure. There is a $10 service fee for making changes to the meal plan after the semester begins. It is not permitted to cancel the meal plan mid-year. Meal plans follow terms and conditions associated with each school, they can be found here: Brown Dining RISD Dining For questions about the Dual Degree Flex meal plan or to sign up for this plan, BRDD students should contact: Brown Dining 401.863.3343 [email protected] Student Life Housing and Dining New Students Year 2 Orientation Brown | RISD Dual Degree Program Brown | RISD Dual Degree Program Box 1828 Stephen Robert '62 Campus Center, Suite 228 Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-9836 Fax: 401-863-1961 Email [email protected] Brown University Giving to Brown Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA 401-863-1000 Contact Us Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility All Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top