Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences Information For Search BC.edu Links Department of Physics Menu Main Nav Department of Physics Department of Physics Seminars & Colloquia Back Back Close About Overview Contact Giving to Physics News and Notes Open Positions People Undergraduate Overview Program Description Requirements Courses Typical 4-Year Sequence Study Abroad Undergraduate Research Related Links Teaching Laboratories Lecture Demonstrations Society of Physics Students Undergraduate Resource Room Graduate Overview Application Information Degree Requirements Courses Admitted Students Some Recent Alumni Research Overview Quantum Materials Quantum Information Photonics and Nanotechnology Energy Materials Biological Physics Experimental Theoretical Facilities Nanofabrication Clean Room Transmission Electron Microscope Scanning Electron Microscope X-Ray Diffractometer Magnetometer Diversity & Inclusion Close Seminars & Colloquia Directory A to Z Listing Search Department of Physics Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Department of Physics Graduate Graduate Application Information Degree Requirements Courses Admitted Students Some Recent Alumni Graduate Program Through quantitative coursework, cutting-edge research, and a supportive community, the Boston College Physics Department is training next-generation scientists with flexible minds to disentangle today’s complex challenges. Through quantitative coursework, cutting-edge research, and a supportive community, the Boston College Physics Department is training next-generation scientists with flexible minds to disentangle today’s complex challenges. Every year, the Boston College Department of Physics welcomes approximately ten new students into its graduate program. They pursue Ph.D. and Masters degrees in various theoretical and experimental research programs including: Quantum Materials Quantum Information Science Photonics and Nanotechnology Energy Materials Biological Physics BC graduates have gone on to successful careers in a broad range of fields. Our graduates include faculty at R1 research institutions, senior scientists in industry and national labs, and founders of technology start-ups. Please find a partial list of our recent alumni. Get Started Request Info Apply Now Admissions Information The unique environment of the BC Physics department is focused on a highly collaborative approach, with students forming a vital part of the community. While working with BC physics faculty, students have access to state-of-the-art facilities both on campus and worldwide. Moreover, students often work in integrated science teams with faculty from Chemistry, Biology, Neuroscience, or neighboring institutions. All students in good standing are fully supported financially, with opportunities to start research as early as the summer preceding their first year. Students in good standing receive full financial support in the form of teaching assistantships and research assistantships, health insurance as well as tuition remission, which covers the full cost of tuition By the Numbers 6 Fellows of the American Physical Society 6 New faculty hires since 2015 8 Average size of graduate courses 100% Ph.D. candidates supported in research Graduate Alumni Spotlight Sergio Gaudio Dr. Sergio Gaudio Dr. Sergio Gaudio studied in the BC physics department from 2001-2006. During his PhD, Dr. Gaudio worked alongside Prof. Kevin Bedell to understand the thermodynamics of ultracold atomic gases through Fermi liquid theory. After graduation, Dr. Gaudio continued his research in superfluids at Università ‘‘La Sapienza’’ in Rome, Italy, before venturing into medical physics at UCLA. Since 2016, Dr. Gaudio has been working as part of the LIGO collaboration. With colleagues in the group of Michele Zanolin at Embry-Riddle Aeronautical University, Dr. Gaudio models detectable signals from gravitational waves emitted by supernovae processes. In 2017, the founders of the LIGO collaboration were awarded the Nobel Prize in Physics for the landmark discovery gravitational waves. As a popular science communicator in Italy, Dr. Gaudio has received the Excellence in Research award from the Premio Spartenze Foundation and the Gonfalon award from his hometown, Palmi. Read more about Dr.Sergio Gaudio Lucas Lindsay Dr. Lucas Lindsay Dr. Lucas Lindsay was a graduate student in the BC physics department from 2004-2010. Under the guidance of Prof. David Broido, Dr. Lindsay developed theory and first-principles calculations to describe the lattice thermal conductivities of carbon nanotubes and graphene. After graduation, Dr. Lindsay taught physics for two years at Christopher Newport University in Newport News, VA. Afterwards, he started a fellowship at the US Naval Research Laboratory, where in collaboration with Prof. Broido and Dr. Thomas Reinecke, he made the first prediction of ultra-high thermal conductivity in boron arsenide, which has since been experimentally confirmed. Since 2014, Dr. Lindsay has been a scientist at Oak Ridge National Laboratory, where he continues to predict and optimize materials for thermal management on some of the most powerful supercomputers in the world. In 2019, Dr. Lindsay was awarded a Department of Energy Early Career Award. Read more about Dr. Lucas Lindsay Yuan-Ming Lu Dr. Yuan-Ming Lu Dr. Yuan-Ming Lu was a graduate student in the BC physics department from 2007-2011. During that time, he performed theoretical research on topological phases of matter under the supervision of Prof. Ziqiang Wang and in close collaboration with Prof. Ying Ran. After obtaining his PhD in 2011, he became a postdoctoral scholar at UC Berkeley. He joined the faculty of The Ohio State University in 2014, where he is now an associate professor. Prof. Lu has made seminal contributions to the study of topological phases and strongly correlated systems and is the recipient of the NSF CAREER award in 2017. Read more about Dr. Yuan-Ming Lu Learning Outcomes At the completion of graduate studies, the student should have developed the following: comprehensive knowledge of the basic fields of physics detailed knowledge of specific field(s) of physics ability to do research in a specific area of physics ability to communicate effectively about research and general topics in physics ability to teach and to explain concepts in physics to students and to others readiness to enter a career in physics research, teaching or related professions The department will assess our students learning outcomes, and modify the program as appropriate, on a yearly basis in order to help students better achieve these goals. Back To Top Back To Top Department of Physics Higgins Hall 335 617-552-3575 physics@bc.edu Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences Gasson Hall 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 About Undergraduate Graduate Faculty & Research Departments Contact Departments Art, Art History, and Film Biology Chemistry Classical Studies Communication Computer Science Earth and Environmental Sciences Economics Engineering English German Studies History Mathematics Music Philosophy Physics Political Science Psychology Romance Languages and Literatures Slavic & Eastern Languages and Literatures Sociology Theatre Theology Give to Physics Faculty Resources Apply Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College