Admitted Students  - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to Admissions Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Undergraduate Admissions Discover & Connect Majors Connect with Current Students Meet Your Admissions Representative Visit Apply Freshman Students Freshman Admissions Appeals Self-Reporting Your Grades Transfer Students International Students International Freshman International Transfer Former Students Post-Baccalaureate Students Visiting Students Military and Veteran Students Transferring Credit Adult Admissions Program Residency Requirements Academic Fresh Start Transcript Submission Guidelines Pay for College Make It Official New Student Orientation Transfer Orientation Family & Guest Orientation Resources COVID-19 Information Test Optional Admissions For Counselors For Parents and Families College Readiness Contact Us Who We Are Admitted Students COVID-19 UPDATE Read more > Due to the outbreak of the Coronavirus (COVID-19), New Student Orientation is being offered virtually and in-person (limited capacity). For more information about the Coronavirus, including Frequently Asked Questions, click here. Questions? Please contact us at orientation@uh.edu or (713) 743-1010, option 4. Congratulations on your admission to the University of Houston! You’ve received your official admission letter. Now what? Below is detailed information that will guide you through the next steps for orientation, enrollment, housing, paying for college, and more! We’re here for you if you have questions. Admitted Student Guides Expand AllCollapse All Freshmen Students myUH Account You received an ID number that serves as your login for your myUH account via accessuh.uh.edu. You can keep track of your progress towards enrollment, check missing items, and keep up with due dates throughout the enrollment process. New Student Orientation All new freshmen students are required to attend New Student Orientation to learn about traditions, resources, and steps to success at UH. You'll connect with other new Coogs, be introduced to UH traditions, get acquainted with campus resources, and schedule a time to meet with your academic advisor. Attending orientation in the correct major is vital to your transition to UH. If you're interested in changing you major, please fill out the change of major form at least 3 days before your orientation session. If you were admitted, or applied for the summer term, you must request a term update prior to signing up for orientation. Learn More│Admissions Review Option Change form| Change Your Major │ Change Your Term Final Transcripts Send us your final transcript—as well as any AP, college, or dual credit documentation—after you graduate. Future class registration may be impacted if your final transcripts are not received prior to the start of your first term at UH. For faster service, ask your school administrator to send your transcript data electronically through an EDI (Electronic Data Interchange) system, e.g. TREx (for Texas institutions). If you can't send it electronically, your school administrator can send a PDF version of your official transcript to us through Parchment or Naviance. If both of the above options aren't available, your school administrator can mail your official transcripts to this address: University of Houston Office of Undergraduate Admissions 4434 University Drive Houston, TX 77204 Financial Aid If you've completed the FAFSA or TASFA, be sure to check your myUH account and your email frequently. Additional information or verification may be required to complete or accept your financial aid award. Apply for FAFSA │ Apply for TASFA Housing Freshmen are strongly encouraged to live on campus. Rooms fill up fast, so apply as soon as you can. Important dates and details are available on the Student Housing and Residential Life website . Apply for Housing TSI & Math Placement The Texas Success Initiative (TSI) requires you to demonstrate that you're ready for college-level coursework by providing exemption documentation or meeting minimum standards on math, reading, and writing assessments. We're committed to placing students in the proper math course based on their major and academic background. New students who select a major (particularly STEM majors) requiring Pre-calculus or Calculus may need to take the Math Placement Exam. Check your myUH account to see if you need to complete either of these tests. For more information about test registration or exemption qualifications, click the links below. TSI | Math Placement Exam Health Requirements Complete the required health and immunization records to support our commitment to a safe and healthy campus. Just submit your bacterial meningitis immunization document and decide whether you need the Student Health Insurance Plan. Bacterial Meningitis Immunization │ Student Health Insurance Plan Cougar Card Your Cougar Card will be your most important piece of student identification oncampus. You can print documents, buy food, and access buildings and athletic events with a simple swipe. Create Your Cougar Card Extras Check out the following steps to be even more prepared for your journey at the University of Houston. > Admitted Student Visits Come celebrate your acceptance at one of our Admitted Student Visits. > UH Go App Download the UH Go App, which will be your guide to all things UH. > Meal Plan Ready to eat your way around campus? Purchase a meal plan. > Parking To park on campus, you'll need a parking permit. Purchase one here. > Wardrobe Boost Make sure you add some red to your closet so you're ready for Cougar Red Fridays! Transfer Students New Student Orientation All new transfer students are required to attend New Student Orientation to learn about traditions, resources, and steps to success at UH. You will also schedule a time to meet with your academic advisor. Attending orientation in the correct major is vital to your transition to UH. If you're interested in changing you major, please fill out the change of major form at least 3 days before your orientation session. Learn More │ Change Your Major │ Change Your Term Apply for Financial Aid Submit your Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) and Texas Application for State Federal Aid (TASFA) to be considered for financial assistance at the University of Houston. All students are encouraged to apply and some merit-based aid may require completion of the FAFSA or TASFA. Be sure to check AccessUH and your email frequently once you submit the FAFSA or TASFA. Additional information or verification may be required to complete your financial aid award. Apply for FAFSA │ Apply for TASFA Apply for Housing Transfer students are welcome to live on campus. The housing website details the available residence halls and dining centers. Questions about living on campus or the housing application can be directed to Student Housing and Residential Life. Apply for Housing Submit Final Transcripts Send final transcripts to the Office of Admissions. A final, official transcript confirms successful completion of the last term of enrollment. In addition, future class registration may be impacted if your final transcripts are not received prior to the start of your first term at UH. For faster service, ask your institution administrator to send your transcript data electronically through an EDI (Electronic Data Interchange) system, e.g. TREx (for Texas institutions). If you can't send it electronically, your school administrator can send a PDF version of your official transcript to us through Parchment or Naviance. If both of the above options aren't available, ask your institution to mail your official transcripts to this address: University of Houston Office of Undergraduate Admissions 4434 University Drive Houston, TX 77204 Transfer Credit Report Guide | Transfer Decision Reconsideration Complete Health Requirements Complete the required health and immunization records to support our commitment to a safe and healthy campus. Steps include providing documentation showing that you have received the bacterial meningitis immunization and deciding whether you need the Student Health Insurance Plan. Take care of this step any time before you enroll; many students bring health records with them to Orientation. Bacterial Meningitis Immunization │ Student Health Insurance Plan Cougar Card Your Cougar Card will be your most important piece of student identification on campus. You can print documents, buy food, and access buildings and athletic events with a simple swipe. Create Your Cougar Card Extras Check out the following steps to be even more prepared for your journey at the University of Houston. > Admitted Student Visits Come celebrate your acceptance at one of our Admitted Student Visits. > UH Go App Download the UH Go App, which will be your guide to all things UH. > Meal Plan Ready to eat your way around campus? Purchase a meal plan. > Parking To park on campus, you'll need a parking permit. Purchase one here. > Wardrobe Boost Make sure you add some red to your closet so you're ready for Cougar Red Fridays! International Students Submit Immigration Documents Your I-20 or DS-2019 form (required to apply for the student visa) will be sent after verifying your immigration documents and financial information. Visit AccessUH to submit your immigration form, financial support documentation, and a copy of your passport ID. Sign up for Orientation All new students are required to attend orientation to learn about traditions, resources, and steps to success at UH. Moreover, you will meet with academic advising staff to discuss your degree plan and begin enrolling in classes. International students must: a. Review the online Pre-Arrival Online Orientation prior to traveling to the United States. b. Attend the mandatory International Student Check-In and Orientation on campus on August 17, 2020. c. Attend a mandatory Virtual Orientation. Learn how to register. Sign-Up for Orientation Apply for Housing International students are welcome to live on campus. The housing website details the available residence halls and dining centers. We've waived the $300 prepayment for Fall 2020. Simply complete the application and $50 application fee by July 17. Questions about living on campus or the housing application can be directed to Student Housing and Residential Life. Apply for Housing Submit Final Transcripts / Mark Sheets Admission to the University of Houston is provisional until a final, official transcript confirms successful completion of the last term of enrollment. All admitted students are required to submit a final transcript prior to starting classes at UH. Have your final official transcript sent to: The University of Houston Office of Undergraduate Admissions 4434 University Drive Houston, TX 77204 Complete Health Requirements Complete the required health and immunization records to support our commitment to a safe and healthy campus. Steps include providing documentation showing that you have received the bacterial meningitis immunization and deciding whether you need the Student Health Insurance Plan. Take care of this step any time before you enroll; many students bring health records with them to Orientation. Bacterial Meningitis Immunization │ Student Health Insurance Plan Cougar Card Your Cougar Card will be your most important piece of student identification oncampus. You can print documents, buy food, and access buildings and athletic events with a simple swipe. Create Your Cougar Card Extras Check out the following steps to be even more prepared for your journey at the University of Houston. > Admitted Student Visits Come celebrate your acceptance at one of our Admitted Student Visits. > UH Go App Download the UH Go App, which will be your guide to all things UH. > Meal Plan Ready to eat your way around campus? Purchase a meal plan. > Parking To park on campus, you'll need a parking permit. Purchase one here. > Wardrobe Boost Make sure you add some red to your closet so you're ready for Cougar Red Fridays! University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies