Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Division of Mission & Ministry Mission & Ministry Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links Campus Ministry Menu Main Nav Campus Ministry Racial Justice Back Back Close About Overview Meet the Staff Racial Justice Pastoral Counseling Axios Center Pregnancy Resources Together Graduate Programming Connections Religious Vocations Becoming a Jesuit Support Campus Ministry Alumni Resources Liturgy & Sacraments Overview Mass Schedule Liturgical and Music Ministries Sacraments University Chapels Rise and Reflect Related Links BC Jesuit, Catholic Maps Retreats Service Immersion Overview 4Boston 4Boston Community Partners Appa Arrupe International Immersion Global Public Health–Honduras Habitat for Humanity Ignatian Family Teach-In Faith Communities Overview Catholic Christian Life Community Gratia Plena Ignatian Society Knights of Columbus St. Thomas More Society Sons of St. Patrick Una Voce Multi-Faith Student Faith Groups Off-Campus Worship Multi-Faith Chapel Racial Justice Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Mission & Ministry Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close 4Boston Home Service Immersion 4Boston 4Boston is BC's largest weekly service organization. Volunteers serve four hours each week of the academic year with community partners in the social service, healthcare, or education sectors and engage in one hour of group reflection centered on community, social justice, and spirituality. Purchase a 4boston Shirt 4Boston Community Partners What We Do Build community with our partners and among our small groups of volunteers, through both engagement and reflection. Consider the policies and structures that create unjust conditions for our neighbors, while seeking to understand our responsibility in resisting and transforming injustices we encounter in our world. Grow as spiritual beings, attentive to the ways that God moves through our work and reflection. Important Dates Commissioning & Orientation Saturday, Sept. 24, 2022 from 2:00 - 5:00 pm Location: Robsham Theater Fall Retreat Saturday, Oct. 15, 2022 from 10:30 am - 3:30 pm Location: 300 Hammond Pond Parkway Prayers 4Boston Monday, Feb. 6, 2023 from 8:00 - 9:00 pm Location: Robsham Theater Spring Teach-In Saturday, March 25 from 10:00 am - 2:00 pm Location: Robsham Theater Community Night Sunday, April 2, 2023 from 12:00 - 1:30 pm Location: 300 Hammond Pond Parkway Sending 4th Monday, May 1, 2023 from 3:00 - 4:00 pm Location: Robsham Theater Overview Join Lead Donate Contact 4Boston provides students with a significant extended urban encounter, enriched by regular opportunities for reflection and analysis in keeping with the Jesuit tradition of contemplation-in-action. 4Boston also strives to provide reliable, consistent support to Boston-area agencies that work with and on behalf of the city's poor and marginalized. This work inevitably raises universal questions of life's meaning and purpose. While we rely on the Judeo-Christian tradition to address these and other issues, people of all faiths and those of no specific religious affiliation are welcome to participate in 4Boston. It is our firm belief that action without reflection risks despair, and reflection without action risks irrelevance, and it is our explicit hope that 4Boston students will grow intellectually, morally, and spiritually through regular service to others and disciplined reflection on that service. Three pillars guide the work of 4Boston: Community, Spirituality, and Social Justice. We aim to create a sense of community with our partners and among our small groups of volunteers, both in service and reflection. We are committed to not only meeting immediate needs through our engagement in the community, but considering the policies and structures that create unjust conditions and learning about our roles in resisting and transforming the injustices we encounter in our world. In and through all of this, we seek to grow as spiritual beings, attentive to the ways that God moves through our work and reflection, calling and empowering us to be Women and Men for Others, in all times and places. Press "4Boston Goes Digital" The Gavel, Fall 2020 "Thank you Boston College Volunteers" Franciscan Children's, Spring 2018 "Serving the City" Carroll School of Management Newsletter, June 2018 "25 Years of 4Boston" The Chronicle, December 2016 “Learning a Lesson Behind Prison Walls” The Heights, April 2016 “Bursting the BC Bubble: 4Boston” The Gavel, September 2014 "Authentic Eagles: On Identity" The Gavel, May 2014 “Unlikely Friendship Forms in Shelter Classroom” The Boston Globe, May 2014 “Boston College 4Boston Partnership a Win/Win!” Casserly House Newsletter, Spring 2014 “Authentic Eagles: On Spirituality” The Gavel, February 2014 “Volunteering 4 Boston” The Heights, September 1999 Learning Outcomes Through participation in 4Boston students will: Engage their communities beyond Boston College, through regular volunteering, civic advocacy, and professional discernment Cultivate regular spiritual practices and habits of discernment and reflection. Identify systemic pathways of injustice, consider their individual privileges and proximity to marginalized communities, and incorporate their daily understanding of these systems and experiences in daily choices. FAQ What is the volunteer application process? Interested students should attend an information session before applying online via the Campus Ministry website. Information sessions are typically held in late August and early September of each year and provide the chance to learn more about the various community partners and day-to-day experiences with 4Boston. ALL participants, both new and returning, must complete an online application each fall. The application asks for basic personal information, brief short-answer responses (for new applicants only), and schedule availability. From there, applications are reviewed and students may or may not be invited to interview to be matched with a 4Boston community partner. Due to the high volume of applicants and matching process, students’ maximum reported schedule availability on their online application is the greatest predictor of a successful volunteer match. What is the time commitment? Participating in 4Boston is a significant, year-long commitment, from October to April. We ask all volunteers to dedicate a minimum of 5 hours per-week. Additionally, we ask all participants to attend six mandatory program events throughout the year. How do volunteers get to community partners? 4Boston relies heavily on the MBTA for transportation to and from community partners, and annually distributes Charlie Cards to volunteers. Most 4Boston volunteers use these cards to take the train or bus to their community partner. 4Boston also distributes a select number of Lyft codes each year, reserved exclusively for volunteers serving at sites that are difficult to access via MBTA. A few 4Boston partners are within walking distance from BC’s campus. Additionally, some students with access to a vehicle and parking may choose to drive themselves or carpool to their shift. What do volunteers do? 4Boston’s community partners broadly span the categories of: Healthcare (i.e. Perkins School for the Blind), Social Service (i.e. St. Francis House), Education (i.e. EVKids). Within these categories, however, the work of 4Boston varies widely, including a foot washing clinic, disability care and education, eldercare, preschool, adult education, prison education, after school mentoring, classroom support, shelters for adult men and women, and youth shelters. Do I have to be Catholic to participate? Our volunteer work and small group reflections raise universal questions of life's meaning and purpose. While 4Boston relies on the Judeo-Christian tradition and Ignatian Spirituality to address these and other issues, people of all faiths and those of no specific religious affiliation are welcome to participate in 4Boston. What paperwork do volunteers need to fill out in order to participate? Each 4Boston community partner requires a different set of intake forms before volunteers are able to start, including, but not limited to: Vaccination records Background checks Fingerprinting Once matched with a community partner, volunteers should confirm with their student leader what documents, if any, they need to submit. All volunteers must attend the 4Boston Commissioning in September—site-specific paperwork and orientations will be covered at this event. What happens when my Charlie Card runs out? Charlie Cards are distributed at the 4Boston Commissioning in September of each year. If you need a replacement Charlie Card you can collect a new one during office hours from the 4Boston Student Office located in Carney 373. To confirm 4Boston office hours, contact Ryan Heffernan. How do I get a 4Boston shirt? Shirts will be available for cash purchase and online. Shirts can be purchased or picked up during 4Boston office hours. All volunteer shirt pre-orders will be distributed at the 4Boston Fall Retreat. To confirm 4Boston office hours, contact Ryan Heffernan. What if I have a conflict and can’t attend a volunteer shift or reflection? We expect that 4Boston volunteers will not miss more than four (4) volunteer shifts or reflections per year or two (2) volunteer shifts or reflections each semester. If a volunteer knows they will be late/absent to a volunteer shift, they must notify their Student Leader AND Volunteer Coordinator 48 hours before via email or text message. If a volunteer knows they will be tardy/absent to a reflection, they must notify their Student Leader 24 hours before via email or text message. If a volunteer is found to be missing more than the allotted number of shifts or reflections, they will be asked to meet with the Program Director to determine whether their priorities are aligned with the 4Boston’s goals; extenuating circumstances will be taken into consideration by the Program Director and Student Leaders during this discussion. Who do I talk to if...? I need a letter of recommendation. I have a great idea for a new 4Boston partner. I have a great idea for a small group reflection. I have a great idea for a keynote speaker for a 4Boston event. I'd like to promote an event/fundraiser that's happening at my community partner site. There's been an incident at my volunteer shift or in my reflection. Please don’t hesitate to reach out! Ryan Heffernan, Program Director For general inquiries, contact us at: 4bostonvolunteers@bc.edu 4Boston’s application for new and returning volunteers is now open! All interested students can apply. Please review the 4Boston Volunteer Guidelines prior to submitting your application. Applications will be accepted through Friday, September 9 at 5:00 PM. Due to the volume of applicants, late applications will not be accepted. For inquiries regarding joining 4Boston and for more information, email Ryan Heffernan at ryan.heffernan@bc.edu. With over 700 student participants and 40 partner organizations, 4Boston relies on an annual cohort of Student Leaders to lead reflection groups, coordinate volunteers, and support ongoing communication with community partners. 4Boston invites all rising juniors and seniors to submit applications for Student Leader positions in March of each year for the following academic year. Click here to apply to lead 4Boston. Deadline is March 17, 2022. Important Dates for 2022 - 2023: Service-Immersion Leader Retreat Summer: August 26 - 27, 2022 4B Participant Selection: Saturday, September 10, 2022 from 9:00 am - 12:00 pm @ Walsh 7th Floor Lounge Service-Immersion Leader Retreat Winter: January 15 - 16, 2023 (tentative) 4B SL Mini-Retreat: Sunday, January 22, 2023 from 10:30 am - 3:30 pm @ Walsh 7th Floor Lounge Thank you for considering a donation to 4Boston. Your tax-deductible donation is a valuable investment in a learning experience that many Boston College students will carry with them for the rest of their lives. To Donate Online: Visit the Online Giving Form Enter your information; for the field "I wish to make my gift to:” select 4Boston. [If you are sponsoring a certain student, please select "In honor of a BC student," and include their name and year.] Click "Submit Gift" To Mail a Check: 4Boston Boston College, Office of Campus Ministry McElroy Commons 233 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 If your corporation matches donations, please enclose the appropriate forms. 4Boston, under the umbrella of the Trustees of Boston College, is a non-profit 501(c)3 with a federal tax exemption number of 04-2103545. Program Director Ryan Heffernan Manresa House Graduate Assistant Lexie Elliott Executive Board Abel Yohannes Shirley Shi Office Hours: 2022-2023 TBA Our office hours are held in Carney 373. Feel free to walk-in or make an appointment For general inquiries, email: 4bostonvolunteers@bc.edu Are you a current 4Boston Volunteer? Subscribe to our Newsletter We invite all alumni of 4Boston to keep in touch and share stories of life with and after 4Boston. Are you a 4Boston alumni? We want to stay in touch! Subscribe to our alumni listserv! Back To Top Back To Top Campus Ministry McElroy 233 Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 617-552-3475 About Racial Justice Liturgy & Sacraments Service Immersion Retreats Faith Communities Support Campus Ministry Division of Mission & Ministry Mission and Ministry Campus Ministry Center for Ignatian Spirituality Center for Student Formation First Year Experience Intersections Montserrat Pastoral Support The Volunteer and Service Learning Center University of Mission and Ministry Service Center Connect Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College