Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Home About Campus Ministries Center for Faith and Learning Programs Religious Holidays ☰ SMU Student Affairs Chaplain and Religious Life Previous Next pause play hide show Previous Next pause play hide show Chaplain and Religious Life Inspiring the Expression of Religious Faith and Discourse in the University The Office of the Chaplain and Religious Life enhances the educational mission of the university through programming and services grounded in the United Methodist tradition. We promote moral and ethical leadership development. We also provide pastoral care, welcome, and hospitality for SMU’s religiously diverse community. The Office of the Chaplain and Religious Life contributes to a transformative university experience by encouraging the pursuit of goodness with all students, faculty, staff and administration. Confidential Conversations Are you feeling like you need to talk with someone? We offer confidential, pastoral care for all students, faculty, staff, and administration. We cover a wide range of issues and are here to listen. Our perspective is that if you are a person of faith, no faith, or exploring faith, we can help you discern your next steps in all of life's transitions, be they planned or unexpected. We welcome all cultures on campus for confidential conversations. Please email chaplain@smu.edu to set up either a Zoom or phone call. *Our office is bound by 'privilege' under Title IX and The Clery Act: we only break confidence if the life of the person or of another person is thought to be at risk. Under Texas law and SMU University Policy, we fill out a Title IX Harassment Third-Party Report Form to the Office of Institutional Access and Equity at SMU. If you would like to report a sexual assault or case of sexual misconduct, please follow this link to the online platform.* Connect With Us The Office of the Chaplain and Religious Life is located on the 2nd Floor of the Hughes-Trigg Student Center in Suite 208. Hours: Mon-Fri 8:30am-5:00pm Email: chaplain@smu.edu Phone: 214-768-4502 Service of Memory Livestream A Video Introduction to the Office Apply Visit School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share