Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Careers at Columbia Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Academic Jobs Staff Jobs Student Jobs How to Apply Your Invitation Careers at Columbia Careers at Columbia Career Opportunities Academic Jobs Academic Jobs Faculty, research & libraries Staff Jobs Staff Jobs Managerial & administrative Student Jobs On-campus jobs for students How to Apply How to Apply Step-by-step instructions The Columbia Difference Change the World Make an impact and contribute to our global community. Career Advancement Expand your skills, grow your career, and explore new opportunities. Comprehensive Benefits Generous and flexible health and welfare plans for you and your family. Personal Well-being Generous paid time off benefits and robust wellness programs. Resources Our Community Build a future at Columbia with people who support your goals. Job Search Support Attend job readiness workshops and request career assessment services. Visit View campus maps, driving directions, and transit options. Ask HR Online and phone support for applicants. Benefits Columbia offers a generous benefits package for you and your family. Wellness Resources, discounts, and programs to support a work-life balance. Orientation New faculty and staff are welcomed and provided guidance. Diversity and Inclusion Columbia is committed to fostering a diverse and inclusive community. About Columbia Diversity & Demographics Columbia's Nobel Laureates A New York Institution Commitment to Sustainability Explore Our Community The Pulitzer Prizes Our History Since 1754 Inventions & Innovation Campuses Irving Medical Center Manhattanville Lamont-Doherty Morningside Equal Opportunity Employer / Disability / Veteran Columbia University is committed to the hiring of qualified local residents Columbia University is committed to protecting your privacy Columbia University provides reasonable accommodations to applicants with disabilities NCAA Statement | Pay Transparency | Clery Act Notification Labor Condition Applications (LCA) Notices Human Resources615 West 131 Street, Studebaker Building 4th Floor · New York, NY 10027 Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close