Skip to main content Go to site search Go to primary navigation Go to resources navigation Penn COVID-19 Response » Penn Home Toggle Site Navigation Toggle Site Search Academics More Academics Undergraduate Graduate Schools Global Initiatives Interdisciplinary Online Learning Off-campus Learning Libraries Admissions & Aid Athletics Research & Innovation More Research & Innovation Research Enterprise Research News Life at Penn More Life at Penn Arts & Culture Community Involvement More Community Involvement Penn & Philadelphia Diversity Groups & Organizations Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Safety & Security More Safety & Security Emergency Contacts Emergency Preparedness Spirituality & Religion About More About Introduction to Penn History Facts News, Media, & Communication Services Sustainability FAQ Penn’s Interim President, Wendell Pritchett Trustees & Administration Policies Toggle Site Search Resources Current Students Faculty & Staff Parents Alumni Visitors A-Z Directory Webmail Services Give to Penn Search Search Close Breadcrumb Home / Life at Penn / Safety & Security Safety & Security Penn’s Division of Public Safety works alongside the campus community to keep the University neighborhood safe. Emergency PreparednessEmergency contact Information Penn has taken significant steps to ensure that the University continues to function in case of an emergency. The resources and information on this page are designed to help members of the Penn community prepare for and cope with an unexpected crisis, and protect the campus community should the region experience a hostile act. Division of Public Safety A central source for information about police, fire, and emergency services, security services, including walking escorts, and special victim services. Public safety also manages the University’s extensive electronic security infrastructure. Safety and Security: A Shared Responsibility A TOP TEN list of Penn’s safety and security services, including general public safety tips and important information about the ways Penn students can promote a safe campus. Clery Crime Log The daily Clery crime log includes all alleged criminal incidents reported to and made known to the Division of Public Safety in the Penn Patrol Zone. Penn Guardian Penn Guardian is a free app that is available to all Penn community members. It was developed by the University’s safety partner Rave Guardian, a service utilized on college campuses across the country. Penn Violence Prevention PVP provides a wide range of confidential, safe resources and comprehensive educational programs to engage Penn community members in the prevention of sexual violence, relationship violence, and stalking on campus. Walking Escort Service Information about Penn’s 24/7 walking escort service and how to request a walking escort. Division of Public Safety CONTACT Division of Public Safety 4040 Chestnut Street Philadelphia, PA 19104 Contact DPS (215) 898-7297 Explore Life at Penn Arts & Culture Community Involvement Diversity Groups & Organizations Health & Wellness Housing & Dining Penn & Philadelphia Safety & Security Spirituality & Religion Philadelphia, PA 19104 Telephone: (215) 898-5000 Contact Us Maps Parking Navigate Alumni Athletics Diversity Health Care Libraries Online Learning Penn Global Penn's Heritage As America’s first university, Penn has a history that dates back to 1740 and shares many ties with the colonial city of Philadelphia and the birth of our nation. Our History Disclaimer Emergency Services Nondiscrimination Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement Back To Top