COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Fairmount College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Section Menu Leadership Become More What's Happening History and Mission Humanities Social and Behavioral Sciences Natural Sciences and Mathematics Resources for Students Resources for Faculty Resources for Staff Online Teaching Watkins Legal Education Accelerated Degree program Stop Video The Fairmount College of Liberal Arts and Sciences offers a range of degrees combined with the resources and applied learning opportunities found in Kansas' largest city—equipping our graduates for successful careers almost anywhere. Calendar of events The Value of a Liberal Arts and Sciences Education Student Resources Begin your future while still in school At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every Fairmount College degree we offer has an applied learning or research opportunity built right into it. This gives Shockers in every major the chance to work for employers in their areas of interest—gaining practical experience, a professional network, college credit and even a paycheck, all while still in school. Learn about applied learning at WSU Accelerated Legal Degree Kansas students seriously considering a law career can now get a year's head start close to home. Wichita State has entered an agreement with the University of Kansas School of Law to offer the Legal Education Accelerated Degree (LEAD) 3 + 3 program. Read full story Mathematical Foundations of Data Analysis Data analysis professionals who can apply the principles of data science statistics and analytics and assist with the design and implementation of data systems are in high demand. Wichita State is positioned to prepare them. Read full story Applied Linguistics If you’ve ever wondered what it is like to create your own language or how a language might be modeled computationally for Alexa, Siri or other voice command applications, you might be interested in applied linguistics. Read full story Diverse degrees for diverse outcomes. Building your ideal future starts with any of our quality degree programs spanning the humanities, social and behavioral sciences, and the natural sciences and mathematics. If you're ready to gain a broad skill set you can use throughout your life, check out what we offer. See all Fairmount College degrees Built for your success Advising Advising at Wichita State University is a personalized way to explore options and make good decisions that help you attain your educational and career goals. Scholarships / Financial Aid Each year, students receive more than $625,000 in Fairmount College of Liberal Arts and Sciences scholarships. In addition, eligible Shockers have access to general scholarships—including freshmen merit scholarships worth up to $24,000. Student Resources Fairmount College supports your journey every step of the way with great resources from tutoring to applied learning opportunities and expert career guidance. Start your journey now. Apply now Request info Visit us Fairmount College Departments Humanities The Humanities examine all aspects of human culture, thought and language. English Modern and Classical Languages and Literatures History Philosophy Women's Studies Social and Behavioral Sciences Majors in this category provide a framework from which to study human development, society and interventions. Anthropology School of Criminal Justice Elliott School of Communication Political Science Psychology Sociology School of Social Work Hugo Wall School of Public Affairs Natural Sciences and Mathematics Students pursuing these majors will master the inner and outer workings of the natural world—from nanoparticles to complex environmental systems. Biological Sciences Chemistry and Biochemistry Geology Mathematics, Statistics and Physics Follow us LAS on Facebook LAS on Twitter Tweets by FairmountWSU More Channels and Info LAS on YouTube LAS on TikTok Dean Hippisley on Twitter Lindquist Hall Directions LAS Advising las.advisor@wichita.edu 316-978-3700 More about Fairmount College Student Resources In Focus: Fairmount College History and Mission 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©