Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Loewenberg College of Nursing About Us Programs & Admissions Student Life Faculty & Staff Research & Initiatives News & Events Giving & Support Scrub Hub Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Programs & Admissions BSN ProgramAdmissions Accelerated BSN ProgramAdmissions RN to BSN ProgramAdmissionsRequest Info MSN ProgramAdmissions Post MSN ProgramAdmissions PhD ProgramAdmissions Pre-Admit Lambuth FAQs Applied: What's Next? Take Action Schedule a tour Apply now Give now Contact Us Find us on Social Media InstagramFacebooktwitterLinkedIn Home Loewenberg College of Nursing Programs and Admissions Lambuth Programs The Loewenberg College of Nursing - Lambuth The Loewenberg College of Nursing offers the traditional and accelerated BSN programs, online RN-BSN Program, and the MSN-FNP programs at the Lambuth Campus in Jackson, TN. The Lambuth campus is situated in a 57-acre, tree-filled, tranquil campus with stately historic buildings. Students enjoy individualized learning, appreciate tailored academic coaching and mentoring, and gain experiential learning through the largest healthcare facilities in west Tennessee and primary care clinics. “One thing I love about the University Of Memphis Lambuth campus is the teacher/ student interaction. The teachers are friendly, always there for you, willing to teach you and also help to bring out the best in you. Being a smaller campus, you are not just a student in the nursing program but you are part of one family. Come to the University of Memphis Lambuth campus and you will be glad you did!” -Claudine Njoya, BSN Lambuth Program Highlights Smaller Classes Family-Oriented Learning Community Lower Housing Rates BSN and RN-to-BSN Degree Requirements To qualify for the degree of Bachelor of Science in Nursing, the student must complete a minimum of 120 semester hours. A minimum grade of "C" must be earned in each nursing course to progress. Failure to earn a minimum grade of "C" will require repeating the course before attempting other nursing courses. A nursing course may only be entered twice. Failure to earn a minimum grade of "C" or better, or "S" (clinical) when repeating a nursing course will result in disqualification from the Nursing major Failure to earn a "C" or better, or "S" (clinical) in two nursing courses will result in disqualification from the Nursing major. MSN-FNP Degree Requirements Students enrolled in the MSN program must complete 36-46 semester hours (based on concentration area) Graduate students must maintain a 3.0 GPA ("B"). Grades of "D" and "F" will not apply toward any graduate degree, but will be computed in the GPA. No more than 7 hours of "C-", "C," or "C+" will be applied towards meeting degree requirements. Students must earn a grade of "B" or better in all clinical and lab courses (NURS 7102; NURS 7602; NURS 7604; NURS 7606; NURS 7609; NURS 7207; NURS 7209; NURS 7307; NURS 7309; NURS 7909) in order to graduate. Academic disqualification from the graduate nursing major will occur when the student: fails to maintain a 3.0 GPA in graduate school. fails to earn a grade of "B" (3.0) or better when repeating a course. willfully misrepresents patient data or clinical practice. willfully places any patient in physical or emotional jeopardy. is placed on probation by the Tennessee Board of Nursing. fails to disclose a felony conviction. fails to disclose disciplinary action or diversion by the Tennessee Board of Nursing. fails to complete all degree requirements within five years of entering graduate nursing coursework All requirements for the MSN degree must be completed in 5 calendar years. Tuition and Fees For the most current information regarding tuition, visit the University & Student Business Services. Please be advised that there are additional fees for the pre-licensure BSN program: A $30 per credit fee is assessed for each nursing course. Nursing skills lab courses carry a charge of $122 per credit to cover the cost of medical supplies. $50 testing fee for NCLEX success applied to nursing specialty courses. Contact Us TBA Academic Services Coordinator bsn@memphis.edu 901.678.2003 Dr. Joy Hoffman BSN Program Director jehoffmn@memphis.edu Dr. Jeremy N. Whittaker Associate Dean for Student Success and Inclusion J.Whittaker@memphis.edu 901-678-2879 Dr. Christie Manasco Assistant Dean of Nursing-Lambuth cmschrtb@memphis.edu Admissions Info > Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 3/29/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.