Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Career and Technical Education MEd You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Career and Technical Education MEd Apply Visit Request More Info Career and Technical Education MEd Admissions Information Careers & Opportunities Our Faculty Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Master of Education in Career and Technical Education When you’re ready to share your professional expertise in a classroom, earn Temple’s Master of Education in Career and Technical Education. Whether you come from the office or the workbench, this degree will prepare you to gain credentials to teach in Pennsylvania’s public K–12 schools. You will have the option to pursue the Career and Technical Education MEd with or without a concentration. Optional concentrations offered as part of this program include Business, Computer and Information Technology Education; and Marketing Education. Along with trends and developments in your chosen area of focus, you will study child and adolescent development, teaching models, and inclusive school practices. You will also learn to adapt curriculum for students of varying backgrounds, levels of knowledge and language use. Optional Concentrations Career and Technical Education MEd students may choose to focus on a specific content area as they pursue their degree. Business, Computer and Information Technology Education Combine all elements of teaching with a program tailored for professional technology instructors, from information technology to specialized industrial processes. You will earn an endorsement for a PA Level I Instructional Certificate while completing the coursework, research and student teaching requisite for career success. Marketing Education Spread the knowledge of advanced communication with a degree designed to produce skilled, experienced teachers of marketing and its related fields. You will earn an endorsement for a PA Level I Instructional Certificate while completing the coursework, research, and student teaching requisite for career success. Learn more about optional concentrations in Business, Computer and Information Technology and Marketing Education. Teacher Certification This program prepares you to successfully complete state certification exams, allowing you to apply for a Pennsylvania Instructional I or Career and Technical Instructional I Teaching Certificate. Learn more about certification. The Business, Computer and Information Technology Education and Marketing Education programs lead to the Pennsylvania Instructional I Teaching Certificate. The Master of Education in Career and Technical Education without a concentration can lead to a Career and Technical Instructional I Teaching Certificate. State certification exams are only for Instructional I teaching certification. Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Master of Education offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $966.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,329.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Related Graduate Degrees Career and Technical Education MSEd Related Graduate Certificates Autism Endorsement English as a Second Language Instructional Learning Technology Program Format The degree program consists of 11 courses, or 33 credits. All students complete coursework on research methods and foundations of language teaching for English language learners. Courses can be taken online or on Temple’s Main Campus in Philadelphia. Classes are typically offered after 4:30 p.m. The program can be pursued full- or part-time and you have up to four years to complete your degree. Culminating Events No thesis or exam is required for the Business, Computer and Information Technology Education and Marketing Education programs. The Career and Technical Education MEd without a concentration does not culminate in the teaching placement class. However, it does culminate in the seminar course. In addition, you complete a related seminar course. Occupational Competency Assessment If you are not pursuing a concentration, you must demonstrate valid expertise in your career and technical education skills area by successfully passing the Occupational Competency Assessment (OCA) exam. Get additional information about eligibility requirements and how to apply for the OCA exam or credential review. Student Clubs & Organizations Find peer support and leadership opportunities while tackling the challenges of your program. You'll also find opportunities to give back to the community, either locally or globally. Students can join the Temple University Graduate Students Association, a student employee union that maintains positive working lives and conditions for graduate student assistants. Temple Student Pennsylvania State Education Association, which hosts events to share effective classroom techniques and other resources for developing teachers. Search for additional College of Education and Human Development and education-related student organizations. Program Contact Elizabeth Diamond, associate professor in the Teaching and Learning Department, is the faculty program coordinator for the Career and Technical Education MEd. Phone: 215-204-6559 Email: sarah.diamond0001@temple.edu Our Advisors Advisors will guide you in navigating the curriculum and selecting the appropriate coursework to achieve your academic and professional goals. A graduate student advisor will also be available to help you with scheduling, policies and procedures to assure your smooth passage through the program. Certification The Career and Technical Education MEd is approved as a teacher certification program by the Pennsylvania Department of Education. Questions For more information about this program, the College of Education and Human Development, how to apply for admission, and your application status, contact Enrollment Management. Enrollment Management Ritter Annex 150 1301 Cecil B. Moore Ave. Philadelphia, PA 19122 Phone: 215-204-8011 Email: educate@temple.edu ED-CTE-MED Additional Program Information Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Career and Technical Education MEd Admissions Information Careers & Opportunities Our Faculty Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Visit Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Visit Request More Info