Skip to main content SMU Explore SMU Academics Student Affairs About News Events Calendar SMU Research Bush Center Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Apply to SMUGIVE NOW Undergraduate Admission Apply Visit Financial Aid Menu Search Undergraduate Admission Campus Life Dining Dining Campus Life SMU and Dallas Residence Life Dining Health and Safety Spirit and Traditions Diversity At SMU Activities and Organizations Fitness and Recreation Sports Spiritual Life En Español FAQs | Living on Campus FAQs | Student Life At SMU, find food that you can savor! With an impressive selection of healthy options including vegetarian, vegan and gluten-free options and comfort food - all freshly prepared! Even the pickiest of palates can enjoy meals throughout campus. At Lee in Umphrey Lee Center, an all-you-care-to-eat residential restaurant, choose from International Street Fare, Comfort Kitchen, a produce market, pizza, pasta, omelets all day or the "Healthy on the Hilltop," featuring full meal solutions for those desiring vegan or made- without-gluten. At Arnold Dining Commons, take advantage of all-you-can-eat at nine different stations. Always fresh, never frozen, and prepared right in front of you, you can choose from salads, burgers, regional cuisine, brick-oven pizza, or home-cooked classics. If you're on the go, stop by Mac's Place in McElvaney Hall, to pick up a freshly made-to-order grill and pizza options and convenient grab-n-go choices. Looking for your favorite cup of coffee or chicken sandwich? SMU Dining has that covered, too. Among the hotspots are Chick-fil-A, Einstein's Bros. Bagels, The Market, a fully stocked convenience store and more. We also have a full Starbucks in the Dedman Rec Center and the Fondren Library! For a more cozy environment, meet up with a friend at Lawyers Inn, located in Carr Collins Hall at the Law School Quad, for fresh brewed coffee, desserts, and lunch menu favorites. Other features of SMU Dining: SMU Dining has a Registered and Licensed Dietitian on staff, available for free and private consultations for your nutritional guidance. For more information, please contact dietitian@smu.edu. Give us your feedback through our innovative instant feedback system at www.yourdiningvoice.com Visit smu.campusdish.com for quick and easy access on the following: Meal plan information Dining hall menus and nutritional information Dining staff contact information Hours of operation Food truck calendar But don't limit your taste buds to just the on-campus convenience of the Hilltop's fabulous fare. Dallas is a gastronomic hot-spot and total foodie paradise. From Michelin-starred chefs, to drool-worthy Texas BBQ, and the ever-evolving offerings at the restaurant incubator, Trinity Groves, you'll never run out of options here. Apply NowVisit Us Back to top Academics Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Science Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education & Human Development SMU CAPE SMU Libraries The Guildhall Audience Links Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Media Parents Quick Links SMU Ignited: Boldly Shaping Tomorrow COVID-19 Information (Mustang Strong) Bush Center SMU Store Academic Calendar Events Calendar Employment Giving to SMU Virtual Tour Get in Touch Contact Us Maps Directions Compliance Legal Disclosures Report Sexual Harassment Reporting a BIAS Incident HEERF Reporting Emergency Preparedness Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn YouTube © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 Apply First-Year Domestic Student* Application First-Year International Student* Application Transfer Forms and Applications Readmission to SMU Graduate Studies FAQs | Undergraduate Temporary Test-Optional Policy Visit Virtual Campus Experience In-Person Visit Virtual Tour Admission Events Maps and Directions Residential Commons Tour Where to Stay Academics Majors and Minors Schools Faculty Virtual Connections Support and Resources Honors and Scholars Tips SMU Abroad SMU-in-Taos FAQs | Academics Campus Life SMU and Dallas Residence Life Dining Health and Safety Spirit and Traditions Diversity At SMU Activities and Organizations Fitness and Recreation Sports Spiritual Life En Espanol FAQs | Living on Campus FAQs | Student Life Financial Aid Cost of Attendance Types of Aid Access SMU Financial Aid Process Payment Plan Options SMU Net Price Calculator Mustang Scholars Robert H. Dedman Scholarship for North Dallas High School En Español Contact Us Deadlines FAQs FAQs | Financial Aid FAQs | Tuition, Fees, and Deadlines Scholarships and Assistance Connect Meet Your Admission Counselor School Contacts Request Information High School Counselor Information Parent Information Social Media and Zoom Backgrounds Frequently Asked Questions Publications Student Ambassadors Coronavirus (COVID-19) Updates Incoming and Current Students Prospective Student Publications Wallpapers International How to Apply Visit SMU Life in Dallas Living at SMU International Student Events Intercultural Engagement Athletics at SMU Spirit and Traditions Immigration Information Obtaining an I-20 Transfer Benefits of an SMU Education Transfer Scholarships Transfer Admission Application Process Transfer Dates and Deadlines Transfer Pathway Guides Transfer Equivalency Tool Meadows Auditions and Portfolios Transfer Forms and Applications International Transfer Students FAQs Congratulations on your admission to SMU! How Credits Transfer Partnership Programs Menu Search Search Submit Popular Searches Apply Academics Campus Life Majors and Minors Visit Financial Aid Did you know? SMU's main campus is located in the nation's fourth largest metropolitan area, Dallas-Fort Worth, with 7.4 million people and more than 20 Fortune 500 headquarters.Learn More Menu Search