Skip navigation Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Brown Grad School About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Graduate School Admitted Students Guide: Bookstore Graduate School Skip to Navigation Admitted Students Guide: Bookstore admitted students home Brown University Bookstore 224 Thayer St. (401) 863-3168 (800) 695-2050 (outside Rhode Island) The Brown Bookstore, on the corner of Thayer and Angell streets, carries everything needed to support the Brown experience, including new, used, digital, and rental textbooks. They also carry a full line of technology products, including academically discounted computers, tablets, software, peripherals, related course and back to school supplies as well as an in-store authorized Apple and Lenovo Repair and Consultation Center. A computer trade in program is also available to reduce costs. The Bookstore offers basic furnishings for on or off-campus living, a broad selection of collegiate and casual wear, general merchandise, and a full line of trade books. Services include year round used book buyback and special book order services. Students may order course books online through the Brown Bookstore. Go to the Textbook webpage. The Textbook and Digital Book Return Policy is also detailed on the Textbook Buyback webpage. Home About the Graduate School Healthy Brown FAQs for Graduate Students Academics & Research Living & Resources Financing & Support Admitted Students & Orientation Application Information For Graduate Students For Faculty and Staff Brown University Brown University Graduate School Box 1867 Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-2600 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Resources Graduate School Handbook Academic Code CareerLAB Brown University Writing Center Sarah Doyle Center for Women and Gender Sheridan Center for Teaching & Learning Top Destinations Admission Inquiry Form Commencement Five-Year Ph.D. Support Open Graduate Education External Funding Application Process International Applicants