Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu Academic Advising Center Main Navigation About Us Show Extended What We Do General Education General Grad Requirements Undeclared Academic Success Liberal Education Major and Minor Exploration Staff Faculty Development Certificate Faculty and Staff Training Videos Navigate Student App AAC Office Location Gordon Hall-123(formerly University Hall), 800 N State College Blvd, Fullerton, California 92831 Academic advising center hours Days Office Hours: Advising Hours: Monday 8 am — 12 pm; 1 pm — 3:30 pm 9:00 am —11:30 am; 1:00 pm — 3:30 pm Tuesday 8 am — 12 pm; 1 pm — 5 pm 9:00 am —11:30 am; 1:00 pm — 3:30 pm Wednesday 8 am — 12 pm; 1 pm — 5 pm 9:00 am —11:30 am; 1:00 pm — 3:30 pm Thursday 8 am — 12 pm; 1 pm — 5 pm 9:00 am —11:30 am; 1:00 pm — 3:30 pm Friday 8 am — 12 pm 8:30 am —11:30 am Phone : (657) 278-3606 Fax : (657) 278-7146 Contact Academic Advising Center Current Students Show Extended Freshmen Major Exploration Remediation Tutoring Services Undeclared Transfer Students New Student Transfer Workshop AAT/AST Assist.org GE breadth certification Seniors Graduation Requirements Applying for Graduation Graduation Specialists Mandatory Advising Workshops FAQs Continuing Students Undeclared Undeclared Students Show Extended Major Exploration Titan Major Exploration Program Exploring Majors Appointments Assessing Personal and Career Interests Exploring Careers Declare a Major Prospective Students Show Extended Transfer Students New Student Transfer Workshop Incomplete TDAs Returning Students Major Advising Re-enrollment Information Incoming First Time Freshman AP Scores and Transcripts Academic Success Show Extended IMPROVING GPA Repeats Grade Forgiveness Balanced Schedule Time Management Academic support resources University Learning Center English Department Writing Center CBE Tutoring Center OCSAMS CASECS Student Technology Services Academic Notice and Disqualification Academic Notice Academic Disqualification Fullerton Finish TitanNet Academic Planner Academic Notice and Disqualification Requirements Major Exploration GPA Calculator AAC Virtual Printable FERPA Release Form Titan Major Exploration Program Exploring Majors Major Exploration Advising Exploring Careers Major Exploration Events Declare a Major Assessing Personal and Career Interests Assessing Personal and Career Interests Taking some time to understand your personal goals and defining your core values, personality, preferences, interests, strengths, and skills will help you narrow down what it is that you really want to do and how you would like to develop your future career path. While you are in the process of searching for a major and career, take the time to explore your interests, personal and career goals, hobbies, leadership and communication style or preference, and, most of all, what makes you happy. Find your passion and go for it! The following resources are career and personality assessments to help you better understand your strengths, skills, and aspirations: CSUF Career Center: Career Finder The Career Finder can help you find out what your interests are and how they relate to the world of work. You can find out what you like to do. Career Finder helps you decide what kinds of careers you might want to explore. To access the assessment: o Fullerton.edu/career/students Choose “View Job & Internship Postings on Titan Connection” Sign in to your portal Choose “Resources”, then “Career Finder” Take Interest Assessment California Career Zone Interest Profiler A self-assessment career exploration tool that can help clients discover the type of work activities and occupations that they would like and find exciting. Holland Code Quiz Each question is an opportunity for you to describe the kinds of things you as a person can do, might like to do or the action that most fits you. When you have selected all of the choices that describe you, click "submit" to get your Holland Code and determine what career path(s) work best for you. Personality Type Assessment Based on Carl Jung’s and Isabel Briggs Myers’ typological approach to personality. Kiersey Temperment Sorter A powerful 70 question personality instrument that helps individuals discover their personality type. This site is maintained by Academic Advising Center. Last Published 4/8/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact zz-pasharma@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.10 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.