COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry Section Menu Chemistry Home Undergrad Programs Graduate Programs Faculty & Staff Student Forms Scholarships, Assistantships and Fellowships Instrumentation Facilities News: Colloquium Schedule and Lectures Contact Us Chemistry and Biochemistry The Wichita State Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry strives to provide an inclusive, quality educational experience for students across all disciplines at WSU. This mission includes applied learning experiences relevant to regional and national needs. The department awards bachelor’s degrees in pre-medicine, biochemistry and chemistry along with master’s and doctoral degrees. Wichita State University students who major in chemistry can design a program to match their interests and prepare them for the range of opportunities available in the global workplace. The graduate programs in chemistry prepare students for careers ranging from teaching at postsecondary institutions to conducting research in universities, industrial settings and government laboratories. The Department’s research and teaching efforts work in unison to provide students at all levels from freshmen to Ph.D. with access to applied learning experiences in state-of-the-art chemical and biochemical research. Faculty pride themselves in innovative research and quality education at all levels to support students as they pursue their degrees. Their research is focused on areas of national importance such as health and advanced materials. Students who graduate from the department gain experience with cutting-edge research methods and state-of-the-art instrumentation. Please visit our links to undergraduate and graduate programs below. Undergraduate Programs Bachelor of Science in chemistry Bachelor of science in chemistry - pre-medicine Bachelor of science in biochemistry Bachelor of Science with a field major in biochemistry Bachelor of Science with a field major in chemistry/business Bachelor of Arts in chemistry Graduate Programs Master of Science Doctoral program Contact Us Wichita State University Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry 1845 Fairmount St., Box 51 206 McKinley Hall Wichita, KS 67260-0051 316.978.3120 Fax: 316.978.3431 chemistry@wichita.edu Like us on Facebook Follow us on Twitter 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©