Defeating Malaria From the Genes to the Globe Twitter Facebook Menu Skip to content About Events Media Press Education and Leadership Development Science and its Translation Strategic Decision Making Organizational and Operational Performance Communications and Advocacy Rethinking Malaria/COVID19 Education and Leadership Development Preparing and inspiring the next generation of scholars and leaders is an essential component to achieving a malaria free world. To address this challenge, Harvard University has established major educational and training activities focused on malaria. Science and its Translation Current tools to combat malaria have yielded tremendous progress, but more remains to be done to meet the aspiration of eradication. It is critical to develop new tools that can be deployed rapidly to affected areas for prevention, diagnosis, and treatment. Strategic Decision Making In order to make sound public health decisions, clinical evidence is essential. We must synthesize an array of different types of information from diverse sources, to produce the best estimates of the health consequences and economic costs of different interventions and programs. Organizations and Operational Performance Access to health technologies continues to be a key obstacle for endemic countries in the fight against malaria. Inefficient interfaces between the public and private sector keep health systems from functioning effectively. Communications and Advocacy Communication and marketing strategies have played crucial roles in achieving major progress against malaria, with the tangible symbol of the insecticide-treated bed net providing a powerful marketing tools, such as – “$10 buys a net and saves a life.” Rethinking Malaria/COVID–19 Harvard University’s Defeating Malaria: From the Genes to the Globe Initiative leads a global engagement on “Rethinking Malaria in the Context of COVID–19.” OpenClose OpenClose OpenClose OpenClose OpenClose OpenClose Join Us! Malaria stands at an inflection point. As we begin working on defeating malaria, we need you — and others like you — to contribute meaningfully to the fight against this terrible disease and support the path to elimination and eradication. Get involved with us through research, education, on-campus events, and virtual discussions. Together we will translate scientific knowledge into action. Join The Fight! Harvard has both a responsibility and an opportunity to make great advances in the field of malaria Harvard is a global university, dedicated to creating new knowledge and educating leaders. Across the University, Harvard faculty, students, and collaborators are working to advance biomedical research and innovation, and improve our understanding of the global impact of malaria through Harvard’s Defeating Malaria From the Genes to the Globe Initiative. Harvard Launches a Free New Online Course: MalariaX MalariaX explores cutting-edge science and technology and examines policies needed to control and eliminate malaria. Available with transcripts in English and French, faculty instructors guide learners to analyze real-world data, demonstrating effective applications with a focus on the development and implementation of evidence-based intervention strategies for national and local malaria eradication efforts. Enroll today to access the newly ‘refreshed’ (November 2021) edition of the course! News & Events Pre-Read: Malaria in China Historical beginnings Malaria has a long history in China. The word malaria was found on the oracle bone and bronze inscriptions of the Shang Yin era from 1562 to 1066 BC, which indicated malaria had prevailed for more than 3,000 years in China. The scourge of malaria—periodic fevers and spleen enlargement, both characteristic of malaria—were […] WHO Solicits Input The World Health Organization (WHO) launches an open consultation process to gain feedback on a prioritization framework for research and development of malaria health products. The Future of Medicine Alongside fellow world-renowned life scientists from across the university, Professor Dyann F. Wirth, faculty chair of Harvard’s Defeating Malaria: From the Genes to the Globe Initiative, highlights the problem of global malaria at the celebration of Harvard University’s 29th president, Lawrence Bacow. MORE NEWS Share this:FacebookTwitterLinkedInReddit Education and Leadership Development Science and its Translation Strategic Decision Making Organizational and Operational Performance Communications and Advocacy Rethinking Malaria/COVID19 Defeating Malaria From the Genes to the Globe About History Governance Partners Donate Events Media Press More Info Contact Site Credits Privacy Policy Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College