Skip to main content UCF Online Menu Online Programs Online BachelorsOnline Graduate DegreesOnline MastersOnline Graduate CertificatesOnline DoctoratesOnline Minors Areas of Interest Criminal JusticeEducationEngineeringHealthcareHospitalityLeadership and ManagementNursingPublic Service and Community Support Admissions Transfer AdmissionsGraduate AdmissionsInternational AdmissionsMilitary Admissions Tuition Tuition and CostsFinancial AidScholarshipsFee Waiver Student Support Online Student ResourcesTuition Support ScholarshipsUCF Online Connect CenterLearning OnlineDownloads Online Student Resources Select a Resource Select a Resource Starting your first semester? 9 Tips to Get You on the Right Track Congratulations, Spring 2022 UCF Online Graduates! Downloads How To Prepare For College Welcome, UCF Online Knights! Tips for Transfer Students Benefits of Online Learning UCFOnline Course Modalities Time Management for Online Students Tips for Online Learning Success 11 Things You Should Know About Financial Aid Being Social Online What to Expect from UCF Online? How to Fill Out Your FAFSA For UCF Online UCF IT Support [email protected] Support Semester Checklist New Student Checklist Knights Email Accessing myUCF Victim Services Veteran Services Writing Center UCF Computer Store UCF Library UCF Bookstore Student Accessibility Services Tutoring Student Financial Assistance Online Therapy Assistance Online Student Guidelines Career Services Office of Student Involvement Graduation Checklist Go Connect to a Coach Login to MyUCF Login to Knight Email Login to [email protected] Connect to a Coach Login to MyUCF Login to Knight Email Login to [email protected] Academic Calendar Up Next Withdrawal Deadline June 10 Looking Ahead June 17 Last Day to Reinstate Drop for Nonpayment Classes Deadline June 17 Last Day to Reinstate Drop for Nonpayment Classes Deadline June 17 Last Day to Reinstate Drop for Nonpayment Classes Deadline June 24 Registration for UCF Employees, UCF Employees' Spouses and Dependents June 24 Registration for State Employees, UCFAA Employees, Non-Degree, Transients, and Audits June 24 Registration for Senior Citizen Audits Top Online Student Support Services & Resources Online Student Guidelines Knights Email Accessing MyUCF Writing Center UCF Library Student Accessibility Services See All Resources Why UCF Online Students Need the UCF Mobile App Be more connected than before with the UCF Mobile App. Through the UCF Online persona, access to UCF is at your fingertips wherever you go. Download Today Show Your School Spirit A Show your UCF school spirit with mobile and desktop wallpapers, Facebook cover photos and profile picture frames, and Zoom backgrounds. Download these UCF-themed graphics and share the university’s vision of limitless possibilities. See All Downloads Need to talk with someone? A leader in online education, UCF understands that online learning requires a different approach to helping you stay engaged and succeed. The UCF Online Connect Center provides a dedicated staff of coaches who personally support you — from deciding if online is a good fit for you through graduation. Our coaches are equipped to help you with work/school/life balance, navigate the university’s many systems, and connect you with the resources you need. Hours of Operation: Mon – Fri: 8 a.m. – 7 p.m. (ET) Sat: 10 a.m. – 2 p.m. (ET) Closed Sundays & Holidays Connect with a Coach Connect On Social UCF Online Facebook Group Get to know other online students, collaborate with one another and build a sense of community. UCF Online Twitter Get up-to-date announcements and news from UCF Online. Connect now for quick answers to your UCF Online questions. Connect with Other UCF Online Students and Alumni Connect with Alumni in your area for special events, sports viewings and social support. Connect Now Complaint Submission The University of Central Florida supports the right of students to file grievances, lodge complaints, and make appeals in a safe environment free of fear, retaliation, or other adverse consequence. The University has a number of offices and committees that are responsible for implementing the institution’s established procedures for addressing written academic and non-academic student complaints. Submit Complaint Get Connected. Contact the UCF Online Connect Center to learn more about the available online programs or for help finding an online degree that works for you. Hours of Operation: Mon – Fri: 8 a.m. – 7 p.m. (ET) Sat: 10 a.m. – 2 p.m. (ET) Closed Sundays & Holidays Call Now Why earn a degree from UCF Online? Access. Innovation. Impact. UCF Online is a community of thinkers, helpers and makers who use bold ideas to challenge the ordinary and devise solutions to solve the world’s most pressing problems. A great university can unleash the potential to change the world. Listed as one of the most innovative universities in the nation by the U.S. News & World Report’s Best Colleges 2021 Guide, UCF specializes in providing high-quality online degree programs for those talented students and working professionals who are unable to physically attend our Orlando main campus or one of our 14 Central Florida locations. Online Degree Programs Online Bachelor’s Online Master’s Online Graduate Certificates Online Doctorates Online Minors Top Online Healthcare Programs Top Online Engineering Programs Top Online Hospitality Programs Top Online Public Service Degrees Top Online Leadership & Management Degrees Top Online Education Degrees Admissions Info Transfer Admissions Graduate Admissions International Admissions Military Admissions Tuition Tuition and Costs Financial Aid Fee Waiver Student Support Online Student Resources UCF Online Connect Center All Student Resources Learning Online Downloads Complaint Submission About UCF Videos Accreditation About UCF News Top Online Degree Rankings Privacy Notice Contact Us Faculty Support 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 Call today • 855-903-8576 Hours of Operation: Mon - Fri: 8 a.m. - 7 p.m. (ET) Sat: 10 a.m. - 2 p.m. (ET) Closed Sundays & Holidays Like us on Facebook Follow us on Twitter Find us on Instagram Follow us on YouTube State Restrictions Complaint Resolution © 2022 University of Central Florida