Javascript must be enabled for the correct page display Skip to Content × Close Menu Close Academics Academics Academic Programs Academic Programs Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Continuing Education Online Programs Dual Degree Programs Certificate Programs Special Programs Summer Sessions International Programs Schools and Colleges Schools and Colleges Arts and Sciences Business Communication and the Arts Diplomacy and International Relations Education and Human Services Health and Medical Sciences Law Medicine Nursing Theology Additional Resources Additional Resources Experiential Learning Advising Faculty Departments Centers and Institutes Core Curriculum University Libraries Academic Calendar Grants and Research Office of the Provost Admissions Admissions Visiting Seton Hall Tour Schedule Monday - Friday: 10 a.m. and 2 p.m. Saturday: 10 a.m., Noon and 2 p.m. Undergraduate Graduate International Students Catholic Mission Catholic Mission Catholic Mission Catholic Mission Mission and Ministry Priest Community Catholic Studies Theology Additional Resources Additional Resources Mass Schedule Centers and Institutes Archdiocese Athletics Athletics SHUPirates.com Athletics Resources Athletics Resources Schedules Tickets Pirate Blue Facilities eSports and Gaming Alumni Alumni Alumni and Friends Alumni and Friends Alumni Home Alumni Directory Share Your News Benefits and Services E-mail Accounts Request a Transcript True Blue Support Seton Hall Support Seton Hall Why Seton Hall? Ways to Give Give Now About About About Seton Hall Hallmarks Rankings Mission Statement Campus Life Diversity and Inclusion History Visit Seton Hall Office of the President Events PirateNet About About Seton Hall Hallmarks Rankings Mission Statement Campus Life Diversity and Inclusion History Visit Seton Hall Office of the President Events PirateNet SUPPORT SHU University Site Search Academics Academic Programs Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Continuing Education Online Programs Dual Degree Programs Certificate Programs Special Programs Summer Sessions International Programs Schools and Colleges Arts and Sciences Business Communication and the Arts Diplomacy and International Relations Education and Human Services Health and Medical Sciences Law Nursing Theology Additional Resources Experiential Learning Advising Faculty Departments Centers and Institutes Core Curriculum University Libraries Academic Calendar Grants and Research Office of the Provost Admissions Visit Campus Tour Schedule Monday - Friday: 10 a.m. and 2 p.m. Saturday: 10 a.m., Noon and 2 p.m. Visiting Seton Hall Admissions Undergraduate Graduate International Students Catholic Mission Catholic Mission Mission and Ministry Priest Community Catholic Studies Theology Additional Resources Mass Schedule Centers and Institutes Archdiocese Athletics Seton Hall Pirates SHUPirates.com Athletics Resources Schedules Tickets Pirate Blue Facilities eSports and Gaming Alumni Alumni and Friends Alumni Home Alumni Directory Share Your News Benefits and Services E-mail Accounts Request a Transcript True Blue Support Seton Hall Why Seton Hall? Ways to Give Give Now Programs Undergraduate Programs Graduate Degree Programs Online Programs Dual Degree Programs Special Programs Certificate Programs Registration Course Catalogues Archived Catalogues Undergraduate Registration Schedule Graduate Registration Schedule Academics Schools and Colleges Academic Calendar Course Exam Schedules What About Books Menu Programs Undergraduate Programs Graduate Degree Programs Online Programs Dual Degree Programs Special Programs Certificate Programs Registration Course Catalogues Archived Catalogues Undergraduate Registration Schedule Graduate Registration Schedule Academics Schools and Colleges Academic Calendar Course Exam Schedules What About Books Seton Hall University Academics Undergraduate Programs College of Arts and Sciences Africana Studies Anthropology Asian Studies Biochemistry Biology (B.A.) Biology (B.S.) Catholic Studies Chemistry Classical Studies Computer Engineering Computer Science Creative Writing Criminal Justice Economics (B.A.) Engineering or Artificial Intelligence English Environmental Studies Financial Mathematics French German History Honors Program* Italian Studies Italian Latin American and Latino/Latina Studies Liberal Studies Mathematics Modern Languages Philosophy Physics (B.A.) Physics (B.S.) Political Science Pre-Law Psychology (B.A.) Psychology (B.S.) Religion Russian Social and Behavioral Sciences Social Work Sociology Spanish Women and Gender Studies *Note: Separate application required College of Communication and the Arts Art and Design Art History Broadcast and Visual Media Communication Film Production/Film Editing Digital Journalism Drama Graphic Design and Advertising Interactive Media/Game Design/Animation Journalism Performing Arts Public Relations Media Studies/Film Studies Music Performance Reputation Management Sound Production and Engineering (Visual and Sound Media) Speech Communication Television Production/Sports Broadcasting Theatre Stillman School of Business Accounting Business Administration (B.A.) Economics (B.S.) Entrepreneurship Finance Finance and Technology Legal Studies Management Information Systems Management Marketing Mathematical Finance Quantitative Economics and Econometrics Sport Management Wealth Management Immaculate Conception Seminary School of Theology Catholic Theology School of Diplomacy and International Relations Bachelor of Science (B.S.) Diplomacy and International Relations 5 Year B.S./M.A., Diplomacy and International Relations B.S.+ J.D. Diplomacy and Juris Doctorate College of Nursing Traditional B.S.N. Accelerated Second Degree B.S.N. College of Education and Human Services Integrated Early Childhood, Elementary and Special Education Secondary Education Secondary and Special Education Elementary and Special Education with an M.S. in Speech Language Pathology School of Health and Medical Sciences Athletic Training (5-year B.S./M.S. or B.A./M.S. dual-degree) B.S., Interprofessional Health Sciences Occupational Therapy (6-year B.A./M.S. dual-degree) Physical Therapy (3+3 B.S./D.P.T. dual-degree) Physician Assistant (3+3 B.S./M.S. dual-degree) Speech-Language Pathology (4+2 with psychology or education) School of Law Law: 3+3, B.S. in International Relations, B.S. in Business, B.A. in Political Science, B.A. in Religion or B.A. in Social Work / J.D. While the information presented in the catalogue and/or or on the University website was prepared on the basis of updated and current information available at the time, no part of the catalogue or website constitutes a contract, express or implied, between anyone and the University, and the University reserves the right to change any provision or requirement contained herein. The University further reserves the right, at its sole discretion, to change, alter, cancel, suspend, discontinue or eliminate any academic programs, majors, departments, colleges, schools, and/or institutes; requirements; policies and procedures; as well as any other aspects of University operations and offerings, at any time and without prior notice, including, but not limited to, admission, degree and/or graduation requirements; course offerings; method or modality of course delivery; scheduling and/or location; credit; evaluative standards and/or content of courses; tuition; fees; and calendars. Seton Hall University 400 South Orange Ave South Orange, NJ 07079 (973) 761-9000 Privacy Statements Title IX Nondiscrimination Statement and Information Contact Us Student Services Parents and Families Career Center Technology Web Accessibility Visiting Campus Public Safety Disability Support Services Campus Security Report Employment Follow #SetonHall www.shu.edu/social Back to top