Skip to main content Search form Search Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers Contact Give About Search Menu Public Health Now News Events Publications Topics Student Voices Celebrating the Centennial Our Work to Address COVID-19 Columbia Public Health Magazine Academics Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy & Procedures Office of Education Research Featured Research Global Health Centers Programs Grants & Awards Corporate Partnerships People Our Faculty Current Students Friends and Supporters Partners Alumni Become a Student Meet Our Faculty Life & Community Degree Finder How to Apply Career Services More Information Master of Public Health Degree Programs Certificate Program Core Curriculum Search You are here Home Public Health Now Topics Healthcare Policy Healthcare Policy Tracking large-scale changes to domestic and international health policy, from the Affordable Care Act to the Millennium Development Goals, demands a breadth of knowledge and keen insight into demographics, economics, and health systems. Featured Video <a href="https://www.youtube.com/embed/pFaVQ6U8G78?rel=0&amp;wmode=opaque&amp;autohide=1">Embedded video</a> Faculty in Healthcare Policy Alfred Neugut Myron M Studner Professor of Cancer Research (in Medicine) and Professor Epidemiology at the Columbia University Medical Center Bruce Armstrong Special Lecturer Population and Family Health Burton Edelstein Professor Emeritus Dental Medicine (Pediatric Dentistry) and Health Policy and Management at the Columbia University Medical Center Bhaven Sampat Professor Health Policy and Management Diana Hernández Associate Professor Sociomedical Sciences David Rosner Ronald H. Lauterstein Professor Sociomedical Sciences Ezra Susser Professor Epidemiology and Psychiatry Guohua Li Professor Epidemiology James Colgrove Professor Sociomedical Sciences Jeanne Stellman Professor Emerita Health Policy and Management Jack Wheeler Senior Lecturer Health Policy and Management John Rowe Julius B. Richmond Professor of Health Policy and Aging Health Policy and Management Katharina Janus Adjunct Associate Professor Health Policy and Management Magda Schaler-Haynes Adjunct Professor Health Policy and Management Marita Murrman Professor in Sociomedical Sciences at CUIMC Sociomedical Sciences Miriam Laugesen Associate Professor Health Policy and Management Michael Sparer Professor Health Policy and Management Peter Messeri Professor Emeritus/Special Lecturer Sociomedical Sciences at the Columbia University Medical Center Peter Muennig Professor Health Policy and Management Paul Wilson Assistant Professor of Clinical Population and Family Health Ronald Bayer Professor Sociomedical Sciences Ruth Finkelstein Robert Klitzman Professor Psychiatry (in Sociomedical Sciences) at the Columbia University Medical Center Renata Schiavo Senior Lecturer Sociomedical Sciences Rachel Moresky Associate Professor Heilbrunn Population and Family Health Susan Michaels-Strasser Assistant Professor Epidemiology (in ICAP) at the Columbia University Medical Center Wendy Chavkin Special Lecturer/ Professor Emerita Population and Family Health and Clinical Obstetrics and Gynecology William Gold Clinical Professor Health Policy and Management Esteban Calvo Adjunct Assistant Professor Epidemiology (in CAC) Merlin Chowkwanyun Donald H. Gemson Assistant Professor Sociomedical Sciences Sumit Mohan Professor Medicine and Epidemiology Lawrence Bartlett Adjunct Professor Health Policy and Management Ari Markenson Adjunct Assistant Professor Health Policy and Management Adam Sacarny Assistant Professor Health Policy and Management Joanne Csete Associate Professor Population and Family Health at the Columbia University Irving Medical Center Harold Pincus Professor Psychiatry (in Health Policy and Management) Alastair Ager Adjunct Professor Population and Family Health at the Columbia University Medical Center John McHugh Assistant Professor Health Policy & Management Yuna Lee Assistant Professor Health Policy and Management Sarah Tom Assistant Professor Epidemiology (in Neurology and the Gertrude H Sergievsky Center) Asha Saxena Adjunct Professor Health Policy and Management Julius Chen Assistant Professor Health Policy and Management Stephen Coussens Assistant Professor Health Policy and Management Jamie Daw Assistant Professor Health Policy and Management Seth Prins Assistant Professor Epidemiology and Sociomedical Sciences Vandana Tripathi Adjunct Associate Professor Population and Family Health Amy Sommer Ted Alcorn Associate Epidemiology Sebastian Calonico Assistant Professor Health Policy and Management and Epidemiology Elena Elkin Professor Health Policy and Management at the Columbia University Irving Medical Center Ambar La Forgia Assistant Professor Health Policy and Management Steven Katz Adjunct Assistant Professor Health Policy and Management Rebecca Sale Associate Health Policy and Management News & Features Major Uptick Reported in Cannabis Vaping for All Adolescents Cannabis vaping is increasing as the most popular method of cannabis delivery among all adolescents in the U.S., as is the frequency of cannabis vaping, according to research at Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health. The study found that the frequency of vaping cannabis among a Public Health Leaders Urge SCOTUS to Uphold Roe v. Wade A group of public health leaders, including Dean Linda P. Fried and Terry McGovern, chair of the Heilbrunn Department of Population and Family Health, are signatories to a letter calling on the U.S. Supreme Court to uphold Roe v. Wade. Not doing so, they write, “will have profound publi Asia and Africa Have Similar Aging Burden as the West In a study at Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health and the Robert N. Butler Columbia Aging Center researchers have devised a new metric, the Health-Adjusted Dependency Ratio (HADR) as an alternative to the most commonly used aging metric, the Old-Age Dependency Ratio (OAD See All Just Published Philbin, M.M., Flake, M., Hatzenbuehler, M.L., & Hirsch, J.S. (2017). State-level Immigration and Immigrant-Focused Policies as Drivers of Latino Health Disparities in the United States. Social Science & Medicine. View abstract. Schiavo, R. (2016). Training the Next Generation of Global Health Communication Professionals: Opportunities and Challenges. Journal of Communication in Healthcare: Strategies, Media, and Engagement in Global Health. View abstract. Lamster, I.B. (2017). Implications of the 2016 FDI Policy Statements. International Dental Journal. View abstract. Fox, D. M., Galea, S., & Grogan, C. (2017). Could the President and Congress Precipitate a Public Health Crisis? American Journal of Public Health. View abstract. Related Centers & Programs The Center for the History and Ethics of Public Health We rely on historical methods and ethical analysis to investigate critical public health issues. Lerner Center for Public Health Promotion Conducts research, education, and service to improve health promotion and communication practices. Program on Forced Migration and Health Training humanitarian aid workers to ensure more effective, informed, and consistent response. ICAP at Columbia ICAP has worked since 2004 with one central goal: to improve the health of families and communities. Robert N. Butler Columbia Aging Center The Center seeks to develop the knowledge base necessary to inform aging-related health and social policy. Center for Healthcare Management A research and consultancy organization consisting of leading international scholars and practitioners. National Center for Children in Poverty Dedicated to promoting the economic security, health, and well-being of America’s low-income families and children. GRAPH: Global Research Analytics for Population Health Seeking to eliminate the global burden of preventable disease through actionable policy Advancing Research on Community Health Systems ARCHeS aims to bridge the gap between disease and system through implementation and delivery science. Upcoming Events Wednesday 1 June episummer@columbia Friday 3 June Release Webinar for the National Academy of Medicine's Global Roadmap for Health Longevity Friday 3 June COVID-19: From Causes to Consequences Hosted by The Columbia Connection Monday 6 June Google Earth Engine Boot Camp Methods for Using Satellite and Geospatial Data for Environmental Exposure Science Tuesday 7 June New Resources and Creative Strategies for Recruiting Candidates for Health Departments Tuesday 7 June Google Earth Engine Boot Camp Methods for Using Satellite and Geospatial Data for Environmental Exposure Science Thursday 9 June PI Crash Course Skills for Future or New Lab Leaders Friday 10 June Creating a Synthetic Life Course Cohort for Research on Alzheimer's Disease Neuroepidemiology Seminar Friday 10 June PI Crash Course Skills for Future or New Lab Leaders Columnbia Mailman Connect with Us Public Health Now News Events Publications Topics Student Voices Academics Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy & Procedures Office of Education Research Featured Research Global Health Centers Programs Grants & Awards Corporate Partnerships People Our Faculty Current Students Friends and Supporters Partners Alumni Become a Student Meet Our Faculty Life & Community Degree Finder How to Apply Career Services More Information Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health | 722 West 168th St. NY, NY 10032 Site Map Privacy Columbia University Irving Medical Center Copyright © Columbia University 2019 Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers