Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Fogelman College of Business & Economics About Programs Students Departments Faculty & Staff Research News & Events Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact FCBE Executive Training Training Workshops Emerging Leaders SeriesBusiness Analytics SeriesExecutive Skills Series Our Faculty Take Action Apply to our Undergraduate Programs Apply to our Masters Programs Apply to our Doctoral Programs Contact Us Follow Us Online InstagramFacebooktwitterYoutubeLinkedIn Home Fogelman College of Business & Economics FCBE Executive Training Invest in your development today at the nationally-recognized Fogelman College of Business and Economics, University of Memphis DRIVEN BY DOING. That is our motto at the University of Memphis, and we are committed to ensuring your success through transformative developmental training, designed by expert thought leaders who will help you realize your true potential. We offer open enrollment and custom programming for business leaders at all career stages. Flexible course offerings provide educational opportunities to the local business community and beyond. Relevant, Creative, Personalized Learning Seeking professional development opportunities to maximize your potential and increase your relevance in today's business environment? FCBE offers learning experiences that address current, pressing needs of the business community to help you advance your career by learning new skills and adopting new perspectives required for effectiveness. Enhance your professional toolkit today to increase your leadership competency. Key topics include business analytics, change management, negotiation, and communication. Flexible. You lead a busy life and need developmental opportunities that enable you to balance your family, career, and health and safety. We offer online and face-to-face training programs, developed by FCBE faculty for busy professionals just like you! Request more information today and begin your journey to a new tomorrow. Affordable. Organizations across business sectors are looking for economical ways to keep their workforce skillset current and competitive. We understand this need. Our workshops are designed to meet this need, keeping the price point reasonable in today's professional development offerings. Complete the request for information below to find out more. Explore Our Executive Education Workshops Business Analytics for Managers Series: This series is designed to complement the traditional business education in management, marketing, operations, finance, and accounting with data-driven tactics that can be applied to almost every business vertical. We explore data quality and interpretation, while learning to identify patterns, relationships, and opportunities that we can use to influence business strategies and tactics. First session starting June 14, 9am - 1pm, Central! Learn more > Emerging Leaders Series: Designed for leaders at any level, this series will help participants gain practical skills in making cases for change, communication, and negotiation that can be immediately applied in the workplace. Learn more > Executive Skills Series: Designed for leaders at all levels, this series provides relevant skills needed for today's changing business landscape. Topics include workplace diversity, equity, and inclusion; crisis management; talent acquisition & development; building & maintaining high performance work teams; managing global supply chains, and corporate social responsibility (among others!). Learn more > Request Information Please complete the form below and our team will be in touch with you. Alternatively, you can contact Dr. Wendy Bedwell-Torres, FCBE's Director of Executive Education, at wlbdwell@memphis.edu or 407.716.4799. If you see this don't fill out this input box. First Name* Last Name* Email Address* Phone NumberRequest Info Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 5/25/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.