Skip to content Winter 2022 Fall 2021 Spring 2021 Winter 2021 Issue Archive Issue Archive Hide Issue Archive Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health Search for: Harvard Public Health Magazine of the Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health > Harvard Public Health Magazine > Spring 2021 > Off the Cuff: Curtis Huttenhower Harvard Public Health Magazine expand child menu Search for: Message from the Dean: Pivotal moment Frontlines Spring 2021 Off the Cuff: Curtis Huttenhower Finally back on campus Virtual reality Philanthropic Impact: Meeting the moment Philanthropic Impact: Equipping the fight against metabolic disease Q & A: Closing the childhood equity gap Alumni News Faculty News In Memoriam No time to waste Hard lessons in the midst of hope Last mile first Off the Cuff: Curtis Huttenhower Professor and Co-director, Harvard Chan Microbiome in Public Health Center Curtis Huttenhower. “The microbiome consists of all the microorganisms that live anywhere in and on the human body—bacteria, viruses, fungi, and others—that can influence human health. For simplicity, I’ll refer to all of these together as ‘bugs’—not to be confused with insects! In the context of public health, much of our work ends up being on the bacteria in the gut. Even at population scale, there’s remarkable personalization of the microbiome: There’s typically only about a 10 percent overlap in gut microbial species between any two otherwise similar individuals, in contrast to 99.9 percent genetic similarity. Even then, everyone has different strains of those microbes. Ultimately, we hope to be able to profile microbial communities starting at the population level, figure out which bugs are there, what they are doing chemically, and how we can change any one individual’s microbial ecology for the better. One of the most common ways the gut microbiome relates to health is in chronic disease, such as inflammatory bowel diseases, as well as allergies, diabetes, arthritis, and cancer. We generally use DNA sequencing of whole microbial communities—referred to as a metagenome—with computational algorithms and statistical tools to determine what the organisms are doing, how they’re evolving, how they’ve perturbed a disease, and how that relates to the human outcome. Many autoimmune or inflammatory diseases seem to promote the growth of certain bugs that ‘like’ inflammation, which in turn kick out more beneficial, anti-inflammatory microbes. Removing or avoiding these bacteria provides potential new routes for treatment, and we can use the presence of these bugs as microbial signatures to give us early detectors of risk. One of the most promising therapies to change the microbiome is through fecal transplants, and in the future we expect therapies to include long-term dietary preventatives or short-term targeted antibiotics as well. There has been research into using fecal transplants to ‘add in’ bugs that will activate the immune system in such a way to make more people responsive to these therapies, thus allowing them to target cancer tumors more effectively. Some researchers in the Microbiome Center address nutrition; for example, how microbes might affect weight gain or loss. We’re looking at how people respond in different ways to the same food or dietary supplement, since our personal microbiomes can change the chemistry of things we eat. The microbiome also helps metabolize pharmaceuticals, explaining different responses among individuals to the same drug. We also study the microbiome in infectious diseases and the degree to which lifetime exposure to different microbes can prime the immune system in different ways. That priming affects how people respond differently to exposure to infectious diseases, for example, as well as to certain vaccines. Ultimately, we hope that by understanding how the microbiome affects such a wide range of systems in the body, we will be able to target it to improve health and well-being.” —Michael Blanding Photo by Kent Dayton / Harvard Chan News from the School Congratulations graduates! Probing disease disparities Saving a daughter, starting a career Tackling disparities and stigma around obesity, mental health Information For: Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Friends & Supporters About Key Facts Renaming the School Office of the Dean Location and Facilities Administrative Offices Contact Us Faculty and Research Faculty and Researcher Directory Academic Departments, Divisions and Centers International Research Postdoctoral Research Fellows Office of Faculty Affairs Faculty Searches Office of Diversity and Inclusion Admissions & Aid Why Harvard Chan Degree Programs Non-Degree Programs Financial Aid Student Experience Career Advancement Apply Academics Academic Departments Divisions Research Centers Flagship Initiatives International Research Research Administration and Support Degree Programs Fellowships and Residencies Summer Programs Continuing Professional Education Interdisciplinary Concentrations Academic Calendar Harvard Chan Viewbook Executive/Continuing Ed Program Offerings Custom Programs Request Information News and Resources About ECPE Contact News Featured News Press Releases Student Stories In the News Newsletters HPH Magazine Why Public Health? Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health 677 Huntington Avenue Boston, MA 02115 +1 (617) 495‑1000 Twitter Facebook YouTube LinkedIn Instagram iTunes Harvard Chan Home Contact Us Harvard University Home Make a Gift Privacy Policy Report Copyright Violation Accessibility Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College Loading Comments... Write a Comment... Email (Required) Name (Required) Website