COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Pre-Law, Major MajorPre-Law All Programs Fairmount College of Liberal Arts and Sciences The Association of American Law Schools says students interested in a law degree need a broad undergraduate liberal arts education that provides "comprehension and expression in words, critical understanding of the human institutions and values with which the law deals and creative power in thinking." Since no particular major is required, select a major that stirs your curiosity and inspires you. Choose an academically rigorous major which encourages independent and analytical thinking. Learn how Pre-Law is the right fit for you. Request Info Start Your Application Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the Pre-Law Program For WSU's admission requirements, and to apply, click the link below Admission requirements Curriculum When selecting your undergraduate courses, consider the following: A wide knowledge of history, literature, philosophy and economics is excellent preparation for law school; Communication skills are especially important for the pre-law student. The ability to organize thoughts and to express them clearly in speech and in writing is essential; Choose elective courses that require critical and analytical thinking and writing; Courses requiring research papers and essay exams are valuable; An understanding of quantitative methods and statistical analysis is important; A course in Logic (Phil 125) will be especially helpful when you take the Law School Admission Test. Specific sections of the LSAT focus on logic and analytical reasoning. View the curriculum Careers A bachelor's degree from Wichita State can open doors to advanced law degrees and careers in many legal-related fields—from court reporting to arbitration. Explore careers in this field Similar Programs Legal Education Accelerated Degree (Bachelor's to Juris Doctorate) Economics English Accounting Political Science Criminal Justice 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©