Skip to main content Operating Status Face coverings are optional in offices, conference rooms, research labs, housing, and public spaces in buildings. Face coverings are still required in all teaching spaces, teaching labs, computer labs, buses, libraries, clinical facilities, and student-staff and student-faculty meetings spaces. More COVID-19 information Close Search Enter a Search Term Search Rutgers Search Search this site Search all Rutgers Search People Rutgers Logo New Brunswick Newark Camden RBHS/Health Info For: Prospective Students and Parents Current Students Faculty and Staff Alumni and Donors Partners Job Seekers News Rutgers Today Rutgers Magazine Events Giving Gcse block (invisible) Open Search Rutgers Logo About Rutgers About the University President Jonathan Holloway Serving New Jersey and the World An Economic Engine A Partner in Research and Innovation United Against COVID-19 Rutgers Excellence Rutgers, By the Numbers Rutgers Rankings Budget Facts Our Structure Governance and Leadership Office of the President Administrative Council Our Revolutionary Roots Rutgers Traditional Songs The Rutgers Experience Discover Rutgers Rutgers–New Brunswick Rutgers–Newark Rutgers–Camden Rutgers Biomedical and Health Sciences (RBHS) Show Your Rutgers Pride Rutgers Athletics Uniquely New Jersey Academics Academics Overview Undergraduate Academics Explore Undergraduate Programs Graduate and Professional Studies Explore Graduate & Professional Programs Top Graduate Programs Schools and Colleges Continuing Education Online Degree Programs Catalogs Libraries Faculty Excellence Global Learning Rutgers at Your Community College Student Support Research Research at Rutgers A Partner in Research and Innovation Health & Patient Care Advancing Treatment and Wellness Admissions & Tuition About Applying Path to Rutgers Tuition and Financial Aid Visits and Tours Getting Here Open Search Open Search Open Menu Close About Rutgers About the University President Jonathan Holloway Serving New Jersey and the World An Economic Engine A Partner in Research and Innovation United Against COVID-19 Rutgers Excellence Rutgers, By the Numbers Rutgers Rankings Budget Facts Our Structure Governance and Leadership Office of the President Administrative Council Our Revolutionary Roots Rutgers Traditional Songs The Rutgers Experience Discover Rutgers Rutgers–New Brunswick Rutgers–Newark Rutgers–Camden Rutgers Biomedical and Health Sciences (RBHS) Show Your Rutgers Pride Rutgers Athletics Uniquely New Jersey Academics Academics Overview Undergraduate Academics Explore Undergraduate Programs Graduate and Professional Studies Explore Graduate & Professional Programs Top Graduate Programs Schools and Colleges Continuing Education Online Degree Programs Catalogs Libraries Faculty Excellence Global Learning Rutgers at Your Community College Student Support Research Research at Rutgers A Partner in Research and Innovation Health & Patient Care Admissions & Tuition About Applying Path to Rutgers Tuition and Financial Aid Visits and Tours Getting Here Utility Mobile Info For: Prospective Students and Parents Current Students Faculty and Staff Alumni and Donors Partners Job Seekers News Rutgers Today Rutgers Magazine Events Giving New Brunswick Newark Camden RBHS/Health Admissions & Tuition Path to Rutgers Path to Rutgers It’s never too early to start thinking about attending Rutgers. Students in high school, and even middle school, can start exploring the wide variety of learning opportunities available at Rutgers at any time. Getting Ready for Rutgers Start thinking about preparing for Rutgers well before you begin filling out the admission application. Students can gain exposure to Rutgers and college-level academic work in many ways, including attending college-focused summer camps and future scholars programs, taking AP exams and college credit courses, or attending events hosted by the Rutgers community, to name a few. High School Educational Requirements In general, each school at Rutgers requires the completion of at least 16 high school academic courses. This coursework may include a required combination of English, math, science, and/or foreign language. High school education requirements can vary based on your major, school, and/or Rutgers location you plan to attend. Explore admissions requirements at our locations: Rutgers University–New Brunswick Requirements Rutgers University–Newark Requirements Rutgers University–Camden Requirements Finding Your Purpose at Rutgers Many high school students don’t know what they want to major in at college. In fact, many undergraduate students haven’t selected a major after their first year. It’s OK not to know what to major in. The first step is to apply and get admitted. Students who are still deciding what to major in should apply to the School of Arts and Sciences, School of Arts and Sciences–Newark, or Camden College of Arts and Sciences. There are many opportunities to participate in exploratory programs and meet with advisers to help you home in on your academic interests and goals. Explore Undergraduate Areas of Interest Admissions Criteria The admissions team looks holistically at each applicant, which means we’re looking at more than just your numbers—because you are more than just a number. Yes, your test scores and GPA are a factor, but so are your extracurricular activities, your personal essays, your talents, and the responsibilities and leadership you take on in your life. Your time spent in academic clubs, playing sports, learning an instrument or craft, and other extracurricular involvement and enriching personal experiences are all worth including somewhere in your application. There are many schools and colleges across the three Rutgers University locations. Each has its own admissions requirements for high school coursework, ACT/SAT scores, GPA, etc. When you begin the admissions process you’ll be able to identify which schools to apply to by selecting your academic interests or preferred location. See Admissions Academic Profile See Schools and Colleges Transferring to Rutgers Whether you’re transferring in from another four-year university, or you’ve completed classes at a community college and now you’re ready to pursue the rest of your education here, there are several avenues to take you to where you want to be at Rutgers. Due Dates for Transfer Applications: October 1 - Spring Semester February 1 - Fall Semester Learn about Transferring to Rutgers Learn about Attending Rutgers via Community College Youth and Pre-College Programs Pre-college programs enhance college awareness, provide extracurricular enrichment, and can give elementary, middle, and high school students a sense of college-level learning. Learn about the pre-college programs and camps available at Rutgers. K–12 Pre-College Programs Summer Scholars Program SAT and ACT Prep Rutgers Future Scholars Rutgers Future Scholars program offers first-generation, low-income, academically promising middle school students from Newark, New Brunswick, Camden, and Rahway, New Jersey, preparation for a college education. Starting in 8th grade, Rutgers Future Scholars take part in pre-college programming, events, support, and mentoring that lasts through high school and into university. Students who successfully complete the five-year program requirements will receive full tuition funding (through scholarships and federal grants) to Rutgers University. Learn More about Future Scholars Rutgers at Your Community College Through the Rutgers Statewide program, students have access to several undergraduate degree completion programs and one graduate degree program. All classes are led by Rutgers faculty. Many programs include online components, making it even easier for you to fulfill your degree requirements. Learn More about Rutgers Statewide Rutgers for Veterans and Military-Affiliated Students Veterans and military-affiliated students choose Rutgers for the same reasons many others do: the university's vast array of educational offerings, huge alumni network, and proximity to major job markets are all big benefits. But there are specific draws to Rutgers for military-affiliated students, as well. Learn why vets choose Rutgers Join the Rutgers Community Start your application or learn more about attending Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey. Undergraduate Academics Admissions and Tuition The Rutgers Experience Site Footer Rutgers University New Brunswick Newark Camden RBHS/Health Connect Campus Safety Contact Us Continuing Education Giving to Rutgers Graduate Admissions Undergraduate Admissions University Maps Universitywide Offices Work at Rutgers Find a Health Care Provider Rutgers Magazine University Events Academic Academic Calendars Course Catalogs University Libraries myRutgers Portal Notices April 27, 2022: Open Hearing on the University’s Tuition, Fees, and Housing and Dining Charges for 2022–2023 Commencement Information University Operating Status Accessibility Resources Budget Facts Consumer Information Disclosures Follow Us Subscribe to Rutgers News Rutgers is an equal access/equal opportunity institution. Individuals with disabilities are encouraged to direct suggestions, comments, or complaints concerning any accessibility issues with Rutgers websites to accessibility@rutgers.edu or complete the Report Accessibility Barrier / Provide Feedback form. Copyright ©2022, Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey. All rights reserved. Contact webmaster