Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Explore Brown University Search Global Navigation Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Global Brown Center for International Students Home About Incoming Students Undergraduate Students Graduate Students What to Bring Banking and Finances Cultural Adjustment Cell Phones Current Students Additional Resources Academic and Language Campus Life & Student Services Health Care & Insurance Immigration and Visas Working as a Student Providence and Rhode Island Life After Brown Site Navigation Home About Global Brown Lounge Meet Our Team Andrew Heald Stay in Touch! Incoming Students Undergraduate Students About the International Mentoring Program (IMP) International Undergraduate Orientation Fall 2022 Graduate Students What to Bring Banking and Finances Cultural Adjustment Cell Phones Current Students GBC Programs & Events Semester Breaks and Summer Additional Resources Academic and Language Campus Life & Student Services Health Care & Insurance Immigration and Visas Working as a Student Providence and Rhode Island Life After Brown Working as a Student All international students on a nonimmigrant visa are encouraged to consult with the Office of International Student and Scholar Services (OISSS) prior to seeking employment in the United States. Since lawful F-1 visa status carries the automatic benefit of on-campus work privilege, working on campus may be the easiest place for international students to find employment. Students in J-1 immigration status are required to seek prior written permission from their program sponsor before beginning on-campus work. All international students should never work off-campus without prior U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) or OISSS permission. Federal immigration regulations stipulate that international students can work no more than 20 hours per week during the academic year. The Brown University work week is defined as Sunday to Saturday. The Office of International Student and Scholar Services (OISSS) can assist international students in obtaining and completing the required documentation they need in order to work on campus. International students with questions about employment should visit OISSS during business hours or call (401) 863-2427 to schedule an appointment with an advisor. OISSS is located on the 3rd floor of Page-Robinson Hall. International students who have been offered employment are eligible to apply for a United States social security number. This number is issued for employment purposes only. Although it is not necessary to already have a social security number to begin on-campus employment, it is required to obtain one for payroll purposes and proper tax withholding. Additional resources Student Employment Office Student Employment Guide F-1 Students: Optional Practical Training (OPT) and Curricular Practical Training (CPT) J-1 Students: On-Campus Employment and Academic Training (AT) Additional Resources Academic and Language Campus Life & Student Services Health Care & Insurance Immigration and Visas Working as a Student Providence and Rhode Island Life After Brown Global Brown Center for International Students Global Brown Center for International Students Campus Life & Student Services Box 1840 Page-Robinson Hall 312 69 Brown Street Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-6397 Email [email protected] Facebook Facebook Instagram Instagram Brown University Giving to Brown Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA 401-863-1000 Contact Us Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility All Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top