Skip to main content Navigation Academics Admissions Research Locations Student Life Alumni & Giving Athletics Apply Now Environmental Engineering (BSVE) Program at a Glance Program Bachelor College(s) College of Engineering and Computer Science Department(s) Civil, Environ, & Constr Engr In State Tuition Out of State Tuition $212.28 per credit hour $748.89 per credit hour Learn more about program tuition and fees. Admission Requirements Students wanting to declare a major in an engineering discipline must be in good academic standing and must have a "C" (2.0) or better in each of the following courses or their equivalents: MAC 2311C, MAC 2312, PHY 2048C, and CHM 2045C. Students wanting to declare a major in an engineering discipline must complete a change of major in the term of completion of the final pending prerequisite course(s) listed above. Degree Requirements (128 Credit Hours) The College of Engineering & Computer Science requires all engineering students to achieve a minimum 2.25 GPA in completing the courses from section Basic Core Requirements, section Advanced Core Requirements, section Restricted Electives and section Capstone Requirements listed below. Independent study courses generally do not satisfy major requirements. A "C" (2.0) or better is required in each pre-requisite course in section Common Program Prerequisites, section Advanced Core Requirements, and section Capstone Requirements. Students in the Environmental Engineering major are expected to make consistent good progress toward their degrees to remain enrolled in, or eligible for, any major in the College of Engineering & Computer Science (CECS) or the College of Optics and Photonics (COP). Therefore, any student majoring in Environmental Engineering who repeats any UCF course and does not earn a grade of "C" (2.0) or better on the second attempt will be placed on Lack of Progress Probation and remain on Lack of Progress Probation as long as the student is enrolled in a CECS or COP major. If a student on Lack of Progress Probation does not receive a grade of "C" (2.0) or better by the third attempt in the same UCF course, the student will be excluded from all CECS and COP majors. Any student majoring in Environmental Engineering who has accumulated 7 or more unsuccessful attempts (i.e., grades below "C" (2.0) and withdrawals) over all courses taken at UCF will be placed on Lack of Progress Probation and remain on Lack of Progress Probation as long as the student is enrolled in a CECS or COP major. If a student on Lack of Progress Probation has a tenth unsuccessful attempt over all courses taken at UCF, the student will be excluded from all CECS and COP majors. A student who is excluded from CECS and COP majors may seek readmission to a major in CECS or COP after at least one full year has passed since exclusion. Readmission is not automatic and is dependent upon a high probability of success after readmission. Any student who is readmitted to the Environmental Engineering major will be subject to all probation conditions that applied at the time of exclusion. View Full Description Undergraduate Application Deadlines Freshmen Transfers International Fall May 1 Spring November 1 Summer March 1 Fall July 1 Spring November 1 Summer March 1 Fall March 1 Spring September 1 Summer January 1 Ready to get started? Apply Today Career Opportunities UCF prepares you for life beyond the classroom. Here, you’ll experience a wide range of opportunity, like learning diverse skills from world-renowned faculty to networking with top employers across Central Florida to gaining first-hand experience in internships nearby. Achieve your degree and more as a Knight. Aeronautical Engineering Professor Air Pollution Control Engineer Ceramic Engineering Professor Chemical Engineering Professor Civil Engineering Professor Electrical Engineering Director Electrical Engineering Professor Engineering Manager Environmental Remediation Engineer Fire Prevention Engineer Global Engineering Manager Hazardous Substances Engineer Industrial Engineering Professor Manufacturing Engineering Professor Marine Engineering Professor Mechanical Engineering Director Petroleum Engineering Professor Product Safety Test Engineer Wastewater Treatment Engineer Water Treatment Plant Engineer Show More Career Opportunities Degree Search College of Engineering and Computer Science programs Bachelors Environmental Engineering (BSVE) University of Central Florida Colleges Burnett Honors Arts and Humanities Business Community Innovation and Education Graduate Studies Health Professions and Sciences Medicine Nursing Optics and Photonics Sciences Undergraduate Studies Hospitality Management × Admission Requirements Students wanting to declare a major in an engineering discipline must be in good academic standing and must have a "C" (2.0) or better in each of the following courses or their equivalents: MAC 2311C, MAC 2312, PHY 2048C, and CHM 2045C. Students wanting to declare a major in an engineering discipline must complete a change of major in the term of completion of the final pending prerequisite course(s) listed above. Degree Requirements (128 Credit Hours) The College of Engineering & Computer Science requires all engineering students to achieve a minimum 2.25 GPA in completing the courses from section Basic Core Requirements, section Advanced Core Requirements, section Restricted Electives and section Capstone Requirements listed below. Independent study courses generally do not satisfy major requirements. A "C" (2.0) or better is required in each pre-requisite course in section Common Program Prerequisites, section Advanced Core Requirements, and section Capstone Requirements. Students in the Environmental Engineering major are expected to make consistent good progress toward their degrees to remain enrolled in, or eligible for, any major in the College of Engineering & Computer Science (CECS) or the College of Optics and Photonics (COP). Therefore, any student majoring in Environmental Engineering who repeats any UCF course and does not earn a grade of "C" (2.0) or better on the second attempt will be placed on Lack of Progress Probation and remain on Lack of Progress Probation as long as the student is enrolled in a CECS or COP major. If a student on Lack of Progress Probation does not receive a grade of "C" (2.0) or better by the third attempt in the same UCF course, the student will be excluded from all CECS and COP majors. Any student majoring in Environmental Engineering who has accumulated 7 or more unsuccessful attempts (i.e., grades below "C" (2.0) and withdrawals) over all courses taken at UCF will be placed on Lack of Progress Probation and remain on Lack of Progress Probation as long as the student is enrolled in a CECS or COP major. If a student on Lack of Progress Probation has a tenth unsuccessful attempt over all courses taken at UCF, the student will be excluded from all CECS and COP majors. A student who is excluded from CECS and COP majors may seek readmission to a major in CECS or COP after at least one full year has passed since exclusion. Readmission is not automatic and is dependent upon a high probability of success after readmission. Any student who is readmitted to the Environmental Engineering major will be subject to all probation conditions that applied at the time of exclusion. Degree Requirements Core Requirements: Basic Level 9 Total Credits Complete all of the following Environmental engineering majors must complete both Earth Science and Biological Science coursework. See assigned academic advisor for list of approved courses. Earn at least 9 credits from the following: EGS1006C - Introduction to the Engineering Profession (1) EGN1007C - Engineering Concepts and Methods (1) CHM2045C - Chemistry Fundamentals I (4) CHM2046 - Chemistry Fundamentals II (3) CHM2046L - Chemistry Fundamentals Laboratory (1) Earth Science Credit Hours: 3 (GEP) Biological Science Credit Hours: 3 CPP Course: CHM 2045C A "C" (2.0) or better is required in this course: CHM 2045C, CHM 2046 Core Requirements: Advanced Level 53 Total Credits Complete all of the following Earn at least 50 credits from the following: EGN3310 - Engineering Analysis-Statics (3) EGN3321 - Engineering Analysis-Dynamics (3) EGN3331C - Mechanics of Materials (3) EGN3343 - Thermodynamics (3) EGN3613 - Engineering Economic Analysis (2) ENV3001 - Environmental Engineering (3) CCE4003 - Introduction to the Construction Industry (3) STA3032 - Probability and Statistics for Engineers (3) CWR3201 - Engineering Fluid Mechanics (3) CEG4011C - Geotechnical Engineering I (4) EES4111C - Biological Process Control (4) EES4202C - Chemical Process Control (4) ENV4531 - Environmental Engineering Unit Operations & Processes (3) ENV4120 - Air Pollution and Hazardous Waste Control (3) ENV4561 - Advanced Environmental Engineering Operations & Processes (3) ENV4341 - Sustainable Resource Management (3) CWR4202C - Hydraulics (3) GEP Course: STA 3032 A "C" (2.0) or better is required in this course: EGN 3310, EGN 3331C, EGN 3343, EGN 3613, ENV 3001, CWR 3201, ENV 4531, CWR 4202C Complete at least 1 of the following: CWR4120 - Hydrology (3) CWR4124 - Hydrogeology (3) Restricted Electives 3 Total Credits Earn at least 3 credits from the following types of courses: Technical electives are available in the BSEnvE program to address specific student interests in a variety of technical areas. Students should consult with their assigned academic advisor for a list of the approved technical electives and the terms when specific courses of this type are to be offered. Capstone Requirements 6 Total Credits Required Senior Design Courses Environmental Engineering Design Specialization 3 Total Credits Complete all of the following A "C" (2.0) or better is required in these courses. Choose one course from the following: Complete at least 1 of the following: ENV4433C - Environmental Engineering Wastewater Design (3) ENV4122C - Air Pollution Control Design (3) ENV4562C - Environmental Engineering Water Treatment Design (3) Capstone Course 3 Total Credits Complete the following: CGN4808C - CECE Capstone Design (3) Grand Total Credits: 71 University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida