Skip to main content University of Texas at Austin Home UT iSchool Menu University of Texas at Austin Home The University of Texas at Austin UT iSchool Make a Gift Search Search Search Search About Expand Vision & Core Values History & Tradition Diversity & Inclusion News & Events Jobs at the iSchool Contact Us Programs Expand Admissions Class Schedules Course Offerings Undergraduate Informatics Program Master of Science in Information Studies School Librarian Certificate Program Master of Science in Information Security & Privacy Dual Degree Programs PhD in Information Studies Certificate of Advanced Study Postdoctoral Fellowships People Expand Faculty, Staff, & Students Alumni Student Organizations Advisory Council Information Commons International Students iSchool Committees CARE Counselor Research Expand Research Areas Grants & Awards Labs Information & Culture Visiting Scholars Careers Expand Students Alumni Employers HireUTexas Giving Expand Endowments Donate Online Student Giving Home All News All News 2022 Open House Award Winners May 11, 2022 Congratulations to the 2022 Dean’s Choice Award and Diversity & Inclusion Award winners! The School of Information’s annual spring Open House virtual event showcases graduating student’s capstone projects and highlights the latest in digital libraries and archives, data analysis, information architecture and organization, user experience research and design, and much more! View all spring 2022 capstone projects. Read more about 2022 Open House Award Winners iSchool Inclusion Institute (i3) Announces Move to the Texas iSchool April 12, 2022 We are pleased to announce that the iSchool Inclusion Institute (i3), previously hosted by the University of Pittsburgh’s School of Computing and Information, will now be hosted by the School of Information at the University of Texas at Austin. Funded by the Andrew W. Mellon Foundation, i3 is a national undergraduate research and leadership development program that prepares students from underrepresented populations for graduate study and careers in the information sciences. Read more about iSchool Inclusion Institute (i3) Announces Move to the Texas iSchool Texas iSchool Welcomes First Assistant Dean for DEI, Dr. Edgar Gómez-Cruz Feb. 15, 2022 The School of Information at The University of Texas at Austin is pleased to welcome Dr. Edgar Gómez-Cruz as the school’s first Assistant Dean for Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion (DEI). In this role, Gómez-Cruz will lead the iSchool’s effort to establish a diverse, equitable, and inclusive environment for our faculty, staff, students, and alumni. Gómez-Cruz, who was appointed to the position last spring, joined us in January 2022. Read more about Texas iSchool Welcomes First Assistant Dean for DEI, Dr. Edgar Gómez-Cruz iSchool Partners with the Institute of Certified Records Managers to Fast Track Graduates’ Certification Dec. 1, 2021 The School of Information at The University of Texas at Austin is pleased to announce that we have partnered with the Institute of Certified Records Managers (ICRM) to accelerate our master’s program graduates in obtaining professional records and information management (RIM) certification. Read more about iSchool Partners with the Institute of Certified Records Managers to Fast Track Graduates’ Certification Min Kyung Lee and Ken Fleischmann Collaborate on $3M NSF NRT Grant on Ethical AI Nov. 16, 2021 The School of Information at the University of Texas at Austin faculty members Min Kyung Lee and Ken Fleischmann are collaborating with UT faculty at the School of Architecture, Cockrell School of Engineering, and Department of Computer Science on a $3M NSF Research Traineeship (NRT) grant. Read more about Min Kyung Lee and Ken Fleischmann Collaborate on $3M NSF NRT Grant on Ethical AI Ahmer Arif Researches Inclusive Digital Literacy for NSF Convergence Accelerator Program Sept. 29, 2021 A group of multidisciplinary researchers and partners led by The University of Texas at Austin and the University of Washington Information School is one of 28 teams selected as part of the National Science Foundation’s Convergence Accelerator 2021 cohort, receiving $750,000 in Phase 1 planning funding for a project that aims to reimagine how digital literacy and critical reasoning skills are taught. Read more about Ahmer Arif Researches Inclusive Digital Literacy for NSF Convergence Accelerator Program Dr. Barbara Immroth, 1942-2021 Sept. 22, 2021 It is with great sadness that we announce the passing of Dr. Barbara Immroth, professor emerita at The University of Texas at Austin School of Information. Dr. Immroth was a leader in the field of children’s literature and youth services, and a passionate advocate for the transformative role of libraries in empowering communities. Read more about Dr. Barbara Immroth, 1942-2021 Martha Pattillo Siv and Ambassador Sichan Siv Endowed Scholarship Sept. 15, 2021 September 15th is a very special day for Ambassador Sichan Siv. In 1977, a friend introduced him to Martha Lee Pattillo, his future wife. “As soon as we met, she opened new horizons for me,” said Siv, who served as the U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations from 2001-2006. “She was everything to me and simply the best.” Read more about Martha Pattillo Siv and Ambassador Sichan Siv Endowed Scholarship iSchool Faculty Members Recognized as ASIS&T Distinguished Members July 21, 2021 Congratulations to Texas iSchool professors Andrew Dillon, Philip Doty, Kenneth R. Fleischmann, and Soo Young Rieh for their recognition as ASIS&T Distinguished Members! Read more about iSchool Faculty Members Recognized as ASIS&T Distinguished Members 2021 Open House Award Winners May 14, 2021 Congratulations to the 2021 Dean’s Choice Award and Diversity & Inclusion Award winners! The School of Information’s annual spring Open House virtual event showcases graduating student’s capstone projects and highlights the latest in digital libraries and archives, data analysis, information architecture and organization, user experience research and design, and much more! View all spring 2021 capstone projects. Read more about 2021 Open House Award Winners 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 … next › last » News Tags Faculty News (102) Awards & Honors (77) Research (77) Student News (69) Events & Activities (31) Information Science (31) Archives, Records, & Knowledge Management (30) Alumni (27) Human-Computer Interaction & Information Architecture (27) Career (26) Digital Libraries & Humanities (23) AI & Machine Learning (21) Socio-Technical Studies (18) Prospective Students (12) Health Informatics (10) Support (8) Diversity & Inclusion (5) Virtual Reality (1) UT iSchool 1616 Guadalupe St, Suite #5.202 Austin, Texas 78701-1213 Facebook Twitter LinkedIn YouTube Instagram Contact Us News & Events Email Lists Faculty and Staff Information Indigenous Land Acknowledgment Login UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2022