Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Risk Management Emergency Management & Fire Safety Emergency Management & Fire Safety Emergency Management Fire Safety Environmental Health & Safety Environmental Health & Safety Occupational Safety Occupational Health Research & Education Safety Training Services International & Domestic Travel International & Domestic Travel Faculty Staff Travel Health, Safety, & Emergencies International Health & Safety Resources Student Resources Travel to a Restricted Region Risk & Insurance Risk & Insurance Incident Reporting Third Party Event Insurance Information Insurance Programs Protection of Minors Program Strategic Risk Assessment Travel University Driving Programs Resources Resources About Event Safety Topics (A-Z) Training ☰ Office of Risk Management ORM Resources Training Training The Office of Risk Management offers several training programs in order to mitigate costly risk, educate the campus community, and foster a culture of safety. Trainings are offered in-person, online, or in both formats. Training Schedule Training Description Emergency Management & Fire Safety Active Threat Training - CRASE (Civilian Response to Active Shooter Events) Learn an intuitive, easy-to-remember three-step plan for survival in the event of an active shooter event or other act of violence. The Civilian Response to Active Shooter Events (CRASE) course, designed and built on the Avoid, Deny, Defend (ADD) strategy developed by ALERRT in 2004, provides strategies, guidance and a proven plan for surviving an active shooter event. Topics include the history and prevalence of active shooter events, civilian response options, and medical issues. CPR/AED The Adult CPR/AED course incorporates the latest science and teaches students how to respond to breathing and cardiac emergencies for victims about 12 years and older. Students who successfully complete this course will receive a certificate for Adult CPR/AED valid for two years. Fire Extinguisher Training Learn how to successfully extinguish a fire! Stop the Bleed Learn basic life-saving interventions, including bleeding control with a tourniquet and gauze packs. Environmental Health & Safety For instructions on how to use Safety Skills Click Here. Aerial Lift Participants who successfully complete this course will be able to identify the types of aerial lifts, their uses, and identify the hazards and safe work practices associated with aerial lifts. This course is intended for workers in general industry or construction who may need to work with or around aerial lifts. Additional hands-on training is required. Animal Worker Training All personnel that conduct SMU-sponsored research involving animal subjects are required to have training. This training is administered via the CITI Program by the Office of Research Compliance. Please contact Research Compliance for more information. Art Safety Training All personnel and students that work in SMU's art studios are required to have Art Safety Training. This online training, administered via SafetySkills, addresses the physical and chemical hazards usually associated with arts education. Asbestos Awareness This awareness-level course is for people who work in areas with asbestos-containing material or presumed asbestos-containing material and need to know how to avoid disturbing it. High-risk activities such as mining asbestos, manufacturing asbestos-containing material and remediation of asbestos or removal of asbestos-containing material require extensive additional training. When learners have competed this course, they should be able to identify the basics of asbestos and identify standard exposure control measures. Biological Safety This 1-hour training is required for all SMU students and employees whose work involves any of the following: Biological agents, including but not limited to, those agents in all risk groups defined in Biosafety in Microbiological and Biomedical Laboratories. Recombinant or Synthetic DNA as defined by the NIH Guidelines for Research Involving Recombinant or Synthetic DNA Molecules. Dual use research of concern as defined by the National Science Advisory Board for Biosecurity. Select agents and select agent toxins, regulated either by the Department of Health and Human Services or by the United States Department of Agriculture. Human blood, human blood components, products made from human blood, and Other Potentially Infectious Materials, as defined by the OSHA Bloodborne Pathogens Standard (29 CFR 1910.1030). This training will address biohazards, bloodborne pathogens, risk groups, risk assessment, biosafety levels, engineering controls, administrative controls, microbiological work practices, personal protective equipment, spill and emergency response, biological waste, decontamination, and more. Current SMU researchers are expected to complete the training as soon as possible. The training can now be completed IN-PERSON or ONLINE. Bloodborne Pathogens Training Any employee or student whose work or education involves reasonably anticipated exposure to human blood or other potentially infectious materials must receive training on the epidemiology, symptoms, and transmission of bloodborne diseases on a yearly basis. This training is available online via the SafetySkills system. Please refer to the Bloodborne Pathogens program page for more information. Confined Space Training The confined space class teaches participants the hazards of working in confined space and permit-required confined spaces. Participants will learn safety procedures for entering confined spaces, atmospheric monitoring, ventilation, and how to use personal protective equipment. Confined spaces can be dangerous due to a variety of hazards. Atmospheric hazards inside confined spaces may include gases, vapors, dusts, oxygen-enriched or deficient atmosphere and/or poisons. This course will discuss types of confined space hazards, OSHA’s Confined Space regulations, and atmospheric hazards testing and exposure procedures. This training is required for all employees working inside confined spaces. Contractor Safety Briefing SMU EHS holds a New Contractor Orientation Class for all new contractors working on campus. Classes are held monthly or as needed. The Contractor Orientation discusses expectations, dealing with students, work permits, and a verity of other important topics necessary to safely work on campus. All contractors are required to attend the New Contractor Orientation class. CPR/AED/ First Aid Combines adult CPR, AED, and First Aid training in a program designed for the occupational first aid provider. This comprehensive program will help employees meet OSHA and other federal and state regulatory requirements for training on how to respond and care for medical emergencies. Students who complete this course will receive a certificate for Adult CPR/AED/ First-Aid valid for two years. Fall Protection Anyone working at unprotected heights greater than 4 feet at SMU will need to go through a fall protection class. In the fall protection class, students will learn about fall hazards, protective equipment, and safety mitigation. After completing the class, students will be able to work at heights safely. Forklift This course is intended for workers who are required to operate a forklift or other powered industrial truck on the job. Learners that complete this course will display the ability to recognize the forklift's instruments and controls, common hazards associated with forklift operation and OSHA-required safe work practices for forklift operation. This course is designed to assist forklift operators and their employers to complete the formal training (classroom) portion of OSHA’s required training for operators of powered industrial trucks. Additional hands-on training is required. Hand and Power Tools Participants who successfully complete this course should learn the common hazards of different types of hand and power tools, including electrical, pneumatic, hydraulic and abrasive-wheel tools and how to minimize or eliminate those hazards. This course is intended for general industry personnel who, as part of their regular work duties, are required to use or work around hand and power tools. This course can assist employers with meeting regulations outlined in OSHA’s regulations on hand and power tools. Hazard Communication Training Chemicals can pose a wide range of health and physical hazards, and exposure to hazardous chemicals is common for workers in a large variety of industries. When workers are exposed to hazardous chemicals, OSHA requires employers to provide employees with information about those hazards and training over how to protect themselves and others from harm. During this course, employees will learn about OSHA's Hazard Communication (HAZCOM) standard and the methods for learning about chemical hazards, including labels, safety data sheets (SDSs) and hazard assessments. This course is required for all university faculty and staff handling and working in areas with hazardous chemicals with the only exception being individuals that work in the laboratories. Laboratory individuals are instead covered by the SMU Research Safety Programs and Chemical Hygiene plan. Hearing Conservation Training When a noise hazard is present in the work environment, and when the hazard cannot be controlled by other means, hearing protection may be utilized. This training will inform employees about noise levels, hearing hazards and recommendations on how to prevent hearing loss. Employees will learn how to define noise and noise levels, hearing loss, and recognize different types of hearing protection. This course is required for all employees with occupational noise exposure that exceeds an 8-hour TWA of 85 dB. Housekeeping Lab Safety Training Custodial staff provides the cleaning and upkeep for different areas on campus. Area such as research laboratories may contain a variety of hazardous materials such as chemical, biological and physical hazards. This training will provide guidance that will enable the custodial staff to work safety while working inside laboratories. Learners who successfully complete this course should be able to recognize hazardous materials inside the laboratories, identify safe housekeeping work practices, and incident exposure procedures. Laboratory Safety Training All faculty, staff, students, and visitors that work in SMU research laboratories must take Laboratory Safety Training. This is a 3-hour, in-person training offered by EHS on a monthly basis. It addresses risk assessments and emergency preparedness, chemical hygiene, hazardous waste management, personal protective equipment, and much more. Laboratory-Specific Training EHS-provided training courses cover applicable state and federal laws, but ARE NOT a substitute for "in-lab" supervisor-led training. Specific chemical handling, process development, and operating procedural training must be given by the principal investigator and should be documented as part of the departmental personnel files. As part of the specific supervisor-led laboratory training required for all individual working within SMU research laboratories, EHS offers the Laboratory-Specific Training Template to be used as a template for on-boarding your researchers and further training them on various SOPs and equipment. The template can be contracted or expanded as the laboratory supervisor sees fit. Contact your supervisor or Brandon Chance for more information. Laboratory Supervisor Training This training session is a broad overview of laboratory safety obligations presented to principal investigators and laboratory supervisors that manage laboratories. It is a one-on-one session that serves as an introduction to EHS and provides the opportunity for supervisors to address specific concerns that they have regarding their research interests. Laboratory Supervisor Training is scheduled on an as-needed basis by contacting Brandon Chance. Ladder Safety This course should assist learners in identifying different types of ladders and general safe practices working on ladders. It will also help learners recognize the importance of ladder inspection, set-up and location, and the best practices for safe ladder use. Laser Safety Training All personnel and students that work with Class 3b and Class 4 lasers are required to have Laser Safety Training. This online training, administered via SafetySkills, addresses laser function and operation, the associated hazards, and the safety measures that must be taken to control those hazards. Lock Out/ Tag Out People who are performing service or maintenance on machinery and equipment may be exposed to injuries from the unexpected energization or release of stored energy in the equipment. The Lock Out –Tag Out class teaches students how to properly perform LOTO and the affective elements of energy control procedures. Machine Shop Participants who successfully complete this course will learn to define machine guarding, locate fundamental machine areas, machine hazards, the types of machine guards, and the types of machine devices. This course is intended for participants who, during their regular work duties, are required to work with or around machines equipped with guarded machinery, and can assist employers in meeting the provisions of OSHA’s Machinery and Machine Guarding standard. Office Ergonomics Training Ergonomics is the process of reducing worker injury through effective workplace design, such as decreasing the amount of bending or reaching for items, or using equipment to reduce the strain on the human body. This course will teach employees how to implement ergonomic principles in office settings in order to minimize or eliminate potential hazards. Employees will learn to identify and prevent ergonomic risk factors at office workstations, and differentiate between the correct and incorrect methods to lift safely. OSHA 10 Hour General Industry OSHA 10 Hours class is an OSHA authorized course that is designed to train workers in the basics of occupational health and safety. The 10-hour OSHA outreach courses introduce employees to the basic practices of identifying, eliminating and reporting hazards associated with their work. After completing the course, each person will receive an OSHA 10 hour card. Radiation Safety Training Radiation safety training is currently administered at a departmental level. Please contact your departmental radiation safety officer (RSO) for more information regarding trainings. Departmental RSOs are: Professor Robert Harrod - Biological Sciences and Professor Thomas Coan - Physics Respiratory Protection Training All personnel and students that use a respirator for any reason must enroll in the Respiratory Protection Program. This program can include required annual training, which is administered online via SafetySkills. Please refer to the Respiratory Protection Program page for more information about the program. Scissor Lifts Learners who successfully complete this course will be able to recognize common scissor lift hazards and safe operating procedures. This course is intended for workers in any industry who use scissor lifts on the job. Additional hands-on training is required. Slips, Trips, and Falls This course will teach participants about slip, trip and fall hazards and what they can do to minimize or eliminate those hazards. Employees will learn to identify general OSHA safety requirements, guarding for floor and wall openings, issues with stairways, ladder, scaffolds, loading docks and how personal behavior affects safety. Risk and Insurance Engaged Driving This one-hour training is required every three years for anyone who will operate drive an SMU-insured vehicle (whether owned, leased, courtesy, or rented), as required by SMU Policy 11.5. Topics include are safe driving tips, expectations of drivers, what to do if you’re in an accident, accident reporting, and insurance. Sub-compact Utility Vehicles (SCUV) or Golf Carts This one-hour training is required every three years for anyone who will operate a Sub-Compact Utility Vehicle (SCUV), or golf cart, on the SMU campus as required by SMU Policy 11.6. Topics include safe operating tips, expectations of operators, pedestrian safety, what to do if you’re in an accident, and accident reporting. Upcoming Events Biological Safety Training 10:00am - 11:00am Friday, October 30, 2020 Laboratory Safety Training 2:00pm - 5:00pm Friday, October 30, 2020 Biological Safety Training 10:00am - 11:00am Friday, November 20, 2020 Laboratory Safety Training 2:00pm - 5:00pm Friday, November 20, 2020 Apply Visit School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share