Skip navigation About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Information for Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors menu Brown University About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Information for Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Search Global Global Brown Research & Curriculum Global Engagement International Programs Programs & Initiatives Community & Support Office of International Programs Brown in Germany Brandenburg Gate, BerlinAt a Glance City: Berlin Partner: Humboldt University Housing: University student housing or independent shared apartment with local German students Language Requirements: Third-semester college-level German for the Intermediate track or fifth-semester college-level German for the Advanced track (at Brown GRMN 0300 or GRMN 0500) Calendar: Full Year or Spring semester Accepts Non-Brown Students: Yes Overview Imagine yourself in the lively capital city of Berlin, where you will find yourself immersed in Germany’s rich culture and complex history. Continuing to grapple with the effects of the 1989 reunification while experiencing steady growth of its ethnic minority population, Berlin offers an ideal venue to study the changing face of present-day Europe and a fascinating glimpse into Germany’s past, present and future. Spring 2019 Orientation Orientation Brown's Berlin program begins a month-long orientation that includes a credit-bearing intensive German language course, cultural activities, and visits to different areas of the city. Intensive German as a Foreign Language Course All students enroll in an intensive month-long German language course offered by Humboldt University prior to the start of the regular semester courses. Students who successfully complete this course earn 7 European Credit Transfer System (ECTS) credits, which is the equivalent of one Brown course credit. The Advanced level track is a full immersion experience in which students take all of their courses in German at Humboldt University. Students in the Intermediate track may take advanced level courses in English at Humboldt University. Intermediate level students are required to enroll in a German language course during their regular semester, in additon to the intensive language course during orientation. Academics Following orientation, students enroll in regular semester courses at Humboldt University. Students must complete a minimum of 25 ECTS for evaluation through a schein (a document confirming that you have completed the course and received a letter grade), which, along with the intensive language course, would allow them to obtain a full semester credit equivalent at Brown. Students may choose from Proseminare, Seminare (junior/senior level courses) or Übungen (lab courses with field trips). Students are encouraged to attend Vorlesungen (lecture courses in which there is no assessed work). Students may take a maximum of two Vorlesungen and may opt to enroll in one or both for credit. Students who wish to earn credit must arrange with the professor to be given work on which a grade can be assessed. Please visit the Humboldt University course catalog for the most current list of course offerings. Past program participants have studied history, art history, international studies, political science, religion, German, Medical Studies, natural sciences, chemistry, physics, computer science, comparative literarture, and international relations. Students may enroll in all departments of the universities for which they have appropriate academic preparation. In addition to academic programs, students have pursued internships at art galleries, the Aspen Institute, and the American embassy. Humboldt University Founded in 1810 by the Prussian king, Friedrich Wilhelm III, Humboldt University's mission has long been to achieve a unity of teaching and research and provide students with an all-around humanist education. By drawing on and contributing to the rich history and cultural life of the city, Humboldt has remained true to its principles and become an internationally acclaimed institution. Academic Calendar Participants may enroll for either the spring semester or the full year. Approximate dates are provided based on past programs; students should expect them to vary by year. Please refer to the program calendar below for specific information about program dates. Full Year: September through mid-August Spring Semester Only: Mid-February through mid-August Housing Students may choose to apply for student university housing through Humboldt University or live in independent housing. Students who opt for student housing are initially housed in temporary housing arranged by the program until March 1. Students who chose independent housing must find their own housing with the help of the on-site coordinator. We recommend looking for housing before arriving; however, students looking for independent housing can also stay in temporary housing during the orientation period. Throughout the orientation period, students work with the on-site coordinator and local housing agencies to find a room, typically in a shared apartment, where they will live with local students or young Berliners for the remainder of the semester or year. Eligibility and Requirements The Brown in Germany program in Berlin is open to Brown and visiting undergraduate students. Students must be in good academic standing. Students must have completed Intermediate German I/GRMN 0300 (third-semester college-level German), or the equivalent (Intermediate level track) or Twentieth-Century German Culture/GRMN 0500 (fifth-semester college-level German language), or the equivalent (Advanced level track) before beginning studies in Germany. Application Instructions Apply by the deadline using Brown's online application system via the "apply now" and "return to application" buttons on the right side of this page. Applications typically require faculty recommendations, so it is important to begin the process early. Related Files Brown in Germany Spring 2022 Calendar Brown in Germany Spring 2020 Predeparture Orientation Outline Germany Financial Guarantee Form Related Links 2021/22 Estimated Program Costs German Studies at Brown Humboldt University Academic Calendar Humboldt University Intensive German Language Course Humboldt University Course Catalog Humboldt University Housing Information Humboldt University Guide for International Students Home Study Abroad COVID-19 Updates Programs Distinctively Brown/Consortium for Advanced Studies Abroad (CASA) programs Consortium for Advanced Studies Abroad (CASA) Argentina Brazil Chile Cuba France Germany Hong Kong Ireland Italy Japan Spain Approved Programs Petition Process Summer Programs Consortium for Advanced Studies Abroad (CASA) Independent Study and Undergraduate Research Application Deadlines Meet with an Advisor Study Abroad Peer Advisors Faculty Advisors for Study Abroad FinancIal Information Getting Started Health & Safety Resources for Abroad Returning to Brown For Families Faculty & Staff OIP Events & Activities About the OIP Print this Page Share this Page Office of International Programs Brown University Box 1973 Page-Robinson Hall 420 Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401-863-3555 Fax 401-863-3311 [email protected] For Global Travelers Controller's Office Travel Policies and Procedures International Health Insurance Register with Brown's International SOS Service Tips While Abroad - The Take It With You Guide Brown Travel Portal IT Security Travel Tips International Research Administration Travel Clinic For Global Visitors Office of International Student & Scholar Services (OISSS) International Health Insurance Brown Travel Portal International Student Resources Visiting Undergraduate Students Visiting Research Fellows and Non-Degree Graduate Students Study Abroad Office of International Programs - Undergraduate Study Abroad Undergraduate Teaching and Research Awards Graduate School Partnerships and Exchanges Grant Opportunities Our grant database offers a wide range of funding opportunities for undergraduate and graduate students, faculty, and researcher in different fields of work. Search Grants Social Media Twitter Facebook LinkedIn Top Destinations Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Map & Directions Social Media Dashboard Contact Us Giving to Brown