Skip to Main Content Brown University News from Brown Site Navigation Featured Events For Journalists Search Menu Topics Arts and Humanities Date October 21, 2016 2016-10-21 Media Contact Gillian Kiley [email protected] 401-863-7287 All News Share Facebook Twitter Linkedin Email ‘Lamp/Bear’ artist to speak at Brown on Oct. 26 The University’s Public Art Committee will welcome artist Urs Fischer, the man behind ‘Untitled (Lamp/Bear),’ to campus for a public lecture. New York-based Swiss artist Urs Fischer will talk about his wide-ranging work and the public art that was installed on campus in June. Photo: Warren Jagger PROVIDENCE, R.I. [Brown University] —There has been no shortage of perspectives about “Untitled (Lamp/Bear),” the monumental bronze sculpture of a plush-looking teddy bear combined with a desk lamp, since it was installed on Brown University’s Simmons Quad this summer. Now, members of the Brown and local communities will have the chance to hear about the work directly from the artist who created it. Urs Fischer, who is based in New York, will give a public lecture at the University on Wednesday, Oct. 26, at 5 p.m. at the Salomon Center for Teaching on the College Green. The lecture is free and open to the public, but tickets must be reserved as seating is limited. “This is a great opportunity for students and others to gain insight into Urs’ eclectic vision and his working method,” said Jo-Ann Conklin, director of the David Winton Bell Gallery at Brown and a member of the University’s Public Art Committee. Conklin said that Fischer will talk about his work in general as well as “Untitled (Lamp/Bear).” The sculpture, which is 23 feet tall, was one of two large works installed over the summer. The second, Giuseppe Penone’s “Idee di pietra (Ideas of Stone),” is situated on the College Green near University Hall. Each work is on loan to Brown for five years. Reactions to “Untitled (Lamp/Bear)” have ranged from delight to unease and the sculpture has spurred broader discussions about the role of public art. Robert Emlen, the University curator and a member of the Public Art Committee, said that the purpose of public art is “not just to enliven the campus but to provide a context for discussion… We want to encourage people to stop, think and talk about it.” Emlen added that he thinks “it’s a good sign that people notice, that people are moved by these artworks,” and that the reactions are “by no means unanimous.” Conklin said, “Because it is located in spaces that we occupy on a daily basis, instead of museums or galleries, public art often elicits strong reactions and lively conversations. That’s part of the fun and challenge in doing public art.” Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Snapchat Twitter YouTube Social Media Directory © Brown University Brown University For You Current Students Faculty Staff Parents & Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Featured Events For Journalists Topics Arts and Humanities Environment Health and Medicine News and Events Science and Technology Social Sciences Student Life University Initiatives Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events For You Give to Brown All of Brown.edu People News Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search ‘Lamp/Bear’ artist to speak at Brown on Oct. 26 Open details for ‘Lamp/Bear’ artist to speak at Brown on Oct. 26 Bookmark this Page