Skip to main content Toggle subitems Main navigation Meet Princeton Toggle sub-items In Service of Humanity Facts & Figures History Honors & Awards Contact Us Visit Us Our Faculty Our Students Our Alumni Our Staff Our Leadership Academic Freedom and Free Expression Academics Toggle sub-items Studying at Princeton Library Areas of Study Humanities Social Sciences Engineering Natural Sciences Advising Academic Calendar Course Tools Learning Abroad Career Development Continuing Education Innovative Learning Research Toggle sub-items Engineering & Applied Science Humanities Natural Sciences Social Sciences Interdisciplinary Approach Dean for Research Office External Partnerships Facilities & Labs One Community Toggle sub-items Lifelong Connections Student Life Arts & Culture Athletics Living in Princeton, N.J. Housing & Dining Activities & Organizations Cultural & Affinity Groups Health & Wellness Religious Life Serving the Public Good Families Admission & Aid Toggle sub-items Affordable for All About Financial Aid Current Undergraduate Financial Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission For International Students Utility menu News Events Work at Princeton Services & Resources Work-Life Balance Links for Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Giving Search Sites & People × Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on LinkedIn Email Print How a program in NYC made a 'huge difference' for poor tenants in housing court Department of Economics Communications April 25, 2022, 7:03 a.m. Photo from Adobe Stock More than fifty years after U.S. residents secured the right to guaranteed legal representation in criminal cases, the United States remains an outlier among wealthy democracies for not extending that same right in civil cases. Janet Currie Photo by Denise Applewhite, Office of Communications Because legal representation in criminal cases is often considered a cornerstone of anti-poverty policy, a key, understudied question is whether legal representation in civil cases could improve outcomes for poor Americans. In a working paper that studies the impact of a New York City program that guarantees legal representation to low-income tenants in housing court, Janet Currie, the Henry Putnam Professor of Economics and Public Affairs with Princeton’s Department of Economics and the School for Public and International Affairs (SPIA), and Michael Cassidy, a postdoctoral research associate at SPIA's Center for Health and Wellbeing, found that increases in legal representation lead to better outcomes for tenants in housing court. "Our study shows the huge difference that access to legal representation can make in the lives of poor people, especially among people of color and for non-citizens," said Currie, who is the co-director of the Center of Health and Wellbeing. Poverty cause and effect Each year in the United States, landlords file more than 2.4 million eviction filings, ultimately evicting more than 900,000 households. Currie and Cassidy note that other researchers have found that evictions not only result from poverty, but also can cause it. "Whatever are one's views about politics or social policy, a basic precept upon which we can all agree is that the participants in any contest deserve an equal playing field," said Cassidy. "Our study demonstrates that low-income households are immensely more successful in housing court once they're allowed to play by the same rules as their landlords." Currie and Cassidy used detailed address-level housing court records to study the roll-out of New York City’s Universal Access program (UA), which happened gradually across targeted ZIP codes, from 2016 to 2019. Using this data, Currie and Cassidy were able to identify the program’s causal effects. All together, they examined 727,703 housing court cases. They found that the UA program increased the likelihood that tenants in their sample had legal representation by 88%. By comparing outcomes within UA ZIP codes, they found eligible tenants who secured legal representation following the introduction of the program were 62% less likely to be subject to possessory judgments and 72% less likely to have eviction warrants issued against them. Participants also saw an 85% reduction in monetary judgements (i.e. back rent owed). Though not statistically significant in the full sample, they also found evidence that lawyers reduced the likelihood that evictions were carried out. Importantly, Currie and Cassidy found larger effects of guaranteed representation in areas with larger shares of non-citizens and non-white residents. For this group, the reduction in executed evictions was statistically significant. "These results suggest that a program targeting these areas could have even larger impact per dollar spent than one with universal ambitions," Currie and Cassidy wrote. New York City’s UA program offers free legal representation in housing court to tenants whose income is at or below 200 percent of the federal poverty guideline, which was $43,920 as of 2021. This legal assistance is provided by non-profit agencies that contract with the city. With UA, New York became the first city in the United States to promise broad legal services to tenants. Since then, other cities have implemented similar programs, including Newark, New Jersey, San Francisco, Philadelphia, Santa Monica, California, and Boulder, Colorado. In New York City, where 68% of residents are renters, New York’s Civil Courts have created a special housing court in each of its five boroughs, as well as two additional smaller special courts in Harlem and Red Hook. In New York, 93% of housing court cases are eviction petitions. The importance of empirical research Though it seems likely, on the surface, that lawyers would improve tenant outcomes in housing court, there are scenarios where such a result isn’t obvious. Because having a lawyer doesn’t address the reasons that lead a family to housing court, Currie and Cassidy say it’s "conceivable that having a lawyer may only delay the inevitable." "In Price v. Turner (2010), the South Carolina Supreme Court noted that in some cases appointing a lawyer for the defendant could make the outcome 'less fair overall' by delaying payments to an injured party or by advantaging one poor person in a struggle against another slightly less poor person." For these reasons, there have been two previous randomized controlled trials in Massachusetts to determine the effect of legal representation on tenant outcomes. Their findings were mixed, and the evaluations involved few tenants, suggesting that it is also important to look at the effectiveness of an actual program operating at scale. The findings from New York City’s UA program, which is larger in scope and scale than the programs previously studied, provide further evidence that representation in civil procedures can have an important positive impact on the lives of poor people. Related Stories Child poverty rate could be cut in half in next decade following proposals in new expert report Read more Q&A: Lead exposure and water contamination in Flint, Michigan Read more ‘Sociology 207: Poverty in America’ course focuses on lived experiences of U.S. poor Read more ADHD medication reduces risky behavior in children, teens Read more Mortality rates improve among kids and young adults in the U.S., especially in poor counties Read more Hispanics face racial discrimination in New York City’s rental housing market Read more Failures aside, Haushofer reaches across disciplines to tackle poverty Read more View All News Contact links Contact Us Accessibility Advanced People Search Media Inquiries Website Feedback Visiting links Plan a Visit Maps & Shuttles Varsity Athletics Giving to Princeton Academic links Library Academic Calendar Student Links Faculty & Staff Links Footer social media Facebook Twitter Instagram Snapchat LinkedIn YouTube Social Media Directory Equal Opportunity and Nondiscrimination at Princeton University: Princeton University believes that commitment to principles of fairness and respect for all is favorable to the free and open exchange of ideas, and the University seeks to reach out as widely as possible in order to attract the ablest individuals as students, faculty, and staff. In applying this policy, the University is committed to nondiscrimination on the basis of personal beliefs or characteristics such as political views, religion, national or ethnic origin, race, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, pregnancy, age, marital or domestic partnership status, veteran status, disability, genetic information and/or other characteristics protected by applicable law in any phase of its education or employment programs or activities. In addition, pursuant to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 and supporting regulations, Princeton does not discriminate on the basis of sex in the education programs or activities that it operates; this extends to admission and employment. Inquiries about the application of Title IX and its supporting regulations may be directed to the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, Office for Civil Rights, U.S. Department of Education or to the University's Sexual Misconduct/Title IX Coordinator. See Princeton’s full Equal Opportunity Policy and Nondiscrimination Statement. Princeton University Princeton, NJ 08544 Operator: (609) 258-3000 © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Subfooter links Copyright Infringement Privacy Notice