Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index Title IX Menu Search TTU Title IX We are located in the Student Union Building, Suite 232. What is Title IX? Under the United States Code of Federal Regulations, Title IX states that, "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance." 20 USCA § 1681. Texas Tech is committed to providing its students, faculty, and staff with an educational and workplace environment free from any form of unlawful discrimination. The Texas Tech community is dedicated to fostering and supporting a culture of mutual respect and communication. Texas Tech University does not tolerate discrimination or harassment of students based on or related to sex, race, national origin, religion, age, disability, protected veteran status, or other protected categories, classes, or characteristics. While sexual orientation and gender identity are not protected categories under state or federal law, it is Texas Tech University policy not to discriminate on this basis. Actions related to admission, discipline, housing, extracurricular and academic opportunities shall not be made based on a student's protected status. Discriminatory behavior is prohibited regardless of the manner in which it is exhibited, whether verbally, in writing, or electronically displayed or conveyed. Individuals who violate these policies and laws are subject to disciplinary action, up to and including expulsion. Examples of the types of discrimination and violence that are strictly prohibited by Texas Tech include but are not limited to: sexual harassment, the failure to provide equal opportunity in athletics, discrimination in a school's science, technology, engineering, and math (STEM) courses and programs, discrimination based on pregnancy. In addition to Title IX, certain Clery specific crimes are also considered to be Title IX violations and will be handled by the university as mandated under both statutory requirements. These include but are not limited to sexual misconduct, domestic violence, dating violence, and stalking. Title IX at Texas Tech University Office for Student Civil Rights and Sexual Misconduct Areas Student Code of Conduct Sexual Misconduct Definitions Sexual Harassment Sexual Assault Sexual Exploitation Dating & Domestic Violence Stalking Pregnancy and Parenting Discrimination or Harassment Based on Any Protected Class Reporting an Incident When Should I Report an Incident? How Can our Office Help? What Happens When a Report is Filed? Formal Grievance Process Commitment to Privacy and Confidentiality University Mandated Reporting Policy How to Report an Incident Supportive Measures and Resources Supportive Measures On-campus Resources, Community, and National Community Resources Policies and Procedures Employee Resources Title IX Staff Training University Annual Reports CEO Annual Report Annual Security Report Report a Title IX Violation Texas Tech Title IX Coordinator Texas Tech's Title IX Coordinator is the designated university official with primary responsibility for coordinating the university's compliance with Title IX and other federal and state laws and regulations relating to sex-based discrimination. Dr. Kimberly Simón Title IX Coordinator 806.834.1949 kimberly.simon@ttu.edu Contact TTU Contact Contact TTUContact Contact TTU News News for NewsNews for News Events EventsEvents Title IX Address Administration Building Room 115D, Box 42005 Phone 806.834.1949 Email kimberly.simon@ttu.edu Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock, Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversityFeb 28, 2022 2:37 PM Title IX What is Title IX? Title IX Back What is Title IX? Title IX Team University Statement on Title IX Guidance Reporting Policies & Procedures Get Help Training & Outreach Title IX Back Training & Outreach Opportunities Request a Workshop Request Title IX to Attend Event Employee Resources Title IX Employee Resources Back Senate Bill 212 Employee Resources Title IX Staff Training University Annual Reports Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index