retweet bullhorn reply info flickr tumblr vimeo reddit podcast angle-down angle-left angle-right angle-up ban hamburger book bookmark bug caret-down caret-left caret-right caret-up chain check check-circle chevron-down chevron-left chevron-right chevron-up circle circle-o clone close download-cloud code download ellipsis envelope warning external-link eye eye-slash facebook github google-plus heart heart-o home info-circle instagram linkedin lock medium minus-circle send pause-circle play-circle plus-circle question-circle quote-left quote-right rss-square search share-alt slack snapchat ticket twitter wheelchair youtube Skip to main content MENU Header Menu Directory News Events Giving Search Search Degrees & Programs Admissions Pharm D Graduate Studies Lester Entrepreneurial Scholars Student Organizations Student Services Learning Resource Center (LRC) Experiential + Residencies & Fellowships Experiential Programs Residencies & Fellowships Research & Practice College Divisions Collaborative Areas of Research Excellence Centers, Institutes, & Core Facilities Research Support Professional Development Pharmacy Career Services Continuing Pharmacy Education About Alumni Assessment College Policies Dean’s Office Diversity, Equity, Accessibility, & Inclusion History Pharm.D. Program Quality Indicators Strategic Plan Student Affairs Contact Us Home This Is Our Moment Show your support for the College of Pharmacy during the What Starts Here campaign. By providing creative opportunities for students to be involved in discovery, we will positively change patient care and break down barriers to health care delivery. Learn More Degrees & Programs The Pharmacy Doctorate (Pharm.D.) is the entry-level professional degree program. The curriculum is designed to prepare future practitioners to provide patient-oriented pharmaceutical care in contemporary settings including community practice, hospital environments and long-term care facilities. The graduate training program (M.S., Pharm.D./Ph.D, and Ph.D.) offers degree opportunities in the pharmaceutical sciences and a multi-institutional joint degree program in translational science. Get more info on Degrees & Programs Experiential + Residencies The Experiential Program is a required part of the Pharm.D. program designed to provide experiences in the field under the guidance of preceptor faculty. The experiences increase in duration and complexity as the student gains knowledge and skills, culminating with the final year of rotation experience. The College of Pharmacy in conjunction with clinical facilities throughout the State provides a variety of outstanding Practice Residencies and Clinical Science Fellowships for pharmacy graduates who wish to pursue advanced clinical practice or research training. Learn more about Experiential Programs & Residencies Research & Practice The College of Pharmacy is internationally recognized for ground breaking research that is among the highest quality in the nation. Funding to support research is in excess of $20 million and comes from competitive grant proposals from the National Institutes of Health, pharmaceutical companies, and private foundations. College Divisions Chemical Biology & Medicinal Chemistry Health Outcomes Molecular Pharmaceutics & Drug Delivery Pharmacology & Toxicology Pharmacotherapy Pharmacy Practice Learn more about our College Divisions of Research & Practice Collaborative Areas of Research Chemical Biology & Drug Discovery Environmental & Developmental Mechanisms of Health and Disease Health Outcomes, Economic and Equity Research Infectious Diseases Molecular Mechanisms of Cancer Neuropharmacology & Addiction Translational Research in Drug Delivery Learn more about our Collaborative Areas of Research Excellence (CARE) Centers, Institutes & Core Facilities Addiction Science Research & Education Center Center for Molecular Carcinogenesis & Toxicology Drug Dynamics Institute Targeted Therapeutic Drug Discovery & Development Program Texas Center for Health Outcomes Research & Education (TxCORE) Learn more about our Centers, Institutes & Core Facilities Research Support Proposal Checklists & Resources Recurring Funding Deadlines & Archives Search Engines for Funding Get support for your research Open Faculty Positions Assistant or Associate, Division of Health Outcomes View Health Outcomes Posting and apply via Interfolio Clinical Open Rank, Residency Program Director, Community-based Practice, Division of Pharmacy Practice View Pharmacy Practice Posting and apply via Interfolio Assistant or Associate in Chemical Biology & Medicinal Chemistry View Chemical Biology & Medicinal Chemistry Posting and apply via Interfolio Current College News Pharm Fresh: Amaka Epoh May 24, 2022 Innovative Discovery and Student Research Hatched Right Here at UT Pharmacy. DiversiTEA Corner, Spring 2022 May 16, 2022 Read the spring 2022 edition of DiversiTEA Corner, the newsletter about inclusion, diversity, equity and accessibility at the UT College of Pharmacy. This semester’s topics include the college's Dr. Carolyn Brown DEAI Champion Award recipients, a message from Pharmacy Council's DEAI chair, a university three-part series on midwives hosted by UT Pharmacy, our newest member of the DEAI team, and many more. Ginsburg appointed to Provost’s Distinguished Service Academy May 5, 2022 Dr. Diane Ginsburg has been appointed to the Provost’s Distinguished Service Academy for her excellence in mentorship and demonstrated mastery across scholarship, teaching, leadership and service. UT Pharmacy Scholars Celebrated at Honors Day May 4, 2022 UT Pharmacy scholars received a set of white and green honor cords at the 74th Annual Honors Day celebrations to mark the very highest level of academic accomplishment. Pharmacy Research Excellence Day 2022 April 21, 2022 Back (in-person!) and bigger than ever before, the Eighteenth Annual Louis C. Littlefield Celebrating Pharmacy Research Excellence Day was held on Tuesday, April 12, 2022, fetching a record-breaking number of posters presented and participating researchers. Discover more Texas Pharmacy news. Continuing Pharmacy Education (CPE) We develop and deliver quality continuing education activities that aim to meet the life-long professional development needs of pharmacy-related audiences. We offer live conferences, online home study courses, and accreditation services. The University of Texas at Austin College of Pharmacy is accredited by the Accreditation Council for Pharmacy Education as a provider of continuing pharmacy education. Accreditation Services The UT Continuing Pharmacy Education Office (UT CPE) routinely accepts requests from organizations (Joint Providers) seeking accreditation for educational/training activities for pharmacists and technicians. Each activity is thoroughly evaluated to ensure it is aligned with UT CPE’s mission and that it meets ACPE Standards. Live Conferences & Online Courses The Office of Continuing Pharmacy Education develops and delivers quality continuing education activities that aim to meet the life-long professional development needs of pharmacy-related audiences. The University of Texas at Austin College of Pharmacy is accredited by the Accreditation Council for Pharmacy Education as a provider of continuing pharmacy education. COVID-19 Resources University of Texas Protect Texas Together UT Emergency Notifications University Operational Information HR Resources COVID-19 FAQs ID Center Learning Pharmacy LRC - Virtual Learning Texas One Stop Site One Stop: Keep Learning Faculty Innovation Center - The Commons Information Technology Submit Pharmacy IT Help Request ITS Service Desk COVID-19 IT Resources Telework and Flexible Work Tools Security Guidance for Working Remotely Our mission is to provide exemplary education, training, research, and professional development in the pharmaceutical sciences; to advance discovery, innovation, and patient care; and to provide service to the university, professional and scientific communities, and society. FacebookFind us on Facebook TwitterFind us on Twitter InstagramSee us on Instagram LinkedinFind us on Linkedin YoutubeSee us on Youtube Footer menu Directory News Events Giving UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2022