Skip to Main Content Brown University Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events For You Current Students Faculty Staff Parents & Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Give to Brown Site Navigation Academics Undergraduate Graduate & Professional Schools & Colleges Academic Departments Centers & Institutes Libraries & Collections Global Education Non-Degree Programs Admission & Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission Medical School Admission Executive & Professional Admission Tuition & Aid Research Find a Researcher Industry Engagement Conducting Research at Brown Life at Brown Athletics & Recreation Community Health & Wellness Housing & Dining Life in Providence Student Organizations University Events News Featured Events For Journalists Search Menu Driving Directions and Parking Information Brown's campus is located in Providence, R.I. — here's what you need to know about coming by car. Breadcrumb Home About Brown Visit Brown Sub Navigation In This Section Driving Directions & Parking Information Accommodations Driving Directions From the North or South on Interstate 95: Take Exit 22A to Downtown Providence. Continue straight on Memorial Boulevard. At the fourth set of lights, turn left onto College Street. At the top of the hill, turn left onto Prospect Street. Take your first right onto Waterman Street. The Stephen Robert ’62 Campus Center will be on your right. From the East on Interstate 195: Take Exit 2 to South Main Street and continue for half a mile until the first set of traffic lights. Turn right onto College Street and then left at the top of the hill onto Prospect Street. Take your first right onto Waterman Street. The Stephen Robert ’62 Campus Center will be on your right. From the Northwest: Follow Route 146 to I-95 South then follow directions above (from north and south). Visitor Parking Visitors may find parking in Lot 68 Upper, also called the Power Street Parking Garage, located at 111 Power Street. The garage entrance is located at the intersection of Power and Thayer Streets (View Map). The garage has two gate arms which are left open. Please enter in the right lane and exit via the left lane. The Lot 68 Upper garage contains two pay stations, which are located at the front and rear of the garage. Please locate an empty parking space, purchase your visitor parking permit via a pay station and place your receipt permit on your vehicle dashboard. Duration Rate Mon - Fri 8am - 6pm $3.00/hour All Day Rate until 6pm (Monday - Friday) $15.00 Weekdays after 6pm, weekends, holidays $2.00/hour The pay stations accept credit cards and U.S. bills. However, the pay stations do not supply change so please use the exact amount of bills. Please allow plenty of time for parking, as the visitor lot is a few blocks from the Campus Center. ADA Visitor Parking Brown maintains visitor spaces that meet ADA standards for accessibility in Lot 65, which is located on the south side of Benevolent Street between Thayer and Brook streets (View Map). Any valid state ADA placard may be used in any ADA space in the lot to park for FREE. Street Parking If Lot 68 Upper is full, visitors may find metered parking on the streets in and around campus. Metered parking costs 25 cents for every 12 minutes. Metered spaces allow for a maximum 2-hour parking. Please pay close attention to on-street signs marked for Brown-specific spaces. These spaces are reserved for Brown employees until noon and require a specific Brown daytime employee parking permit. Visitors can park in these spaces after noon. Cars parked in these spaces before noon without Brown employee parking permits may be ticketed and/or towed at the owner's expense. Download Passport Parking App Download the Passport Parking mobile app before traveling to Brown so you can pay for metered parking in Providence, if necessary. This app has replaced the use of credit cards at paid parking meters in the city. This includes on major streets such as Waterman, Angell and Hope, and on numerous streets in the Jewelry District, where Brown does not have a designated visitor’s lot (although there are parking garages that accept visitors at the garage's hourly and daily rates). Department Information Departmental Visitor Parking Pass (only) Departments may purchase visitor parking passes for parking in Lot 57 or Lot 76. The visitor parking rate is $15/day. To purchase passes, please complete the visitor parking pass request form. Note: The pay stations do not allow for department-validated rates. The rate is the same for all visitors. Departmental Visitor Parking Passes cannot be used in the Visitor Parking Lot. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Snapchat Twitter YouTube Social Media Directory © Brown University Brown University For You Current Students Faculty Staff Parents & Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Academics Undergraduate Graduate & Professional Schools & Colleges Academic Departments Centers & Institutes Libraries & Collections Global Education Non-Degree Programs Admission & Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission Medical School Admission Executive & Professional Admission Tuition & Aid Research Find a Researcher Industry Engagement Conducting Research at Brown Life at Brown Athletics & Recreation Community Health & Wellness Housing & Dining Life in Providence Student Organizations University Events News Featured Events For Journalists Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events For You Give to Brown All of Brown.edu People News Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Driving Directions and Parking Information Open details for Driving Directions and Parking Information Bookmark this Page