Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Herff College of Engineering About Future Students Students Programs Research Alumni Events Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Current Students Academic Advising Get Involved Scholarships Tutoring Services Honors Program Engineering Career Services Fundamentals of Engineering Exam Take Action Visit Herff Apply to UofM Orientation 2021 Contact Us Follow Us Online FacebooktwitterLinkedIn Home Herff College of Engineering Current Students Orientation New Student Orientation Welcome to the Herff College of Engineering! Faculty and staff are committed to the success of each student and focused on preparing you for the rigor and rewards of an engineering degree. Please sign up for NSO as soon as possible and refer to the University of Memphis New Student Orientation website for details. Herff New Student Orientation Check List: printable list of what you need to accomplish during New Student Orientation Registration Example Video: step by step tutorial that covers how to register Registration Quick Guide: a brief guide to online class registration that starts with logging into the myMemphis portal and takes you through reviewing your class schedule. Course Information Biomedical, Civil, Computer Engineering, Electrical Engineering, and Mechanical Engineering General Education Courses Sample first year courses: Biomedical Engineering Sample first year courses: Civil Engineering Sample first year courses: Electrical Engineering Computer Engineering Sample first year courses: Mechanical Engineering Engineering Technology General Education Courses Sample first year courses Additional Resources Honors College Honors Forum Fall 2022 course list Helpful Hints for Class Scheduling & Registration Glossary of Commonly Used Terms, view this handout to learn more about terms used during the advising process and across UofM campus. Computer Requirements specific to the Herff College of Engineering Navigate Academic Planning Tool Instructions, learn how to use Navigate Student to create your academic plan. Navigate Appointment Scheduler, Navigate is a system that links faculty, advisors, staff and students in a coordinated network designed to help students as they "navigate" their way through college starting with registration, meeting with advisors, scheduling classes and other tasks leading to graduation. You do not need to make an online appointment at this time, we look forward to seeing you in person at NSO! Read below for details about NSO specific to engineering: Prior to your scheduled NSO session, our college advisor, Ms. Betsy Loe (egrear@memphis.edu), will send an email with details about advising and registration to your University of Memphis email account. This account is used for all official communication, and should not be forwarded to other accounts. Get in the habit of checking this account often! You will be placed into a mathematics course based upon the math sub-score from the ACT. A critical factor for success and graduation in an engineering discipline is correct math placement. This is an important conversation to have with your advisor. If you are undecided as to which engineering major to choose, then select undecided engineering, and make sure you are advised in the college of engineering. We can help you select classes to stay on track for graduation and make the choice of an engineering major. It is important that you develop a positive relationship with your advisor. This starts during NSO. More engineering advising details can be found at https://www.memphis.edu/herff/students/advising.php. We look forward to seeing you soon! Go Tigers! Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 5/13/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.