Skip to main content Operating Status Face coverings are optional in offices, conference rooms, research labs, housing, and public spaces in buildings. Face coverings are still required in all teaching spaces, teaching labs, computer labs, buses, libraries, clinical facilities, and student-staff and student-faculty meetings spaces. More COVID-19 information Close Search Enter a Search Term Search Rutgers Search Search this site Search all Rutgers Search People Rutgers Logo New Brunswick Newark Camden RBHS/Health Info For: Prospective Students and Parents Current Students Faculty and Staff Alumni and Donors Partners Job Seekers News Rutgers Today Rutgers Magazine Events Giving Gcse block (invisible) Open Search Rutgers Logo About Rutgers About the University President Jonathan Holloway Serving New Jersey and the World An Economic Engine A Partner in Research and Innovation United Against COVID-19 Rutgers Excellence Rutgers, By the Numbers Rutgers Rankings Budget Facts Our Structure Governance and Leadership Office of the President Administrative Council Our Revolutionary Roots Rutgers Traditional Songs The Rutgers Experience Discover Rutgers Rutgers–New Brunswick Rutgers–Newark Rutgers–Camden Rutgers Biomedical and Health Sciences (RBHS) Show Your Rutgers Pride Rutgers Athletics Uniquely New Jersey Academics Academics Overview Undergraduate Academics Explore Undergraduate Programs Graduate and Professional Studies Explore Graduate & Professional Programs Top Graduate Programs Schools and Colleges Continuing Education Online Degree Programs Catalogs Libraries Faculty Excellence Global Learning Rutgers at Your Community College Student Support Research Research at Rutgers A Partner in Research and Innovation Health & Patient Care Advancing Treatment and Wellness Admissions & Tuition About Applying Path to Rutgers Tuition and Financial Aid Visits and Tours Getting Here Open Search Open Search Open Menu Close About Rutgers About the University President Jonathan Holloway Serving New Jersey and the World An Economic Engine A Partner in Research and Innovation United Against COVID-19 Rutgers Excellence Rutgers, By the Numbers Rutgers Rankings Budget Facts Our Structure Governance and Leadership Office of the President Administrative Council Our Revolutionary Roots Rutgers Traditional Songs The Rutgers Experience Discover Rutgers Rutgers–New Brunswick Rutgers–Newark Rutgers–Camden Rutgers Biomedical and Health Sciences (RBHS) Show Your Rutgers Pride Rutgers Athletics Uniquely New Jersey Academics Academics Overview Undergraduate Academics Explore Undergraduate Programs Graduate and Professional Studies Explore Graduate & Professional Programs Top Graduate Programs Schools and Colleges Continuing Education Online Degree Programs Catalogs Libraries Faculty Excellence Global Learning Rutgers at Your Community College Student Support Research Research at Rutgers A Partner in Research and Innovation Health & Patient Care Admissions & Tuition About Applying Path to Rutgers Tuition and Financial Aid Visits and Tours Getting Here Utility Mobile Info For: Prospective Students and Parents Current Students Faculty and Staff Alumni and Donors Partners Job Seekers News Rutgers Today Rutgers Magazine Events Giving New Brunswick Newark Camden RBHS/Health Academics Student Support Student Support When you come to Rutgers, you’re not only here to learn, but to thrive. Across the university, students will find services, amenities, and programming that provide a solid foundation for success in college and on the job. Advising At Rutgers, support is easy to come by. Students have ample academic advising opportunities to help you choose a major or minor, select the right courses, and identify important opportunities for your specific goals. Students are encouraged to meet with an adviser early and often to help chart a path to academic success at Rutgers. Your adviser will do exactly what their title implies—give advice—to help you understand the Rutgers processes and policies that affect you. Rutgers University–New Brunswick Academic Advising Rutgers University–Newark Academic Advising Rutgers University–Camden Academic Advising 150+ Undergraduate majors 400+ Graduate programs 18,000+ Degrees awarded annually 83% Employed or in grad school six months after graduation Class of 2019, Rutgers–New Brunswick Resources for Learning and Writing Being able to think critically and write clearly are key skills to develop for academic and professional success. Rutgers ensures students have the resources needed to develop writing ability, including usage of style guides, formatting documents and citations, preparing written arguments, and more. Rutgers Learning Centers offer students with a variety of tutoring opportunities designed to address difficult subject areas and to help students excel. New Brunswick Newark Camden Writing Centers New Brunswick Newark Camden Career Services From interview coaching and networking opportunities to internships and job fairs, Rutgers career services are available to help you land your first job. Need help translating your education and experience into a résumé? They help with that, too. Rutgers career services help get you connected to and focused on navigating the job market. New Brunswick Newark Camden Student Success Find resources and services to succeed at Rutgers–New Brunswick. Students can find academic support services, information on involvement and community opportunities, experiential learning and career preparation resources, and more at success.rutgers.edu. The site also includes important “How To” instructional videos and guides related to course scheduling, add/drop, technology systems such as Canvas, Teams, the Rutgers Handshake Career Management platform and more. Go to Site Living-Learning and Thematic Communities Designed to give students a shared experience around their academics and/or residential environment, Rutgers’ academic community programs provide an opportunity for connecting students to faculty within and beyond the classroom, and help to facilitate students’ transition from high school to Rutgers. New Brunswick Newark Camden Financial Support There are a number of costs associated with attending college. However, most Rutgers undergraduate students and their families receive financial assistance to help defray these costs. More than 75 percent of Rutgers undergraduates receive some form of financial aid. Tuition and Financial Aid Honors Colleges and Programs Join a community focused on learning through examining complex problems and global challenges. The Honors Colleges place talented and like-minded students together for a unique Rutgers experience. Additionally, many of the schools within Rutgers have their own honors programs. Learn about Honors Colleges at Rutgers: New Brunswick Newark Camden Student Health and Counseling College is an exciting time in a young adult’s life, but it can also be stressful and pressure-filled. Physical and/or mental health issues may surface for the first time or become amplified. Rutgers students can turn to their campus communities for help and guidance. Health Services (New Brunswick) Health Services (Newark) Student Wellness Services (Camden) Counseling Services (New Brunswick) Counseling Services (Newark) Counseling Services (Camden) Alcohol and Other Drug Assistance Program (New Brunswick) Alcohol and Other Drug Assistance Program (Newark) Alcohol, Drug, and Nicotine Counseling and Assistance (Camden) Ready to Get Started? Find a program that’s right for you. Start Exploring What kind of study are you looking for? Undergraduate Education What do you want to pursue? Biological and Life Sciences Business Communication, IT, and Journalism Engineering Environmental Sciences Fine and Performing Arts Foreign Languages Health Professions Humanities and Social Sciences Mathematics and Physical Sciences Start Over Graduate and Professional Studies Start Over Online Learning Online Degree Programs Search Online Courses Start Over Continuing Education Start Over Global Learning Start Over Site Footer Rutgers University New Brunswick Newark Camden RBHS/Health Connect Campus Safety Contact Us Continuing Education Giving to Rutgers Graduate Admissions Undergraduate Admissions University Maps Universitywide Offices Work at Rutgers Find a Health Care Provider Rutgers Magazine University Events Academic Academic Calendars Course Catalogs University Libraries myRutgers Portal Notices April 27, 2022: Open Hearing on the University’s Tuition, Fees, and Housing and Dining Charges for 2022–2023 Commencement Information University Operating Status Accessibility Resources Budget Facts Consumer Information Disclosures Follow Us Subscribe to Rutgers News Rutgers is an equal access/equal opportunity institution. Individuals with disabilities are encouraged to direct suggestions, comments, or complaints concerning any accessibility issues with Rutgers websites to accessibility@rutgers.edu or complete the Report Accessibility Barrier / Provide Feedback form. Copyright ©2022, Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey. All rights reserved. Contact webmaster