Skip to main content Google Tag Manager The University of Virginia SIS Collab Email Jobs Info For Alumni & Friends Current Students Faculty & Staff Parents Search form Search Close Main Menu Main menu About Us Go to About Us Charlottesville & Beyond Facts & Figures Visit Academics Go to Academics Schools Undergraduate Studies Graduate Studies International Studies Continuing & Executive Education Academic Calendar J-Term & Summer Session Undergraduate Majors Online Learning Admission Undergraduate Admission Apply Tuition & Affordability Undergraduate Majors & Programs Clubs & Activities Sports & Recreation Student-Self Governance Housing & Residence Life What’s Next for UVA’s Class of 2022? Arts Athletics Health System Libraries Research You are here Home Admission Sports & Recreation X Sports & Recreation Club & Intramural Sports ‘Hoo Crew Athletics Exercising Every Opportunity Women’s Water Polo Club Walk across Grounds at any time of day and you’ll find our community enjoying an active lifestyle. Whether it is a championship match of intramural soccer or achieving a personal best in the weight room, our students and faculty make sports and recreation an integral part of the UVA experience. More than 300,000 square feet of indoor recreation space and over 30 acres of outdoor courts and fields are available to you. Additionally, we have the McArthur Squash Center, which hosted the 2018 World Masters championship, and the Slaughter Climbing Center, with over 2,000 square feet of climbing surface. Students and faculty have every opportunity to enrich their lives through sports and recreation. Our Club Sports and Intramural Leagues connect athletes through friendly competition. Our fitness and adventure programs develop the knowledge, confidence, discipline and friendships needed to thrive here and into the future. Whatever your passion may be, you can exercise every opportunity to pursue it with vigor. Bringing The Ruckus ESPN College GameDay Think you’ve witnessed school spirit? Think again. Through our love of the ‘Hoos, we have reinvented fandom. Visit any varsity home game and you’ll witness the sheer awesomeness of the ‘Hoo Crew, our student fan section who has been nationally recognized with the Naismith Student Section of the Year Award. Made up of some of the most dedicated ‘Hoos from across the University, this orange force of nature kicks the energy into high gear. By the Numbers 17 Courts, Fields and Recreation Centers 25 25 Varsity Athletic Teams (12 Men’s and 13 Women’s) 31 NCAA Team National Championships Committed to Excellence Of course, mustering up school spirit isn’t hard when you’ve got a phenomenal athletic program. Across 25 NCAA Division I sports, the Virginia Cavaliers have captured 81 Atlantic Coast Conference championships since 2002, more than any other ACC school. Since the fall of 2012, UVA has won nine NCAA championships, including national championships in men's basketball and men's lacrosse in 2019. The Cavaliers placed first in the 2019 Men’s Capital One Cup, honoring the nation’s top Division I athletic programs. During the 2018-19 academic year, a school-record 427 UVA student-athletes were named to the ACC Academic Honor Roll. Virginia posted a graduation rate of 92 percent in the NCAA's annual Graduation Success Rate for incoming student-athletes from 2008 to 2011. It is the highest mark for Virginia since the report was launched in 1998. Club & Intramural Sports ‘Hoo Crew Athletics University of Virginia Instagram Twitter Facebook YouTube Footer Utilities Non-Discrimination Notice UVA Tuition Notice Wise Tuition Notice Consumer Information Accessibility Emergency SIS FOIA Privacy © 2022 By The Rector And Visitors Of The University Of Virginia