Skip to main content Toggle Navigation Menu Protect the Pack COVID-19 Readiness Personal Precautions Community Standards COVID-19 Health Services Updates COVID-19 Readiness Personal Precautions sub navigation menuPersonal Precautions COVID-19 Health Services Updates Full Site Navigation Personal Precautions Community Standards Updates Search for: May 16, 2022 Summer Updates NC State community: As we head into the summer months, we are consolidating campus COVID-19 health services and operations. It remains important for all of us to continue taking measures to protect ourselves against COVID-19. That means staying home if […] Feb 28, 2022 Revised Campus Face Covering Protocols Start March 7 NC State community, In response to recent improvements in pandemic conditions across Wake County and North Carolina, and in alignment with new guidance provided by the UNC System Office, beginning March 7 face coverings will be optional in most campus indoor […] Feb 22, 2022 Important: Adjustments to NC State’s COVID-19 Policies NC State community, As rates of COVID-19 infections and hospitalizations continue to decline in North Carolina and across the country, the university is reducing masking and testing requirements in line with recent updates from the state and guidance from health […] Jan 31, 2022 Mask Distribution for Faculty and Staff NC State Emergency Management and Mission Continuity maintains supplies of face coverings and hand sanitizer and has done so throughout the pandemic. Departments can request supplies for employees through this link. The university also recently received a limited supply of N95s […] Jan 28, 2022 Continuing down the right path NC State community, Thank you for all your efforts to help keep the Wolfpack safe and healthy, and for remaining resilient as we continue to navigate the COVID-19 pandemic. Here are a few reminders and links to resources available to […] Jan 14, 2022 Protect the Pack: A message from Chancellor Woodson NC State community: Please click here to watch an update from Chancellor Randy Woodson on the university’s COVID-19 response. Continue to check the Protect the Pack site for updates, and please read the important information below. What you need to […] Jan 4, 2022 Protect the Pack: Important Reminders and Updates NC State community, As we begin 2022 with hope and excitement for all this year can bring, we must continue doing everything we can to keep our Wolfpack safe and healthy. Remember that the best defense against COVID-19, including the […] Dec 27, 2021 Changes to Spring COVID-19 Testing Requirements NC State Community, The university continues to closely monitor COVID-19 conditions and follow the guidance of healthcare officials. The omicron variant of COVID-19 has spread across the country, including in North Carolina. NC State is implementing return-to-campus testing requirements for […] Dec 6, 2021 Campus COVID Update: Fall Wrap up and Spring Expectations NC State community, Thank you for your commitment to protect the Pack this semester. Because of your diligence in following the university’s community standards, COVID-19 cases on campus have remained low, and the university has achieved an 84% vaccination rate […] Nov 22, 2021 Enjoy a safe, healthy break NC State community: As the semester begins to wind down and we head toward a much-deserved Thanksgiving holiday break, we want to thank you, our Wolfpack community, for all you’ve done to help keep our Pack on track this semester. […] Older Posts Protect the Pack Raleigh, NC 27695 919.515.2011 Academic Calendar Accessibility Apply Contact Copyright COVID-19 Updates Directory Emergency Information Free Speech Jobs Libraries MyPack Portal Policies Privacy Social Media Strategic Plan Campus Map facebook you tube twitter instagram linked in © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.