Skip to main content Menu Resources Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply or Give Apply Now Make a Gift Harvey and Lucinda Gantt Multicultural Center International Festival The International Festival is an annual event that symbolizes Clemson’s commitment to celebrating identities and cultures from around the world. A highly anticipated event for campus and greater community members, the festival includes culturally-based foods as well as entertainment and activities for all ages. In addition, the event features local craft and non-profit vendors as well as a children’s area to make it a well-rounded, family-friendly event. Please notice a guide for the International Festival below: 2022 International Festival Update As you may recall, our International Festival was canceled the past 2 years due to the spread of COVID-19 and university regulations that followed. We anticipate the International Festival will be held on April 1, 2022 (rain date of April 10, 2022) on Bowman Field. Please join us to celebrate the international students and cultures from around the world. The university policy regarding COVID-19 will be enforced for the International Festival. Please visit this website to learn about the regulations and guidelines for COVID-19: https://www.clemson.edu/covid-19/index.html Register as a Vendor or Performer Our Clemson University, and greater Clemson, communities are the backbone of the International Festival. In order to ensure this event can be free to the public, we often rely on our student organizations, campus departments, and community partners to serve as our vendors and performers during the festival. Global Showcase One of Clemson's Core values is respect, and as Clemson students, we are exposed to a vast amount of cultural backgrounds and identities. The global showcase sector of the International Festival is focused on celebrating and sharing these different cultures through entertainment. We are looking to welcome groups or individuals from any cultural background to perform and to participate in a fashion show that represents their cultural background. The global showcase sector will also include musical groups that represent the cultural diversity of Clemson University. Sign up here. Global Cuisines One of the central parts of the International Festival is the Global Cuisines station. Global Cuisine allows food vendors to sell food that is an important part of their culture/country. As a food vendor, you can help introduce and bring joy to those that want to try something new and delicious as well as learn information about a culture/country. This is also a great organizational fundraiser as 100% ticket sales go back to the vendor. Sign up here. International Kids Zone International Festival is family friendly event with attractions and activities for individuals at all ages. Join the International Kids Zone to make the event a fun time for children! This is also a great opportunity teach young children about a new culture in an exciting way. If you are interested in registering as a vendor, please contact ljacks6@clemson.edu and/or aarroyo@g.clemson.edu. World Market In an effort to ensure the International Festival is also an educational event, we have a World Market designed to provide relevant information and artifacts from various cultures. Vendors will be able to host information tables sharing important facts related to their community and have the potential to sell items connected to that culture. If you are interested in participating in the World Market, please contact ljacks6@clemson.edu and/or aarroyo@g.clemson.edu. International Awareness Week March 30, 31 & April 1, 2022 International Awareness Week allows our community the opportunity to engage in fun and educational events following the International Festival. In the past, events have included trivia nights, movie nights, yoga, and other events. This year, we also plan to host an Intercultural/Interfaith Dinner giving participants the opportunity to talk about the importance of intercultural competence and how we can build bridges across difference. These events are typically sponsored by a multicultural student organization or campus department. Please sign up if you are interested in hosting an event for International Awareness Week! Festival Information Food and beverages can be purchased with tickets. Ticket booths will be located through the Festival and each ticket costs $1.00 USD. Tickets are non-refundable, so please scan our food vendors before purchasing tickets. We will have cash and (limited) credit card sales. Gendered restrooms are located in Old Main (Tillman) Hall. If you need a gender neutral restroom, one is located in the University Union on the 7th floor near the elevator. Alcoholic beverages are NOT sold nor permitted at this event. First Aid: The festival will consist of a first aid station with chairs and water for individuals. We will also have CU Police Department, CU Fire Department, and CU EMS on-site for more serious needs. Lost and Found: All items found should be returned to one of the Information tables at the festival. Baby-Stop Station: We will have a station available for adults who need to attend to the needs of young children/infants. This station is primarily for breast/chest feeding, changing, or quiet time. We acknowledge that this may not be the most suitable environment for these activities, so please plan accordingly. Additional Reminders For quicker access to purchase tickets, please plan to bring cash to the festival with you. Additionally, all attractions (except food and drinks) are FREE. Bring the family! This is a family friendly event with attractions for all ages! Bring sunscreen as the event is exclusively outdoors. Parking & Shuttles: Parking will be located behind the College of Business and in lot C-4. Shuttles will be transporting guests to and from lot C-4 to Bowman Field throughout the festival. International Kids Zone Activities Include: Passport Activity: Each child will have the opportunity to participate in a passport activity where they’ll be expected to learn key information about each country. Prizes include an autographed football from Coach Dabo Swinney! Arts and Crafts Global Showcase Previous performances have included a variety of groups and we hope to offer similar experiences this year. Clemson Steel Drum Band Transcultural Yazz Band Global Cuisines Keep in mind that food must be purchased with tickets ($1.00 per ticket) Organizations represented include: Hermandad de Sigma Iota Alpha, Inc. Muslim Student Association Delta Phi Lambda Sorority, Inc. Black Graduate Student Association Society of Hispanic Professional Engineers Clemson University Cultural Ambassadors Clemson University Iranian Student Association Latinos Unidos Clemson University Chinese Student and Scholar Association Lambda Theta Phi Latin Fraternity, Inc. Fullbright Fellows and Friends A.Bevy Collegiate Group Latin Dance Club Pakistan Cultural Association Clemson Dholna Clemson Indian Student Association Nepalese Student Association Saudi Arabian Students World Market Various vendors and countries will be represented including: Graduate Student Government Sweden Philippines Kenya Henna Photobooth Home About The Gantts Dialogue Initiatives Intercultural Development Inventory International Festival LGBTQ Programs MLK Celebration Multicultural Programs Presentations and Outreach Contact Us Related Links Diversity and Inclusion Office of Inclusion and Equity Global Engagement Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram