Skip to content Clemson University Clemson University Search Menu Close Sorry, your browser does not support inline SVG. Sorry, your browser does not support inline SVG. Apply Giving News Resources for Students Faculty & Staff Parents Alumni Clemson University Academics Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Academics Home Employment Opportunities Apply for Admission Colleges College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business College of Education College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences College of Science Graduate School Academic Resources Academic Calendar Registrar Division of Undergraduate Studies Center for Career and Professional Development Academic Success Center GRAD 360° Libraries Outside the Classroom PEER/WISE Call Me MISTER® Creative Inquiry and Undergraduate Research Cooperative Education University Professional Internship and Co-op Program (UPIC) Study Abroad Admissions Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Admissions Home Schedule a Tour Apply for Admission Applying to Clemson First-Year Undergraduate Transfer Undergraduate International Undergraduate Graduate Students Academic Opportunities Majors Graduate Programs Online Graduate Programs Scholar Programs Paths to Graduate School Honors College Experiential Learning Financial Aid Tuition and Fee Calculator Undergraduate Financial Aid Graduate Fellowships and Awards Residency Requirements Campus Life Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Campus Life Home Club Sports Brooks Center for the Performing Arts Join Your Clemson Family Finding Your Community Living-Learning Communities Student Veterans Multicultural Programs FIRST Army ROTC Air Force ROTC Services On Campus Housing & Dining Campus Recreation Parking and Transportation Student Health Services TigerOne Card Services Clemson Athletics Get Involved Clubs and Organizations Fraternity and Sorority Life Orientation Ambassadors Tiger Media Graduate Student Government Undergraduate Student Government Research Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Research Home Clemson University Research Foundation (CURF) Division of Research Research Opportunities Student Research at Clemson Creative Inquiry Research Facilities Postdoctoral Affairs Serving South Carolina Through Research School of Health Research Public Service and Agriculture Clemson Experimental Forest Clemson Extension Clemson Research and Education Centers Public Service and Agriculture Research Farm Services Innovation and Economic Development Corporate Partnerships and Strategic Initiatives Clemson University International Center for Automotive Research (CU-ICAR) Clemson University Restoration Institute (CURI) Clemson University Biomedical Engineering Innovation Campus (CUBEInC) Center for Human Genetics Innovation Campus and Technology Park About Clemson Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back About Clemson Home Clemson News Clemson Athletics For Tigers Applying to Clemson Working at Clemson Traditions Military Heritage Things To Do in Clemson Visit Clemson Campus Resources Employment Opportunities Home and Garden Information Center Brand Guidelines CCIT Academic Calendar Training ClemsonForward Campus Leadership Board of Trustees President Academic Affairs and Provost Inclusion and Equity Student Affairs Faculty Senate Staff Senate Search Resources for Current Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Admissions Undergraduate Admissions Forward Arrow Undergraduate Admissions Cost and Aid Admissions Statistics Virtual Engagement Opportunities Contact Undergraduate Admissions Back Arrow Back Graduate School Admissions Visit Forward Arrow Visit Choose Your Tour Visitor Parking and Accommodations Things To Do in Clemson Back Arrow Back Applying to Clemson Forward Arrow Applying to Clemson First-Year Application Process Transfer Application Process International Application Process Counselor Information Veterans Back Arrow Back Apply Giving News Sikes Hall Icon Main Menu Forward Arrow Icon Back Arrow Icon Back Clemson University Academics Academics Home Employment Opportunities Apply for Admission Colleges College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business College of Education College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences College of Science Graduate School Academic Resources Academic Calendar Registrar Division of Undergraduate Studies Center for Career and Professional Development Academic Success Center GRAD 360° Libraries Outside the Classroom PEER/WISE Call Me MISTER® Creative Inquiry and Undergraduate Research Cooperative Education University Professional Internship and Co-op Program (UPIC) Study Abroad Admissions Admissions Home Schedule a Tour Apply for Admission Applying to Clemson First-Year Undergraduate Transfer Undergraduate International Undergraduate Graduate Students Academic Opportunities Majors Graduate Programs Online Graduate Programs Scholar Programs Paths to Graduate School Honors College Experiential Learning Financial Aid Tuition and Fee Calculator Undergraduate Financial Aid Graduate Fellowships and Awards Residency Requirements Campus Life Campus Life Home Club Sports Brooks Center for the Performing Arts Join Your Clemson Family Finding Your Community Living-Learning Communities Student Veterans Multicultural Programs FIRST Army ROTC Air Force ROTC Services On Campus Housing & Dining Campus Recreation Parking and Transportation Student Health Services TigerOne Card Services Clemson Athletics Get Involved Clubs and Organizations Fraternity and Sorority Life Orientation Ambassadors Tiger Media Graduate Student Government Undergraduate Student Government Research Research Home Clemson University Research Foundation (CURF) Division of Research Research Opportunities Student Research at Clemson Creative Inquiry Research Facilities Postdoctoral Affairs Serving South Carolina Through Research School of Health Research Public Service and Agriculture Clemson Experimental Forest Clemson Extension Clemson Research and Education Centers Public Service and Agriculture Research Farm Services Innovation and Economic Development Corporate Partnerships and Strategic Initiatives Clemson University International Center for Automotive Research (CU-ICAR) Clemson University Restoration Institute (CURI) Clemson University Biomedical Engineering Innovation Campus (CUBEInC) Center for Human Genetics Innovation Campus and Technology Park About Clemson About Clemson Home Clemson News Clemson Athletics For Tigers Applying to Clemson Working at Clemson Traditions Military Heritage Things To Do in Clemson Visit Clemson Campus Resources Employment Opportunities Home and Garden Information Center Brand Guidelines CCIT Academic Calendar Training ClemsonForward Campus Leadership Board of Trustees President Academic Affairs and Provost Inclusion and Equity Student Affairs Faculty Senate Staff Senate Search close Admissions Undergraduate Admissions show submenu for Undergraduate Admissions Cost and Aid Admissions Statistics Virtual Engagement Opportunities Contact Undergraduate Admissions Graduate School Admissions Visit show submenu for Visit Choose Your Tour Visitor Parking and Accommodations Things To Do in Clemson Applying to Clemson show submenu for Applying to Clemson First-Year Application Process Transfer Application Process International Application Process Counselor Information Veterans Clemson Home Admissions Visit Current: Things To Do in Clemson Things To Do in Clemson Dip your toes in the cool waters of Lake Hartwell. Listen to the carillon play. Marvel at the talents of world-renowned performers. Cheer for your favorite team. Experience the feeling of home that draws individuals from across the globe to Clemson and fosters relationships that last a lifetime. Bowman Field Meet up with friends. The green expanse stretching from Tillman Hall to downtown Clemson is a favorite spot for leisure activities and events. The Brooks Center for the Performing Arts Immerse yourself in a story. Performances at the Robert Howell Brooks Center for the Performing Arts include global talent and range from classical plays to acapella groups. Be sure to browse upcoming shows and purchase tickets before your visit. Clemson Memorial Stadium Raise your voice. Better known as Death Valley, Clemson’s football stadium is where students, alumni and community members cheer on the Tigers together! Find tickets and be sure to wear orange at the game. Carillon Garden Take the scenic route. Nestled between Sikes and Tillman halls, the Carillon Garden provides students with a breath of fresh air as they walk between classes. Riggs Field Cheer on the Tigers. Riggs Field is named for Walter Merritt Riggs, one of Clemson’s presidents and the University’s first football coach. The field has been used for various athletic events since 1915 and is the soccer stadium today. Catch a game while you’re in town. Fort Hill Hear the whole history. Fort Hill, a registered National Historic Landmark, can be found in the middle of campus. Take a tour and learn more about Clemson and its founder. Lake Hartwell Soak up some sun. Sailing, kayaking, camping, paddleboarding, volleyball and swimming adventures begin at the Snow Outdoor Fitness and Wellness Complex beside Lake Hartwell. Sunny, sandy and just a walk away, this is a favorite spot for Clemson students. Military Heritage Plaza Practice gratitude. The site features a life-sized statue of a cadet and 41 sets of footprints of former Clemson cadets to commemorate the spirit of Clemson’s military heritage. Memorial Park and Scroll of Honor Remember their sacrifice. Memorial Park pays tribute to Clemson alumni and friends who have served South Carolina and the United States. A walkway in the park leads to a reflection point honoring Clemson alumni who have died in military service. Outdoor Theater Celebrate together. The amphitheater was a gift from the Class of 1915. Pep rallies, outdoor movies and concerts on this stage make it a fun gathering spot. President’s Park Pause and reflect. One of the most beautiful walks in Clemson, President’s Park fills with azalea blooms in the spring, and all year long the rotunda portrays Clemson’s historical responsibilities of teaching, research and public service. South Carolina Botanical Garden Smell the roses. Catch a glimpse of South Carolina’s biodiversity in the 295-acre South Carolina Botanical Garden located just off campus, with several thousand types of ornamental plants and a unique collection of nature-based sculptures. Clemson Memorial Carillon Listen to the landmark. Our clock tower houses the 48-bell Clemson Memorial Carillon and allows students to set the tone for campus when they play them. When you hear the bells, you know you’ve arrived in Clemson. Contact the Visitors Center Visitors Center staff are happy to answer any questions related to tours, visitor parking and accommodations. The Visitors Center can be contacted by phone at 864-656-4789 or by email at visit@admission.clemson.edu. Clemson University Facebook Instagram Twitter Linkedin Youtube Tiktok Policy/Terms of Use Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Copyright © 2022 Clemson University • Clemson, South Carolina 29634 Clemson University Facebook Instagram Twitter Linkedin Youtube Tiktok Resources A-Z Index Campus Map CU Safety Directory Webcams Apply to Clemson