Skip to content Enter search text All the UW Current site Search scope All the UW Current site MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links Menu Home My Husky is a . . . Transfer student International student Out-of-state student First-generation student First-year student Sophomore/Junior Graduating student Resources Parent & Family Guide Student Life Academics Health & Safety Living & Dining Finances Transportation Move In Resources Talk with your Husky Husky Huddle-up podcast Forms, releases, and accounts Common Questions Events All events UW Family Weekend Connect Support Parents & Families Transfer Students Welcome. We’re glad you’re here! Transfer students and families are an important part of the University of Washington community. As the parent or family member of a transfer student, there’s a lot you’ve already learned about what it means to support your student in their education journey. At the UW, however, we have our own way of doing things. We want to make sure you have all the tools and information you need to help your student’s transition be as seamless and successful as possible. A good place to start: the UW Parent & Family Guide. Inside, you’ll find a comprehensive roundup of resources on everything from academics to housing to student life. Campus contacts Transferring to UW Transfer Ambassadors (TAs) UW Financial Aid Commuter and Transfer Commons (CTC) Undergraduate Advising UW tutoring and resource centers Connecting to a new community Shortly after your student confirms their acceptance, they will be invited via email to the UW Transfer Student Yammer Group, to a private chat community. In addition, Transfer Advising & Orientation is an important way for your student to connect with their new campus community. At A&O, transfer students work with peers, faculty, staff and administrators to tap into resources, build community and register for courses. Learn more UW staff is here to help Our faculty and staff are committed to the success of transfer students. The Transfer Student Engagement Council was formed in 2015 as a way to provide transfer students with resources across departments. About the Council Common transfer student questions Common transfer student questions What's the best way for transfer students to connect with each other? Shortly after your student confirms their acceptance, they will be invited via email to the UW Transfer Student Yammer Group, to a private chat community managed by UW-IT. Transfer Ambassadors are also available to help support new Huskies, and the Commuter and Transfer Commons (CTC) is a great place to meet fellow transfers. What types of scholarships and grants are available for transfer students? All transfer students are considered for the same types and amounts of aid as other UW students when they complete the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) before Jan. 15. The UW also offers several scholarships specifically for transfer students. What happens if my transfer student is not accepted into their first-choice major? Entering a top-choice major can be a challenge for transfer students. A number of majors are capacity-constrained, and it is difficult to know about all of the different major options at a place as complex as the UW. The Exploring Major Alternatives tool can help your student consider all the options and find a course of study that fits their interests. What housing options are available for transfer students? All UW students have the choice to live on campus — in university-owned residence halls, apartments or family housing — or off campus in a property not owned by the university. Fraternities and sororities are considered off-campus housing. There are a variety of options for your student to choose from with different price points and proximity to campus. How can transfer students start preparing for a career? The UW has a range of resources to help students build their professional network and explore career options. Two places to start: the UW Husky Landing tool and the Career & Internship Center. Summer research programs are another way for undergraduate students to try something new or take their academic interests to the next level. Did you know? Transfer students have their own space on our Seattle campus. The Commuter and Transfer Commons (CTC) offers day-use lockers, kitchenette and microwave, phone chargers, rentable laptops and more. University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA