Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Explore Brown University Search Global Navigation Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering The Harriet W. Sheridan Center for Teaching and Learning Home About Programs & Services Teaching & Learning Resources Teaching Resources Teaching in Times of Disruption Course Design Classroom Practices Learning Contexts Active Learning Critical Reading Contemplative Pedagogy Promoting Metacognition Teaching with Podcasts Classroom Communication Tips Effective Multimedia Lecture Slides Teaching Problem Solving Writing to Learn Digital Teaching & Learning Working with TAs Teaching Writing Teaching Statements & Portfolios Mentoring Resources Inclusive Teaching Learning Collaborative News & Events Site Navigation Home About Staff Proctors and Head Teaching Consultants Teaching Consultants Sheridan Center Advisory Groups Departmental Liaisons Visit Staff Jobs at the Center Student Jobs at the Center Programs & Services Assessment Departmental Assessment Plans Campus Assessment Projects Assessing and Researching your Teaching Certificates Sheridan Teaching Seminar Course Design Seminar Teaching Consultant Program Head Teaching Consultants Invited Speaker Program Consultations Course Consultations Grant Consultations Teaching Observations Goals and Contexts Early Student Feedback Departmental Support Departmental Assessment Plans Learning Outcomes and Mapping English Language Support English Language Workshops Individual Support Conversation Partners Program English Language Program Fellowships & Awards Provost’s Faculty Teaching Fellows Graduate Student Proctorship in Academic Administration Graduate and Postdoc Teaching Fellows Junior Faculty Teaching Fellows University Awards Grant Support Institutes & Retreats Launch Anchor Problem Solving Course Design Institute Data Science Course Design Institute Seminar for Transformation Around Anti-Racist Teaching Orientations Tutoring Tutoring Supported Courses Summer 2022 Language Courses Apply to be a Tutor People Workshops & Roundtables Teaching Essentials for Graduate TAs Teaching Statements & Portfolios Sheridan-RISD Museum Collaborative Workshop Series Writing [email protected] Past [email protected] Programming Writing Center People Consultations FAQ Opportunities Writing Fellows People Courses English 1190M Outreach Apply Teaching & Learning Resources Teaching Resources Teaching in Times of Disruption Course Design Creating a Syllabus Resources for New Instructors Interpreting Your Course Feedback Evidence-based Practices Establishing Learning Goals Classroom Assessment Entrance and Exit Tickets Sample Exit Tickets Mid-Semester Feedback Guidelines for Assessing Student Learning Grading Criteria & Rubrics Creating Grading Criteria Designing Grading Rubrics Rubrics Criteria Rubrics Scales Enhancing Student Learning with Technology Promoting Study Skills Classroom Practices Learning Contexts First Day(s) of Class Lectures & Large Classes Discussions & Seminars Labs Active Learning Critical Reading Contemplative Pedagogy Promoting Metacognition Teaching with Podcasts Classroom Communication Tips Effective Multimedia Lecture Slides Teaching Problem Solving Writing to Learn Digital Teaching & Learning Working with TAs Teaching Writing Writing Fellows Courses Teaching a WRIT Course A Guide to the Writing Support (WSUP) Flag for Faculty Teaching Statements & Portfolios Mentoring Resources Effective Mentoring Practices Inclusive Teaching Anti-Racist Teaching Definitions Diversity & Inclusion Inclusive Mentoring Learning Collaborative Problem Solving Problem Solving Course Design Institute Problem Solving Fellows Research Writing Writing Across the Curriculum Seminar WAC Participants Writing Fellows People Courses English 1190M Apply Data Science Data Science Course Design Institute Data Science Fellows News & Events Upcoming Events Past Events Newsletter Classroom Communication Tips Rhetorical Techniques for Delivering Communication Verbal techniques help your audience understand what is being said. Vary the speed & tone of your voice to keep your voice interesting to listen to. Project your voice to be easily heard and to show confidence in what you are saying. Pause to gain attention, emphasize transitions in material, and allow students the opportunity to digest information. Non-Verbal techniques help your audience be receptive to what you are saying. Maintain eye contact with the audience and stand up straight to project confidence. Smile to communicate that you value what you are saying. Use movement to convey energy and enthusiasm but avoid excessive gesturing and distracting clothing, because they can divert attention from your message. Project excitement and energy to capture your audience’s attention. Media helps to explain complex ideas. Use it to enhance, not distract, from your message. A chalk board or dry-erase board can allow you to be dynamic, and can be used to show a process unfolding or articulate the reasoning behind a derivation. Slide presentations are useful for organizing a variety of visual, audio or animated information and can be used to emphasize key points and summarize ideas. Videos and animations can illustrate dynamic processes and provide a sense of scale. Audio clips can introduce a new voice into the classroom (often from another time/place) and illustrate the sounds of physical processes (e.g. a heart murmur in a medical class). Artifacts bring elements of the “real” into the class (e.g., meteorites or historical objects). Handouts, whether paper or electronic, are an effective way to share detailed information and images with students. Rhetorical Techniques for Structuring Communication Get the students interested. Connect the day’s topic to the students’ interests, experience, and prior knowledge to spark students’ curiosity and explain why it’s valuable or useful for them. Provide an engaging example or anecdote that the students can connect to, as emotional connections are more memorable than raw facts. Organize the class. Structure the class in a logical way; e.g., frame the topic as a story, present a problem then develop its solution, describe events and processes chronologically or show the relationship of interconnected ideas to an overarching theme. Share an outline to help the students organize and assimilate their learning. Make explicit transitions between topics to help students follow along; e.g., use verbal signposting such as mini-summaries or link a new topic to the one prior. Clarify the purpose or goal of the class. Repeat key ideas and concepts to emphasize their importance to students and help students to understand them; e.g., summarize key points, compare and contrast ideas with each other, or provide metaphors and analogies. Focus on major points and have students seek additional information in other activities. Techniques for Getting Feedback In Your Classroom Seek feedback from your students to judge your pacing and frame your instruction to meet their needs. Observe the students’ body language. Are they looking at you or are they gazing out the window? Are they taking notes, raising their hands and nodding along? Do you see yawns, shuffling chairs, students whispering or glazed looks? Use questions to find out what your students know and understand. Encourage students to ask questions to discover their areas of interest and confusion. Pose questions for students to answer that get them to test their own knowledge. You can have the students speak in small groups, write out short answers, or ask for a response from ~1-3 members of the class. Collect written feedback. Ask students to complete a brief online survey before or after class to find out what questions they have after a reading, assignment or lecture. Prompt students to write a response to an open question during a class to give students the opportunity to organize their own thoughts and provide you with a quick diagnostic of how they are doing. Teaching & Learning Resources Teaching Resources Teaching in Times of Disruption Course Design Classroom Practices Learning Contexts Active Learning Critical Reading Contemplative Pedagogy Promoting Metacognition Teaching with Podcasts Classroom Communication Tips Effective Multimedia Lecture Slides Teaching Problem Solving Writing to Learn Digital Teaching & Learning Working with TAs Teaching Writing Teaching Statements & Portfolios Mentoring Resources Inclusive Teaching The Sheridan Center The Sheridan Center Brown University Box 1912 Sciences Library 201 Thayer Street, 7th Floor Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-1219 Fax: 401-863-6976 Email [email protected] Facebook Facebook Brown University Giving to Brown Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA 401-863-1000 Contact Us Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility All Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top