Skip to main content Search search Resources Campus Map A-Z UAccess Directory / Phonebook Future Wildcat Weather News Calendar search search menu menu I am Select your audience choose an option a future student a current student a faculty or staff member a parent or visitor an alumni member a donor a business or partner Go to the page for that group Visit Apply home home close close Search search Main navigation Admissions Admissions Overview First-Year Transfer Graduate International Online Returning Non-Degree Seeking Counselors Professional Education & Certification Academics Undergraduate Majors Graduate Programs Colleges & Schools Academic Resources Health Sciences Class Registration Libraries Global Engagement Research Research, Innovation & Impact Corporate Engagement Research Centers Resources for Researchers Research Opportunities for Students Environment & Sustainability Student Life Student Life Overview Living on Campus Things To Do Getting Involved Spirit & Traditions All About Tucson Student Stories Visit About About Arizona Tuition & Aid Leadership Purpose, Mission & Values Faculty Awards & Honors Diversity & Inclusion New Economy Initiative Strategic Plan News Alumni Alumni Association Chapters & Clubs Arizona Loyal Give Support Arizona Give Today Athletics Alumni & Donors ALUMNI & DONORS Stay plugged in to University happenings and support the continued impact of UA around the world and in your own backyard. ALUMNI ASSOCIATION Alumni Resources Arizona Alumni Association The Alumni Association fosters a lifelong connection among UArizona alumni to one another and to the University. Join Arizona Loyal, the giving program that celebrates the university’s most devoted champions. Arizona Loyal UArizona License Plate A small gesture that makes a huge impact! Purchase a license plate to proclaim your Arizona spirit every time you hit the road. UArizona License Plate Wildcat for Life Store Shop the UArizona BookStores for merchandise any wildcat can enjoy, from clothing to tailgate season necessities. Shop for Wildcat Gear Arizona Giving Opportunities The enthusiasm and generosity of our alumni keep the Wildcat spirit strong across generations. Explore the fundraising opportunities for Arizona alumni. Giving Opportunities Alumni Social Media Find old friends and network with fellow Wildcats by connecting to our social media sites. Social Media Alumni Travel Discover the world with the UArizona Alumni Association Travel. Alumni Travel Arizona Legislative Advocacy Advocate for the University of Arizona and support higher education. Get involved by reviewing the resources available. Arizona Legislative Advocacy Donor Resources UA Foundation The University of Arizona Foundation works with community members, alumni and friends to advance the mission of the University, raising more than $2 billion in private funding since 1958. UA Foundation Find a Gift Opportunity Every gift makes a difference at Arizona. Explore the funding opportunities that affect our students, our faculty and researchers, and ultimately the University. Gift Opportunities Annual Giving Discover ways to give. Create your legacy through a planned gift Annual Giving Student Scholarships As the cost of education rises, scholarships continue to be vitally important to making the UA experience accessible to students from diverse backgrounds. Student Scholarships Footer - Main Employment Emergency Information Title IX / Non-Discrimination Campus Safety UAlert Copyright Campus Accessibility Contact Us Feedback The University of Arizona | Tucson, Arizona 85721 | 520‑621‑2211 Information For Future Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni & Donors Parents & Visitors Corporations & Businesses Topics About the University Academics Arts & Museums Athletics & Recreation Colleges, Schools, Departments Diversity Environment & Sustainability Global Engagement Health & Medical Libraries Outreach & Extension Research & Innovation Purpose, Mission & Values Resources A-Z Index Calendars Campus Map News Phonebook Weather Connect Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn YouTube We respectfully acknowledge the University of Arizona is on the land and territories of Indigenous peoples. Today, Arizona is home to 22 federally recognized tribes, with Tucson being home to the O’odham and the Yaqui. Committed to diversity and inclusion, the University strives to build sustainable relationships with sovereign Native Nations and Indigenous communities through education offerings, partnerships, and community service. University Information Security and Privacy © 2022 The Arizona Board of Regents on behalf of The University of Arizona.